Business Review 45 FINANCIAL REVIEW INTRODUCTION BUSINESS BACKGROUND AND not be used in isolation and, accordingly, The purpose of this section of the Business MAJOR EVENTS AFFECTING 2005 we also discuss the comparable GAAP Review is to provide a balanced and The business background is covered in actual growth measures, which reflect all comprehensive analysis, including the key the Business Environment section of this the factors that affect our business in the business factors and trends, of the financial Business Review and describes in detail reported performance sections of this performance of the business during 2005, the developments in both our products and Report.
Underlying CER growth is the financial position as at the end of the year geographical regions.
The following comments calculated by retranslating the current year and the main business factors and trends highlight how these and other factors affect performance at the previous years which could affect the future financial our financial performance.
exchange rates and adjusting for other performance of the business.
Our operations are focused on prescription The key sections of this Financial Review are: pharmaceuticals and more than 97% of Sales and cost growth expressed in CER our sales are made in that sector.
Sales of allows management to understand the true Measuring performance.
pharmaceutical products tend to be relatively local movement in sales and costs, in order Business background and major events insensitive to general economic circumstances to compare recent trends and relative affecting 2005. in the short term.
They are more directly return on investment.
CER growth rates Results of operations summary analysis influenced by medical needs and are generally can be used to analyse sales in a number of year to 31 December 2005. financed by health insurance schemes or of ways but, most often, we consider Financial position, including cash flow national healthcare budgets.
underlying growth by products and groups and liquidity.
of products, and by countries and regions.
Underlying sales growth can be further Our operating results in both the short and Future prospects.
analysed into the impact of sales volumes long term can be affected by a number Financial risk management policies.
Similarly, CER cost growth of factors other than normal competition: Critical accounting policies and estimates.
helps us to focus on the real local change Off-balance sheet transactions, contingent in costs so that we can manage the cost The risk of generic competition following liabilities and commitments.
loss of patent exclusivity or patent expiry Post-employment benefits.
with the potential adverse effects on sales International accounting.
Earnings per share growth demonstrates not volumes and prices.
Sarbanes-Oxley Act section 404. only the profitability of the business based on profit after tax but also the management The timings of new product launches which Additionally, in accordance with of our capital structure particularly through can be influenced by national regulators US requirements: the share re-purchase programme.
and the risk that such new products do not succeed as anticipated.
Results of operations summary analysis Other measures used are not influenced of year to 31 December 2004. so directly, or indeed at all, by the effects The rate of sales growth and costs following US GAAP information 2003-2005. of exchange rates.
MEASURING PERFORMANCE Gross margin and operating profit margin The adverse impact on pharmaceutical As described on page 12, we use specific percentages set out the progression of key prices as a result of the regulatory measures when assessing our performance performance margins and demonstrate the environment.
Although there is no direct in key areas and include them in our overall quality of the business.
governmental control on prices in the US, discussion throughout the Business Review.
pressures from individual state programmes Prescription volumes and trends for and health insurance bodies are leading Some of the financial measures use information growth products, which can represent to downward forces on realised prices.
derived at constant exchange rates, in particular, the underlying business growth and the In other parts of the world, there are a variety growth rates in sales and costs, operating profit progress of individual products better of price and volume control mechanisms and, as a consequence, earnings per share.
and more immediately than invoiced sales.
and retrospective rebates based on sales levels which are imposed by governments.
Underlying growth using constant exchange Free cash flow, which represents net cash rates CER is defined as a non-GAAP flows before financing activities, as adjusted Currency fluctuations, which can significantly measure because, unlike actual growth, for movements in short term deposits, affect our results.
Our functional and it cannot be derived directly from the measuring our ability to provide returns reporting currency is US dollars as this information in the Financial Statements.
to shareholders through dividends and is our single largest currency, but we have This measure removes the effects of the share re-purchase programme.
substantial exposures to other currencies, currency movements which allows us in particular, significant euro and Japanese to focus on the changes in sales and Total shareholder return measures the yen denominated income and sterling and expenses driven by volume, prices and cost returns we provide to our shareholders and Swedish krona denominated costs.
levels relative to the prior period.
However, reflects share price movements assuming we recognise that CER growth should reinvestment of dividends and is used in comparison to the performance of peer group companies.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 46 Form 20-F Information 2005 SALES BY THERAPY AREA 2005 AND 2004 2005 2004 2005 compared to 2004 Growth due Growth to exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Cardiovascular 5,332 459 96 4,777 10 12 Gastrointestinal 6,355 344 93 5,918 5 7 Infection 607 51 17 539 9 13 Neuroscience 4,059 513 50 3,496 15 16 Oncology 3,845 411 58 3,376 12 14 Respiratory and Inflammation 2,873 230 60 2,583 9 11 Other pharma 232 54 1 177 31 31 Others 647 80 7 560 14 16 Total 23,950 2,142 382 21,426 10 12 SALES BY GROWTH, PATENT EXPIRY AND BASE PRODUCTS 2005 AND 2004 2005 2004 2005 compared to 2004 Growth due Growth to exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % 1 Growth 10,849 2,283 140 8,426 27 29 2 Patent expiry 2,458 581 63 2,976 20 17 Base 10,643 440 179 10,024 4 6 Total 23,950 2,142 382 21,426 10 12 1 Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel, Symbicort 2 Losec, Nolvadex, Plendil, Zestril Over the longer term, the success of our research Other developments that were important in the RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY ANALYSIS and development is crucial.
In common with year centre around our continued commitment OF YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER 2005 other pharmaceutical companies, we devote to innovation and investment in research and The tables on this and the next page show our substantial resources to R&D, the benefit of development.
Over the past five years we have sales analysed both by therapy area and by which emerges over the long term and carries increased our investment in R&D at an average growth patent expiry base products and considerable uncertainty as to whether it will of 8% per annum.
This investment has been operating profit for 2005 compared to 2004. generate future products.
strengthened by accessing innovation originating outside AstraZeneca through collaborations Reported performance The business events which were the most with external partners such as Cambridge Our sales grew by 12% from $21,426 million to significant for our financial results in 2005 are Antibody Technology, Abgenix and Array, $23,950 million, an increase of $2,524 million.
as follows: as well as the three licensing transactions Operating profit increased by 43% from announced in December and the acquisition $4,547 million to $6,502 million.
Earnings per Strong sales performances from our five in January 2006 of KuDOS Pharmaceuticals.
share for the year were $2.91, a rise of 33% growth products to $10,849 million which from $2.18 in 2004.
The 2004 earnings per now account for 45% of sales, an increase We continue to vigorously defend our share benefited from exceptional gains of 27% 29% on an as reported basis.
In November we filed equivalent to 17 cents per share.
Without this Ten products in the portfolio with annual two lawsuits in the US District Court for the the 2005 earnings per share growth was 44%.
sales in excess of $1 billion compared District of New Jersey.
The first was against Currency benefited sales by 2% and earnings to two products five years ago.
Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. and Teva per share by 8 cents.
Productivity enhancements which have Pharmaceuticals Industries, Ltd. for wilful allowed the containment of R&D and infringement of our substance patent protecting Underlying performance SG&A whilst delivering sales growth Seroquel.
The second lawsuit was filed against Sales and R&D projects as planned.
Ranbaxy Laboratories for wilful infringement of Sales for the full year increased 10% at CER Close attention to capital expenditure and our patents protecting Nexium.
On 18 January with good sales growth in all regions US up working capital management.
2006 we announced we had received a decision 12%: Europe up 8%: Japan up 8%: Rest of of Judge Rodney Sippel of the US District World up 15%.
Most of this growth was driven Taking these factors, we have delivered an Court for the Eastern District of Missouri that by volume although there was a small overall operating profit margin of 27.2%, EPS growth found that the patents asserted by us that favourable selling price benefit.
before exceptional items of 41% 44% on cover Toprol-XL were invalid and unenforceable.
a reported basis and free cash flow of over We disagree with and are disappointed by these Our portfolio now has ten brands with annual $6 billion.
We maintain that both patents sales of greater than $1 billion.
The combined are valid and enforceable and will appeal the sales of five key brands Arimidex, Crestor, Courts decision.
Nexium, Seroquel and Symbicort grew by 27% to $10,849 million, 45% of our total sales up from 39% in 2004.
Casodex sales grew by 10% to from 14% in 2004.
Base products saw growth a result of good growth for Losec, Casodex, $1,123 million on strong performances outside of 4% in 2005 over 2004 although the relative Zoladex and Arimidex.
Sales in China were up the US and Zoladex sales exceeded $1 billion percentage of sales fell.
33% to $272 million for the full year on good for the first time, again on performance outside growth in cardiovascular products and Losec, the US.
Iressa sales fell by 31% to $273 million, In Gastrointestinal, Nexium sales increased and the launch of Iressa.
mainly as a result of a 63% decline in the US.
Sales in the US were However, in the Asia Pacific region the product up 15% to $3,125 million on continued strong saw 7% growth as China and other markets We discuss the geographic performances volume growth partially offset by lower price compensated for a decline in Japan.
in more detail in the appropriate sections realisation.
Nexium sales in other markets of the Business Review on pages 31 to 33. increased 25%.
The Nexium performance Neuroscience sales grew by 15% to more than compensated for the decline $4,059 million.
Seroquel sales reached OPERATING MARGIN AND RETAINED PROFIT in Losec down 17% to $1,652 million.
$2,761 million up 35% including $2,003 million Gross margin increased by 1.8 percentage As a result, the therapy area grew for the first in the US up 33%.
In the US, Seroquel share points to 77.6% of sales.
Lower payments time since 2002. of new prescriptions in the anti-psychotic to Merck 4.8% of sales and positive currency market increased to 29.8% in December, each benefited gross margin by 0.1 percentage In Cardiovascular, sales grew by 10% to the only brand among the top three products points.
Excluding prior year Exanta and Iressa $5,332 million.
Crestor sales reached to grow market share in 2005.
Sales in other provisions totalling $236 million, the costs $1,268 million for the full year, up 38%.
associated with the termination of the Sales in the US were up 34% to $730 million.
MedPointe Zomig distribution agreement Crestor share of new prescriptions in the US We discuss the performances of the therapy in the first quarter of 2005, and the site statin market was 6.9% in the week ending areas and the individual products in those rationalisation provisions of $105 million charged 20 January 2006.
Sales in other markets areas in more detail in the appropriate sections in the final quarter, underlying margin improved increased by 41% on good growth in France, of the Business Review.
This is due mostly Italy and Canada.
Seloken sales increased by to favourable product mix and continued 24% to $1,735 million, with US sales growing by GEOGRAPHICAL ANALYSIS operational efficiencies.
The performances of In the US, sales were up 12% for the full Crestor and Seloken offset declines in Zestril and year.
Sales growth for Nexium, Seroquel, R&D and SG&A combined grew by 2%, with Plendil, down by 27% and 23%, respectively.
Toprol-XL, Arimidex and Crestor, totalling R&D declining by 4% and SG&A growing by 4%.
$1,585 million, more than offset the declines Before exchange effects, the combined effect Respiratory and Inflammation sales increased in Prilosec, Plendil and Iressa which of these movements added 4.1 percentage by 9% to $2,873 million.
Symbicort sales were amounted to $294 million.
Inventory points to operating margin for the full year.
the main driver of this growth and increased movements were neutral across the year Excluding the Losec EU fine $75 million and 22% to $1,006 million.
Sales of Symbicort following the successful introduction of the investments made on the Medicare Outreach arise principally in Europe a US regulatory wholesaler Distribution Service Agreements.
programme in the fourth quarter of this year, application for the pMDI formulation for the Adjustments to prior year managed care SG&A growth was 2%.
The decline in R&D treatment of asthma was submitted on accruals at the half year benefited annual was partly a consequence of our productivity 27 September.
Elsewhere in the therapy area, US sales growth by 2% resulting in an focus and partly due to the relatively early stage Pulmicort and Rhinocort sales rose by 9% and underlying demand growth of 10% for of compounds in development.
6% with annual sales of $1,162 million and the year.
The net result of other selling price $387 million, respectively.
Lower other income reduced margin by 0.3 percentage points due principally to the gain Sales in the Oncology portfolio grew by 12% Revenue from outside the US now on the disposal of the Durascan business in to $3,845 million.
Arimidex sales increased accounts for 55% of our sales.
44% to $1,181 million, on strong growth in the sales increased by 8% for the full year, with US up 59% and in other markets up 35%.
good volume growth partially offset by lower Arimidex value market share among hormonal realised prices.
Sales for the five growth treatments for breast cancer is now around brands combined grew by 30%, which more 50%, more than twice the share of its closest than compensated for a 24% decline in Losec.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 48 Form 20-F Information 2005 Operating margin increased by 6.0 percentage Goodwill and intangible assets funds these require classification as cash points from 21.2% to 27.2%.
Currency Investment in intangible assets amounted equivalents under IFRS rather than short term benefited margin by 0.4 percentage points to $176 million in 2005.
Capital expenditure fell by resulting in an underlying margin improvement acquisitions amounted to $100 million $253 million to $810 million whilst expenditure of 5.6 percentage points for the year.
and software development costs totalled on non-current asset investments was $76 million.
After exchange effects $242 million $105 million lower in 2005 as a result of Net interest and dividend income for the full and amortisation $272 million, the net book the $110 million investment in Cambridge year was $165 million 2004 $78 million.
value of intangible assets and goodwill fell Antibody Technology made in the fourth The increase over 2004 is primarily attributable by $338 million.
In 2004, the disposal proceeds to higher average investment balances and of $355 million were in respect of the disposal yields.
The reported amount includes net income Inventories of Advanta primarily: there were no such of $15 million arising from employee benefit The value of inventory at the year end has disposals in 2005. fund assets and liabilities as required by IAS 19. fallen from $3,020 million to $2,206 million reflecting a drive to reduce levels together with Free cash flow for the year was $6,052 million The fair value adjustments relating to financial the effect of exchange.
This drive took place compared to $3,932 million in 2004.
After instruments amounted to a $23 million charge primarily in the US although there were accounting for net share re-purchases for the full year compared to $111 million in 2004 : successful inventory reduction initiatives of $2,858 million, the $1,717 million dividend $32 million charge in cost of sales, $17 million group-wide.
payment to shareholders and foreign exchange benefit to R&D and $8 million charge to interest.
effects, there is a $968 million increase in cash Receivables and payables and cash equivalents.
The effective tax rate for the twelve months Receivables increased from $4,620 million was 29.1% 2004 rate excluding exceptional to $4,778 million.
This reflects increased trade Investments, divestments and items 26.6%.
The charge for the year includes receivables in several markets resulting from capital expenditure a net increase of $112 million, mainly due to a mixture of increased sales in the fourth quarter New collaboration agreements signed during movements in provisions relating to foreign and timing of US receipts.
This increase is offset 2005 with Avanir and Astex created intangible tax credits and transfer pricing.
The increase by exchange effects.
Further payments over 2004 is due to the release of provisions were made in respect of existing in-licensed following a settlement of prior year issues in Trade and other payables have remained products amounting to $44 million.
2004 and no relief in respect of the Losec fine.
Trade payable Taxation in 2004 also benefited from a one-off increases in the US and Sweden have been In December, new collaboration agreements reduction in the deferred tax liability in relation offset by exchange effects.
with Protherics PLC, Targacept Inc. and to rolled over gains following agreements with AtheroGenics, Inc. were announced and the relevant tax authorities.
Cash flow are recorded as post balance sheet events.
We continue to be a highly cash generative We will invest $41 million in the global Earnings per share before exceptional items business.
Although future operating cash flows development and commercialisation agreement grew by 41% from $2.01 in 2004 to $2.91 may be affected by a number of factors as with Protherics, being a 4.3% investment in in the current year.
We estimate that the share outlined in the business background section equity and an intangible asset.
The licensing re-purchase programme added 8 cents to on page 45, we believe our cash resources will and commercialisation agreement with earnings in the current year.
be sufficient for our present requirements and AtheroGenics will initially require a $50 million include sufficient cash for our existing capital payment by AstraZeneca and the licensing FINANCIAL POSITION, INCLUDING programme, share re-purchases and any costs and research collaboration agreement with CASH FLOW AND LIQUIDITY of launching new products, as well as the Targacept will initially require a $10 million All data in this section are on an actual basis potential buy-out of Mercks interests in 2008. payment by AstraZeneca.
Both of these unless noted otherwise.
payments will be recorded as intangible Cash generated from operating activities assets.
The net book value of our assets fell by in 2005 was $6,743 million compared with $806 million from $14,497 million to $4,817 million in 2004.
This increase is After the year end, we also acquired the total $13,691 million.
The net profit was distributed principally a result of a $1,823 million increase share capital of KuDOS Pharmaceuticals through share re-purchases of $3,001 million in profit before tax and the effects of a net Limited for $210 million, subject to cash and and dividends of $1,676 million leaving $332 million cash inflow from favourable working capital adjustments.
Most of the cost negative exchange effects of $1,052 million movements in working capital, particularly of the investment reflects an intangible asset to reduce net assets.
inventory, offset by a $360 million increase representing the oncology technology in tax paid.
Tangible fixed assets The net book value of tangible fixed assets fell Cash outflows from investing activities of Our recent focus on in-licensing opportunities from $8,097 million to $6,985 million.
Exchange $1,182 million in the year compared with with third parties will result in additional effects and depreciation in total $1,768 million $970 million inflows in 2004.
The inflows intangible asset investment in the balance together with site rationalisations of around in 2004 were mainly a result of a change sheet.
Should any of these products fail in $100 million and disposals more than offset in investment strategy that led to the bulk of development, the associated intangibles will capital expenditure of $832 million.
group cash being transferred to more liquid need to be written off.
Business Review 49 RATIOS As at and for the year ended 31 December 2005 2004 2003 Return on shareholders equity % 33.6 26.7 25.0 Equity assets ratio % 54.7 56.2 55.5 Number of employees 64,900 64,200 61,000 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 31 DECEMBER 2005 Market value change favourable unfavourable Market value Interest rate Exchange rate 31 December 2005 movement movement 1% -1% 10% -10% $m $m $m $m $m Cash and short term investments 6,528 46 46 Long term debt, net of interest and currency swaps 1,062 Foreign exchange forwards 10 45 45 Foreign exchange options 91 91 SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 31 DECEMBER 2004 Market value change favourable unfavourable Market value Interest rate Exchange rate 31 December 2004 movement movement 1% -1% 10% -10% $m $m $m $m $m Cash and short term investments 5,132 38 38 Long term debt, net of interest and currency swaps 1,056 Foreign exchange forwards 10 75 75 Foreign exchange options 32 24 185 137 298 CAPITALISATION AND SHAREHOLDER RETURN firmly believes that the first call on free cash FUTURE PROSPECTS All data in this section are on an actual basis flow is business need and, having fulfilled that, We are determined to strengthen our product unless noted otherwise.
will return surplus cash flow to shareholders.
pipeline via a sustained commitment to The primary business need is to build the discovery and development of new medicines, Capitalisation product pipeline by supporting internal and from within our own laboratories and from At 31 December 2005, the number of shares external opportunities.
We are in a strong in issue was 1,581 million.
Our reserves the Board intends to re-purchase shares financial position from which to increase declined by $1,073 million due to the effect at around the same level as 2005, with any our investment in R&D and utilise our strong of exchange rate movements after tax on balance of free cash flow available firstly for cash generation to pursue attractive external translation of non-dollar denominated assets investment in the product pipeline or opportunities to augment the pipeline.
Continued focus on improved productivity is essential to release resources for these priorities.
Shareholders equity decreased by a net We have re-purchased and cancelled $807 million to $13,597 million at year end.
67.7 million shares in 2005 at a cost of For 2006, the operating financial leverage Minority interests increased from $93 million $3,001 million.
As a result, the total number stemming from good sales performance and at 31 December 2004 to $94 million at of shares re-purchased to date under the cost control, and the delivery of productivity 31 December 2005. share re-purchase programmes begun in gains seen in 2005, are expected to continue.
1999 is 210.6 million at a cumulative cost The main risk to the achievement of these Dividend and share re-purchases of $9,172 million.
earnings is the possibility of generic competition In line with the policy stated last year, the Board for Toprol-XL if generic companies receive intends to continue its practice of growing We paid the second interim dividend of $0.645 final regulatory approval and seek to launch dividends in line with earnings maintaining in respect of 2004 on 21 March 2005 and a at risk before the conclusion of the judicial dividend cover in the two to three times range first interim dividend for 2005 on 19 appeals process.
whilst substantially distributing the balance of September 2005 of $0.380 per Ordinary cash flow via share re-purchases.
A second interim dividend for 2005 of we returned $4,718 million out of free cash of $0.920 per Ordinary Share has been declared, $6,052 million to shareholders through a mix which the Annual General Meeting will be of share buy-backs and dividends.
The Board asked to confirm as the final dividend.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 50 Form 20-F Information 2005 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES were denominated in sterling and Swedish are available to finance the ongoing working Insurance krona.
In addition, surplus cash generated capital and capital investment requirements Our risk management processes are described by business units is converted to, and held of our operations.
in the Directors Report on page 64.
An outcome centrally in, US dollars.
As a result, operating of these processes is that they enable us to profit in US dollars and total cash flow in Interest rate risk identify risks which can be partly or entirely US dollars will be affected by movements The Groups policy is to match the interest rate mitigated through use of insurance or which in exchange rates.
exposure on our gross debt balance with that we can self-insure.
We negotiate best available arising on our surplus cash position using premium rates with insurance providers on The US dollar strengthened against sterling, interest rate swaps.
The net effect of this is the basis of our extensive risk management the Swedish krona and the euro in 2005. to exchange the fixed rate interest paid on our procedures.
In the current insurance market, This has had the effect of decreasing the dollar two outstanding bonds fair value of $1,111 level of cover is decreasing whilst premium value of our European sales compared with million at 31 December 2005 into floating rate rates are increasing.
Rather than simply paying the previous year, whilst our UK and Swedish interest referenced to six month US dollar higher premiums for lower cover, we focus our costs have also decreased correspondingly.
The majority of our cash balance is insurance resources on the most critical areas, Our approach to managing currency exposures held with third party fund managers who return or where there is a legal requirement, and to mitigate these and other currency effects a target yield referenced to seven day US where we can get best value for money.
In addition to interest rate swaps, to which we pay particular attention include we also use forward rate agreements to business interruption, directors and officers This currency exposure is managed centrally manage any short term timing difference liability and property damage.
based on forecast future cash flows for the between the swapped debt interest expense major currencies of Swedish krona, sterling, and cash interest income.
Taxation euro, Australian dollar, Canadian dollar and We operate in most countries in the world and Japanese yen.
The impact of movements in Credit exposure are subject to many tax jurisdictions and rules.
exchange rates is mitigated significantly by Exposure to financial counterparty credit risk As a consequence we are subject to tax the correlations that exist between major is controlled by the treasury team centrally audits, which by their nature are often complex currencies to which the Group is exposed in establishing and monitoring counterparty and can require several years to conclude.
Centrally managed funds are invested We draw a distinction between tax planning extreme movements in exchange rates using almost entirely with counterparties whose using artificial structures and optimising tax currency options.
From 2006 onwards we will credit rating is A or better.
External fund treatment of business transactions, and we hedge only if there is a significant change or managers who manage $3,444 million of the only engage in the latter.
anticipated change in our risk position.
Strict Groups cash are rated AAA by Standard & monitoring of currency exposures and the Poors.
There were no other significant Treasury ongoing correlations is undertaken and hedging concentrations of credit risk at the balance Our financial policies covering the management is subject to pre-execution approval.
All financial instruments are of cash, borrowings and foreign exchange are transacted with commercial banks, in line intended to support our objective of maintaining It is our policy neither to engage in any with standard market practice and are not shareholder value by managing and controlling speculative transactions nor to hedge currency backed with cash collateral.
Trade receivable our financial risks.
Our treasury operations translation exposures arising from the exposures are managed locally in the operating are conducted in accordance with policies consolidation of non-US dollar subsidiaries.
The Group is exposed and procedures approved by the Board.
Key controls, applied to transactions in to customers ranging from government-backed The treasury activities are managed centrally derivative financial instruments, are to use only agencies and large private wholesalers to from London.
Significantly all of our cash and instruments where good market liquidity exists, privately owned pharmacies, and the underlying short term investments are managed directly to revalue all financial instruments regularly local economic and sovereign risks vary from London where possible and practicable.
using current market rates and to sell options throughout the world.
Where appropriate, With only limited and specifically approved only to offset previously purchased options.
the Group endeavours to minimise risks exceptions, all currency and interest rate by the use of trade finance instruments such hedging is conducted from London.
Operating In addition, the transaction exposures that as letters of credit and insurance.
units benefit from local currency billing, which arise from non-local currency sales and has the effect of consolidating their foreign purchases by our subsidiaries are, where Sensitivity analysis exchange exposures to central treasury.
practicable, fully hedged using forward foreign The sensitivity analysis, set out in this review exchange contracts.
on page 49, summarises the sensitivity of the Foreign exchange market value of our financial instruments The US dollar is the Groups most significant Funding risk to hypothetical changes in market rates and currency.
As a consequence, the Group The management of our liquid assets and debt prices.
Changes to the value of the financial results are presented in US dollars and balances are co-ordinated and controlled instruments are normally offset by our exposures are managed against US dollars centrally by our treasury operations.
We have underlying transactions or assets and liabilities.
Approximately 53% of our external significant positive cash flows and the liquidity The range of variables chosen for the sensitivity sales in 2005 were denominated in currencies of major subsidiaries is co-ordinated in cash analysis reflects our view of changes that are other than the US dollar, while a significant pools and concentrated daily in London.
The reasonably possible over a one year period.
proportion of manufacturing and R&D costs cash balances and unutilised debt programme Market values are the present value of future Business Review 51 cash flows based on market rates and prices from disposals of intellectual property, brands could be recorded in the current financial at the valuation date.
Market values for interest and product lines which are included in other period in respect of the following periods rate risk are calculated using third party systems operating income.
underlying demand, distorting the financial that model the present value of the instruments results from one period to the next.
In 2005, based on the market conditions at the valuation Sales of products to third parties: Sales we replaced the inventory management date.
For long term debt, an increase in interest revenue is recorded at the invoiced amount agreements put in place over the past two rates results in a decline in the fair value of debt.
excluding sales and value added taxes years with Distribution Service Agreements.
less estimated provisions for product returns Under these new agreements, which The sensitivity analysis on page 49 assumes and rebates given to managed care and are becoming more common in the an instantaneous 100 basis point change in other customers a particular feature in the pharmaceutical industry, wholesalers interest rates in all currencies from their levels US.
Cash discounts for prompt payment receive a percentage fee based on sales at 31 December 2005, with all other variables are also deducted from sales.
Revenue subject to compliance with inventory level held constant.
Because all our debt was is recognised when title passes to the and customer service targets.
We continue hedged effectively to floating rate in 2005, customer which is usually either on shipment to track wholesaler inventory levels by changes in interest rates will not change the or on receipt of goods by the customer product, using our own and wholesaler data.
carrying value of debt after interest rate and depending on local trading terms.
As a result, we believe inventory movements currency swaps.
Based on the composition of have been neutral across the year and that our long term debt portfolio as at 31 December At the time of invoicing sales, rebates which the new agreements have not had any 2005 which is predominantly floating rate, could be paid out over the following six to significant impact on levels of sales.
a 1% increase in interest rates would result in nine months are estimated.
These rebates an additional $10 million in interest being typically arise from sales contracts with Royalty income: Royalty income is recorded incurred per year.
The exchange rate sensitivity managed care organisations and hospitals under other operating income in the analysis on page 49 assumes an instantaneous and from Medicaid best price contracts.
Royalties tend 10% change in foreign currency exchange The estimates are made on a customer by to be linked to levels of sales or production rates from their levels at 31 December 2005, customer basis taking into account specific by a third party.
At the time of preparing with all other variables held constant.
The contract provisions but may result in the Financial Statements, we may have to 10% case assumes a 10% strengthening of adjustment when added rebates are paid.
estimate the third partys sales or production the US dollar against all other currencies and In 2005, these adjustments benefited when arriving at the royalty income to be the -10% case assumes a 10% weakening of the reported US sales by 2%.
These estimates, which may differ the US dollar.
that our estimates for future rebates are from actual sales, do not result in a material reasonable.
Inevitably, however, such impact on reported other operating income.
CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES estimates involve judgements on future sales Our Financial Statements are prepared in levels and the extent to which customers Sales of intangible assets such as accordance with International Accounting will access different incentive levels.
intellectual property, brands and product Standards and International Financial lines : A consequence of charging all internal Reporting Standards collectively IFRS Industry practice in the US allows R&D expenditure to the income statement as adopted by the European Union and the wholesalers and pharmacies to return in the year that it is incurred which is accounting policies employed are set out unused inventories within six months of normal practice in the pharmaceutical under the headingFinancial Statements shelf-life expiry.
At point of sale, we estimate industry is that we own valuable intangible Accounting Policies on pages 87 to 89. the quantity and value of goods which assets which are not recorded on the In applying these policies, we make estimates may ultimately be returned.
We also own acquired and assumptions that affect the reported provisions are based on actual experience intangible assets which are included on the amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure over the preceding 12 months, although balance sheet see Research and of contingent assets and liabilities.
The actual in certain situations, for example, following development below.
As a consequence outcome could differ from those estimates.
a new product launch or at patent expiry, of regular reviews of product strategy, Some of these policies require a high level further judgement may be required.
When from time to time we sell such assets and of judgement, either because the areas are products face generic competition, we give generate income.
In a simple situation, especially subjective or complex.
We believe particular attention to the possible level the recognition of income may be easily that the most critical accounting policies and of returns.
Overall, we believe that our defined but often the transfer of title significant areas of judgement and estimation estimates are reasonable.
can require ongoing commitment by us are in revenue recognition, research and for example, ongoing manufacturing development, goodwill and intangible assets, A further feature that had, in the past, arrangements, technology transfer and provisions for contingent liabilities, postsignificantly influenced our sales in the transfer of product licences.
In these retirement benefits, taxation and share-based US market was wholesaler buying patterns.
circumstances, the recognition of revenue compensation.
Wholesalers would place orders which may be deferred over the period of our were significantly larger than their normal ongoing commitment.
Profits or losses Revenue recognition levels of demand ahead of anticipated price from the sale of product related intangible Revenue represents sales of products increases or would seek to build up or run assets are classified in other operating to external third parties and excludes down their inventory levels for other reasons.
income and are stated after taking account intercompany income and value added taxes.
If such speculative orders were shipped of product disposal costs, the valuation of We also receive income from royalties and shortly before a quarter or year end, revenue which includes a degree of judgement.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 52 Form 20-F Information 2005 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS Less than 1 year 1-3 years 3-5 years Over 5 years Total Payments due by period $m $m $m $m $m Bank loans and other borrowings 90 1,111 1,201 Operating leases 83 93 44 90 310 Merck arrangements 225 4,902 5,127 Other 531531 Total 9294,995441,2017,169 Research and development Contingent liabilities negotiation and or litigation.
All such Our business is underpinned by our marketed In the normal course of business, contingent provisions are included in creditors due products and development portfolio.
The R&D liabilities may arise from product-specific and within one year.
Any interest on tax liabilities expenditure on internal activities to generate general legal proceedings, from guarantees is provided for in the tax charge.
these products is generally charged to the or from environmental liabilities connected with income statement in the year that it is incurred.
our current or former sites.
Where we believe Deferred tax asset valuation allowances are Purchases of intellectual property and product that potential liabilities have a low probability made where it is more likely than not that the rights to supplement our R&D portfolio are of crystallising or are very difficult to quantify asset will not be realised in the future.
These capitalised as intangible assets.
Such reliably, we treat them as contingent liabilities.
valuations require judgements to be made intangible assets are amortised from the These are not provided for but are disclosed including the forecast of future taxable income.
launch of the underlying products and are in the notes.
Further details of these contingent tested for impairment both before and after liabilities are set out in Note 25 to the Financial Share-based compensation launch.
This policy is in line with practice Statements.
Although there can be no Through the Remuneration Committee adopted by major pharmaceutical companies.
assurance regarding the outcome of legal we offer share and share option plans to certain proceedings, we do not expect them to have employees as part of their compensation Goodwill and intangible assets a materially adverse effect on our financial and benefits packages, designed to improve We have significant investments in goodwill position or profitability.
We also have significant alignment of the interests of employees with and intangible assets as a result of acquisitions commitments that are not currently recognised in shareholders.
Details of these are given of businesses and purchases of such assets the balance sheet arising from our relationship in Note 24 to the Financial Statements.
as product development and marketing rights.
These are described more fully in On transition to IFRS we have adopted the Under IFRS, goodwill is held at cost and tested Off-balance sheet transactions, contingent transitional arrangements of IFRS1First-time annually for impairment, whilst intangibles are liabilities and commitments below.
Adoption of International Financial Reporting amortised over their estimated useful lives.
Standards to apply IFRS2Share-based Changes in these lives would result in different Post-employment benefits Payment fully retrospectively.
The transition effects on the income statement.
We estimate We account for the pension costs relating to to IFRS meant that costs in respect of the that a one year reduction in the estimated the retirement plans under IAS19Employee share option plans were recognised for the useful lives of intangible assets would increase Benefits.
In applying IAS19, we have adopted first time.
The charges have been calculated the annual amortisation charge by $27 million.
the option of recognising gains and losses in principally using the Black-Scholes model A substantial part of our investments in full through reserves.
In all cases, the pension as a valuation basis.
intangible assets and goodwill relates to the costs are assessed in accordance with the restructuring of the Astra-Merck joint venture OFF-BALANCE SHEET TRANSACTIONS, advice of independent qualified actuaries but in 1998, and we are satisfied that the carrying CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS require the exercise of significant judgement values are fully justified by estimated future Details of our contingent liabilities and in relation to assumptions for future salary and earnings.
Intangible assets are reviewed for commitments are set out in Note 25 to the pension increases, long term price inflation and impairment where there are indications that Financial Statements.
We have no off-balance investment returns.
their carrying values may not be recoverable, sheet entities and our hedging activities are and any impairments are charged to the income Taxation non-speculative.
The table above sets out statement.
Tests for impairment are based on Accruals for tax contingencies require our minimum contractual obligations at the discounted cash flow projections, which require management to make judgements and year end.
us to estimate both future cash flows and an estimates in relation to tax audit issues.
Such estimates are Amounts accrued are based on inherently subjective.
No impairments to managements interpretation of countrygoodwill or intangible assets were identified specific tax law and the likelihood of in 2005 2004 $10 million, 2003 $7 million.
Tax benefits are not recognised Under IFRS, the merger of Astra and Zeneca unless the tax positions are probable of being in 1999 was recorded as a merger of equals sustained.
Once considered to be probable, pooling of interests.
Under US GAAP, the management reviews each material tax merger has been accounted for as a purchase benefit to assess whether a provision should acquisition of Astra by Zeneca as discussed be taken against full recognition of the benefit in more detail on page 130. on the basis of potential settlement through Business Review 53 Arrangements with Merck Termination arrangements Upon exercise of the First Option, Merck will Introduction The Agreements provided for arrangements relinquish its rights over the agreement products In 1982, Astra AB set up a joint venture with and payments under which, subject to the not covered by the Partial Retirement, other Merck & Co. Inc. for the purposes of selling, exercise of certain options, the rights and than Nexium and Prilosec.
If neither Merck marketing and distributing certain Astra interests in our activities and products held nor we exercise the option, the contingent products in the US.
In 1998, this joint venture by Merck immediately prior to the merger payment arrangements in respect of these was restructured the Restructuring.
Under would be terminated, including details of: agreement products will continue as will our the agreements relating to the Restructuring other potential obligations and restrictions in the Agreements, a US limited partnership The Advance Payment respect of these products and the Appraised was formed, in which Merck is the limited The Partial Retirement Value will not be paid.
partner and we are the general partner, and The First Option and True-Up we obtained control of the joint ventures The Loan Note Receivable Products covered by the First Option include business subject to certain limited partner and The Second Option Atacand, Plendil and certain compounds still other rights held by Merck and its affiliates.
These rights provide Merck with safeguards Advance Payment over the activities of the partnership and place The merger between Astra and Zeneca In addition, in 2008 there will be a true-up of limitations on our commercial freedom to triggered the first step in the termination the Advance Payment.
The Agreements provide for: arrangements.
Merck relinquished all rights, will be based on a multiple of the average including contingent payments on future sales, annual contingent payments from 2005 to Annual contingent payments.
to potential Astra products with no existing 2007 in respect of all the agreement products A payment to Merck in the event of or pending US patents at the time of the with the exception of Prilosec and Nexium a business combination between Astra and merger.
As a result, we now have rights to subject to a minimum of $6.6 billion, plus a third party in order for Merck to relinquish such products and are relieved of potential other defined amounts totalling $912 million.
certain claims to that third partys products.
obligations to Merck or restrictions in respect It is then reduced by the Appraised Value Termination arrangements which, if and of those products including annual contingent whether paid or not, the Partial Retirement when triggered, cause Merck to relinquish payments, affording us substantial freedom and the Advance Payment at its undiscounted its interests in our products and activities.
to exploit the products as we see fit.
amount of $2.8 billion to determine the trueup amount.
The true-up will be settled in 2008 These elements are discussed in further detail At the time of the merger, the Advance Payment irrespective of whether the First Option is below together with a summary of their was paid.
It was calculated as the then net exercised, and this could result in a further accounting treatments.
present value of $2.8 billion discounted from payment by us to Merck or a payment by 2008 to the date of merger at a rate of 13% Merck to us.
Annual contingent payments per annum and amounted to $967 million.
We make ongoing payments to Merck based It is subject to a true-up in 2008, as discussed Should Merck exercise the First Option in on sales of certain of our products in the US underFirst Option and True-Up below.
2008, we will make payments in respect of the contingent payments on the agreement the Partial Retirement, the First Option and products.
As a result of the merger of Astra Partial Retirement the true-up totalling a minimum of $4.7 billion.
and Zeneca in 1999, these contingent payments In 2008, there will be a partial retirement of If we exercise the First Option in 2010, the excluding those in respect of Prilosec and Mercks limited partnership interest by payment combined effect of the amounts paid to Merck Nexium cannot be less than annual minimum to Merck of an amount calculated as a multiple in 2008 and 2010 will total the same amount.
sums between 2002 and 2007 ranging from of the average annual contingent payments $125 million to $225 million.
Our payments have from 2005 to 2007 on the relevant products, Loan Note Receivable exceeded the minimum levels in 2002 to 2005 plus $750 million.
Included in the assets and liabilities covered and, other than the possible entry of a generic by the Restructuring is a loan note receivable competitor to Toprol-XL, we have no reason to Upon the Partial Retirement, Mercks rights by us from Merck with a face value of $1.4 billion.
believe that the annual payments in the future in respect of certain of the agreement In 2008, at the same time as the settlement of will fall below the minimum obligations.
The products covered the Partial Retirement and the true-up, Merck by the Partial Retirement include Toprol-XL, will settle the loan note receivable by paying Payment in the event Pulmicort, Rhinocort and Symbicort, the last us $1.4 billion.
of a business combination of which is not yet launched in the US and is On the merger of Astra and Zeneca, a one-time subject to the approval of the FDA.
Second Option Lump Sum Payment of $809 million was A Second Option exists whereby we have the triggered.
As a result of this payment, Merck First Option and True-Up option to re-purchase Mercks interests in relinquished any claims it may have had In 2008, a calculation will be made of the Prilosec and Nexium in the US.
This option is to Zeneca products.
Appraised Value, being the net present value exercisable by us two years after the exercise of the future contingent payments in respect of the First Option, whether the First Option is of all agreement products not covered by the exercised in either 2008 or 2010.
Exercise of Partial Retirement, other than Prilosec and the Second Option by us at a later date is also Nexium.
Payment of the Appraised Value provided for in 2017 or if combined annual to Merck in 2008 will take place only if Merck sales of the two products fall below a minimum exercises the First Option.
Should Merck not amount provided, in each case, that the First exercise this option in 2008, we may exercise Option has been exercised.
The exercise price it in 2010 for a sum equal to the 2008 Appraised for the Second Option is the net present value Value.
Contingent payments will continue from of the future annual contingent payments on 2008 to 2010 if we exercise in 2010.
Prilosec and Nexium as determined at the time of exercise.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 54 Form 20-F Information 2005 If the Second Option is exercised, Merck will Termination arrangements: We consider Taxation then have relinquished all its interests in the that the termination arrangements described We have various contingent tax liabilities.
partnership and the agreement products above represent the acquisition, in stages, Details of material contingent tax liabilities are including rights to contingent payments.
of Mercks interests in the partnership and set out below: agreement products including their rights General to contingent payments and depend, in We have made certain double taxation relief The precise amount and timing of settlements part, on the exercise of the First and Second claims in accordance with our understanding with Merck under the Partial Retirement, Options.
The effects will only be reflected of existing law.
We estimated that the tax the First Option and the true-up cannot be in the Financial Statements as these stages exposure in respect of this issue as at determined at this time.
If and when all such payments 31 December 2004 was $197 million and of the calculations are based, in part, are made, we will have unencumbered the potential additional losses above and on net sales between 2005 and 2007 and discretion in our operations in the US market.
beyond the amount provided was up to on forecasted performance beyond 2007, $130 million: although we considered that and payment of the First Option is contingent The Advance Payment has been accounted for these additional losses were unlikely to arise.
upon Merck or us exercising the First Option.
as an intangible asset and is being amortised It was also reported as at 31 December 2004 Similarly, the timing and amount of the Second over 20 years.
This approach reflects the fact that we expected a definitive ruling on this Option cannot be determined at this time.
that, under the Agreements, we have acquired exposure within the next 12 months.
During rights relieving us of potential obligations or 2005, the relevant law on the availability of With the exception of the interests in Nexium restrictions in respect of Astra products with credit for foreign taxes was clarified, and Prilosec, the total of the payments yet to no existing or pending patents at the time confirming that tax credits were to be allowed be made under the termination arrangements of merger.
Although these rights apply in in accordance with the original claims made is based, in part, on the contingent payments perpetuity, the period of amortisation of 20 by us and with retrospective effect.
We made in 2005 to 2007 subject to the minimum years has been chosen to reflect the typical have consequently released this provision amount and is likely to be substantially driven timescale of development and marketing of of $197 million to the income statement.
by the sales of Toprol-XL, Pulmicort, Rhinocort a product.
However, we anticipate that We face a number of transfer pricing audits the benefits that accrue to us under all the The payments under the Partial Retirement, in jurisdictions around the world.
The issues termination arrangements arise: the First Option and true-up and the Second under audit are often complex and can Option will be accounted for under the extant require many years to resolve.
Accruals Currently, from the substantial freedom guidance when they are paid, with allocations for tax contingencies require us to make over products acquired or discovered to intangibles and goodwill, as appropriate.
estimates and judgements with respect post-merger.
If Merck exercises the First Option in 2008, to the ultimate outcome of a tax audit the net minimum payment to be made to and actual results could vary from these On occurence of each stage of such Merck, being the combined payments of estimates.
The total accrual included arrangements, from enhanced contributions $4.7 billion less the repayment of the loan in the financial statements to cover the from, and substantial freedom over, those note of $1.4 billion, would be $3.3 billion.
worldwide exposure to transfer pricing products that have already been launched In accounting for the Restructuring in 1998, audits is $543 million, an increase of for example, Rhinocort and Atacand, those the loan note was included in the determination $143 million due to a number of new audits that are due to be launched in the US in of the fair values of the assets and liabilities and revisions of estimates relating to existing particular, Symbicort, subject to approval by to be acquired.
At that time, the loan note was audits.
For certain of the audits we estimate the FDA and those that are in development.
ascribed a fair value of zero on acquisition and that additional losses above and beyond on the balance sheet because we estimated the amount provided to be up to $190 million.
Benefits include relief from contingent payments, that the net minimum payment of $3.3 billion However, we believe that it is unlikely that anticipated cost savings from cessation of equated to the fair value of the rights to be these additional losses will arise.
It is not manufacturing arrangements and other cost acquired under the Partial Retirement, true-up possible to estimate the timing of tax cash efficiencies together with the strategic and First Option.
flows in relation to each outcome.
advantages of increased freedom to operate.
Our ongoing monitoring of the projected POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS Accounting treatments payments to Merck and the value to us of the We offer post-retirement benefit plans which Annual contingent payments: The annual related rights takes full account of changing cover many of our employees around the world.
contingent payments on agreement products business circumstances and the range of In keeping with local terms and conditions, are expensed as incurred.
possible outcomes to ensure that the payments most of these plans are defined contribution to be made to Merck are covered by the in nature where the resulting income statement Payment in the event of a business economic benefits expected to be realised charge is fixed at a set level or is a set combination: The Lump Sum Payment was by us.
Should our monitoring reveal that these percentage of employees pay.
However, expensed at the point of merger since it payments exceed the economic benefits several plans, mainly in the UK, which has caused no incremental benefits over the prior expected to be realised, we would recognise by far the largest single scheme, the US and years aggregate Astra and Zeneca a provision for an onerous contract.
Sweden, are defined benefit plans where performance to accrue to the merged benefits are based on employees length AstraZeneca entity.
of service and final salary typically averaged over 1, 3 or 5 years.
The UK and US schemes were closed to new entrants in 2000.
All new employees in these countries are offered defined contribution schemes.
Business Review 55 In applying IAS19Employee Benefits, Employee benefits IFRS requires to continue to be share-based payments and we recognise all actuarial gains and losses separate recognition of the operating deferred tax.
The reconciliation from UK GAAP immediately through reserves.
This and financing costs of defined benefit income in 2004 was also impacted by one-off methodology results in a less volatile income post-employment benefits.
gains on financial instruments that have been statement charge than under the alternative recognised in earlier years under IFRS.
approach of recognising actuarial gains and Financial instruments under UK GAAP, losses over time.
Investment decisions in financial instruments are recorded at cost On transition to IFRS, we took advantage respect of defined benefit schemes are based less any impairments.
Under IFRS, of several optional exemptions available in on underlying actuarial and economic the general principle is that financial IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International circumstances with the intention of ensuring instruments are, subject to certain Financial Reporting Standards and we discuss that the schemes have sufficient assets to exceptions, recognised at fair value.
meet liabilities as they fall due, rather than meeting accounting requirements.
The trustee Income tax IFRS requires a deferred tax Business combinations IFRS 3 Business follows a strategy of awarding mandates to provision to be made for all rolled-over capital Combinations has been applied from specialist, active investment managers which gains rather than just those expected to 1 January 2003, the date of transition, rather results in a broad diversification of investment crystallise and uses a methodology based than being applied fully retrospectively.
The investment on the purchasers rate of tax as opposed As a result, the combination of Astra and approach is intended to produce less volatility to the sellers rate to calculate deferred tax Zeneca is still accounted for as a merger, in the plan asset returns.
rather than through purchase accounting.
If purchase accounting had been adopted, Despite the change in assumptions Intangible assets under UK GAAP Zeneca would have been deemed to have underpinning the calculation of obligations we capitalised payments in respect of acquired Astra.
Under this scenario the principally the discount rate, the overall deficit in-licensed products generally after the purchase costs of Astra would have been in the Groups defined benefit schemes products had passed phase 2 of development.
Intangible assets amounting to decreased from $1,761 million at Under IFRS all such payments are capitalised.
approximately $12 billion would have been 31 December 2004 to $1,706 million at recognised and tangible fixed assets would 31 December 2005.
This was principally due Dividends dividends are accrued when have been fair valued upwards by about to significant actuarial gains in the UK scheme declared under IFRS as opposed to in the $288 million offset by deferred tax amounting where actual returns from assets generated an years to which they are deemed to relate.
Goodwill of $15 billion would additional $636 million over the expected level have arisen.
The recognition of intangible of returns together with beneficial exchange The major areas of ongoing impact on our assets and higher tangible assets would effects.
In assessing the discount rate applied net profit and shareholders equity are likely have resulted in increased amortisation and to the obligations, we have used rates on AA corporate bonds with durations 2004 2003 Income $m $m corresponding to the maturities of those obligations.
At the last interim actuarial UK GAAP 3,831 3,059 valuation at 31 March 2005, the market value Share-based payments 147 154 of the UK funds assets was 2,625 million, Employee benefits 1 21 representing a solvency ratio of 92.3% on the Business combinations 49 59 funds liabilities.
Financial instruments 163 8 INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING Capitalised software and intangibles 21 2 Under European legislation, we are required Deferred tax IFRS adjustments above 26 27 to adopt International Financial Reporting other 67 82 Standards and International Accounting Standards collectively IFRS as adopted byOthers 2 2 the European Union EU in the preparation of IFRS 3,683 3,044 our Financial Statements from the current year onwards.
The changes in income and net assets 2004 2003 Net assets $m $m from UK GAAP to IFRS for 2004 and 2003 are set out in the table below and can be UK GAAP 14,519 13,257 summarised as follows: Share-based payments Employee benefits 2,010 1,745 Share-based payments under IFRS Business combinations 108 59 a charge is made to income in respect of options granted to employees.
No such Financial instruments 11 98 charge was made under UK GAAP.
Dividend 1,061 914 Capitalised software and intangibles 106 85 Business combinations goodwill was Deferred tax IFRS adjustments above 579 516 amortised under UK GAAP and tested for impairment when there were indications other 111 8 that the carrying value was not reasonable.
Others 12 1 Under IFRS goodwill is not amortised but IFRS 14,497 13,175 is tested annually for impairment.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and 56 Form 20-F Information 2005 depreciation charges to income, net of tax, The project is being centrally directed and profit increased by 13% from $4,007 million of approximately $1 billion in 2005. is being reviewed regularly by the Senior to $4,547 million.
Executive Team and by the Audit Committee.
Employee benefits the provisions of IAS 19 Our external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, have Underlying performance have been applied from the date of transition, Sales been involved although the Audit Committee when the full actuarial deficit was recognised, After excluding the effects of exchange, has monitored their involvement to ensure their as opposed to being applied retrospectively.
underlying sales for the full year increased by independence is not impaired when they Since we have adopted the amendment to 9%.
Global sales of growth products reached provide attestation opinions in 2006.
IAS 19 allowing actuarial gains and losses $8,426 million for the full year up 36% and to be recognised immediately directly comprised 39% of total sales compared Our approach to the project has been to select in equity, the adoption of this exemption to 32% in 2003.
Patent expiry products key transaction and financial reporting makes no difference to our reported results declined by 26%, recording sales in aggregate processes in our largest operating units and or net assets.
of $2,976 million in 2004, 14% of our total sales a number of specialist areas such as financial compared to 20% in 2003.
Sales of base consolidation and reporting, treasury operations Share-based payments we have applied products increased by 5%, although the and taxation so that, in aggregate, we have the provisions of IFRS 2 Share-based relative percentage of total sales fell from 48% covered a significant proportion of each of the Payments fully retrospectively, an option in 2003 to 47% in 2004. key line items in our Financial Statements.
available to us because we have previously Each of these operating units and specialist disclosed the fair value of applicable equity In the Gastrointestinal therapy area, Nexium areas has ensured that its relevant processes instruments granted.
As a result, all years sales reached $3,883 million for the full year, and controls are documented to appropriate presented have a full charge in respect of up 15%.
Sales in the US reached $2,716 million standards, taking into account the guidance share-based payments.
on strong growth in dispensed tablet volume provided by the US Public Company up 20%.
Pricing was broadly neutral in its Accounting Oversight Boards Auditing Financial instruments although not required impact for the full year: the reported 10% sales Standard No.
We have also reviewed the to, we have applied the provisions of IAS 39 growth rate in the US for the full year was lower structure and operation of our entity level Financial Instruments: Recognition and than underlying growth as a result of wholesaler control environment.
This refers to the Measurement for all years presented.
Sales outside the US overarching structure of reviews, checks increased 29% to $1,167 million.
and balances which are essential to the Cumulative exchange differences management of a well controlled business.
we have chosen to set the cumulative Sales of Cardiovascular products increased exchange differences reserve at by 17% for the full year, chiefly on sales of During the second half of 2005, we have 1 January 2003 to zero.
extensively tested the operation of both the Crestor which totalled $908 million including entity level controls and the transactional and $543 million in US sales.
In the US, market Further details of the transition to IFRS are set financial reporting controls.
Where we have share was volatile, as a result of episodic media out on pages 137 and 138. identified controls which have not operated coverage of challenges to the Crestor safety satisfactorily, we have put in place remediation profile, despite mounting evidence amassed SARBANES-OXLEY ACT SECTION 404 activities.
The testing programme has included from clinical trials experience and thorough As a consequence of our listing on the New self-assessment by control operators and analysis of post-marketing surveillance reports York Stock Exchange, AstraZeneca is required process owners, independent testing by supporting our view that the safety profile of to comply with those provisions of the US management, and by KPMG for quality Crestor is in line with that of other marketed Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign assurance purposes.
As a result of this work statins.
In late November 2004, US Senate issuers.
Section 404 of this legislation requires we have concluded that we are now well hearings related to Mercks rofecoxib fuelled companies annually to assess and make placed to achieve formal compliance with news reports on Crestor and four other public statements about the quality and section 404 at the end of 2006. products, which interrupted market share effectiveness of their internal control over progress.
In the week ending 14 January financial reporting.
As a non-US company, The following information is provided 2005, Crestor share of new prescriptions was AstraZeneca is first required to report formally in accordance with US requirements.
Market share in the dynamic segment on its compliance with section 404 in respect new and switch patients was 8.2%.
of its financial year ending 31 December 2006.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS SUMMARY ANALYSIS Initially this had been required at 31 December OF YEAR TO 31 DECEMBER 2004 Oncology sales enjoyed strong growth, with 2005 but this was subsequently deferred by The tables on pages 57 and 58 show our sales a notable performance from Arimidex up 48%.
During 2004 we initiated a project by therapy area and by growth patent expiry The disappointing results from a preliminary to review our readiness for compliance and base products and operating profit for 2004 analysis of the ISEL study into Iressa patients to make improvements to our internal control compared to 2003. survival had little impact outside the US on sales over financial reporting where necessary.
While commercial prospects have Following the extension to the deadline, our Reported performance certainly been reduced in Western markets, objective in 2005 has been to achieve full Our sales increased by 14% compared to 2003, the positive results in patients of East Asian compliance internally by the end of 2005 and representing a rise of $2,577 million from origin offer the prospect of a continuing to be ready for 2006.
Operating successful business in these important markets.
Business Review 57 Neuroscience also saw significant growth Sales in Europe were up 3% for the full year, with commenced in the second half of 2003, driven by Seroquel sales which increased increased volume partially offset by declining reached a plateau.
This, together with continued by 33% to exceed $2 billion for the first time.
The launch roll out for Crestor strict cost control, reduced SG&A as a and good growth for Nexium up 26%, percentage of sales by 0.6 percentage points Symbicort sales growth of 32% to $797 million Symbicort up 29%, Arimidex up 48% and to 38.6% of sales both movements excluding was the principal contributor to growth of 8% Seroquel up 45% more than offset declines in currency.
R&D as a percentage of sales rose in Respiratory and Inflammation sales.
Losec down 25% and other mature products.
by 0.2 percentage points to 16.2% of sales.
In the US, the inventory management Sales in Japan were up 11% for the full year Other income benefited from the disposal of agreements IMAs entered into during on strong performance in Oncology products the Durascan business in the second quarter 2004 have successfully reduced wholesaler up 19% and for Losec up 24%.
of the year and disposals of short term listed inventory volatility and by the end of the year investments.
Royalty income remained wholesaler inventories were close to target Operating margin and retained profit broadly unchanged.
Over the year wholesaler inventories Gross margin decreased by 0.5 percentage are estimated to have declined by around points to 75.8% including a negative currency Operating margin decreased marginally by $150 million.
Adjusting both 2004 and 2003 effect of 0.1 percentage points.
Lower 0.1 percentage points from 21.3% to 21.2%.
for net wholesaler inventory movements, payments to Merck, amounting to 4.9% of Currency depressed operating margin by it is estimated that total sales growth for sales for the year, benefited gross margin by 1.0 percentage points implying an underlying 2004 would increase from 9% to 11%.
The resulting underlying margin improvement of 0.9 percentage points.
decline in gross margin of 1.3 percentage Geographic analysis points was attributable to the provisions and The disposal of the Advanta joint venture was Underlying sales growth in the US was 10%.
write-offs against Exanta $151 million and completed on 1 September 2004 for net cash However, growth for the full year was Iressa assets $85 million and fair value of $284 million.
The profit on disposal, after estimated to be 15% when adjusted for net of financial instruments.
transaction costs and warranty and indemnity wholesaler inventory movements in 2003 provisions, was $219 million.
Increased sales of Crestor, Both R&D and SG&A grew by 6%.
These Seroquel, Nexium and Arimidex more than growth rates slowed considerably during the Net interest and dividend income for the full offset a further $500 million decline in sales year as product launch cost growth, which year was $78 million 2003 $70 million.
SALES BY THERAPY AREA 2004 AND 2003 2004 2003 2004 compared to 2003 Growth due Growth to exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % Cardiovascular 4,777 653 214 3,910 17 22 Gastrointestinal 5,918 278 253 5,943 4 - Infection 539 33 30 476 7 13 Neuroscience 3,496 542 121 2,833 19 23 Oncology 3,376 437 196 2,743 16 23 Respiratory and Inflammation 2,583 176 146 2,261 8 14 Other pharma 177 10 15 152 7 17 Others 560 6 23 531 1 5 Total 21,426 1,579 998 18,849 9 14 SALES BY GROWTH, PATENT EXPIRY AND BASE PRODUCTS 2004 AND 2003 2004 2003 2004 compared to 2003 Growth due Growth to exchange Growth Growth underlying effects underlying reported $m $m $m $m % % 1 Growth 8,426 2,153 287 5,986 36 41 2 Patent expiry 2,976 993 208 3,761 26 21 Base 10,024 419 503 9,102 5 10 Total 21,426 1,579 998 18,849 9 14 1 Arimidex, Crestor, Nexium, Seroquel, Symbicort 2 Losec, Nolvadex, Plendil, Zestril AstraZeneca Annual Report and 58 Form 20-F Information 2005 Excluding exceptional items, the effective tax Major investments continued, particularly in Cash flow rate for the full year 2004 was 26.6% compared R&D facilities.
Depreciation of $921 million was Cash generated from operating activities was with 25.3% for 2003.
An agreement was lower than 2003 due principally to accelerated $4,817 million compared with $3,368 million reached with US tax authorities that a portion depreciation in 2003 not repeated in 2004. in 2003.
The increase was due to higher of the Zoladex settlement, recorded as an The net book value of tangible fixed assets profits and minimal working capital outflows exceptional item in 2002, was deductible for rose from $7,547 million to $8,097 million, $67 million in 2004 compared to $732 million tax purposes.
Consequently, an exceptional including exchange effects of $486 million.
In 2003, all three components of tax credit of $58 million was recorded in the working capital led to substantial cash year.
This credit, together with tax relief of Goodwill and intangible assets outflows whereas, in 2004, there were inflows $9 million on costs associated with the tax free Additions to goodwill and intangible assets on inventories $129 million and payables gain on the sale of Advanta BV, resulted in a amounted to $215 million, whilst amortisation $11 million offset by an outflow on post-exceptional tax rate of 24.0% for 2004. totalled $306 million.
There was a small writereceivables $207 million.
Cash flow from off of goodwill in connection with Exanta of working capital in the fourth quarter was In 2004, a settlement was reached in respect $10 million.
Additions included an intangible notably strong due mainly to inventories of currency losses arising on intra-group arising from the collaboration agreement with which, when compared with September 2004, balances in 2000 and a credit of $357 million Cambridge Antibody Technology of $34 million fell for the reasons above and receivables has been recorded in the statement of total and capitalisation of software.
Combined with which also fell because sales in December recognised gains and losses.
No benefit had the effects of exchange, the carrying value of were lower than in September.
Tax paid previously been recognised owing to the goodwill and intangible assets rose slightly for the year was $1,246 million, compared uncertainty of the losses being allowed for from $3,027 million to $3,050 million.
This increase in 2004 tax purposes.
compared to 2003 was due to the greater Inventories utilisation of foreign exchange losses in 2003, Earnings per share before exceptional items Inventory levels at $3,020 million were unchanged reduced trading losses brought forward grew by 14% from $1.77 in 2003 to $2.01 from 2003.
Reductions in inventories from tight to 2004 and a reduction in the level of in 2004. operational management, high second half accelerated capital allowances tax reliefs sales and provisions against Exanta and Iressa in excess of depreciation in 2004.
FINANCIAL POSITION, INCLUDING inventory were offset by exchange effects.
CASH FLOW AND LIQUIDITY Investments, divestments and The net book value of our assets increased Receivables and payables capital expenditure from $13,175 million at 31 December 2003 Receivables increased from $4,187 million to In 2004, we entered into a strategic alliance to $14,497 million at 31 December 2004.
This reflected the increased with Cambridge Antibody Technology, investing The increase was driven primarily by profit trade debtors from higher sales in the fourth a total of $138 million to acquire a 19.9% of $3,683 million and exchange benefits of quarter of 2004 particularly in December interest and an intangible asset.
We disposed $744 million, less dividends of $1,408 million compared with the same period in 2003 of Advanta BV in the second half of the year and share re-purchases of $2,212 million.
resulting in net cash proceeds of $284 million.
Tangible fixed assets Payables rose from $5,052 million to Capital expenditure, including new fixed asset Capital expenditure totalled $1,073 million, $5,478 million.
Increases in trade creditors and investments and intangible assets, totalled compared with $1,246 million in 2003. exchange effects drove this change.
OPERATING PROFIT 2004 AND 2003 2004 2003 Percentage of sales 2004 compared to 2003 Growth due Growth to exchange Growth Growth underlying effects 2004 2003 underlying reported $m $m $m $m %%%% Sales 21,426 1,579 998 18,849 9 14 Cost of sales 5,193 458 272 4,463 24.2 23.7 10 16 Gross margin 16,233 1,121 726 14,386 75.8 76.3 8 13 Distribution costs 177 3 12 162 0.9 0.9 2 15 Research and development 3,467 194 261 3,012 16.2 16.0 6 13 Selling, general and administrative 8,268 438 437 7,393 38.6 39.2 6 12 Other operating income 226 14 24 188 1.1 1.0 7 20 Operating profit 4,547 500 40 4,007 21.2 21.3 12 13 Business Review 59 US GAAP INFORMATION 2003-2005 the declines in expiry products whilst base was the net effect of new loan proceeds Our Financial Statements have been products remained flat resulting in an underlying of $725 million and increased returns to prepared in accordance with IFRS as 9% increase in sales.
These higher sales shareholders through share re-purchases adopted by the European Union which together with higher other income including and dividends totalling $3,488 million.
differ in certain significant respects from the gain from the sale of Advanta more than US GAAP.
In particular, under US GAAP: compensated for the increased levels of costs Operating activities in 2003 resulted in resulting in net income before tax improving a cash inflow of $3,416 million, down from The AstraZeneca merger has been from $3,094 million in 2003 to $3,774 million $4,833 million in 2002.
Working capital accounted for as a purchase accounting in 2004.
Earnings per share rose from $1.26 increases and exceptional item costs primarily acquisition of Astra AB Astra by Zeneca in 2003 to $1.76 in 2004. the Zoladex investigation settlement were the Group PLC Zeneca.
main reasons behind the decline.
Total cash Further details of the impact of the differences outflow in respect of investing activities was Variations from the regular costs of pension between IFRS and US GAAP are set out in the $746 million: inflows from liquidation of short and other post retirement benefits are Additional Information for US Investors on term investments of $771 million and the sale spread on a systematic basis over the page 130. of Marlow Foods reduced the costs of fixed estimated average remaining service asset investing of $1,597 million.
The financing lives of current employees in the plan.
Taxation outflows represented absorption of funds Taxation in 2005 amounted to $1,594 million, in respect of dividends $1,222 million, share Although there are several differences between an effective rate of 29.1% compared to 21.8% re-purchases $1,107 million and loan our net income and assets under IFRS and in 2004. repayments of $345 million.
US GAAP, these differences in accounting represent substantially all of the adjustments.
Cash flow Net assets Operating activities performance drove an Under US GAAP, net assets are significantly INCOME, SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY increase in cash flow from $4,842 million higher than under IFRS because the merger AND CASH FLOW UNDER US GAAP in 2004 to $6,919 million in 2005.
Increased between Astra and Zeneca has been regarded Results of continuing operations US GAAP sales were the principal driver behind this as a purchase of Astra by Zeneca and pension 2005 compared with 2004 improvement, combined with continued working and other post-employment benefit plan Sales increased by $2,524 million resulting capital management.
Continued decreases in deficits are not recognised.
Goodwill on the in $23,950 million in 2005 compared to capital expenditure down from $1,183 million acquisition of Astra amounted to $13.5 billion $21,426 million in 2004.
Strong performances in 2004 to $942 million in 2005 meant that down from the 2004 balance of $15.1 billion from the five growth products drove the the primary use of the surplus cash was due to exchange whilst adjustments to fixed underlying 10% increase.
Together with cost in returns to shareholders through share assets both tangible and intangible fell containment measures, this resulted in a rise re-purchases $2,858 million after share through depreciation, amortisation and in net income of $933 million from $2,951 million issues and dividends $1,717 million.
exchange from $7.0 billion to $5.2 billion.
Earnings Under US GAAP, our net assets totalled per share rose from $1.76 in 2004 to $2.40 in Operating activities contributed $4,842 million $31.9 billion at 31 December 2005 and 2005.
132 R on share-based cash in 2004, an increase of $1,426 million were comprised of $7.4 billion tangible fixed payments has been adopted in the year.
This improvement was a reflection assets, $21.2 billion goodwill and intangible Adoption has been applied retrospectively.
of improved profitability and working capital assets and $13.8 billion current assets whilst management countered by higher tax total liabilities amounted to $11.8 billion.
The annual impairment tests on our US GAAP payments.
The cash was utilised in increasing goodwill balances resulted in no impairments investing activities in short term and fixed at 31 December 2005. deposits $862 million together with capital expenditure and acquisition and disposals 2004 compared with 2003 net $910 million, after receipts of $355 million Sales increased to $21,426 million in 2004 on Advanta and Durascan.
Financing outflows from $18,849 million in 2003.
Improvements remained at similar levels to 2003, but this in revenues from growth products exceeded US GAAP 2005 2004 2003 $m $m $m Operating income 5,355 3,775 3,031 Net income for the year 3,884 2,951 2,149 Shareholders equity 31,894 35,477 33,759 Increase decrease in cash 442 309 4
