Operating and Financial Review Description of the business Group strategy Stagecoach Group is a leading international public transportation group, Stagecoach Groups strategy is to focus on organic growth in local with extensive operations in the UK, United States, Canada and New transport operations with critical mass and good future potential in our Zealand.
The company, which employs around 30,000 people, operates core UK, North American and New Zealand markets.
We also continue to bus, coach, rail, tram and ferry services.
The Group has four main look for complementary bolt-on acquisition opportunities in these divisions: UK Bus, UK Rail, North America and New Zealand.
geographic locations, which offer the prospect of additional profitable growth.
Our UK Bus division connects communities in around 100 towns and cities across the country on a network stretching from the Highlands of Through a combination of operational expertise and applying our Scotland to south-west England, including major city operations in entrepreneurial skills in our core geographic markets, we believe we can Newcastle, Manchester and London.
We are one of the biggest bus maximise shareholder value.
operators in the UK, operating a fleet of around 7,000 buses across our We have a very strong position in UK Bus and are confident we can 16 regional companies.
Most of Stagecoachs UK Bus services are operated achieve further organic growth by continuing to demonstrate on a commercial basis in a deregulated market.
However, we also operate entrepreneurial vision and innovation, supported by targeted and effective contracts on behalf of local authorities and provide bus services on behalf marketing and a commitment to partnerships with transport authorities.
of Transport for London in the regulated London market.
In UK Rail, where we already have a significant share of the passenger rail Stagecoach Group has major rail operations and has an involvement in market, we are targeting a number of opportunities that fit with our operating around a quarter of the UK passenger rail network.
The Groups strategy of long-distance inter-city and high-volume commuter franchises.
wholly-owned rail businesses include South West Trains, the UKs biggest We are currently shortlisted for the Greater Western and Thameslink Great commuter franchise by passenger revenue, which runs around 1,600 train Northern Rail franchises and we have a 29.9% stake in the Danish State services a day in south-west England out of London Waterloo.
The Railways bid for the Integrated Kent franchise.
Groups other franchise is Island Line on the Isle of Wight.
We also operate Supertram, a 28km light rail network incorporating three routes in A key element of our rail strategy is agreeing new long-term commercial the city of Sheffield.
arrangements for Virgin Rail Groups West Coast franchise.
VRG would also look to bid for the CrossCountry franchise if it is put to the market and, Separately, the Group has a 49% shareholding in Virgin Rail Group, which as the incumbent operator, VRG is in a strong position to win the operates the West Coast and CrossCountry franchises.
Stagecoach is a major provider of transport services in North America, In North America, our strategy is to organically grow our mix of where the market is highly fragmented with several thousand operators.
scheduled, charter, sightseeing and school bus operations, as well as Our businesses are focused on commuter services, tour, charter, assessing potential bolt-on acquisitions in the non-leisure related parts of sightseeing and school bus operations.
The final part of our major the business.
We are targeting further growth in our New Zealand bus restructuring programme was completed during the year with the disposal operations by adopting a number of marketing strategies successfully used of our remaining taxi businesses.
We now operate approximately 2,800 elsewhere in the group.
vehicles in North America where our operations are centred on three areas: the North East region covering the states of New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, the North Central region covering seven states in the Overview of Financial Results northern Midwest of the United States and Canada focused on the Total turnover for the year was 1,794.7m compared to 1,792.3m in the provinces of Quebec and Ontario.
Turnover from continuing operations at constant exchange In New Zealand, our bus operations cover the metropolitan areas of rates increased 9.9%, reflecting excellent underlying growth.
Turnover by Auckland and Wellington, where we are the biggest provider of scheduled division is summarised below: services.
Stagecoach also runs Fullers Ferries, which operates services on the Waitemata Harbour and Hauraki Gulf off Auckland.
