OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW UBM aims to create long-term value for shareholders by developing growing, profitable businesses through investing in organic development and making strategically coherent acquisitions that meet UBMs strict financial criteria for return on capital.
We will continue to review our portfolio to ensure we are maximising the value of our assets, divesting assets where appropriate, whilst maintaining a progressive dividend policy and returning surplus capital to shareholders.
About the OFR The Operating and Financial Review OFR which is based on guidance from the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Standard 1: Operating and Financial Review, includes information previously found in the operating and financial reviews as well as new material, and covers: Our business: a description of the business: competitive environment: strategy: key performance indicators 2005 results: Group results: results and operating reviews by division Financial review Risk and risk management: principal risks the directors believe to be material to the business and explains how they are managed Corporate social responsibility: employees, health and safety, the environment and communities.
Forward-looking statements The OFR contains certain forward-looking statements made by the directors in good faith based on information available to them up to the time of their approval of this report.
These statements should be treated with caution, however, due to the inherent uncertainties, including both economic and business risk factors, underlying any such forward-looking statements.
Nigel Wilson Chief Financial Officer 28th February 2006 p. 10 Competitive & business environment Our business We consider UBMs competitive and business environment in Company overview terms of our major businesses, PR Newswire and CMP.
For a broader discussion of the changing nature of the media United Business Media is a leading international market business environment, the impact of online media and the information company that brings together the worlds buyers challenges and opportunities it offers UBM, see Strategy on and sellers, helping their markets work effectively and page 12. efficiently.
UBM operates two global businesses PR Newswire news distribution and CMP business-to-business events, print and online media.
PR Newswire PR Newswires revenues are predominately earned in the PR Newswire is one of the worlds leading electronic U. S. where the business competes with other electronic distributors of corporate and other news and is used by news release distribution services, as well as with other forms journalists, investors and others seeking breaking news of news release delivery.
It also has competitors in online at source.
monitoring and broadcast services, webcast services and investor relations web services.
CMP has four divisions: CMP Asia, CMP Media, CMP Information and CMPMedica.
In the U. S. growing regulatory requirements for corporate disclosure and an increasingly transparent business culture CMP Asia is a leading events and publishing business have supported growth in corporate business news operating in Japan, China, Hong Kong and throughout distribution.
Other markets are following Americas lead in the region with a wide portfolio of media activities and strengthening regulatory requirements for transparency and a particular strength in exhibitions.
disclosure, albeit at different speeds and using different CMP Media is the largest business-to-business and online methods.
A potentially positive long-term development for publisher in the U. S. high tech sector.
It also has a PR Newswire is the European Unions aim to harmonise substantial continuing medical education and medical disclosure standards and practices for publicly-quoted publishing business and operates events and publications companies across all member states.
We do not anticipate in a number of other sectors.
any shortto medium-term benefits, however, since the EU CMP Information delivers integrated media solutions to a has yet to define the detail.
wide variety of business-to-business markets in the UK, Europe, the U. S. and Asia.
CMP CMPMedica comprises drug information businesses in CMP Asia, CMP Media, CMP Information continental Europe and Asia, and trade press, patient education and pharmaceutical marketing solutions The business-to-business online, print and events activities businesses in Germany, Benelux and Asia Pacific.
of CMP Asia, CMP Media and CMP Information compete directly with various media companies in their respective fields in the U. S. Europe and Asia.
CMPs competitive People and business environment is strongly affected by trends UBM employs over 5,000 people in 60 countries around in the level and pattern of marketing expenditure by the world.
Recruiting and retaining the best talent are customers.
fundamental to maintaining our market leadership.
Employees are selected and promoted solely on the basis Historically, the overall level of expenditure by companies of their skills and ability to do their job, regardless of age, on marketing activities has been cyclical, with companies gender, race, religion, sexual orientation or disability.
spending less on marketing in times of economic Our culture of diversity contributes to the growth of UBM slowdown, although the overall trend is one of long-term by developing and rewarding the unique talents of each growth.
These cycles take place at both macro national employee in line with strategic objectives.
and international economic trends and micro levels trends in specific vertical markets.
More information on training, development and communication can be found under Corporate Social CMPMedica Responsibility on page 20.
CMPMedica is a market leader in the provision of drug information in many of the 25 countries in which it Brands and trademarks operates in Europe and Asia, competing mainly with Collectively through PR Newswire and CMP, UBM owns smaller local competitors.
It also competes indirectly with significant assets in terms of our many well-known branded larger competitors that operate predominantly in the U. S. events, print and online publications.
Managing and protecting Operating in the pharmaceutical and broader healthcare these brands through registering trademarks and other markets, CMPMedicas business is largely print based and elements of brand equity such as URLs website addresses is is affected to a greater degree by regulation, both an important part of safeguarding our assets and ensuring legislative and professional, than other CMP divisions.
we continue to achieve good returns for shareholders.
p. 11 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Strategy UBM aims to create long-term value for shareholders by developing growing, profitable businesses through investing in organic development and making strategically coherent acquisitions that meet UBMs strict financial criteria for return on capital.
Market context Over the last few years, many media businesses have been subject to rapid changes brought about by the development of new digital technologies.
These technologies are changing established media consumption patterns, with online media growing particularly rapidly not only in consumer markets, but also in business-to-business markets.
These changes mark a long-term evolution of the competitive and business environment.
This evolution challenges established media business models, particularly those based on print advertising, and is driving the development of online business models.
The pace of change and the degree of impact is not uniform across media businesses.
Some markets such as recruitment advertising are particularly suited to online media and have experienced rapid and almost wholesale change, particularly in the U. S. where adoption of online media has been most advanced.
Other markets, both sectorial and geographical, are less exposed to online migration and have yet to experience substantial effects.
A rapidly evolving market offers competitive opportunities to those companies that embrace and lead change.
UBMs assessment of the impact of new digital technologies on our businesses is fundamental to the development of our strategy.
We aim to mitigate negative impacts, for example by reducing exposure to markets susceptible to rapid and wholesale online migration, while taking advantage of business opportunities, in particular by developing profitable online businesses that leverage and complement our existing businesses.
Connecting buyers & sellers UBMs strategy is to connect buyers and sellers, assisting them and their markets to operate effectively and efficiently.
In each market in which we operate, we aim to establish a leading position.
This means creating the markets premium media product, namely the one which connects most buyers and sellers thus creating the best market in which to trade.
Buyers have the greatest choice and sellers can get the best prices.
We aim to achieve this through developing a balanced portfolio of products in each market that connects buyers and sellers across complementary media news distribution, print, online and events and that will best meet the needs of our customers.
This will see UBM investing particularly in events and online products.
p. 12 Existing vertical markets 2005 UBM aims to build leading positions in its specific vertical markets through organic product development and by making acquisitions.
In each market UBM will leverage an existing position in one or more media to: 25% DIVIDEND PER SHARE grow into complementary media in the same market e. g. leveraging a strong 15.0 print position to develop a leading complementary event 15.0p extend into a new geography e. g. launching an existing successful magazine in 12.0 a new, fast-growing geography 12.0p create a product for adjacent or upstream or downstream markets e. g. creating a website to target a specialist interest group within the broader audience of an 9.0 existing online or print property.
9.0p 6.0 Expansion into new markets 7.0p Where the opportunity to secure a leading position presents itself, UBM will extend its coverage into vertical markets in which we have no presence.
In 2005 for 3.0 example, the acquisition of The Publican and subsequently the Bar Show brought UBM into the Licensed Trade sector in the UK.
0 02 0304 05 Key performance indicators UBMs Board and executives monitor the Groups performance continuously using a wide range of financial and non-financial indicators.
The principal key performance indicators by which the Board assesses the Groups progress against its strategic objectives are listed below.
2005 2005 1 Earnings Per Share 40.9 pence 1 Diluted Earnings Per Share 36.7 pence 2 25% 12 month Total Shareholder Return 35.5% 3 50 Pre-tax return on acquisitions 12.1% EARNINGS PER SHARE 4 Sources of revenue Print 55% 40 Events 24% News Distribution 15% 40.9p Online 6% 30 5 Annual revenues of organic Launches 25.7m 32.7p Before amortisation of intangible assets, non-recurring items, net financial income other than 20 23.9p interest and including discontinued operations.
1 Earnings per share as per financial statements but adjusted for amortisation, non-recurring items, 16.3p 10 other financial income other than interest and including discontinued operations.
Diluted shows the impact of potential shares.
2 Total shareholder return includes ordinary and special dividends plus movements in the share price.
0 3 The Group has a financial target that acquisitions should achieve an 8% post tax return.
This 02 03 04 05 equates to a pre tax return of 10% at the groups effective tax rate of 20%.
The return is calculated by dividing the attributable operating profit by the cost of acquisitions for the total of the three prior years.
Current year acquisitions are included on a proforma basis to ensure the full year is recognised.
2002 & 2003 UK GAAP, 2004 & 2005 IFRS 4 The Group has a strategic objective of rebalancing revenues such that the contribution made by events and online activities grow to reduce the relative contribution made by print activities.
The ratio between the types of business is based on percentage of Group revenue.
5 This shows organic growth based on revenue from new launches initiated from 2003 onwards.
p. 13 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued 2005 Results Revenue Operating Profit Year ended 31 December Year ended 31 December 2005 2004 Change Underlying 2005 2004 Change Underlying # # m m % % m m % % PR Newswire 104.1 94.8 9.8 8.8 29.2 23.9 22.2 20.7 CMP Asia 61.9 51.4 20.4 15.1 17.5 14.0 25.0 10.9 CMP Media 225.9 220.3 2.5 0.0 24.9 27.1 8.1 16.2 CMP Information 177.0 161.0 9.9 4.0 43.0 38.5 11.7 4.0 CMPMedica 106.9 29.8 2.8 19.4 3.4 26.7 Corporate 3.1 0.8 Total 675.8 557.3 21.3 4.1 137.1 107.7 27.3 3.2 # Underlying: adjusted for the estimated effects of acquisitions, discontinued operations, biennial events and foreign exchange Before amortisation of intangible assets and non-recurring items Corporate operations comprise net central operating costs together with those equity-accounted investments which do not form part of one of the Groups operating divisions.
This includes the equity investments disposed of in 2005 five, SDN, SIS Underlying revenue was up 4.1% after adjusting for the CMP Asia effects of acquisitions, discontinued operations, biennials and CMP Asia delivered a strong performance in 2005 across foreign exchange.
Group revenue increased by 34.9m for the business with underlying revenue up 15.1%, underlying acquisitions made in 2005 and operating profit increased by operating profits up 10.9%, and operating margins rising 5.9m.
The net effect of biennial events was to increase modestly to 28.3% 2004: 27.3%.
CMP Asias major revenue by 4.8m and operating profit by 2.9m in 2005. exhibitions in Hong Kong continued to be successful while a combination of acquired and organically developed business The movement in the US dollar and Euro had a direct drove the companys growth in China where it now operates translation impact.
With approximately two thirds of UBMs more than 20 exhibitions.
In Japan, CMP Asias KSS business revenue reported locally in US dollars or Euros, Group continued to perform well and the Japan Jewellery Fair was revenue was increased by 4.5m as a result of foreign acquired during the year.
Further new events are planned for exchange.
The average rate of $: exchange for 2005 was 2006, including CMP Asias first exhibition in India.
2005 $1.81 2004: $1.83 : together with the effects of other had a positive impact from biennial events.
currency movements this increased operating profit by 0.9m.
A 1 cent movement in the US dollar against sterling is approximately equivalent to a move in profit of around CMP Media 0.3m to 0.4m over the full year.
CMP Medias underlying revenues for 2005 were flat, underlying profits fell by 16.2% to 23.5m and operating margins fell to 11.0%.
The decline in operating profits across CMP Media largely reflects both challenges to certain titles Results and operating review by division notably Information Week and higher levels of investment PR Newswire in new product development, particularly in online media, healthcare as well as the costs of relaunching certain print PR Newswire delivered a strong performance in 2005 with titles including Information Week.
underlying revenue rising 8.8% and underlying operating profit up 20.7%, with the overall operating margin up from In healthcare, revenue increased to 37.0m for the full year, 25.2% to 28.0%.
Increased traffic, improved mix and an increase of 5.8%.
Revenue growth was re-established in growth of revenue from non-wire products all contributed the second half as customers of medical education businesses to overall strong performance.
In particular, two organic restructured themselves to address US regulatory concerns.
product developments, MEDIAtlas and MultiVu, showed good growth and improving profitability in 2005.
During 2005, two technology events businesses, Black Hat and ICMI, were acquired followed by a further two, Performance outside the US was encouraging with the MediaLive and Shorecliff, in January 2006.
The acquisitions European business progressing from being loss-making in in 2005 of online businesses Light Reading and TechOnLine, 2003 to achieving a 19.2% operating margin in 2005. will help overall online business development, as well assisting PR Newswires non-US business achieved 5.3% revenue in the evaluation of alternative online business models.
growth for the full year, and an operating profit of 1.9m 2004: 0.2m.
The business continued to make good Steve Weitzner was appointed CEO of the division in progress in China.
Further international expansion is planned October 2005. for 2006. p. 14 CMP Information CMP Information, incorporating the previously reported UAP segment, CMP Information CMPi delivered solid performance in the year, with strong results from the events business.
CMPis underlying revenue rose by 4.0%.
Operating profit was 43m, the largest contribution of profit to the Group.
Higher investment in new product development resulted in underlying operating profit falling by 4.0% compared with 2004.
In line with Group strategy, during the year CMPi rationalised its business portfolio and focused on core vertical markets.
CMPi disposed of Exchange & Mart and Auto Exchange for around 50m, and acquired ABI online building industry data, The Publican, Theme & Bar licensed trade event and print titles and Informex chemical ingredients event for a total of around 50m.
These acquisitions are performing in line with expectations.
Gary Hughes was appointed CEO of the division in January 2006.
CMPMedica CMPMedica was acquired in July 2004 and was augmented with the acquisition of France Medical Press & Services in March 2005.
The business has been trading in line with its acquisition case, with a strong seasonal weighting towards the first half of the year.
The drug information business has performed well, particularly in France which accounts for roughly half the business.
However there was some softness in the Asia-Pacific trade press markets.
In 2006 we intend to make further investment in drug information services and continuing medical education products, and to seek geographical expansion into Eastern Europe and Japan.
p. 15 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued The cash outflow in respect of surplus property was reduced Financial Review to 12.7m from 16.1m.
We paid tax of 17.4m, including consideration paid to five to acquire tax losses, and incurred profit on disposal of businesses and equity restructuring and business reorganisation spend of 7.2m.
accounted investments We made additional contributions to our pension scheme During 2005, the Group sold its market research business of 17.2m which helped to reduce the deficit on the UK NOP World, and the Exchange & Mart and Auto Exchange schemes to around 10m on a funding basis.
We also sold our equity investments in five, SDN and SIS.
Total profits on disposal amounted to 417.0m after costs see note 31 on page 96.
Balance sheet Our balance sheet remains strong.
The Group had net cash at 31 December 2005 of 246.8m.
The disposals of NOP Restructuring and business reorganisation costs World, Exchange & Mart and Auto Exchange and our UBM has implemented a number of restructuring and investments in five, SDN and SIS yielded 737.7m of which reorganisation projects across several businesses.
The we reinvested 115.6m including further consideration on objectives of these projects are to simplify the Group prior year acquisitions in acquisitions and returned 298.3m structure following the disposals referred to above, to to shareholders via a special dividend.
achieve greater geographical alignment of our publishing divisions, and to achieve greater customer and product focus We aim to increase the level of acquisitions from 105m whilst delivering lower operating costs.
achieved in 2005 to an annual level of 150m 250m, whilst maintaining the Groups strict financial criteria for The total cost of the projects is 37.2m, of which 7.2m has acquisitions.
The Board also intends to move the Group been spent in 2005.
With the exception of amounts relating towards a prudent leveraged balance sheet over the next to vacant property, which will be incurred over the two years.
Subject to trading over these few years, the Board remainder of the lease terms, we anticipate spending the expects to be in a position to return in excess of 300m of balance of the charge in 2006.
The charge also includes the capital to shareholders during that period.
costs of integrating businesses acquired during the year.
Representing our prudent The total charge for restructuring and reorganisation may be assessment of the potential liability for prior years across analysed as: different geographies we have necessarily made judgments as to the outcome of matters not yet concluded.
This m creditor has consistently been classified as short-term in line Vacant property costs 8.8 with our accounting convention.
We do not expect the cash Redundancy 8.6 outflow in 2006 in respect of this liability to exceed 20m.
Re-engineering of business processes 10.3 The Group is in dispute with HM Revenue & Customs with Restructuring and business reorganisation costs 7.8 regards to a technical matter arising in relation to the sale Acquisition integration 1.7 of regional newspapers in 1998.
We expect that the issue 37.2 will be heard by the special commissioners later in 2006, although no date has been set.
The tax in dispute is estimated at 80m.
We remain confident that no tax will ultimately be payable.
However we continue to make a prudent assessment in the accounts.
Cash flow Operating cash flow from continuing businesses was We continue to hold investments in ITN and the Press 136.5m compared to operating profit of 132.5m.
This Association which continue to perform well.
2005 was the fourth consecutive year in which the Group has achieved operating cash conversion of over 100% and again represented a Investment performance strong performance by the business.
PR Newswire once again produced an exceptional performance with cash The following table shows cash spent on acquisitions since conversion of around 118%.
2003 and the returns on this capital in 2005: Cumulative Capital expenditure for the year was 8.4m.
This was again Invested Pre Tax Return less than our depreciation charge of 9.3m.
However as we m % reported last year, the two are converging.
We expect capital expenditure to increase in 2006 to around 15m as we 2003 105.7 13.0 invest capital to improve revenue growth.
2004 189.7 10.9 2005 104.9 12.1 Results of 2005 acquisitions have been included on a proforma basis to reflect full year impact p. p. 16 16 In 2004 we acquired CMPMedica and said that we did not expect the acquisition to achieve a return equal to our cost of capital in its first year, but that we expected its returns to improve.
The actual 2005 return on capital slightly exceeded our expectations, and we made a bolt-on acquisition of France Medical Press & Services.
Combined, the pre-tax return on the CMPMedica business was 10% on a proforma basis.
2005 acquisitions contributed operating profit of 5.9m since acquisition and achieved a return of 17.7% on a proforma basis.
The performance of organic investments improved in 2005, with both revenue and operating profit increasing in line with expectations.
In 2005 we achieved underlying revenue growth of 4.1% 2004: 3.2% and we aim to accelerate that growth with further investment in 2006.
Impairment We have reviewed the carrying value of our intangible assets including goodwill in light of current trading conditions and expectations and consider that no provision for impairment is required in the current year.
Pensions The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes based primarily in the UK but with some based overseas.
The most recent actuarial valuations were undertaken at various points during 2005 and updated to 31 December 2005 using the projected unit method.
At 31 December 2005 the aggregate deficit under IAS 19 had decreased significantly to 52.3m from 96.0m, reflecting 17.2m of additional contributions made by the Group, strong asset returns, offset by adoption of more conservative assured mortality tables longer life expectancy assumed and a decrease in the discount rate used to value liabilities.
Additional contributions of 4.9m have been made in the first few months of 2006.
The IAS 19 interest charge was 2.5m in line with our expectations, reduced from 3.4m in 2004 reflecting the lower aggregate deficit.
Funding and financial risk management The Groups central treasury is principally concerned with managing internal and external funding requirements, the monitoring of working capital and the management of key financial market risks.
Its activities are carried out in accordance with policies approved by the Board and are subject to regular review and audit.
Contracts are entered into with approved counter parties and not on a speculative basis.
Following the disposals of NOP, five and others, partially offset by returns of capital to investors and acquisitions made during 2005, the Group has moved from a net debt position at the end of 2004 to a net cash position at the end of 2005.
Net cash at the end of 2005 was 246.8m.
The Group borrows and invests centrally on behalf of its subsidiaries with the aim of maximising liquidity, security, flexibility and price competitiveness.
The Groups debt at the end of 2005 is 242.6m 2004: 448.7m comprising $165.4m of convertible bonds repayable in 2006, $5.7m of US senior notes, and 198.0m drawn from the Groups 325m revolving credit facility.
In 2005 the Group repurchased from surplus cash $234.6m of 2.375% convertible bond, and $179.3m of 7.75% US senior notes for details on redemption and conversion and repurchases see note 21 on page 76. p. 17 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Since 2002 the Group has repaid $625m of capital market debt from surplus cash.
This debt carried an annual fixed cost of $47.5m per annum average interest rate of 7.6%.
The repayment of debt has significantly reduced the Groups net interest costs.
The core bank facility was refinanced in 2005 raising funds for a further five years at lower cost, and on improved terms.
The facility size was lowered from 500m to 325m reflecting the availability of liquid cash following disposals.
The drawn margin on the new facility is 32.5 basis points.
The Group has established and retains strong relationships with a number of banks and financial institutions to facilitate future funding requirements and to ensure a balanced spread.
The Groups debt contains a single financial covenant relating to interest cover.
Cash and short term liquid funds total 489.4m 2004: 379.9m and are mainly short-term deposits with relationship banks or investments in AAA-rated money market funds.
The Group operates strict investment guidelines with respect to surplus cash with the emphasis on the preservation of capital.
Exposure to interest rates is managed through the use of interest rates swaps.
At the end of 2005, 436m sterling equivalent of interest rates swaps are outstanding with an average maturity of two years.
All interest rate swaps require approval by the Finance Committee which includes the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer.
Foreign currency transaction exposures are covered as they arise using forward foreign exchange contracts.
There are no material contacts outstanding at the end of 2005.
We do not hedge profits as they are accounting rather than cash exposures.
Foreign currency borrowings are used where appropriate to provide a hedge against investment in overseas territories.
Our long-term credit rating remains investment grade with a Moody rating of Baa2 and Standard and Poors of BBB-, both with a stable outlook.
Going concern Having reviewed the Groups liquid resources, borrowing facilities and cash flow forecast, the directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Risk and risk management In this section we describe the principal risks that the directors believe could materially affect our business, revenues, operating income, net income, net assets and liquidity and capital resources.
The nature of risk is such that no list can be comprehensive and it is possible that other risks may arise, or that risks not currently considered material may become so in the future.
Sound risk management is therefore an essential discipline for running the business efficiently and pursuing our strategy successfully.
UBM has a Group-wide risk management process, monitored by the Board, to ensure a consistent, coherent approach.
We operate in a highly competitive environment that is subject to rapid change and must continue to invest and adapt to remain competitive.
Our professional media and news distribution businesses operate in highly competitive markets that continue to change in response to technological innovation and other factors, as discussed in Strategy above.
We cannot predict with certainty changes that may affect the competitiveness of the business, or whether technological innovation will render some of our existing products and services partially or wholly obsolete.
p. 18 We aim to mitigate this risk through creating a balanced Changes in government legislation may affect the portfolio of products that evolves to meet the needs of our pharmaceutical industry.
customers, investing particularly in organic initiatives that Changes in government health policies, for example on the address this environment, and acquiring leading online use of generic drugs or reimbursement prices, could adversely businesses.
This could lead to reduced spending by pharmaceutical companies on advertising.
Our strategy calls for acquisitions in a number of our Regulatory pressures may also affect pharmaceutical businesses and, therefore, we face risks typical of companies ability or willingness to sponsor continuing acquisitions.
We monitor developments in public The risks associated with such a strategy include the policy in all our major markets and work with our customers availability of suitable acquisition candidates, obtaining to ensure we can deliver the best possible media product regulatory approval for any acquisition, and assimilating and while meeting all regulatory obligations.
integrating acquired companies into the Group.
In addition, potential difficulties inherent in mergers and acquisitions Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect our reported such as delays in implementation or unexpected costs or results.
liabilities, as well as the risk of failing to realise operating UBMs financial statements are expressed in pounds sterling benefits or synergies from completed transactions, may and are therefore subject to movements in exchange rates adversely affect the results of an acquisition.
on the translation of the financial information of businesses with different operational currencies.
The United States is our We mitigate this risk by following systematic procedures for most important market and accordingly significant integrating acquisitions, applying strict financial criteria to fluctuations in U. S. dollar sterling exchange rates could any potential acquisition, and through close monitoring and affect our reported results from year to year.
review by internal audit and the Board.
Future tax payments may exceed recorded liabilities.
Implementing our strategy depends on attracting and While the Groups taxation creditor of 219.4m represents retaining key management personnel across all our our prudent assessment of the potential tax liability for prior businesses.
tax years across different geographical areas, we have We operate in a number of industry segments in which there necessarily made judgments as to the outcome of matters is intense competition for experienced and highly qualified not yet concluded.
We cannot predict the future availability of good people, hence we place significant emphasis on succession We seek to manage this risk by regularly assessing the planning and developing and retaining management talent.
potential tax liability of the Group with the help of external During 2005 we have put in place two new incentive advisors.
We consider the current provision to be adequate.
schemes, the Performance Share Plan and Bonus Investment Plan, to attract and motivate key senior management.
The cost of providing pension benefits to existing and former employees is subject to changes in pension fund We are dependent on publishing advertising for a values and changing demographics.
UBM operates a number of pension plans that provide Advertising and other marketing spend tends to be cyclical, defined benefits.
While the UK plan is closed to new with companies spending significantly less, particularly on employees, the U. S. plan, which has some of the features advertising, in times of economic slowdown or recession.
of a defined benefits plan, continues and the cost of In addition there is increasing competition for advertising providing these benefits to existing and former employees revenues from competitors including search companies is subject to changes in pension fund values and changing such as Google and Yahoo.
demographics, including longer life expectancy of beneficiaries.
We believe that sustained declines in equity We are addressing this risk by migrating CMPs businesses markets and reductions in bond yields have and may from their traditional print base to incorporate a higher continue to have a material adverse effect on the value proportion of event and online revenue.
We may therefore be required to recognise additional charges to our profit and loss account Our exhibitions businesses may be adversely affected by to the extent that the pension fund values are less than the outbreaks of disease, such as Avian flu or Severe Acute total anticipated liability under the plans.
There is an Respiratory Syndrome SARS.
exposure in the event that asset returns are insufficient to UBMs exhibitions businesses contributed 31% of the cover changes in the schemes liabilities over time.
This has Groups revenue in 2005, and over 85% of CMP Asias been mitigated by active management of the investment revenue on a proforma basis.
Outbreaks or fears of an portfolio and additional contributions have been made to outbreak of disease in particular locations may have an the UK schemes.
The Group has acted to close its defined adverse effect on these businesses as a result of reduced benefit schemes to new members and neither the CEO or attendance at public gatherings, particularly if supported by CFO are members of such a scheme.
However our experience from the 2003 SARS outbreak in Asia, showed that whilst revenues were impacted in the year of the outbreak, they bounced back strongly as the demand for events was greater to compensate for the prior year.
p. 19 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Corporate social responsibility UBM believes ethical and environmental factors to be integral to delivering financial returns to our shareholders, and reflects this in our corporate values and standards.
UBM has established a Statement of Business Principles, available on our website www.
com, which governs our relationships with customers, shareholders, employees, suppliers, the wider community and the environment.
These principles form the basis of UBMs corporate values described below.
We aim to integrate Corporate Social Responsibility CSR into our business processes and the Group risk mapping process described on page 36 is the principal mechanism by which the Board identifies and assesses risks to value which may arise from CSR issues.
UBM is a member of the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Media Forum which seeks to identify issues of particular relevance to the media sector and to develop consensus on best practice.
In 2006 we aim, through our membership of the Forum, to develop dialogue with stakeholders on CSR issues.
Reporting At present we report on CSR in terms of employees, health and safety, the environment and communities.
In 2006 we aim to develop both internal and external reporting of our CSR activities.
Employees UBM employs over 5,000 people around the world.
Maintaining and motivating our highly skilled and diverse pool of talent is one of UBMs highest priorities.
Training and development All employees are encouraged to take up opportunities to develop leadership and management skills to make the most of their potential.
As part of long-term succession planning, UBM has set up a Business Leaders Programme to identify and develop future leaders from within the Group.
Values In 2005 after extensive consultation with employees at all levels, we launched UBMs corporate values We Explore, We Exceed, You Excel which encourage personal commitment to our strategic goals.
Throughout the year, UBM has increased investment in training and developing employees to help them bring the values to life in their work with customers, colleagues and the wider community.
Exceptional contributions made by individuals and teams have been recognised through reward and recognition schemes across the Group.
Communication Clear and open communication with employees is fundamental in a values-driven business.
UBM aims for ongoing dialogue with employees through staff surveys, appraisals, newsletters, divisional intranets, town hall meetings and web chats.
Regular Group-wide e-mail updates from the Group Chief Executive keep employees informed of business strategy and developments.
The new UBM website provides an additional channel for information and communication with employees and others.
Sharing best practice UBM works with organisations including the Work Foundation, Opportunity Now, The Employers Forum On Age and The Corporate Leadership Council to identify and share best practice in employee issues.
p. 20 As a media and information group, UBM particularly Health and safety supports projects which promote communications, We recognise our responsibility to provide a safe working education and literacy.
We also seek to assist in relieving environment.
All divisional Chief Executive Officers are poverty and homelessness, and promoting healthcare.
responsible for ensuring that their businesses comply with Donations made from central funds in 2005 included the applicable health and safety legislation, and for maintaining Asian Tsunami Relief Fund, London Bombings Fund and comprehensive health and safety procedures.
At a divisional level, we supported over 40 organisations nominated by our Measuring performance in health and safety is an important employees around the world.
part of managing the issues and creating a safe working environment.
Our goal for 2006 is to improve the quality of UBMs annual management conference in 2005 was held in data collection and to standardise reporting.
We will then Bangalore, India.
The conference included a programme of make these reports available on our website.
visits to a number of local charities dealing with issues such as mental health, AIDS and homelessness.
As a result of the links that have been established, UBM is now providing Environment financial support and assistance in kind to several of these organisations.
As a leading market information company we recognise the importance of ensuring that we both manage our In 2005 UBM donated hundreds of computers through environmental impacts and communicate good environmental Digital Links International for reuse in developing countries, practice externally.
together with a financial donation to cover shipping, installation and training.
Such donations help young people UBM aims to minimise our environmental footprint by in the developing world to benefit from vastly improved focusing on the areas in which we have most impact: educational and economic opportunities, as well as helping reducing and recycling waste: using energy efficiently: the environment.
implementing remuneration practices designed to encourage employees to use public rather than private transport, and promoting environmentally friendly policies Employee volunteering in the workplace.
UBM encourages employees to support the community through employee volunteering programmes.
We operate In 2005 UBMs principal London office, Ludgate House, won a matching scheme whereby employees can apply for an award from the Green Organisation, an independent corporate donations to match their own fund-raising efforts, environmental group, in recognition of its recycling initiative and we offer employees a tax-efficient way of contributing which aims to recycle 65% of waste produced.
Another to charities of their choice through payroll giving.
initiative at Ludgate House has reduced electricity usage by almost 4 million kilowatt hours since 2004.
Over the course of 2006 we aim to expand our employee volunteering programme and ensure all employees are Monitoring and measuring environmental impacts is an aware of how UBM can help them support their local important element in managing our environmental communities.
In 2006 we aim to develop our system of monitoring and measuring these impacts.
Communities We believe every UBM business has a role to play as a member of the community in which each operates around David Levin the world.
We recognise the importance of community Group Chief Executive involvement at all levels throughout the Group and are committed to supporting our communities through financial contributions, donations in kind and employee volunteering.
Financial support and donations In 2005, UBM increased the budget for community support Nigel Wilson and established a charitable donations committee, which Chief Financial Officer makes central donations as well as allocating funds to divisions for disbursement.
The total charitable contribution 28th February 2006 was 434,300. p. 21
