Operating and Financial Review a long-term strategy 10% 18% 1 Revenue Operating profit Reflecting increased sales of Margin improvement driven by battlespace IT, airport IT and increased volume, effective execution torpedo countermeasure systems of development programmes and a continuing focus on cost control In the US, the recently published Quadrennial IN ULTRAS MAIN DEFENCE ULTRA AND ITS MARKET Defense Review QDR emphasises the ENVIRONMENT MARKETS WORLDWIDE, need to combat the asymmetric terrorist threat.
Additionally, the QDR supports the Ultra Electronics is a group of specialist BUDGETS CONTINUE TO RISE.
simultaneous maintenance of a US, businesses offering a through-life product WITHIN THESE BUDGETS, worldwide capability to wage a major conflict and service portfolio that includes systems, against a near-peer opponent.
As a sub-systems, products and components for EXPENDITURE IS INCREASING consequence, there will be a continuing focus defence, security, aerospace and transport ON BATTLESPACE IT SYSTEMS of expenditure on battlespace IT solutions, applications worldwide.
Ultras products and especially advanced surveillance and services are used on aircraft, ships, AND EQUIPMENT TO PROVIDE command and control systems.
The US will submarines, armoured vehicles, surveillance BETTER SITUATIONAL pursue dominance in the air, land and and communication systems, airports and maritime domains through the continued transport systems around the world.
AWARENESS, QUICKER development of smart capability.
In Ultras main defence markets worldwide, COMMAND AND CONTROL The perceived terrorist threat to budgets continue to rise.
Within these AND THE SYNCHRONISATION individuals and to economically important budgets, expenditure is increasing on assets, together with the need to protect battlespace IT systems and equipment to OF MILITARY EFFECTS WITH borders and coastlines from illegal provide better situational awareness, quicker MUCH IMPROVED ACCURACY.
immigrants and smugglers, are driving an command and control and the synchronisation increase in global demand for surveillance of military effects with much improved and enforcement systems.
Funds are being spent on equipping modern armed forces to allow the rapid In civil markets, aerospace remains buoyant deployment of light, mobile troops and to This Operating and Financial Review with Airbus and Boeing increasing build rates enable the exploitation of superior intelligence contains certain forward-looking driving healthy demand for both sales of of the military situation through the use of information and statements in relation original equipment and equipment for battlespace IT.
Ultra has pursued a strategy to Ultras operations, economic aftermarket support.
Development that has positioned the Group to benefit from performance and financial conditions programmes for new aircraft types provide these trends and constantly seeks which cannot be objectively veried and Ultra with opportunities to win positions for opportunities to offer new products and should be treated with caution.
The growth in services to meet such customer requirements.
statements are made by Ultra in good passenger air travel is strong, increasing faith, based on the information available The recent UK Government Defence Industrial demand for new infrastructure including to it at the time of the approval of this Strategy document confirmed that a future airport IT systems.
report and, although Ultra believes that priority for the MoD will be to upgrade the expectations reected in such existing platforms with smarter capabilities forward-looking statements are through the integration of enhanced electronic reasonable, they should not be relied solutions.
The report also confirmed the MoDs upon and no assurance can be given by reliance on the private sector for innovative Ultra that such expectations will prove solutions and through-life support.
Accordingly, results could open to solutions from overseas suppliers but differ materially from those set out in will require technology transfer to the UK in the forward-looking statements as a order to maintain operational sovereignty for result of, among other factors, changes its armed forces.
Consequently, Ultras market in the economic, market and position, together with its expertise in competitive conditions underlying such international teaming, positions the Group to forward-looking information.
continue to play a significant role in fullling the MoDs objectives.
1 2 before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition and loss on derivative financial instruments.
3 4 cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP share purchases.
cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP 5 04 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc share purchases as % of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
bank overdrafts and loans less cash and cash equivalents.
Operating and Financial Review PERFORMANCE WAS BOOSTED BY RECENT INVESTMENTS TO ENHANCE THE GROUPS BATTLESPACE IT, AIRPORT IT SYSTEMS AND TORPEDO COUNTERMEASURES CAPABILITIES.
Underpinning Ultras continuing success is its ULTRAS OBJECTIVE AND ULTRAS 2005 RESULTS investment strategy.
Ultra has a demonstrated STRATEGIES FOR ACHIEVING Ultra made excellent progress in 2005, expertise in identifying investment achieving high growth in revenue and opportunities that deliver growth, either THE OBJECTIVE 1 operating profit.
The Groups performance within existing businesses or by acquiring The Boards prime objective is to outperform was helped by its battlespace IT, airport IT businesses which complement and broaden the market in terms of annual increases in systems and torpedo countermeasures the Groups portfolio of products and services.
shareholder value by delivering above activities.
Contributions were made by the During 2005, Ultra invested a total of 61.2m average annual increases in earnings, and by acquisitions completed in 2004 and the 2004: 43.5m on acquisitions, research and communicating effectively with shareholders further two acquisitions made during 2005, development, capital expenditure and new and the financial community generally.
which strengthened Ultras position in the business development.
This investment civil aerospace and homeland security contributed directly to the new contracts won Ultras strategies to achieve this objective markets.
Important contracts were secured in the year and also supports the Groups are summarised in the following eight-point during 2005 including positions on new long-term positioning for future business.
Ultras core strategies are: programmes that will support further growth 1.
To concentrate on aerospace To ensure that this investment strategy remains of the Group.
and defence affordable, Ultra focuses on delivering a high Group results quality of earnings from its operations.
To be a niche player where the Group Revenue increased to 342.4m, a rise of Evidence of this quality is the consistently has competitive advantage through 10% over the prior year, of which 6% was strong cash generation that the Group has technology or market position organic growth.
In addition to the achieved.
The cash generated from operations investments noted above, strong sales of 3.
To offer a through-life product and is then available to fund acquisitions Ultra tactical data link systems to the US armed service portfolio that includes systems, seeks to maintain a broad balance between forces, increased deliveries of battlespace sub-systems, products and components organic and acquisition growth.
Since IT equipment for military vehicles, airport IT formation, all of Ultras acquisitions have been 4.
To grow both organically and by systems and torpedo countermeasures funded by free cash ow and so the level of acquisition contributed to the Groups performance.
net debt has remained relatively constant.
To have an efficient organisation with There was a further increase in the Groups committed and competent people The Groups acquisition strategy is summarised 1 operating margin from 13.9% in 2004 to as being the pursuit of bolt-on acquisitions that: 6.
To be an excellent and strategic 14.9%, driven mainly by a combination of supplier to our customers are defence or aerospace based a rise in volume, effective execution of development programmes and a continuing are in a growth market sector 7.
To gain competitive advantage by 1 focus on cost control.
Operating profit rose internal and external teaming augment a current niche or by 18% to 51.1m 2004: 43.3m, while 8.
To meet our commitments 2 profit before tax increased by 18% to add a new, related niche or 47.4m 2004: 40.1m.
This was despite a Ultra believes that sustainable success is widen Ultras geographic reach 5.2m negative impact of weaker hedged derived from a focus on positioning its exchange rates for US dollar sales made by The ideal size of acquisitions is currently products and services on a broad range of Ultras businesses in the UK and Canada.
about 25m to 50m and so organisation major international platforms and transforming acquisitions are unlikely.
Such successful positioning is The effective tax rate for the Group Group will seek to maintain a robust achieved by ensuring that Ultras offerings are increased to 27.7% 2004: 27.2%, due portfolio of niche activities.
In short, the differentiated from those of the competition mainly to a higher proportion of Ultras acquisition strategy that has served Ultra in a manner that the customer values.
Focus profits being generated in North America, well to date will be continued.
is sustained on creating and maintaining this where marginal tax rates are higher.
This differentiation in the future and on 2 resulted in earnings per share growth of continuing to provide innovative solutions to 16% to 50.7p 2004: 43.7p.
continued on page 7 1 2 before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP 5 share purchases as % of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 05 Operating and Financial Review 19 times 105% 18% 4 Interest cover Cash conversion Total annual shareholder return Bank interest cost was covered Demonstrating Ultras consistently Ultra has delivered an average 1 19 times by operating profit high quality of earnings annual total shareholder return of 18% since otation in 1996 THE BOARDS PRIME OBJECTIVE IS TO OUTPERFORM THE MARKET IN TERMS OF ANNUAL INCREASES IN SHAREHOLDER VALUE BY DELIVERING ABOVE AVERAGE ANNUAL INCREASES IN EARNINGS, AND BY COMMUNICATING EFFECTIVELY WITH SHAREHOLDERS AND THE FINANCIAL COMMUNITY GENERALLY.
Key performance indicators Performance indicator Definition 2005 result 1 Revenue growth Growth in total Group revenue compared to 10% prior year.
2 2 Profit growth Growth in Group profit before tax, compared 18% to prior year.
3 Order book visibility Order cover for next financial year as 62% cover for 2006 on consensus sales percentage of market consensus sales of 379m forecast for the year.
2 4 Growth in earnings per share over Growth in earnings per share, calculated 45% a three year period over a rolling three year period.
5 Cash conversion Cash generated by operations, less net 105% purchases of property, plant, equipment and LTIP shares, less expenditure on product development, expressed as percentage of 1 operating profit.
1 6 Interest cover The ratio of operating profit to nancing costs 19 times associated with bank borrowings.
7 Relative total shareholder return Total shareholder return capital growth plus 2% per annum dividends paid, assuming dividends reinvested over a rolling three year period compared to the FTSE 250 index.
Key performance indicators confidence as to the achievement of future growth represents the major element of the Groups short-term The indicators shown above have been identified by the forecasts.
A key objective of the Board is to increase incentive bonus scheme.
Whilst free cash will continue to 2 Directors as giving the best overall indication of the earnings per share at a faster rate than other similar fund Ultras expansion by acquisition, it is important to Groups long-term success.
Revenue growth gives a quoted companies in the UK.
If successful this should ensure that the balance sheet remains sufficiently strong quantified indication of the rate at which the Groups ensure that investors will continue to hold Ultras shares, and that the cost of carrying additional debt does not business activity is expanding.
A satisfactory profit rather than those of its peers.
Achievement of this become too high.
Interest cover is a reliable indicator of growth trend confirms that additional revenue is being objective is the key measure that is used for determining balance sheet strength.
Finally it remains the overriding gained without profit margins being compromised.
It also awards under the Executive Directors Long Term Incentive objective of the Board to provide shareholders with a indicates that the additional contribution to profits from Plan scheme.
The Directors aim to manage the business so long-term return on their investment in Ultra that exceeds new acquisitions is greater than the financing costs that it continues to generate high levels of cash, which can that which would be achieved by other potential equity incurred as a result of taking on additional debt to fund then be reinvested in the business in the form of investments that present a similar risk profile.
Order book visibility, based upon acquisitions.
The Board uses operating cash conversion shareholder return is a suitable measure, as compared expected sales during the year to come, gives the Board as a simple yet reliable measure of cash generation, which to the overall population of FTSE 250 companies.
cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP 5 06 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc share purchases as % of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Operating and Financial Review Investing for growth Dividend 9.6m Share issues 1.4m Capex 7.2m Currency 3.6m 61.2m Acquisitions 36.6m Investment 49.6m Cash for investing 61.2m Ultra invested 61.2m in 2005 in acquisitions, research and development, capital expenditure R&D 17.4m Tax 13.0m Extra debt 10.2m and on new business development Interest 2.6m AT THE END OF 2005 THE GROUPS ORDER BOOK WAS VALUED AT THE RECORD LEVEL OF 500.7 MILLION, AN INCREASE OF 27% OVER THE POSITION AT THE SAME TIME LAST YEAR.
Group results continued from page 5 and electro-mechanical gyroscopes.
Flightline the increased investment funded by Ultra Systems is part of Ultras Tactical & Sonar impacting margins slightly in the division.
Sales 3 Operating cash ow was again excellent at Systems division.
of these systems should commence in 2007 53.8m 2004: 46.9m.
The conversion of ahead of the 787 entering service in 2008.
1 3 operating profit to operating cash ow was Audiopack strengthens Ultras communications 105%, emphasising Ultras high quality of capability within the military and homeland An important achievement in the year was the earnings.
This brings the Groups average cash security markets and is now also part of the selection of Ultra to supply equipment for the conversion over the last five years to 114%.
Based in Airbus A400M military transport aircraft.
Ultra 5 Net debt at the year-end increased by just Cleveland, Ohio, USA, Audiopacks main secured the contract to supply a noise 10.2m to 34.3m 2004: 24.1m, after activity is developing and manufacturing cancellation system for the aircrafts main cargo funding an investment of 61.2m in the year.
rugged voice communications equipment for bay to reduce the propeller-induced noise to an Of this, a total of 36.6m after expenses was personnel wearing protective clothing, gas acceptable level within the latest health and spent on acquisitions, with 24.6m 2004: masks and breathing apparatus.
Ultras scope of supply on 20.7m spent on research and development, are supplied mainly to the military and the aircraft also includes proximity sensors and capital expenditure and new business homeland security sectors together with first associated electronics, which sense the position development.
This 24.6m investment of responders such as the fire, medical and of the landing gear and the landing gear doors Ultras funds was supplemented by customerpolice services.
These customers demand to ensure correct operation, together with the funded product development activity.
In 2005, robust products of the highest quality to provision of ruggedised wiring harnesses for this amounted to 60.6m 2004: 54.9m and provide reliable communications between the landing gear.
This major new programme so, in total, over 20% of Ultras activity is new team members operating in harsh and for Ultra contributed signicantly to the order product development.
Ultra will be able to book growth in 2005.
At the end of the year, offer elements of its battlespace IT product Airbus had orders for 192 aircraft, which is due At the end of 2005 the Groups order book range to this market sector for command and to enter service in 2009. was valued at the record level of 500.7m, control purposes.
an increase of 27% over the position at the Sales of Ultras HiPPAG missile cooling same time last year.
This impressive order compressor for the US Navys F A-18 E F Super book achievement maintains historic levels DIVISIONAL REVIEW Hornet aircraft rose in 2005 but the rate of of firm order cover for the coming year and production for the Euroghter Typhoon aircraft AIRCRAFT & VEHICLE SYSTEMS reflects Ultra's success in winning substantial was reduced in order to realign HiPPAG AIRCRAFT & VEHICLE SYSTEMS COMPRISES positions on new programmes.
deliveries to the aircraft programme.
Following FIVE BUSINESSES IN THE UK AND US THAT a number of successful trials in the US of SUPPLY ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY Boeings Small Diameter Bomb system, Ultra 2005 ACQUISITIONS PRODUCTS AND SOFTWARE FOR MILITARY was awarded the first low-rate initial AIRCRAFT, LAND VEHICLES AND FOR In 2005, the Group made two acquisitions, production contracts for this munitions CIVIL AEROSPACE MARKETS.
Horizon Aerospace in March and Audiopack ejection variant of HiPPAG.
The lead aircraft Technologies in July.
The total cash Revenue in the division increased by 10% for this programme is the F-15 Eagle to which consideration for acquisitions was 36.6m 1 to 84.4m 2004: 76.6m.
Operating profit the Small Diameter Bomb system will be including expenses, financed using Ultras grew by 7% to 15.9m 2004: 14.9m, retrotted.
The development of HiPPAG for its banking facilities.
1 giving an operating margin of 18.9% munitions ejection role on the F-35 Joint Strike 2004: 19.4%.
Fighter aircraft also proceeded satisfactorily.
Horizon, now fully integrated into Ultras Flightline Systems business in Rochester, The continued buoyancy of the civil In the UK, deliveries of cockpit controls, New York, USA, supplies and supports a aerospace market drove sales growth of indicators and landing gear control broad range of cockpit instruments for Ultras cabin quietening equipment for the equipment for the first tranche of the military and civil aircraft.
The range includes Bombardier Q Series of turboprop aircraft Eurofighter Typhoon continued on schedule mechanical, electro-mechanical, digital and and landing gear control computers for during 2005 and additional orders for this analogue-digital instruments.
The development activity on equipment were secured for the second are used on many aircraft including Boeings the door and landing gear proximity sensing tranche of 236 aircraft, for which the delivery 737 and 777 and complement Flightlines and wing ice protection systems for the period extends out to 2012. existing range of specialist sonobuoy receivers Boeing 787 aircraft progressed to plan, with 1 2 before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 07 Operating and Financial Review 500 30% 42% Air Defense Systems Integrator Battlespace IT North America Ultra has over 500 ADSIs in Sales of battlespace IT equipment 42% of Ultras revenue came from operational use represented more than 30% of the North American market in 2005 Group revenue for the first time ULTRAS DOMINANCE OF AIRLINE BAGGAGE RECONCILIATION SYSTEMS, TO ENSURE THAT UNACCOMPANIED BAGS ARE NOT INADVERTENTLY LOADED ONTO AIRCRAFT, CONTINUED WITH THE ON-TIME COMMISSIONING OF THE SYSTEM THAT SERVES ALL OF THE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORTS IN NEW ZEALAND.
Production deliveries commenced to BAE situational awareness and airspace expected to be early in the next decade with Systems of the indirect vision and vetronics management capabilities vital to the US Army production continuing into the late 2020s.
systems for the British Armys Engineer Tank units deployed in the theatre of operations.
Development activity for the replacement System and crew controls equipment for the Ultras airport IT systems business achieved an control system for the nuclear reactors Terrier combat engineering vehicle, making a excellent performance which also contributed powering the Royal Navys submarines significant contribution to the divisions to the growth of the division.
There was progressed satisfactorily to plan and the growth.
A future priority for the UKs armed increased activity on the IT infrastructure of complex central control consoles for the forces will be the enhancement of military BAAs new Terminal 5 at London Heathrow Astute submarine were also delivered.
A capability through technology insertion to airport as the project transitioned from design contract was secured to upgrade and support existing platforms as outlined in the MoDs to implementation.
In September, Ultra the equipment that enables the control and recent Defence Industrial Strategy.
In secured the contract to supply IT integration ring of weapons from the torpedo tubes of anticipation of this, Ultra teamed with CTAI, services to Shanghai Pudong international the Royal Navys Trafalgar and Vanguard Class a joint venture between BAE Systems and airport.
This built on Ultras success at submarines.
The installation of this equipment, GIAT, to position for a competition to Terminal 5 and capitalised on Ultras market which was originally developed for the Astute upgrade the turret of the British Armys position in China gained through the Class submarine, will achieve a common t Warrior armoured fighting vehicle.
Shanghai will across the eet and much reduced through-life INFORMATION & POWER SYSTEMS be a world class reference site for Ultra in the support costs for the UK MoD.
INFORMATION & POWER SYSTEMS CONSISTS rapidly-growing Asia-Pacic airport market.
TACTICAL & SONAR SYSTEMS OF SEVEN BUSINESSES THAT SUPPLY Ultras dominance of airline baggage TACTICAL & SONAR SYSTEMS, WITH THE INFORMATION MANAGEMENT AND POWER reconciliation systems, to ensure that ADDITION OF AUDIOPACK AND THE PRODUCTS FOR DEFENCE, COMMERCIAL unaccompanied bags are not inadvertently INTEGRATION OF HORIZON INTO FLIGHTLINE AND AIRPORT APPLICATIONS WORLDWIDE.
loaded onto aircraft, continued with the SYSTEMS, COMPRISES EIGHT BUSINESSES IN Revenue in the division increased by 3% to on-time commissioning of the system that THE UK AND NORTH AMERICA THAT SUPPLY 1 117.3m 2004: 113.7m.
Operating profit serves all of the international airports in New COMMUNICATIONS AND UNDERWATER increased by 20% to 18.1m 2004: 15.0m.
Ultra's managed baggage EQUIPMENT TO HOMELAND SECURITY AND 1 The operating margin was 15.4% an increase reconciliation services, provided at Heathrow, in MILITARY USERS WORLDWIDE.
Australia and in the US, continued to operate Revenue in the division increased to 140.7m successfully and are providing the expected Revenue growth in the division was impacted from 120.4m in 2004, a rise of 17% of revenue growth and return on investment.
1 by the decline of the trackside rail power which 7% was organic.
Operating profit supply activity for the UKs Network Rail that The highest priority planned procurement increased 28% to 17.1m 2004: 13.4m 1 peaked in 2004.
However, this reduction was programme for the British Army is the Future giving an operating margin of 12.2%, an more than compensated for by the growth in Rapid Effects System FRES comprising a increase from 11.1% in the prior year.
battlespace IT equipment and the continued family of medium-weight armoured vehicles The new variant of the US Navys passive success of Ultras ADSI data link processor and to cover a wide range of combat and support sonobuoy was successfully introduced in the situational awareness system in the US.
FRES will incorporate a significant second half of 2005, providing improved Development contracts were secured to adapt amount of battlespace IT so that it is able to performance at reduced cost.
Overall, the ADSI to be part of a monitoring and connect to and cooperate with other military however, the level of sonobuoy sales was control element of tactical data link networks systems.
By teaming with Lockheed Martin, broadly unchanged for the third year in a row.
for the US Air Force and to provide a common one of the two competing lead contractors, In both the US and UK, funded development data link processor for all four services of the Ultra has secured a sub-contract relating to proceeded on the next generation of US armed forces.
These are multi-year the electronic architecture technology sonobuoy systems that will improve the ability programmes at the heart of demonstrator programme.
This work will to detect small, extremely quiet, diesel-electric US battlespace IT capabilities and they define and prototype the teams proposed submarines able to operate in shallow, coastal contributed considerably to the growth of battlespace IT infrastructure for FRES.
Ultras dominance of the sonobuoy the division.
The continuing peace-keeping strategically important early positioning for export market continued with sales to France, operations in Iraq have also driven strong the eventual development and production Australia, Canada, Taiwan and Korea.
demand for ADSI systems to provide phases.
The in-service date for FRES is 1 2 before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP 5 08 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc share purchases as % of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Operating and Financial Review A KEY FEATURE OF ULTRAS STRONG NORTH AMERICAN RESULTS WAS AN EXCELLENT PERFORMANCE BY ADVANCED TACTICAL SYSTEMS, WHERE SHIPMENTS OF ADSI SYSTEMS TO THE US ARMED FORCES REACHED RECORD LEVELS.
Sales by sector Sales by destination Sonar 26% 2004: 24% Civil equipment 13% 2004: 15% North America 42% 2004: 35% Civil aircraft equipment 9% 2004: 8% Europe 11% 2004: 11% Defence equipment 12% 2004: 13% UK 39% 2004: 42% Military aircraft equipment 10% 2004: 11% RoW 8% 2004: 12% Battlespace IT 30% 2004: 29% Significant orders for Ultras specialist forces and initial production deliveries were the Groups activities, 2% higher than in 2004. sonobuoy telemetry receivers were won made in the second half of the year.
Radios Sales to civil markets accounted for the 22% during the year, securing long-term positions were supplied to the Canadian armed forces balance of Ultras business 2004: 23%.
Here on a number of new anti-submarine warfare for use during their deployment in the main feature was strong demand for civil aircraft programmes.
For fixed wing aircraft Afghanistan for peace-keeping duties.
aircraft equipment, both for Airbus new build these included the Boeing P-8A aircraft being and also in the after-market.
Sales in this area Following several years of investment and developed to replace the US Navys ageing increased by 16% in absolute terms and were market positioning, during which Ultra P-3 Orions, which has a potential for up to 9% of total revenue, up by 1% from 2004. designed what is planned to be the NATO 150 aircraft, and the Turkish Navys ATR-72 Other civil sales declined from a 15% to a standard for radio control links for unmanned ASW programme.
In addition, the latest 13% share, with the reduced demand for air vehicles UAVs, Ultra won a contract to helicopter versions of Ultras sonobuoy receiver transit power equipment being the key reason.
supply such equipment for the British Armys were selected for the Cyclone maritime Watchkeeper UAV programme.
This is another Geographic analysis helicopter programme in Canada and the new niche for Ultra which, with its associated Ultra continues to increase its presence in MH-60R Seahawk in the US.
encryption equipment, is anticipated to North America and 2005 was the first year Sales in the division were boosted by the contribute to the growth of the Group.
for which this market was the Groups most on-time delivery of a further six ship-sets of significant, accounting for 42% of total the Groups Surface Ship Torpedo Defence revenue 2004: 35%.
This change was SECTORAL ANALYSIS OF system to the Royal Navy, with three of these caused partly by acquisitions, with DNE ULTRAS RESULTS systems installed on ships and at sea by the contributing for the entire year and the year-end.
In the US, the torpedo defence additional benefit of two further US Market sector analysis technology demonstrator programme secured acquisitions during the year, Horizon The Group has seen its battlespace IT activities in 2004 made excellent progress and Aerospace and Audiopack.
However the key grow in importance during the past few years successful trials have now been conducted feature of Ultras strong North American and sales of this equipment represented more against real weapons.
The Group also results was record sales of ADSI systems.
than 30% of total revenue for the first time.
benefited from increased sales of submarineThe significance of the UK market for Ultra While the products of both Audiopack and launched torpedo countermeasures, both for declined in the year and domestic sales DNE are in this sector, strong growth in sales the US Navy and international customers.
represented 39% of Group revenue in the of ADSI systems to the US armed forces was During the year, development of the bow year, down from 42% in 2004.
Lower sales the main reason for this excellent performance.
sonar for the Royal Navys Type 45 destroyer of railway transit power equipment was the Ultras dependence upon its sonobuoy made satisfactory progress and the first system main reason, although it was encouraging products continues to decline and it was was nearing completion by the year-end.
to see above-average growth coming from encouraging to see new product niches driving Electrics, driven by strong sales of a strong increase in sales of sonar equipment, The Group was awarded a contract for the equipment for armoured fighting vehicles, up by 17% in the year.
Notable growth was Royal Navys mine disposal programme, and Airport Systems, where activity achieved by Sonar & Communication Systems, teamed with Atlas Electronik in Germany.
The increased at London Heathrows new where shipments of surface ship torpedo system is an adaptation of an existing design Terminal 5.
Ultras largest business, Sonar & defence systems ramped up during the year.
In that Ultra will supply and then support from Communication Systems also reported sales addition Ocean Systems received more funding within the UK.
Exports to under its torpedo defence demonstrator continental Europe accounted for 11% of Sales of battlespace IT equipment once again contract with the US Navy.
While the value of Group revenue, in line with the previous contributed to the growth of this division, sales of equipment for military aircraft year.
The most marked reduction was seen with particular success achieved in increased slightly, it reduced in 2005 from in sales to the rest of the world, which international markets.
Ultra made further 11% to 10% of Group revenue.
Lower declined from 12% to 8% of revenue.
This deliveries of high capacity radios to the US shipments of equipment for the Euroghter was due mainly to lower sales of sonobuoys Armys communications infrastructure Typhoon programme, in response to the and torpedo countermeasures to Australia, programme and for its Patriot missile customers demands, inhibited the growth in where two large orders were fulfilled during defence system.
A new jam-resistant radio this sector.
Ultras focus on the defence sector 2004, and to the timing of shipments of with improved data transmission capacity strengthened during the year, driven by the military radios to South Korea.
was developed for the South Korean armed acquisitions, and this area represented 78% of 1 2 before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 09 Operating and Financial Review 100 The US Navy has committed to procuring more than 100 new Anti-Submarine Warfare aircraft, each of which will be tted with Ultra equipment ONE OF ULTRAS STRENGTHS IS THE GROUPS POSITION ON MANY MAJOR INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMMES AND PLATFORMS.
AS A RESULT OF THIS BROAD SPREAD OF ACTIVITY, NO SINGLE PROGRAMME GENERATES MORE THAN 5% OF ULTRAS REVENUE IN ANY SINGLE YEAR, UNDERPINNING THE RESILIENCE OF THE GROUPS PERFORMANCE.
The Canadian government is ULTRAS FUTURE OUTLOOK procuring 28 ASW helicopters.
In Europe, the Market trends NH-90 ASW helicopter will shortly enter Whilst budgets have risen over recent years in service as will the long-delayed Nimrod MRA4 Ultras main defence markets, in both the US aircraft.
In the short-term, Ultra is supplying and UK the continuing costs of peace-keeping equipment for each of these programmes.
In operations is putting strain on these defence the longer-term, the entry into service of budgets.
The recently published US these platforms might be expected to increase Department of Defense Quadrennial Defense the annual consumption and therefore Review generally maintained support for the demand for sonobuoys, the acoustic sensors current US defence equipment programmes.
that are used to detect submarines and for However the affordability of the implied which Ultra is the world-leading supplier.
procurement plans was not addressed by the The perceived terrorist threat to individuals and review.
As a consequence it is possible that to economically important assets, together some US equipment programmes will be with the need to protect borders and coastlines deferred, curtailed or cut altogether at some from illegal immigrants and smugglers, are future date.
In the UK, the Defence Industrial driving an increase in global demand for Strategy, published in December 2005, surveillance and enforcement systems.
This also indicated the degree of strain in the is a market sector in which Ultra provides present budgets.
One of Ultras strengths, however, is the Worldwide, there is a move to increase the Groups position on many major international unmanned element of fighting forces.
By so programmes and platforms.
As a result of doing the cost per platform is reduced, as is this broad spread of activity, no single the risk to personnel from enemy action.
For programme generates more than 5% of Ultra, this will reduce demand for specialist Ultras revenue in any single year Human-Machine Interface HMI equipment underpinning the resilience of the Groups used in cockpits, for example.
It is considered unlikely that this, Ultra has positioned its HMI equipment sufficient programmes would be cut severely for use on the base stations that are used to or curtailed simultaneously to cause a major control the unmanned vehicles.
reduction in Ultras level of business.
Ultras customers aspire to stable or Within the US and UK defence budgets, reducing prices for the goods and services expenditure continues to be focused on that they procure.
This inevitably leads to improving the use of intelligence, on cost pressures to which the Group must enhancing the ability rapidly to deploy forces respond.
Ultra has a long track record of and in providing increased protection for product innovation to reduce costs whilst personnel.
Ultra has pursued a strategy that delivering improved performance and has positioned the Group to benefit from achieving operational efficiencies by working these trends and constantly seeks more intelligently.
More recently Ultra has opportunities to offer new products and made significant progress in sourcing services to meet such customer requirements.
production in low cost economies where this There is some evidence that the decline in is appropriate, given the nature of the one of Ultras traditional market sectors, that products that the Group provides.
The of Anti-Submarine Warfare ASW, has anticipated cost reductions have been bottomed out.
The US has committed to achieved, thereby helping to protect and buying over 100 P-8A ASW fixed wing improve the Groups operating margins.
aircraft and is also procuring over 240 ASW 1 2 before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP 5 10 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc share purchases as % of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Operating and Financial Review 30 15% 62% International success Increased dividend High visibility of earnings Ultra sells its products and services in The Directors are recommending Ultra started 2006 with rm order more than 30 countries worldwide a total dividend increase of 15% cover for 62% of projected revenue to 15.9p Management of risks and uncertainties has a transatlantic capability, with 10 of its themselves becoming more vertically ULTRAS CONFIDENCE IN ITS ABILITY TO 20 businesses located in North America.
This may increase the incidence CONTINUE TO DELIVER GROWTH IS such, it operates as a domestic agent in both of the Groups customers having capabilities UNDERPINNED BY A NUMBER OF KEY markets and can exploit its innovative that overlap with Ultras.
The threat that this FACTORS.
THE GROUP HAS A TRACK solutions on both sides of the Atlantic.
otherwise might pose is offset by Ultras RECORD OF YEAR-ON-YEAR SUCCESS strategy of operating in specic market niches Ultra is represented on a significant range DESPITE SIGNIFICANT VOLATILITY IN where it has some sustainable differentiation.
of major international programmes and FOREIGN EXCHANGE RATES AND WHILST platforms.
As a result, no single programme Outlook for Ultra EXPERIENCING FULL MARKET CYCLES IN represents more than 5% of Ultras revenue The record order book of 501m represents BOTH THE CIVIL AEROSPACE AND DEFENCE in any single year.
The cancellation or a significant increase in the year and SECTORS.
THESE RISKS WILL CONTINUE TO curtailment of any single programme is provides Ultra with its customary level of BE MITIGATED THROUGH ROBUST BUSINESS unlikely therefore to have a material adverse visibility of earnings.
It reflects the Groups STRATEGIES.
FURTHER, ULTRA HAS ACCESS impact on the Group.
strong positions on existing platforms as well TO ADEQUATE FINANCIAL AND HUMAN as its success in winning positions on new RESOURCES TO IMPLEMENT ITS STRATEGY Ultra supplies to all elements of the armed programmes.
Importantly, the Group started FOR THE FORESEEABLE FUTURE.
forces, i. e. the army, navy, air force and 2006 with firm order cover for 62% of marines, together with first responders such Approximately 80% of Ultras revenue is from projected revenue, a similar level of visibility as medical staff and firefighters.
A risk would therefore be to previous years.
customer spread provides an element of risk a significant worldwide reduction in defence mitigation.
In addition, Ultra operates in a In Ultras main defence markets worldwide, expenditure.
The overall size of the defence number of different and distinct market budgets continue to rise and the recent budgets relative to Ultras annual revenue sectors, including battlespace IT, sonar and emphasis on security and surveillance provides sufficient headroom for the Groups equipment for military air, land and sea activities continues.
The continuing growth to continue.
Again, this mitigates the risk of buoyancy of the civil aerospace market not has been on ensuring that its businesses decline in any one market sector materially only drives increasing levels of production operate in a large number of growing niche affecting Ultras overall performance.
equipment but also benefits important markets where the Group can create and aftermarket spares and repairs revenues.
Ultra has significant business in the civil The strong growth in air passenger travel This specialisation and diversity give some sector and this provides useful diversification, will drive demand for new infrastructure protection from budget variations and so often providing an alternative market in including airport IT.
provide robustness to Ultras performance.
which to exploit complementary skills and technologies.
Within the civil market, Ultra Ultra enters 2006 with a strong balance Ultras financial performance has not been operates in the aerospace, transport and sheet and the headroom, not only to make signicantly affected by the current allied commercial security sectors.
This spread gives further acquisitions that will enhance and operations in Afghanistan and Iraq.
It is further resilience to Ultras performance.
complement the Groups range of niche possible that these operations might be scaled activities, but also to continue to invest in back in the next few years.
Since Ultra did not The Groups largest exposure to the adverse new product development to meet market benefit materially from the start of these effects of exchange rate volatility is to the demands.
Current market conditions, operations, it is anticipated that a withdrawal UK:US$ impact.
Whilst Ultra has a natural coupled with Ultras proven ability to win would not harm the Groups trading position.
hedge from its geographic split of businesses, new business and to execute contracts Indeed, it might well be an overall benefit to the Group has also responded by sourcing a effectively, give the Board confidence in the the Group as it may alleviate some of the higher proportion of the cost of dollarcontinuing progress of the Group in 2006. current pressures on defence budgets.
denominated products in dollar zones.
This is in addition to the Groups usual currency The international spread of Ultras activities hedging arrangements described later.
provides resilience to its performance.
The Group now sells its products and services in The industries in which the Group operates over 30 countries worldwide and this has continue to experience restructuring, which broadened the customer base.
Ultra also sometimes results in Ultras customers 1 2 before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 11 Operating and Financial Review 114% 38.1m 4 Five year cash conversion Free cash ow The Group has achieved an average Ultra generated 38.1m of free cash operating cash conversion of 114% in 2005 over the last five years THE DIRECTORS ARE PROPOSING A FINAL DIVIDEND OF 10.7P, BRINGING THE TOTAL DIVIDEND TO 15.9P 2004: 13.8P, AN INCREASE OF 15%.
DIVIDEND COVER WILL THEREFORE BE MAINTAINED AT ABOUT THREE TIMES.
assuming no future impairment charge.
contracts to the Group is to fix the value in FINANCIAL POSITION Intangible assets of Audiopack will be local currency of foreign currency sales 3 Operating cash flow amortised over a ten-year period.
Following a receipts in the future, thus reducing the Ultra maintained its record of strong cash review during the year of the fair value of uncertainty that would otherwise exist as to generation during the year, with operating assets acquired with Videcom International Ltd their realisable value.
Under the transitional cash ow, after capital expenditure and LTIP in July 2004, a reduction of 0.2m was made arrangements for the implementation of share purchases, of 53.8m 2004: 46.9m, to the goodwill associated with that business.
International Financial Reporting Standards 1 equivalent to an operating profit to cash Capitalised investments of 2.9m were made this item was not separately reported in the conversion ratio of 105%.
Ultra continues to in new product development and other previous year.
Statutory profit before tax was focus upon maintaining working capital at a intangible assets with long-term commercial 40.7m 2004: 40.1m.
low level without jeopardising the viability of value during the year.
2 Earnings per share and dividends the business.
At the end of 2005, Ultra had Interest and profit before taxation The effective Group tax rate rose slightly to net current liabilities, excluding cash and Financing costs, excluding losses on financial 27.7% 2004: 27.2% due to a higher bank borrowings, of 18.8m 2004: 10.4m.
instruments, grew by 0.9m to 4.3m for the proportion of Ultras profits being generated The main driver for this position was an year.
One reason was a 0.5m rise in interest in the US, where marginal tax rates are increase of 7.1m in payables, excluding the 2 charges resulting from an increase in bank higher.
Earnings per share, rose by 16% to effect of acquisitions.
Creditor days borrowings to fund acquisitions.
The Directors are outstanding at year-end were 51, a similar was partly offset by a reduction in the proposing a final dividend of 10.7p, bringing level to 2004.
Inventories rose by 1.6m and effective cost of debt following the maturity in the total dividend to 15.9p 2004: 13.8p, an receivables by 1.3m, reflecting the overall April 2005 of the xed interest rate hedging increase of 15%.
This continues to reflect growth in revenue.
There was a 7.3m net contract to which Ultra committed in 2000. the Groups policy of maintaining a dividend cash investment in property, plant and Interest costs on bank debts, including that is covered about three times by earnings equipment during the year compared to a 2 amortised fees, amounted to 3.3m overall, per share.
Within this compared to 2.8m in 2004.
The 2005 cost total the only significant capital investment Financing 1 was covered 18.6 times by operating profit.
Here new baggage Ultra generated 38.1m of free cash ow addition, nancing costs included a notional reconciliation systems have been installed at before dividends and acquisitions during 2005 charge of 0.9m 2004: 0.5m representing the countrys six international airports, with 2004: 36.0m.
After dividend payments of the amortisation of the UK dened benefit expenditure during the year of 1.6m.
In 9.6m, this left 28.5m available to help fund pension fund deficit.
addition 0.6m was spent on buying Ultra the acquisition expenditure of 36.6m.
The shares for the Long-Term Incentive Plan.
This The growth in financing costs meant that the balance came from the Groups banking was lower than the previous years 1.1m 2 headline profit before tax improved by 18% facilities and, as a result of this and certain because shares not awarded during 2004 5 to 47.4m 2004: 40.1m.
Amortisation of currency effects, net debt increased by were used during 2005. intangibles arising on acquisition amounted 10.2m during the year to close at 34.3m to 3.3m in the year.
The balance sheet remains Acquisitions and intangible assets reported on financial instruments and this very strong and Ultra has substantial Ultra made two acquisitions during the year.
was caused by a 12% strengthening in the headroom on its banking facilities to make Horizon Aerospace was acquired in March for US dollar against sterling during the year.
a total cost including expenses of 2.4m, of The Groups UK and Canadian businesses which 1.3m has been treated as goodwill.
Ultras existing operations and new hedge forward their US dollar denominated Audiopack Technologies Inc was acquired in acquisitions are funded by a combination of sales revenues, typically over an eighteenJuly through a share purchase transaction for retained cash and medium-term bank month period, and the stronger dollar had 33.9m, including expenses.
During November 2005 the the effect of reducing the nominal value of consideration 4.1m has been treated as Group renewed the banking facility that is these financial instruments at the year-end goodwill and a further 27.7m as intangible provided by a small syndicate led by The closing exchange rates.
In both cases the goodwill has been Royal Bank of Scotland.
The new facility, emphasised that this notional reported capitalised and, under International Financial which provides up to 120m of revolving loss will never be realised: it is simply a Reporting Standards, will remain on the credit over a five-year period, is denominated timing effect.
The real worth of the hedging balance sheet at the acquired value, in sterling, US dollars and Canadian dollars 1 2 before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
cash generated by operations, less net capital expenditure, R&D and LTIP 5 12 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc share purchases as % of profit from operations before amortisation of intangibles arising on acquisition.
Operating and Financial Review 120m 16% 2 Funding Earnings per share 2 Ultras new banking facility provides Ultras earnings per share increased up to 120m of revolving credit by 16% to 50.7p ULTRA MAINTAINED ITS RECORD OF STRONG CASH GENERATION DURING THE YEAR, WITH OPERATING CASH FLOW, AFTER CAPITAL EXPENDITURE AND LTIP SHARE PURCHASES, OF 53.8M 2004: 46.9M.
and is used for balance sheet and operational Some of Ultras businesses in the UK and Pension management and governance is needs.
Both the sterling and US dollar Canada also make sales in foreign undertaken by pension trustees on behalf of elements fund day-to-day working capital currencies, mainly US dollars.
The pension trustees include requirements and the US and Canadian dollar dollar weakens against local currencies this company-nominated and employee-elected 1 borrowings also represent natural hedges means that operating profit is subject to a representatives.
Ultra supports the trustees in against assets denominated in those negative currency transaction effect.
This is a number of ways including training to the currencies.
A further overdraft of 10m is partly relieved by sourcing materials in US Trustee Certificate of Essential Pensions also available for funding short-term working dollars, thus reducing the overall net Knowledge standard which is capital requirements.
The independently assessed by the Pensions Group policy is to hedge the net exposure Management Institute.
Financial risk management on orders in hand using forward foreign Interest rates Employees at Tactical Communication exchange contracts, typically extending 18 An interest rate hedge, denominated in Systems in Canada also participate in a to 24 months.
Exposure to other currencies sterling, which had been in place for five defined benefit scheme.
There was an is hedged as it arises on specific contracts.
A significant IAS 19 deficit of 1.3m on this scheme at Based upon the combined net exposure of portion of the Groups current borrowings the end of 2005 compared to 1.0m in 1 about US $80m last year, operating profit has been incurred to fund recent 2004.
This will be eliminated over the in 2005 would have been 5.2m or 10% acquisitions in North America and is following ten years by increasing company higher had the overall hedged rate remained therefore denominated in US and Canadian contributions by an amount that has been unchanged from the previous year.
With the objective of reducing the agreed with the scheme actuaries and the effective US$:UK rate for 2006, based upon risk that is associated with debt at floating Canadian regulatory agencies.
the forward contracts currently in place, is interest rates, new three-year interest rate expected to be approximately $1.77, All staff that have joined Ultra in the UK hedging contracts were entered into in compared to $1.73 in 2005. since the defined benefit scheme was December.
These cover $40m of US dollar closed in 2003 have been invited to become borrowings, reducing to $20m over two Pensions members of the Ultra Electronics Group years, and $30m of Canadian dollar debt.
Ultra offers company-funded retirement Personal Pension Plan.
Under the terms of These amounts compare to gross debts of benefits to all its employees.
In the UK most this defined contribution scheme, company US $58.5m and Canadian $42.4m that were staff still participate in the Ultra Electronics contributions are supplemented by in place at the end of 2005.
The remaining Limited defined benefit scheme, which was contributions from the employees.
36.4m of gross debt was at floating closed to new entrants in 2003.
The effective overall annual net IAS 19 deficit after tax of 31.3m on the In the US, Ultra offers a defined contribution interest rate for the total gross debt of scheme at the end of 2005, compared to 401 k retirement benefit plan to full-time 74.7m at year-end was 4.8%.
Although the value of the employees.
Under this plan, Ultra provides scheme assets increased by 22.4m during participating and contributing employees Foreign currency the year, this was less than the increase of with matching contributions, subject to plan Ultras reported financial results are 28.4m in the liabilities.
The main reason for and US Internal Revenue Service rules.
DNE influenced by movements in exchange rates this growth was a lower discount rate for transferred its assets into the Ultra plan in and the overall impact is a combination of future liabilities, due to the current low yield 2005.
Audiopack, which became part of currency translation and currency transaction on gilts.
Its investment strategy is focused Ultra during 2005, will also consolidate its effects.
The biggest sensitivities are to the US upon equities, which represent 87% of the current plan into the Ultra scheme during and Canadian dollars.
This reflects the fact that the 2006.
Wells Fargo provides administration scheme is relatively immature, with just 17% The average dollar exchange rates used in the and is also a directed trustee of the plan.
of the members already retired, and remains year to translate the sales and operating strongly cash positive.
profits of Ultras US and Canadian subsidiaries into sterling strengthened by 3% and 9% The scheme has a statement of investment respectively compared to 2004.
This includes a statement on Group as a whole, currency translation socially responsible investment which is effects increased sales by 5.7m or 2% and delegated to the investment managers.
Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 13 Tactical & Sonar Systems Ultra supplies high-capacity Ultras ADSI systems tactical radio systems drive the displays at air operations centres battlespace IT for military advantage 30% Battlespace IT equipment Sales of battlespace IT equipment and systems accounted for over 30% of Ultra's 2005 revenue 14 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultras ADSI systems Ultra is providing the secure The Polish Navy is achieving provide a deployable air data links for the UK NATO compatibility by using defence capability Watchkeeper UAV programme Ultra equipment ULTRA IS DEVELOPING EQUIPMENT TO MANAGE REAL-TIME INFORMATION FLOWS EFFECTIVELY AND TO DELIVER MILITARY ADVANTAGE THROUGH HAVING INFORMATION SUPERIORITY.
In conflicts, the side that manages real-time cells for air defence.
The compact nature of To be tactically useful, communications must battlespace intelligence most effectively to ADSI helps fit the complete capability into be secure.
Ultra has a world-leading achieve information superiority has a decisive wheeled armoured vehicles, thereby cryptographic capability and has achieved edge.
Ultra is constantly investing in the maximising mobility.
export sales of such equipment to the US, development of new battlespace IT products Canada, Sweden and Germany.
Secure data A key element of military tactical that will help deliver that military advantage.
links are also vital in controlling unmanned communication systems is the wide area Ultras Air Defense Systems Integrator ADSI aerial vehicles and for transferring time-critical network for voice and data transmission product provides a world-leading capability information to ground stations.
Ultra is between various command levels in land for processing information from tactical data developing this equipment for the UK forces.
Ultras advanced microwave trunk links, intelligence feeds and radar data in Watchkeeper programme.
radios serve as the backbone of modern many different formats.
This information is tactical line-of-sight networks.
They provide Data must be shared across multiple translated into an unambiguous, coherent high-capacity telecommunication services to battlespace IT networks, including legacy picture of the tactical situation that is used by interlink battlefield command posts and systems.
Ultra provides voice and data the combatants around the battlespace.
These networks must be able multiplexers, multi-service access latest version of ADSI contains significant to handle ever-increasing volumes of concentrators and communication switches, additional features and functionality.
Many information, including voice, data, email and and protocol converters used by all branches existing users and Ultra has over 500 ADSIs real-time video transmissions.
Ultra is of the US armed forces.
Ultra has recently in operational use have opted to upgrade upgrading the high capacity radio systems demonstrated the ability to provide to the new version.
The flexibility of the ADSI for both the US Patriot air-defence missile bandwidth efficient communications within product helped position Ultra to be Northrop systems and those used for the US Armys an Internet Protocol network while Grummans partner in the development of battlefield backbone communications maintaining the high quality of service two new integrated battlespace IT solutions.
In a parallel move, Ultra has demanded by military commanders.
Ultras work on these programmes will also developed a higher-capacity version of continue for some time to come.
The US the secure, frequency-hopping radio used by Army is also procuring ADSIs to be the heart the army of South Korea.
of new deployable airspace management Ultra is upgrading the high-capacity radios for the Patriot air defence missile system Solving IP convergence congestion Ultra provides key elements of modern military communication networks Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 15 Information & Power Systems and Tactical & Sonar Systems Ultra is equipping modern Ultra provides advanced command and control centres communication equipment for firefighters and other first responders Six Torpedo defence systems In 2005, Ultra sold six torpedo defence systems to the Royal Navy and three were at sea by the year-end Twenty Long-term support Ultra's new weapons interfacing electronics for the Royal Navy will be supported for 20 years 16 20 Ultra Electr Ultra Electronics Holdings plc onics Holdings plc Ultra supplied new power Modern battlespace IT Ultra has developed weapon equipment for the US Navys equipment must survive in interfacing equipment for the submarine Dolphin harsh environments new Astute submarines expertise in depth Digitisation of the battlespace is a dominant Ultra has won a contract to supply and vital when operating in dangerous theme in defence expenditure.
Modern support new weapon interfacing electronics environments.
The Ultra equipment can also command and control systems must meet the for the Royal Navys existing submarines.
This provide the user with visual information need for interoperability, not only with other system, originally developed for the new about the condition of the breathing services but also with allies and coalition Astute class submarines, manages the apparatus, including the amount of air left in partners.
Modern designs must also provide weapons the Spearfish heavyweight the tanks, to maximise the safety of integrated solutions the link between the torpedo and the Tomahawk land attack operations.
Synergistically, Ultra can also offer command and the weapons fire control cruise missile while they are still in the solutions to provide enhanced command and functions must be seamless.
Ultras highsubmarine launch tubes, providing power control information, including the location of integrity, low-latency naval data distribution and monitoring their condition.
The users at an incident, using proven technology systems help make this so.
Integrated combat equipment manages the upload of target already developed within the Group.
systems must be highly cost effective if they data prior to weapon launch and controls are to penetrate the growing market for and monitors the launch sequence.
The Ultra minor warships and offshore patrol vessels solution will maximise the commonality of that are required by the worlds navies.
Ultra equipment across all Royal Navy submarines.
has demonstrated its ability to provide very It uses off-the-shelf technology to facilitate competitive combat systems for this market the management of obsolescence issues for sector.
These integrate radar and electrothe next 20 years.
optic surveillance, command and control and With the acquisition of Audiopack in July weapon fire control functions together with 2005, Ultra provides a broad range of rugged navigation, communication and platform voice communications equipment for management in one cohesive, modular personnel wearing protective clothing, masks design of integrated bridge.
Much use is and breathing apparatus in harsh and made of commercial computing equipment hazardous environments.
This equipment is and the system design contains industryused in the military and homeland security standard interfaces to ensure that the system sectors and by first responders such as the can easily be upgraded and maintained for fire, medical and police services.
Reliable the life of the platform.
communications between team members is ULTRA IS SUPPLYING AND SUPPORTING THE EQUIPMENT THAT CONTROLS THE WEAPONS LAUNCH FROM ALL OF THE ROYAL NAVYS SUBMARINES, INCLUDING THE NEW ASTUTE CLASS.
Ultra is providing power and control equipment for all of the Royal Navys submarines Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 17 Aircraft & Vehicle Systems and Information & Power Systems Ultra supplies advanced Ultra is providing the indirect electronic control systems vision system and the for armoured vehicles vetronics system for the Engineer Tank System battlespace IT in armoured vehicles The British Armys highest priority planned displays and provides situational awareness to In addition to making a significant procurement programme is the Future Rapid all crew members when operating under contribution to the operational capability of Effects System FRES family of armoured armour.
The vetronics system provides smart new armoured vehicles, Ultra is also vehicles.
FRES will provide the UK land forces management of electrical power usage and innovating to improve the availability of the with the capability to conduct rapid constant power health monitoring.
Ultra also current fleet of vehicles.
Ultra has intervention, war fighting and a diverse range provides a range of cameras and crew demonstrated its ability not only to collect of other roles.
It will comprise a range of controls for the British Armys Terrier health and usage data from vehicles but also network-enabled, medium-weight armoured armoured vehicles.
In modern conflicts, the to turn this into useful fleet management vehicles designed for rapid deployment by air crews must be provided with sufficient all information and to present it to the worldwide.
Ultra is part of the team led by round vision to allow the vehicle to complete appropriate decision makers.
This includes Lockheed Martin UK which is one of two its full range of tasks while the hatches are the use of Ultras Syntaxis collaborative teams selected to undertake work on the closed to give protection against enemy working environment to provide secure data initial design, assessment and integration of action.
Ultras success in developing these exchange and transmission and also to host a potential electronic architecture for the systems has positioned it to supply similar third party software tools used for data vehicles.
Ultra positioned itself for selection sub-systems for the potential upgrade of the analysis and decision-making.
to the team by successfully demonstrating an British Army Warrior armoured vehicle.
The ability to provide significant sub-systems for UK MoD is planning to extend the life and modern armoured vehicles.
upgrade the capability of up to 450 Warriors including a new turret to enhance lethality.
In For the British Armys Engineer Tank System preparation for the turret competition, Ultra programme, Ultra has developed two major has teamed with CTAI, a joint venture sub-systems: the indirect vision system and between BAE Systems and GIAT, the French the vetronics system.
These are to be fitted manufacturer of armoured vehicles.
CTAI has to the 33 Trojan obstacle-clearing vehicles developed an innovative gun and associated and the 33 Titan bridge-layers being supplied ammunition and Ultra is supplying a number by BAE Systems.
The vision system comprises of different crew controls and electronic units cameras, video management electronics and as part of the overall system.
33 Trojan obstacle-clearing vehicles are being supplied to the British Army by BAE Systems FRES Ultra is undertaking the initial design and integration of a potential electronic architecture for the advanced FRES networkenabled armoured vehicles 18 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra is developing vision Armoured vehicle The British Armys equipment and crew controls electronics must survive Warrior vehicles will require for Terrier in harsh environments upgraded electronics ULTRA HAS DEVELOPED TWO MAJOR BATTLESPACE IT SUB-SYSTEMS FOR THE BRITISH ARMY'S NEW ENGINEER 78% TANK SYSTEM VEHICLES.
Strong defence The defence sector is responsible for 78% of the Groups revenue Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 19 Tactical & Sonar Systems Development of the bow sonar for the Type 45 destroyer made satisfactory progress ULTRA LEADS INTERNATIONAL TEAMS PROVIDING THE ROYAL NAVY WITH LOW-RISK UNDERWATER BATTLESPACE DEFENCE CAPABILITIES.
NEW SYSTEMS ARE AT SEA WITH THE ROYAL NAVY.
Ultra won its UK mine disposal system contract after an extensive set of competitive trials 17% Increasing sales Ultras sales of sonar equipment rose by 17% in 2005, driven by successes in new product niches 20 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra supplied six torpedo Ultra specialises in underwater Ultra is developing a defence systems to the battlespace equipment stealthy communication Royal Navy in 2005 system for submarines defending the eet Ultra has a particular expertise in teaming During 2005 Ultra made excellent progress to hostile forces.
In order to use a submarine with partners to provide its customers with on its US Navy technology demonstrator as a tactical asset, however, it must be able the best of breed solutions for their contract for an advanced torpedo defence to share information about the wider requirements at low risk.
Typically, this system to protect its surface fleet.
A way must therefore be found teaming is with international partners and trials have now been conducted against real to allow a submarine to communicate above Ultra will manage the transfer of technology weapons.
The development work for the US surface whilst operating freely at depth.
into the customers country to provide and Navy is able to take full advantage of Ultras Ultra, with its partners Strachan & Henshaw support a sovereign operational capability for work on the Royal Navy surface ship torpedo and QinetiQ, is developing a system that nation.
In 2005, Ultra was awarded a defence contract.
Ultra has specialist incorporating a recoverable buoy that contract to supply the Royal Navy with an underwater battlespace businesses in both provides a satellite communication capability.
advanced capability for the destruction of the UK and US and so is able to exploit its Ultra, as system integrator, will undertake sea mines using a UK variant of the proven innovative technologies in both markets.
For systems engineering, design and integration.
SEAFOX system designed by Atlas Elektronik the Royal Navy torpedo defence programme, The team will manufacture the equipment, of Germany.
The system comprises Ultra delivered on time a further six ship-sets which includes outboard equipment to expendable, remotely-operated underwater of equipment and three systems were on deploy, retrieve, capture and stow the buoy, vehicles with on-board guidance and ships and at sea by the end of the year.
together with satellite communications and navigation equipment.
This links to the other antennas.
Within the Ultra team each During 2005, development of the bow sonar control station on the host ship and the company contributes its specialist skills and for the Royal Navys new Type 45 destroyer vehicle is manoeuvred to the sea mine which experience to optimise the final solution for made satisfactory progress.
For this is then neutralised using an explosive the customer.
programme, Ultra is teamed with the US warhead.
Ultra will modify the existing sonar and combat system specialist EDO SEAFOX design to meet the UK requirement Corporation.
By the year-end, the first and will manufacture the systems in the UK system was nearing completion.
and then provide a ten-year support and upgrade capability.
Ultras contract from the One of the great advantages of a submarine MoD was won after an extensive series of is its stealth by staying submerged for competitive trials culminating in live extended periods, a submarine can avoid explosive trials against a variety of sea mines.
detection and so pose a considerable threat Ultra is developing a stealthy communication system for submarines incorporating a recoverable buoy that provides a satellite interface capability Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 21 Aircraft & Vehicle Systems Ultras active noise and Each Eurofighter aircraft vibration control system has many Ultra systems will be fitted to the and products fitted A400M aircraft leading edge technology THE DESIGN OF THE WING ICE PROTECTION SYSTEM, FOR WHICH ULTRA IS THE SYSTEM INTEGRATOR, IS CRITICAL TO 16% THE OPTIMISATION OF THE OPERATING EFFICIENCY OF THE Buoyant civil aerospace BOEING 787 AIRCRAFT.
Ultras sales of equipment for civil aircraft rose by 16% in 2005 Ultra is supplying the wing ice protection system and proximity sensor interface electronics for the Boeing 787 aircraft 22 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultras HiPPAG is fitted to Ultra quietens Bombardier's Ultra constantly upgrades the F-35 JSF aircraft Q-series aircraft the electronic systems of the Tornado aircraft Ultra maintains a constant focus on aircraft.
Ultras innovative system will vehicles, for which it is estimated that the positioning its innovative solutions on longsubstantially reduce noise inside the aircraft USAF will procure at least 2,000 carriages.
In the and will protect troops from the noise of the HiPPAG provides the pneumatic energy source aerospace sector, typical project lifecycles can powerful propellers.
The system is based on which enables the controlled ejection of the exceed fty years.
Ultra has been successful in active noise cancellation technology which smart, individually targeted bombs, four of positioning its unique products, services and Ultra has developed over more than 20 years which are suspended from each carriage.
systems on a number of key new programmes.
and which is in operational service on more Successful firing trials have demonstrated than 800 turboprop aircraft.
Ultra is developing the wing ice protection the exceptional precision of the SDB system and, with Goodrich of the US, the Ultra is also supplying the landing gear system.
A bomb flew more than 55 miles door and landing gear proximity sensing control system proximity sensors, harnesses from an altitude of 30,000 feet, hitting system for the new Boeing 787 Dreamliner and associated interface electronics for the within 34 inches of its planned impact point.
In 2005, these programmes made A400M aircraft.
These components are used SDB is initially to be deployed on USAF good progress.
Ultra is the system integrator mainly in the landing gear extension and F-15E aircraft in 2006.
To support this, Ultra for the wing ice protection system which retraction system to sense the position of the was awarded in 2005 a contract to cover provides electro-thermal heating to the landing gear and landing gear doors.
Ultra is the Low Rate Initial Production LRIP phase leading edge slats of the 787 wing.
The partnered with Goodrich for the supply of of the programme.
design of the system is critical to the this equipment.
Airbus has an order book of optimisation of the operating efficiency of 192 A400M aircraft with first deliveries the aircraft as it avoids the use of bleed air planned for 2009. from the engines, which adversely impacts Ultra is providing its innovative and highly fuel efficiency.
The 787 aircraft is scheduled reliable HiPPAG airborne compressor for the to enter service in 2008.
US Small Diameter Bomb SDB programme in An important achievement in 2005 was Ultras the US.
The SDB system, for which the prime selection to supply its active noise cancellation contractor is Boeing, is the latest low cost system for the main cargo bay of the new precision-strike weapon for deployment on Airbus A400M turboprop military transport ghters, bombers and unmanned combat air Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 23 Information & Power Systems Ultras integrated IT Ultra provides baggage solutions support busy management at all of airports worldwide New Zealands international airports Customers worldwide rely on Ultras advanced, Ultra is the worlds leading provider of airline integrated IT solutions to support the efficient baggage reconciliation systems.
These ensure and safe operation of complex modern that unaccompanied bags are not inadvertently 25 million airports.
With rising passenger numbers, many loaded onto aircraft and also enhance the airports are investing in new or upgraded efficiency of the departure process.
The Group Ultras baggage reconciliation and facilities to cater for the increased throughput.
has invested in the infrastructure to provide a matching system at London In 2005, Ultras airport IT business continued baggage reconciliation and tracking service to Heathrow airport processed over its recent record of strong growth.
airports, airlines and ground handling agents.
25 million bags in 2005 Ultra is now providing this service at Heathrow The prestigious new Terminal 5 at London and in New Zealand and the US.
These Heathrow airport is taking shape.
As IT system installed systems consistently meet the required integrator for the whole project, Ultras activity availability and reliability levels and process levels are rising as the project transitions from millions of items of baggage each year.
As integrator, Ultra is demonstrating its broad spread of domain At facilities such as airports, schools and knowledge in airport IT systems by integrating similarly sensitive areas, access control is vital the many diverse functions that will contribute to minimise any risk to security.
Ultras to the successful operation of Terminal 5.
Magicard range of ID card printers is used Ultras success at Heathrow helped secure the extensively as part of access control systems.
contract to supply IT integration services for the In 2005, the Magicard range of printers was expansion at Shanghais Pudong international extended to offer additional features while airport.
This is a rapidly growing airport a continuing to offer as standard Ultras second terminal is being constructed, a second unique holographic anti-counterfeiting runway already having been opened in 2005. technology.
The new printers allow smaller Shanghai Pudong will act as a world class organisations to afford an access control reference site to support Ultras continuing solution using customised ID badges for all penetration of the Asia-Pacic region, the authorised personnel.
worlds fastest growing airport market.
ULTRAS ADVANCED, INTEGRATED IT SOLUTIONS SUPPORT THE EFFICIENT AND SAFE OPERATION OF THE MOST PRESTIGIOUS MODERN AIRPORTS WORLDWIDE.
24 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Ultra is selling advanced Ultra is the IT systems airport IT solutions all round integrator for the new the world fifth terminal at Londons Heathrow airport integrated airport IT worldwide 22% Sales of systems, equipment, products and services for civil markets account for 22% of Ultras revenue Ultra will supply airport IT integration services at Shanghai Pudong international airport Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 25
