Financial Review Non-GAAP measures Certain discussions and analyses set out in this Annual Report As investor measures, we believe that there are no GAAP and Accounts include measures which are not dened by measures directly comparable with UFCF and ROIC.
However, generally accepted accounting principles GAAP such as IFRSs in the tables on pages 17 and 18, we reconcile each as follows: or US GAAP.
We believe this information, along with comparable UFCF to cash ow from operating activities and also to net profit: GAAP measurements, is useful to investors because it provides a ROIC to net profit.
basis for measuring our operating performance, ability to retire debt and invest in new business opportunities.
Our management Unilever cautions that, while UFCF and ROIC are widely used as uses these financial measures, along with the most directly tools for investment analysis, they are not dened terms under comparable GAAP financial measures, in evaluating our operating IFRSs or US GAAP and therefore their denition should be performance and value creation.
Non-GAAP financial measures carefully reviewed and understood by investors.
Investors should should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute be aware that their application may vary in practice and therefore for, financial information presented in compliance with GAAP.
these measures may not be fully comparable between companies.
Non-GAAP financial measures as reported by us may not In particular: be comparable to similarly titled amounts reported by other companies.
Denitions of non-GAAP measures and Unilever recognises that the usefulness of UFCF and ROIC as reconciliations to GAAP measures are provided on indicators of investment value is limited, as such measures are pages 17 to 19. based on historical cost information: Measures of long term value creation UFCF and ROIC measures are not intended to be a substitute Unilevers ambition for the creation of value for shareholders is for, or superior to, GAAP measures in the financial statements: measured by Total Shareholder Return over a rolling three year period compared with a peer group of 20 other companies.
The fact that ROIC is a ratio inherently limits its use, and Unilever believes that the contribution of the business to this management uses ROIC only for the purposes discussed above.
objective can best be measured and communicated to investors The relevance and use of net profit for the year being the most through the following measures: relevant comparable GAAP measure is clearly more pervasive: and The delivery, over time, of Ungeared Free Cash Flow UFCF, which expresses the translation of profit into cash, and thus UFCF is not the residual cash available to pay dividends.
It is longer term economic value: and broadly available to cover the servicing of debt along with other non-discretionary expenditures that have not been deducted The development, over time, of Return on Invested Capital from this measure.
ROIC, which expresses the returns generated on capital invested in the company.
Unilever communicates progress against these measures annually, and management remuneration is aligned with these objectives.
The UFCF over a three year period is incorporated as a performance element of Unilevers management incentive scheme.
UFCF and ROIC are non-GAAP measures under IFRSs and US GAAP.
We include them in this respect since they are the way in which we communicate our ambition and monitor progress towards our longer-term value creation goals and in order to: Improve transparency for investors: Assist investors in their assessment of the long-term value of Unilever: Ensure that the measures are fully understood in light of how Unilever reviews long-term value creation for shareholders: Properly define the metrics used and confirm their calculation: Share the metrics with all investors at the same time: and Disclose UFCF as it is one of the drivers of management remuneration and therefore management behaviour.
16 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2005
