Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 DIRECTORS REPORT AND OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OPERATING REVIEW The regulators History and Development of the Business NIAER and the Department of Enterprise, Trade and Investment NIE was incorporated in 1991 as a public limited company and was DETI are the principal regulators.
Each is given specific powers, subsequently listed in 1993.
It carries on four regulated businesses duties and functions under the Orders.
The functions of NIAER in Northern Ireland: transmission and distribution through T&D: include licensing pursuant to a general authority given by DETI and power procurement through PPB: transmission system operation the general supervision and enforcement of the licensing regime.
through SONI: and supply of electricity through NIE Supply.
DETIs functions include licensing, the giving of consents for new power stations and overhead lines, fuel stocking, the encouragement Viridian Group PLC Viridian was formed as a new holding company of renewable generation and the regulation of matters relating to the in 1998 following a capital reorganisation under which the Groups quality and safety of electricity supply.
unregulated activities were separated from NIE.
Viridian is a public limited company registered in Northern Ireland, listed on both the The regulators objectives and duties London and Dublin Stock Exchanges.
The principal objective of NIAER and DETI in carrying out their respective functions in relation to electricity is to protect the interests Over the last three years, the Group has developed a substantial of consumers of electricity wherever appropriate by promoting position in the newly competitive electricity supply markets in both effective competition between those engaged in, or in commercial Northern Ireland and the RoI, including a significant investment in activities connected with, the generation, transmission or supply of new generating plant in the RoI.
In conjunction with this electricity.
Each of NIAER and DETI has a duty to carry out those development, the Group has disposed of a number of businesses functions in the manner which it considers is best calculated to including Open Direct financial services : nevada further that principal objective, having regard to a number of factors, telecommunications joint venture : Moyle Interconnector electricity including the need to ensure that all reasonable demands for interconnector between Northern Ireland and Scotland : and most electricity are met and the need to ensure that licensees are able to recently Sx3 software and IT services.
The activities of the Group finance their authorised activities.
In performing that duty they are are now conducted through two principal businesses: required to have regard to the interests of individuals whose circumstances include any of the following: being disabled: being NIE - regulated electricity businesses in Northern Ireland: and chronically sick: being of pensionable age: having low incomes: and residing in rural areas.
They must also have regard to the effect of VP&E - generation in the RoI and supply in the competitive the industrys activities on the environment and their role includes electricity markets in both Northern Ireland and the RoI.
The 2003 Order gives the General Consumer Council for Northern Ireland GCCNI responsibility for representing electricity consumers Regulation and Legislation and dealing with complaints against electricity suppliers.
GCCNI also has powers to investigate any matter relating to the interests of Northern Ireland electricity customers and to acquire information from electricity licence holders.
The electricity industry in Northern Ireland is governed principally by the Electricity Northern Ireland Order 1992 1992 Order as The electricity industry in Northern Ireland is also subject to UK and amended by the Energy Northern Ireland Order 2003 2003 Order EU legislation relating to the environment, competition and the together the Orders and by the conditions of the licences which completion of the EU single market.
have been granted under the 1992 Order.
Competition in generation and supply Privatisation and re-structuring The principal rules for trading electricity in Northern Ireland are The 1992 Order provided for the privatisation and restructuring of contained in the Supply Competition Code SCC.
At the time of rethe electricity industry in Northern Ireland which included the trade structuring of the industry in 1992, the SCC required all licensed sale of power stations previously owned by NIE.
PPB was generators to sell their entire capacity and output to PPB and established to administer the long-term power purchase contracts required relevant suppliers to buy all their requirements with which were put in place with the new owners of the power stations.
certain limited exceptions from PPB at its regulated Bulk Supply NIE retained responsibility for the transmission, distribution and Tariff BST.
A new regulatory framework was put in place to provide for price regulation of NIEs activities.
Operating Review 7 The EU now requires the implementation of certain rules to secure NIAER has set guaranteed standards and overall standards covering greater competition in the generation and supply of electricity.
certain customer services, the majority of which apply to services Directive 2003 54 EC of the European Parliament and of the Council provided by T&D e. g. the restoration of customers supplies of 26 June 2003 the 2003 Electricity Directive concerning common following an interruption and responding to customers voltage rules for the internal market in electricity requires market opening to complaints.
The guaranteed standards scheme applies in be extended to all non-domestic customers.
The amended SCC will individual cases and NIE is obliged to make a payment to each therefore provide for suppliers to supply such customers c55,000 customer affected if it fails to meet a guaranteed standard.
The comprising c60% of the market by volume from wholesalers overall standards apply at the collective level and, whilst NIE is not generators of their choice rather than solely from PPB.
required to make payments to customers if it fails to meet an overall standard, the Licence obliges NIE to conduct its business in such When supplying domestic customers, suppliers are still required to a way as can reasonably be expected to lead to it achieving the purchase all of their wholesale requirements with the exception of overall standards.
supplies procured from renewable generation sources from PPB.
The 2003 Electricity Directive requires 100% market opening, PPB is required to draw up, publish and maintain the BST, in a form i. e. including all domestic customers currently c703,000, by approved by NIAER, under which it offers non-discriminatory, priceJuly 2007. regulated terms for the sale of electricity to suppliers.
An economic purchasing obligation requires it to contract for electricity at the best Licences effective price reasonably obtainable, having regard to the sources There are four types of electricity licence: transmission, public available, and to keep its commitments under review.
Once it has electricity supply PES, second tier supply and generation.
Taken met the needs of the market not yet eligible for competition, PPB is together these licences regulate the economic behaviour of incentivised to trade any contract surpluses into the competitive licensees: set a framework for competition in generation and supply: market.
PPB is also required to draw up and publish a public underpin the arrangements relating to security of supply: protect the service obligation PSO charge for the provision of services which technical integrity of the system and provide for certain types of are of a public service nature.
PSO charges are regulated under a consumer services.
separate price control and are payable by all suppliers.
NIEs transmission and PES licence SONI is required to maintain the operating security standard and to NIE holds a transmission licence and a PES licence combined in publish a price-regulated system support services SSS charge for one licence document the Licence.
The Licence requires NIE to the provision of the services it provides as transmission system carry on its activities through a number of separate businesses, operator and market operator.
SSS charges are payable by all including T&D, PPB, SONI and NIE Supply.
At a future date, DETI intends to grant a separate licence to SONI to meet the requirements of the 2003 Electricity Directive.
T&D is required to develop and maintain an efficient, co-ordinated and economical system of: NIE Supply is obliged, subject to certain exceptions, upon request by the owner or occupier of premises in Northern Ireland, to provide a electricity transmission - the bulk transfer of electricity across its supply of electricity to those premises.
Any customer whose high voltage network of overhead lines, underground cables and maximum demand does not exceed 1MW is entitled to be supplied associated equipment mainly operating at 275kV and 110kV.
on a published price-regulated tariff, although customers may NIEs transmission system is connected to that of the RoI instead enter into a contract agreed with NIE Supply.
Customers through 275kV and 110kV interconnectors and to the with a maximum demand greater than 1MW must enter into transmission system in Scotland via the Moyle Interconnector.
individual contracts if they wish to receive a supply of electricity from NIE Supply.
electricity distribution - the transfer of electricity from the high voltage transmission system and its delivery to customers across Other licences a network of overhead lines and underground cables operating Second tier supply licences authorise holders to supply electricity to at 33kV, 11kV and lower voltages.
premises within Northern Ireland, but do not contain all the conditions imposed on NIE Supply in its capacity as the public T&D must offer charges to suppliers for use of the transmission and electricity supplier for Northern Ireland.
There are 10 holders of distribution system on a price-regulated and non-discriminatory second tier licences, of which four including Energia are currently basis.
It is also required to offer terms for connection to the system active in the competitive market.
on a non-discriminatory basis approved by NIAER.
Holders of generation licences are required to make their plant available to central despatch by SONI.
Their licences contain provisions concerning change of control and the approval of power station operators.
With certain limited exceptions, NIE is prohibited from owning generation assets in Northern Ireland.
8 Operating Review Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 Licence compliance, modification, termination and revocation The PPB price control fixes the maximum revenue which PPB may NIAER has powers to enforce compliance with licences.
The 2003 recover from sales of wholesale electricity to suppliers including NIE Order provides for NIAER to levy a financial penalty up to 10% of Supply.
In addition to recovery of its electricity purchase costs, the turnover for breach of a relevant condition.
price control gives PPB a minimum revenue entitlement with additional entitlement from increased trading activity.
The current NIAER may modify the conditions of licences, either in accordance PPB price control, which was due to expire in March 2005, has with the terms of the licences or in accordance with the procedures been extended to March 2006. set out in the Orders, with the agreement of the licensee after due notice, public consultation and consideration of any representations SONIs price control principally covers the cost of system support and objections.
In the absence of such agreement, NIAER is and market operator services as well as its own operating costs.
A required to make a referral to the Competition Commission before a proposal has been submitted to NIAER for the price control to be proposed licence modification can be made.
Modifications may extended from March 2005 to March 2008. introduce new conditions relating to activities authorised by the licence or to other activities or may amend existing conditions.
A NIE Supplys price control allows it to pass through to customers modification can be vetoed by DETI.
Modifications of licence those costs which are separately regulated principally relating to the conditions may also be made by statutory order in consequence of a cost of purchasing electricity at the BST from PPB and payment to reference under the Competition Act 1998.
T&D for use of the transmission and distribution system.
Regulated income associated with NIE Supplys other costs is subject to a RPILicences may be terminated by not less than 25 years notice given X formula where X is set at 3% under the current price control.
by DETI and are revocable by DETI in certain circumstances Two thirds of NIE Supplys income is fixed while the other third including: where the licensee consents to revocation: where the varies according to the number of customers supplied by the licensee fails to comply with an enforcement order made by NIAER: business.
The current price control, which has been extended from or where specified insolvency procedures are initiated in respect of 31 March 2005 to 31 March 2007, requires NIE Supply to the licensee or its assets.
NIEs licences may also be revoked if undertake a range of social and environmental activities including: Viridian becomes insolvent or ceases to have control the installation of further keypad meters: further energy efficiency of NIE.
measures to deliver 6m of lifetime savings: and certain actions to stimulate the development of micro-renewable generation.
Price controls NIEs regulated businesses are subject to price controls defined in formulae, set out in the Licence, which limit the revenues they may Republic of Ireland earn and the prices they may charge.
The principles of price The principal legislative instruments governing the regulation of the regulation employed in the relevant licence conditions reflect the energy sector in the RoI are the Electricity Regulation Act 1999 the general duties of NIAER and DETI under the Orders including the 1999 Act, the European Communities Internal Market in Electricity requirement to have regard to the need to enable licensees to Regulations 2000 and 2005, the Gas Interim Regulation Act finance their authorised activities.
The revenues of T&D, PPB, SONI 2002 the 2002 Act and the European Communities Internal and NIE Supply are each subject to controls which are periodically Market in Natural Gas No.
In addition, the energy sector in the RoI is subject to EU legislation If the amount of revenue recovered in any one year exceeds or falls relating to the environment, competition and the completion of the short of the amount allowed by the price control formula, a EU single market.
correction factor operates in the following year to give back any surplus with interest, or to recover any deficit with interest, as The regulators appropriate.
A surplus is referred to as an over-recovery and a Overall policy responsibility for the energy sector lies with the deficit as an under-recovery.
Minister for Communications, Marine and Natural Resources the Minister.
In this capacity, the Minister is advised by the Department Charges for the use of the transmission and distribution system are of Communications, Marine and Natural Resources DCMNR and a subject to a price control formula consisting of a fixed component range of other statutory bodies including CER and Sustainable and a variable component which depends on the volume of units Energy Ireland.
CER is the national regulatory authority for the transmitted and distributed.
Each component is controlled by a RPIenergy sector.
CER was established as regulator of the electricity X formula where X is set at 5% under the current price control.
sector by the 1999 Act and was subsequently vested This has the effect subject to volume changes of reducing the with regulatory authority over the downstream gas sector by the allowed revenues by 5% in real terms in the second and each 2002 Act.
subsequent year of the current price control period.
Income from certain other T&D services, such as connection charges, is excluded The functions of CER include: advising the Minister: licensing from the price control.
The current T&D price control is effective market participants: the general supervision and enforcement of the until 31 March 2007 and is scheduled to be reviewed and reset with licensing regime: the regulation of third party access and network effect from 1 April 2007. tariffs in both the gas and electricity sectors: the setting of gas and electricity market rules: and setting public electricity supply tariffs and residential gas tariffs.
DCMNRs functions include drafting legislation, advising the Minister on issues of energy policy and promoting renewable energy.
Operating Review 9 The regulators objectives and duties Financial performance The principal objective of CER in carrying out its functions in relation T&D revenues based on regulated entitlement decreased by 2.0m to energy is to protect the interests of energy consumers, wherever due to lower price control revenues together with new arrangements appropriate by promoting effective competition between persons for funding energy efficiency projects which were previously funded engaged in, or in commercial activities connected with, the via T&Ds use of system charges.
These decreases were partly offset generation, transmission or supply of electricity and the by increased revenues associated with the recovery of market transportation and supply of natural gas.
CER has a duty to carry opening costs.
Based on regulated entitlement, T&D made profits of out its functions in a manner which does not discriminate between 71.4m compared to 73.9m last year.
This reflects the reduction market participants and protects the interests of customers.
in price control revenues together with a higher depreciation charge and an increase in provisions required for further employee Competition in electricity generation and supply reductions, offset by reductions in operating costs.
Areas in which The principal rules for trading electricity in the RoI are contained in reductions in operating costs were achieved included lower staffing the trading arrangements set out in the Trading and Settlement Code levels and decreases in information technology and premises costs.
Operational performance All customers in the RoI are eligible to be supplied by any licensed The focus within T&D continues to be on customer service and supplier or ESB.
There are four types of licence: transmission, efficiency.
The business has been investing in Six Sigma training distribution, supply and generation.
Licences regulate the economic and methodology since 1999 as a mechanism for analysing and behaviour of licensees: set a framework for competition in generation redesigning its processes to achieve improved service quality and and supply: underpin the arrangements relating to security of lower costs.
supply: and protect the technical integrity of the system.
Huntstown 1 holds a generation licence and Energia holds a At the beginning of the year T&D launched a programme to simplify supply licence.
the service processes between T&D and Powerteam.
This has established a platform for the delivery of further efficiencies Competition in gas supply including the employment of fewer external contractors with more The principal rules for shipping natural gas in the RoI are contained work being undertaken by the existing internal workforce.
in the Bord Gais Eireann Code of Operations.
Huntstown 1 and Energia have each entered into a framework agreement binding In January and February 2005, the T&D network successfully them to this code and are entitled to ship gas in the RoI.
Energia withstood severe adverse weather conditions.
The 33kV network holds a gas shipping supply licence and is licensed both to ship gas and the main lines forming the backbone of the 11kV network to Huntstown as well as to supply eligible gas customers.
The gas performed particularly well, validating the current investment market in the RoI is not yet fully open to competition with domestic strategy for the high voltage network.
At one stage during these customers supplied by Bord Gais Eireann.
Full market opening is incidents, some 950 of the Groups employees were mobilised.
Supplies to over 90% of customers affected were restored within 24 hours.
Business Reviews Excluding the impact of this severe weather, average customer minutes lost per customer connected reduced to 76 2004 - 90.
T&D T&Ds regulatory framework includes formal standards of Background information performance for customer service.
All overall standards were The T&D business comprises the planning, development, achieved.
There was one default against guaranteed standards construction, operation and maintenance of the transmission and 2004 - 4 and the number of substantiated GCCNI complaints distribution network which is used to convey electricity from reduced to 27 2004 - 64. generating stations in Northern Ireland to customers' premises.
The T&D business derives its revenue principally through use of system T&D continues to make substantial investments in its infrastructure charges levied on suppliers.
Network capital expenditure was in line with the regulatory allowance which provides for a programme totalling 257m after The T&D network comprises a number of interconnected networks customer contributions and at 2004 05 prices over the five year of overhead lines and underground cables which are used for the period to March 2007.
Total capital expenditure, including transfer of electricity to customers via a number of substations.
expenditure on customer service systems, other non-network assets There are approximately 2,100km of the transmission system, of and new systems required to support market opening in Northern which some 80km are underground: and approximately 42,900km Ireland, was 72.5m 2004 - 66.4m before customer contributions of the distribution system, of which some 13,100km are and 56.7m 2004 - 53.2m after customer contributions.
At 31 March 2005, c758,000 customers were has agreed that approved expenditure on systems associated with connected to the distribution system.
market opening in Northern Ireland will be recovered over five years and will earn the regulated rate of return of 6.5% pre-tax real.
10 Operating Review Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 In April 2005, ESB commissioned a new independent 400MW CCGT PPB SONI plant at Coolkeeragh in Northern Ireland.
This replaces 120MW of Background information steam plant at Coolkeeragh previously contracted to PPB that ceased operation on 31 March 2005.
The new plant is expected to PPB lead to a reduction in demand for power imported through the Moyle PPB was established to administer the long-term power purchase Interconnector.
contracts which were put in place with the purchasers of the power stations at privatisation of the industry in 1992.
The winter of 2004 05 saw a peak demand for electricity in Northern Ireland of 1,663MW on 20 December 2004.
This compared to the Since then, there have been a number of changes to those contracts previous years peak demand of 1,643MW.
and some of the contracts have been terminated.
The current contracted capacity is 1,532MW comprising: During the year there were no major loss of supply incidents arising from the non-availability of generating plant.
Kilroot - 578MW 520MW coal oil, 58MW gasoil : these contracts expire in 2024 but are cancellable by NIAER from 2010: NIE Supply Ballylumford - 896MW of which the 600MW CCGT plant Background information contract expires in 2012 although PPB has options to extend : NIE Supply acquires bulk supplies of electricity from PPB in order to the 116MW gasoil contract expires in 2020 but is cancellable supply customers who are either not yet eligible for competition or by NIAER from 2010 : and the 180MW steam plant contract who are eligible but have not moved to a second tier supplier.
expires in 2012 but is cancellable at PPBs option from NIE Supply is also responsible for the billing and collection of October 2005 : and customer accounts.
Coolkeeragh - 58MW gasoil : this contract expires in 2020 but is cancellable by NIAER from 2010.
Financial performance NIE Supplys turnover based on regulated entitlement decreased to PPB also has contracts with renewable generators for approximately 424.9m 2004 - 447.0m primarily reflecting a reduction in its 39MW secured under the Non-Fossil Fuel Obligation NFFO Orders.
non-domestic customer base due to market opening.
Profits based These contracts expire between 2009 and 2013: PPB also holds a on regulated entitlement increased to 6.4m 2004 - 5.8m 125MW contract for capacity on the Moyle Interconnector expiring as a result of reduced operating charges primarily from lower in 2007. staffing levels.
In 2003, PPB agreed to sell 170MW of capacity to ESB in the RoI Operating performance through the North-South interconnector, having contracted to NIE Supplys customer numbers increased from c735,000 at 31 purchase this capacity from generating units at Ballylumford no March 2004 to c746,000 at 31 March 2005 reflecting an increase in longer under long-term contract.
This contract is cancellable from domestic customers from c689,000 to c703,000 offset by a July 2005 at ESBs option.
reduction in industrial and commercial customers from c46,000 to c43,000.
The decline in industrial and commercial customer SONI numbers reflects the migration of such customers to second SONI is responsible for the safe, secure and economic operation of tier suppliers.
the transmission system in Northern Ireland.
This includes despatch of generating plant and managing interconnector transfers From 1 April 2005, suppliers in Northern Ireland are required to to meet demand for electricity in Northern Ireland.
SONI also source a proportion of their capacity from renewable generation undertakes the role of market operator and makes arrangements for 2.5% in 2005 06 increasing to 6.3% in 2012 13.
NIAER and DETI interconnector capacity auctions and the provision of appropriate have agreed that proceeds raised from the sale of NFFO ROCs by trading mechanisms for independent generators and suppliers.
PPB will be used to offset NIE Supplys compliance costs.
NIE Supply expects to pass through any residual costs to customers.
Financial performance During the year PPB and SONIs combined turnover based on As part of its price control, NIE Supply has a target to have 175,000 regulated entitlement increased to 436.3m 2004 - 383.1m due keypad meters installed by March 2007.
This pay-as-you-go to increased tariffs as a result of higher fuel costs and increased metering enables customers to budget for their electricity payments trading income from PPB.
Profits from PPB and SONI combined whilst attracting a 2.5% discount on the standard price and based on regulated entitlement increased to 6.5m 2004 - providing easy to read consumption information.
During the year, 5.6m reflecting the increase in PPBs trading income.
NIE Supply invested a further 2.0m 2004 - 3.2m in keypad meters some 26,000 meters which brings the total keypad Operational performance investment to 11.2m some 153,000 meters at 31 March 2005.
PPBs total units sold increased by 6% to 8,269GWh 2004 - 7,789GWh.
PPB is incentivised to trade surplus contracted capacity to second tier suppliers as a means of reducing the impact of PPBs power purchase costs on customers supplied under the BST.
Units traded to second tier suppliers increased by 44% to 2,869GWh 2004 - 1,999GWh.
Operating Review 11 Powerteam VP&E Background information Background information Powerteam is an unregulated power utility contractor specialising in VP&E operates as an integrated energy business comprising the design, construction, commissioning and maintenance of high generation, through Huntstown 1 in the RoI, together with voltage transmission and distribution power systems, principally for competitive supply, through Energia, in both Northern Ireland T&D, but also for electricity companies and industrial customers in and the RoI.
Generation Financial performance In November 2002 VP&E commissioned Huntstown 1, a 343MW Powerteam made good progress during the year increasing its profits CCGT plant on the Huntstown site north of Dublin.
This was driven by growth in its external with limited recourse financing arrangements put in place in 2002, business and in particular a full years contribution in respect of Huntstown 1 entered into a long-term fuel purchase and energy sale network refurbishment carried out under the three year framework agreement FPESA with Energia.
Under the FPESA, Huntstown 1 contract awarded in June 2003 by ESB.
While Powerteam derives bears the operational risk of converting gas to electricity and Energia the majority of its revenue from the T&D business, external sales assumes the market risk inherent in the purchase of gas and in the accounted for 41% of total sales in the year.
Operating performance Supply Powerteam has built its external business while also improving Energia was established in 1999 as an independent energy supply margins.
company, operating in the competitive energy markets in Northern The majority of its external work is concentrated in the RoI through Ireland and the RoI.
Since 1999, both markets have been contracts with ESB.
In June 2003 Powerteam was awarded a three deregulating and Energia has built market share based on direct year framework contract to refurbish up to 2,500km per annum of sales to industrial and commercial customers.
ESBs medium voltage network with estimated revenues of 18m per annum.
The business has also been successful in winning external contracts in both Northern Ireland and Great Britain The following table provides an overview of the electricity supply generating revenues of 5.6m 2004 - 4.5m.
markets in which Energia operates: Sites TWh demand Market opening Northern Ireland customers Large energy users 750 2.6 July 1999 - April 2001 Small to medium sized enterprises 54,000 2.2 April 2004 - March 2005 Domestic 703,000 3.3 April 2007 target 757,750 8.1 RoI customers Large energy users 800 8.1 February 2000 Small to medium sized enterprises 167,000 8.3 February 2002 - February 2005 Domestic 1,736,0008.6 February 2005 1,903,800 25.0 estimates at 31 March 2005 12 Operating Review Viridian Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2004-2005 Financial performance In the RoI, customer contracts are backed by generation from VP&E has delivered a strong operating performance.
Turnover Huntstown 1, imports from Scotland and Northern Ireland and the increased from 206.0m to 273.6m due to growth in its customer VIPP wholesale product made available by ESB.
Energia enters into base in both Northern Ireland and the RoI together with increased contracts with customers, on the basis of fixed energy prices with prices associated with higher fuel costs.
Operating profit increased pass through of use of system charges and levies, primarily on an by 38% to 25.2m 2004 - 18.3m reflecting volume growth in annual basis.
The majority of contracts are entered into for the both markets and increased profits in the RoI, offset by lower profits period November to October.
Energias prices are set by reference in Northern Ireland.
to ESBs tariffs which are published each September for the following calendar year.
Energia either hedges its power purchase Operating performance costs or enters into fixed price contracts, on an annual basis, to match its fixed energy price contracts with customers.
Generation Huntstown 1 continued to perform well achieving availability of 98% Energia plans to grow its customer base in the RoI to match the in 2004 05 excluding the effect of the major planned outage which output from Huntstown 2.
To facilitate this, Energia has secured two started on 12 March 2005.
The planned maintenance for which year capacity over the North-South interconnector linking Northern this outage was required was successfully completed within the Ireland and the RoI through which it will import power from Northern scheduled period on 18 April 2005.
For the financial year 2005 06, Energia is offering to supply Huntstown 1s gas requirements for 2005 06 were more than a number of large customers with both electricity and gas.
60% hedged and its requirements for CO emission credits for 2 the same year under the EU ETS which came into effect on 1 In April 2005 the Minister announced that the next market January 2005 were fully covered by forward purchase contracts support mechanism for renewable generation in the RoI will be of emission credits.
based on a fixed feed-in tariff system.
The support system will be designed specifically to encourage new capacity development and Further investment in generation on the Huntstown site is central to will only apply to newly built projects.
Further details of the scheme the Groups strategy.
Last September the decision to construct a are expected to be announced shortly, at which stage Energia will further CCGT plant at Huntstown Huntstown 2 with a capacity of assess the opportunity.
This is against the background of electricity demand projections in the RoI, which indicate a In Northern Ireland, Energia has maintained its market share of continuing need for further generating capacity.
Construction is due some 50% by volume of the LEU market, supplying c400 customer to commence this summer with commissioning targeted for autumn sites at 31 March 2005.
In the SME market, Energia has increased 2007.
The new plant is expected to cost approximately 250m its market share to 8% by volume 2004 - 4%, supplying c3,400 including interest during construction and will be financed initially customer sites at 31 March 2005 2004 - c2,700.
It is anticipated from the Groups existing debt resources.
Once commissioned, the that the SME sector will become fully active relatively slowly as SMEs plants output will be sold through Energia, primarily to customers in install the requisite on-line metering.
In Northern Ireland, power is purchased under fixed price contracts For the few months during which Huntstown 2 will be operational in from Scotland through the Moyle Interconnector and from 2007, it will be allocated a share of CO emission credits set aside 2 generation, including renewable sources, in Northern Ireland.
It is expected that the station will Energia enters into contracts with customers, on the basis of single receive a separate allocation of CO emission credits in line with 2 or multi-year fixed energy price contracts, with pass through of use other generating plant in the RoI at the start of phase two of the EU of system charges and levies to customers.
Contracts are generally ETS in January 2008. entered into for the period April to March.
Supply Energia plans to retain its customer base against the background of Energia grew its customer base across Ireland as markets, both the recent commissioning of ESBs new 400MW CCGT plant at North and South, opened further to competition.
In the RoI, the Coolkeeragh in Northern Ireland and, to assist this retention, has remaining SMEs and the whole of the domestic sector became secured contracts beyond one year for approximately 40% of its eligible for competition in February 2005.
In Northern Ireland, the customer demand.
remaining SMEs became eligible for competition in March 2005 but the domestic sector is not expected to open to competition From 1 April 2005, Energia is required to source a proportion of its until 2007. capacity from renewable generation.
Based on existing contracted renewable generating capacity 33MW, Energia will be compliant In the RoI, Energia has maintained its market share of some 33% by under this obligation until 2010.
Surplus ROCs are expected to volume of the LEU market, supplying c300 customer sites at 31 provide an incremental profit opportunity in the short to mediumMarch 2005.
In the SME market Energia has increased its market term.
Energias aim is to negotiate further contracts with windfarm share to 6% by volume 2004 - 1%, supplying c11,200 customer developers in Northern Ireland, either as offtake arrangements, or sites at 31 March 2005 2004 - c3,500.
through direct investment where returns are appropriate.
VP&Es capital expenditure was 7.1m 2004 - 11.8m primarily representing: the purchase of a spare set of turbine blades for Huntstown 1: expenditure by Energia on the installation of new systems including billing and customer relationship management systems: and initial expenditure on Huntstown 2.
Operating Review 13 Single Electricity Market Disposal The CER and NIAER are working towards the creation of a single The sale of Sx3 to Northgate was completed on 25 April 2005 for electricity market for the island of Ireland.
Taking account of costs and a pre-sale dividend, the the end of March 2005 envisage a gross mandatory pool, namely a disposal is expected to result in a book gain of approximately single wholesale market in which buyers and sellers of electricity 100m, which will be reported as an exceptional gain in the trade all their electricity on a daily basis.
The proposals envisage financial year 2005 06. some form of payment to reward generators for making capacity available.
The final design for the market will be published in June 2005, following consultation.
The target date for implementation is Other Activities July 2007.
Profits increased to 2.4m 2004 - nil primarily reflecting a number of property disposals in the first half of the year.
VP&E maintains a watching brief on opportunities to invest in Remaining property assets capable of being realised have a further interconnection, both between the RoI and Great Britain book value of 1.2m.
East-West interconnector and in any upgrade to the North-South interconnector between Northern Ireland and the RoI.
Employees Sx3 The Group had 2,545 employees at 31 March 2005 2004 - 2,658 of whom 1,095 were employees of Sx3.
Background information Sx3, established in 1997, is a software and IT services company Excluding Sx3, 1,224 employees are employed in Northern Ireland focused primarily on the UK public sector.
It is organised into three and 226 in the RoI.
Approximately 79% of employees are union divisions: members, and are covered by collective bargaining arrangements.
Applications Solutions, which provides applications software and Employee relations in all businesses are positive and constructive.
related services to local authorities in the UK: The Group aims to align its human resources policies with key Managed Services, which provides IT and business process business drivers, which include performance and productivity outsourcing services to the local government, education and improvement, cost reduction, business growth and innovation, and utilities sector: and providing value to customers.
Infrastructure Services, which provides maintenance and managed services to clients across the public and Initiatives to support this strategy include a clearly defined and private sectors.
communicated set of values and behaviours, supported by a robust performance management process, together with a strong Financial performance commitment to management development and building Sx3 exceeded its target of a high single digit operating profit margin organisational competence and succession through the identification delivering a 10.8% margin 2004 - 6.1%.
Turnover increased from of high potential employees.
The Group seeks to align employee 117.3m to 127.5m and operating profits increased from 7.1m to interests with those of other key stakeholders through an effective 13.8m.
These increases resulted from strong performances by the approach to recognition and reward, based on business and companys Applications Solutions and Managed Services divisions.
Operating performance Sx3 has continued the trend towards a greater proportion of higher margin services within its sales mix.
Applications Solutions division expanded the delivery of its revenue and benefits and housing software across local authorities, including the award of a five year contract with Birmingham City Council.
In Managed Services division, the implementation phase of the Classroom 2000 Lot 3 education contract was completed successfully.
Infrastructure Services division was successful in gaining a five year contract from Mitsui Babcock.
Sx3s capital expenditure was 9.3m 2004 - 23.9m primarily representing the remaining expenditure on the Classroom 2000 Lot 3 contract within Managed Services division.
