The Weir Group PLC Annual Report 2005 Financial Review: The positive market conditions experienced in 2005 are expected to continue in 2006 and the full year contribution from Weir Gabbioneta, coupled to improving performances within the Engineering Products and Engineering Services Divisions are expected to deliver progress in 2006.
Operating results overview Revenue from continuing operations increased by 14.4% in 2005, from 690.1m to 789.4m, with all three divisions achieving growth when compared to 2004.
Buoyant conditions in the mining and minerals and oil and gas markets, coupled to an improving competitive position and expanded geographic cover, contributed to the years results.
Favourable exchange benefits from the translation effects of overseas subsidiaries contributed 17.8m to the revenue growth.
Operating margins from continuing operations, pre restructuring and central costs, remained constant at 8% of sales.
The benefits of the UK restructuring programmes and the acquisition of Gabbioneta in Engineering Products, together with a stronger performance from Defence, Nuclear and Gas, offset the lower margins in our Engineering Services Division.
Lower revenues in the UK Services businesses and increased expenditures on the Global Parts strategy in the United States held back stronger performances elsewhere in that division.
The Group continues to anticipate a total restructuring cost for its two UK Engineering Products operations of no more than the previously indicated Operating Structure 31m of which 24.7m was incurred in 2005.
The trading activities of The Weir Group PLC comprise the manufacture The gain on sale of non-core businesses, including the Techna desalination of pumps and valves for flow control applications which is the business activities, more than offset the trading losses incurred by these businesses of the Groups Engineering Products Division : the provision of equipment prior to their disposals.
The net effect on the profit and loss for the year maintenance, process support and asset management services which was a profit of 2.3m.
constitutes the Engineering Services Division and the specialist design of complex engineering projects, which comprises the Groups Defence, The Groups share of profits from its joint ventures and associates, which Nuclear & Gas Division.
The Group also has a number of investments for IFRS purposes is shown net of attributable taxation, increased by under joint ventures and associates, the most significant of which is the 2.2m to 9.2m.
shareholding in Devonport Management Ltd, the owner and operator of A discussion of the trading highlights of each of these segments is set Devonport Royal Dockyard, which services, maintains and repairs the UKs out below.
The results of these joint ventures and associates are reported separately.
Engineering Products During the course of 2005, the Group implemented a number of Revenue from Engineering Products increased 13% to 505.6m in 2005 significant changes to its business activities.
The most important of 2004: 446.5m due to continued strong demand from our core mining, these included the restructuring of the Groups UK Engineering Products oil and power markets and good levels of organic growth in the Divisions operations in Glasgow and Huddersfield, incurring a charge of 24.7m, pumps and valves products.
The planned withdrawal from the water and the sale of the Groups desalination activities for a gross consideration of wastewater and subsea oil and gas markets by the two restructured UK 27.7m, the acquisition of Pompe Gabbioneta in September for 69.2m businesses saw a planned contraction of those two businesses of 22.1m, and the commencement of the Groups 50m on market share buy back while the acquisition of Gabbioneta contributed 10.9m to revenue in programme.
These changes were all significant events in the financial year.
Before restructuring costs, operating margins as a percentage of sales increased to 8.4% against 7.2% in 2004.
Increased revenue in the Minerals businesses, reduced trading losses at the restructured Valves operation and the inclusion of Gabbionetas higher margin product sales in the final quarter all contributed to the improved result.
The two UK restructuring programmes remain on track and within budget.
In 2005, 11.8m had been incurred on the restructuring of the Glasgow operation and 12.9m on the restructuring in Huddersfield, where the business has now been successfully relocated to a smaller, modern facility.
18 Financial Review Profits from continuing operations, pre restructuring costs, increased In August 2004, the Group replaced its committed bank facilities with 31.5% to 42.3m 2004: 32.2m due to continued strong performances a 300m five year, multi-currency revolving credit facility which was from the Minerals activities, the second half benefits of restructuring in negotiated with a syndicate of nine banks, with a standard covenant and both Clear Liquid and Valves and the last quarter addition of Gabbioneta variable interest rate structure.
Of this, 175m was drawn down at 30 in our 2005 results.
Engineering Services At the end of 2005, the Group also had 49m of uncommitted facilities with UK and overseas banks for daily working capital requirements.
Net Our Engineering Services Division experienced a difficult year in 2005 with cash on hand with these banks at 30 December 2005 amounted to 104m.
the combination of lower UK sales, higher start-up costs on our United States global parts business and the lack of progress in Iraq impacting Treasury management & procedures the profit performance of the division.
The Groups treasury policies seek to reduce and minimise financial risk Sales at 215.3m were 4.3% above 2004, with good progress achieved and ensure sufficient liquidity for foreseeable needs.
The day to day in our Canadian, United States, Australian and Middle East markets implementation of these Board approved objectives, policies and offsetting the decline in the UK.
The loss of the Yorkshire Water asset authorities is largely delegated to Group subsidiary companies but comanagement contract and lower level of sales to Iraq were key factors ordinated by a group-wide Treasury Management System.
The Group in a significant reduction in the UK businesses revenue and profits.
treasury function produces regular reports to monitor exposure and help manage associated risks.
Financial instruments, such as currency forwards, A number of replacement contracts have subsequently been secured and are used for hedging purposes only and to provide greater certainty on will come on-stream during the year which, together with some measured future revenues and costs.
The period of the hedge is governed by the consolidation, promise improved results in 2006. underlying transaction exposures which can extend for a variety of periods of up to four years.
Exposure to the translation of foreign currency profits In the United States, we continue to invest in our entry into the service and parts markets with full year input growing 278% to 7.8m.
Second half is not hedged and speculative transactions are not permitted.
For all but three companies, the Group hedges, but does not hedge account for IFRS input and an increasing position in core geographic markets provide the platform for reduced losses from the region in 2006 and profits in 2007. purposes, while these three companies both hedge and hedge account.
During the year, the Group experienced a general strengthening in In 2006, we expect to realise further gains in our core markets and improvements in our United States and UK activities.
The continued strength average exchange rates for the translation of overseas profits compared to sterling.
In particular, the United States dollar strengthened against of our end markets provides the catalyst for improved results in 2006. sterling by 0.9%, the Euro by 0.6%, the Canadian dollar by 7.8% and Defence, Nuclear & Gas the Australian dollar by 4.1%.
This division includes those remaining businesses in the Group, where Further information on financial risk management objectives and policies revenue is derived from the specialist design of turnkey engineering projects can be found in note 30 on page 81. for the defence, nuclear and gas markets.
The divisions revenue in 2005 increased 25% to 68.4m 2004: 54.9m, with gains in the marine and Pensions gas markets reflecting the continued strength of Korean ship builders.
Profit The Group has 16 pension plans around the world of which six are defined from continuing operations grew 73% to 6.8m against 3.9m in 2004. benefit plans, the most significant being the two UK plans.
All defined Joint ventures & associates benefit plans are closed to new members and the gross Group deficit for retirement benefit obligations at 30 December 2005 was 61.6m 2004: The Groups share of revenue from its joint ventures and associates 95.3m.
The Group reviews the level of the deficit on an annual basis and increased 14.3% to 123.7m in 2005 with a corresponding increase has agreed to make regular contributions into the two UK plans to fund in profit from continuing operations to 9.2m against 7.0m in 2004. these deficits.
In both 2004 and 2005, the Group contributed 10m The increased activity and profits from Devonport Management Ltd, to fund the UK pension deficit but was not required to make further which reflect the favourable profit taking milestones on a number of key contributions to the Canadian plan which incurred a cost of 2.1m in contracts together with the second half contribution from the Groups 2004.
During the year, the trustees of the main UK pension plan deferred 49% share of its new joint venture in Saudi Arabia, were significant implementation of a plan to reduce the equity content of the plans assets factors in the improved result.
and increase its bond holdings due to the relatively unattractive yields available on bond investments.
This enabled the plan to benefit from the Cash & cash flows rise in equity values which took place in 2005 and contributed to the Positive underlying cash flow continues to be a prominent feature of the significant reduction in the deficit.
Groups trading profile, particularly in the second half of the year with cash generated by operations of 71.3m 2004: 67.0m.
As a result of Taxation corporate activity undertaken in the year, the Group is now in a net debt The tax charge for the year of 13.8m 2004: 11.3m on profit before position at 30 December 2005 of 76.4m 2004: net funds of 12.6m.
restructuring charges and discontinued operations represents an underlying tax rate of 26%.
An outflow of 61.3m, due to the purchase of acquired businesses net of the disposal proceeds from divested businesses, a cash expenditure Litigation of 16.6m on the UK restructuring and 10.7m spent on the share buy back, all contributed to the year end net debt position.
There are 22 asbestos related actions outstanding against Group companies in the United States.
We continue to defend the outstanding Net interest in the income statement in 2005 of 4.6m increased by 15% actions in relation to which legal defence cover is being provided.
against 2004 2004: 4.0m due to the higher level of debt carried in the Accounting standards year.
A 0.4m reduction in the income earned on the assets of the pension plans and a further 10m contribution to the Groups defined benefit The financial statements for the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2005 are pension plans contributed to the increased charge.
the first to be prepared by the Group in accordance with International Returns on investments saw dividends from joint ventures and associates Financial Reporting Standards.
These accounting standards have introduced a number of important changes to the presentation of the reduce from 5.3m in 2004 to 4.0m this year.
financial statements, the attached notes to the accounts and the Groups Capital expenditure increased from 24.2m in 2004 1.6x depreciation accounting policies.
Further information on the accounting policies can and amortisation to 25.7m 1.5x depreciation and amortisation in be found in note 1 on pages 46 to 51and further information on the 2005, reflecting the Groups commitment to significantly improve its transition from UK GAAP to IFRS and the restatement of the 2004 capability in product, plant, machinery and IT.
financial information can be found in note 32 on pages 84 to 90.
Borrowing facilities & liquidity The Groups operations are financed from shareholders equity and bank facilities.
Equity comprises the ordinary share capital of the Company which decreased by 0.32% as a result of the repurchase of 3.28m shares at an average price of 324p per share as part of the Groups share buy back programme, which was partially offset by the issue of 2.6m shares to satisfy share option obligations which arose during the course of the year.
Chris Rickard Finance Director 21 March 2006 19
