Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review The following Operating and Financial Review OFR is written principally for investors.
It is intended to give the reader a clear and objective explanation of AWGs financial results, its activities and the markets in which it operates through the eyes of management.
7 Group financial performance 9 Anglian Water 13 Morrison 19 AWG Property 22 Sustainable development and corporate responsibility 26 Other financial matters 6 AWG Plc The net interest charge for the year was little changed from the previous year at 262.2 million 2004: 263.7 million, with increased debt in Anglian Water to help fund enhancement expenditure, offset by reduced international debt as a result of the disposals in the prior year.
Profit on ordinary activities before taxation was 65.3 million compared to a loss of 79.8 million in 2004, again reflecting an underlying improvement in continuing operations in the current period, and the level of exceptional costs in 2004.
The tax charge before exceptional items was 14.5 million 2004: credit of 4.3 million.
There was a tax credit on exceptional items of 0.7 million 2004: 4.2 million, resulting in an overall tax charge of 13.8 million 2004: credit of 8.5 million.
This includes a net charge of 15.4 million 2004: credit of 10.1 million for deferred tax.
The net deferred tax credit in 2004 of 10.1 million principally resulted from changes in discount rates, which were less Group financial performance pronounced in the current year.
Basic earnings per share amounted to 35.2 pence 2004: Group turnover reduced to 1,690.1 million 2004: loss of 52.0 pence.
Adjusted earnings per share before 1,759.6 million primarily as a result of the sale of the exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and deferred tax principal International Services businesses in 2003 04. improved from 43.9 pence to 58.1 pence.
The increase Turnover from continuing operations at 1,690.1 million again reflects the underlying improvement in operations increased by 16.4 million when compared to the previous and the reduced weighted average number of shares in year.
This reflected revenue growth in Anglian Water and issue following the share consolidation in the prior year Morrison 3.9 and 5.3 per cent respectively, offset to a 143.3 million shares in the current year, compared to large extent by the rationalisation of residual international 149.7 million shares in 2004. and non-core property interests.
Cash flow and net debt Total operating profit grew from 305.4 million in the Net debt at year-end was 3,247.5 million, an increase of previous year to 333.5 million.
The improvement reflected 56.9 million on the previous year.
Group cash flow from increased contributions from Anglian Water and Morrison operations was 512.2 million, 3.1 million down on last in the current period.
The 2003 04 results benefited from a year 2004: 515.3 million.
The comparative period 17.0 million operating profit from discontinued included cash flow from discontinued international operations, however this was more than offset by businesses of 26.2 million.
In comparing the two periods, operating exceptional costs of 22.7 million.
Total this masks the improved cash flow performance from operating profit from continuing operations, before continuing operations in the current year.
exceptional items incurred in the prior year, increased 7.2 Net capital expenditure was slightly reduced at 269.6 per cent to 333.5 million 2004: 311.1 million before million 2004: 273.5 million.
Net interest payments 22.7 million of exceptional operating costs.
amounted to 212.8 million, compared to 262.2 million Profit before interest improved substantially to 327.5 charged against profits in the period.
This was mainly due to reflects accrued interest payable and the indexation of RPIexceptional costs totalling 144.2 million being charged in linked debt.
2004 for restructuring, asset impairment and the disposal Payments to equity shareholders in the year amounted to and closure of international businesses.
During the current 69.5 million 2004: 79.2 million.
The net cash inflow year AWG disposed of MVM, a non-core software from disposals and acquisitions was 15.3 million 2004: development business within Morrison, for 13 million in 142.1 million.
Of the remaining 32.5 million increase cash.
This generated a 7.3 million exceptional charge on in net debt, the majority related to RPI indexation of debt.
exiting the business, which was partially offset by a net exceptional credit of 1.3 million predominantly associated with a refinement to provisions on exiting our interests in China.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7 Efficient network connections and repairs Anglian Water has appointed two companies to provide connections to the regions growing number of new houses, as well as repair and maintenance services.
Clancy Docwra and Morrison will work with Anglian Water over the next five years to help reduce costs and provide an efficient service that helps maintain drinking water quality while minimising leakage and interruptions to supply.
8 AWG Plc Operating and Financial Review continued Anglian Waters 37,000-kilometre network of water mains are computer-mapped and details are regularly updated by the field-based teams.
Work schedules are managed to maximise the effectiveness of each team and provide the optimum response times to reported leaks.
Water quality is tested at every stage of the process, particularly after installing or repairing a water main.
Anglian Water Dividend Business overview During the year the board recommended a return to the Market operations payment of cash dividends.
Every day Anglian Water supplies more than one billion The board has proposed a final dividend of 34.3 pence per litres of drinking water to its 4.2 million water customers share, to be paid on 16 September 2005 to shareholders from 143 water treatment works through 37,000 on the register at 5pm on 12 August 2005.
This is in line kilometres of water mains.
Some 54 per cent of the with AWGs dividend policy of maintaining the group companys domestic customers are metered.
The company also collects approximately 950 million litres Together with the interim dividend of 14.4 pence per of wastewater each day from 5.4 million customers via a share, this makes a total dividend for the year of 48.7 sewerage network that has over 37,000 kilometres of pence per share, a 3.2 per cent increase over the prior year, pipes connected to 1,077 wastewater treatment works.
when payments were made in the form of redeemable Anglian Water serves the largest geographical region of shares 2004: 47.2 pence per share.
any water company in England and Wales and employed The board confirms its intention to maintain dividend around 3,300 staff at 31 March 2005. payments per share in real terms up to the end of the The geographical area served by Anglian Water is one of current regulatory period in 2010. the fastest growing regions in terms of population.
More Share buy-back than 200,000 new homes are expected to be built in the AWG is proposing a return of capital to shareholders of region during the next 10 years, partly accelerated by the 75 million by means of an on-market share buy-back Office of the Deputy Prime Ministers plans to tackle programme.
This will be the third return of capital to housing shortages in the South East.
Meeting this shareholders in three years and reflects the boards growing demand will be a key focus for Anglian Water ongoing commitment to the principle of returning surplus during the next Asset Management Period AMP.
Regulatory review In December 2004 Ofwat published its final determination, which set price levels, performance efficiency targets and capital investment expenditure for water and wastewater companies.
The determination relates to the fourth Asset Management Period, from 2005 to 2010, which is known as AMP4.
The outcome of the final determination established the lowest price increases for Anglian Water of any water and wastewater company in England and Wales.
It also set a number of challenging efficiency targets.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9 Operating and Financial Review continued Turnover increased by 3.9 per cent as a result of the Every day Anglian Water supplies regulatory pricing formula, partially offset by higher than more than one billion litres of normal revenues in the prior year due to the effect of the long, dry summer in 2003.
This net increase in revenue drinking water to its 4.2 million contributed to a rise in operating profit of 6.4 per cent to 339.3 million.
water customers from 143 water Operating expenditure for the year excluding treatment works through 37,000 depreciation was almost flat at 291.1 million 2004: kilometres of water mains.
This was despite additional costs from the previously announced redundancy programme and upward cost pressures from power, fuel and other material-related costs.
Overall, operating expenditure as a percentage of turnover decreased from 38.1 per cent to 36.5 per cent.
The cost of the current year redundancy programme of 11.4 million 2004: 4.6 million has been recognised in operating costs and is expected to generate future cash savings of 12 million per annum over the next five years.
Of these savings, approximately 10 million per annum will contribute to reduced operating costs for manpower the remaining annual savings will be realised in capital In anticipation of the efficiency targets and known expenditure.
The reduction in manpower costs and other additional cost pressures from increases in energy costs, identified initiatives will generate a significant proportion infrastructure renewals and pensions, the management of the total operating efficiency savings required in AMP4 team has put in place the framework and detailed plans by the regulatory settlement.
Gross capital expenditure for the year was 294 million, Anglian Water plans to invest a further 1.6 billion in its giving an out-performance against the AMP3 infrastructure during AMP4.
Half of this investment is to determination of 10 per cent over the five-year period.
maintain existing service levels, 15 per cent more than during the previous five-year period.
During the year, Anglian Water successfully delivered the balance of its 1.5 billion AMP3 capital investment As part of this investment, the company will transfer an programme.
additional 90,000 existing customers on to metered water supplies and remove the risk of sewer flooding from the Management majority of the remaining properties identified as being at Structure risk.
It will also provide mains sewerage services to 6,700 Anglian Water has its own board of Directors, which existing properties for the first time.
includes two AWG Plc Executive Directors, three NonExecutive Directors and four Anglian Water Directors see Future challenge chart, over.
Whilst the targets set by Ofwat provide the company with a substantial challenge over the next five years, a The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the strategy comprehensive plan is in place to deliver the required and overall management of the regulated business.
As a first step, the company has already to-day operations are the responsibility of the Chief largely completed a restructuring programme resulting Operating Officer, in conjunction with the members of the in savings of 10 million per annum in operating costs.
Operating Board made up of the Director of Regulation, the Director of Asset Management, the Finance Director, Financial performance the Group Director of Human Resources, the Director of 2005 2004 m m Customer Services, the Director of Water Services and the Director of Wastewater Services see chart, over.
Turnover 796.8 766.6 Total operating profit 339.3 318.9 Priorities The priority for the new management team has been to Anglian Waters financial performance showed a prepare and position the company to meet the challenges continuing improvement in 2004 05 compared to the of AMP4.
In order to realise the companys ambition to previous year.
out-perform the Regulators targets and deliver additional benefits to stakeholders, the management team has focused on costs, structures and systems.
10 AWG Plc Anglian Water 1 In order to ensure a high level of efficiency and service Board of Directors delivery, Anglian Water is reviewing its human resources 2 strategy and is developing an approach that increases 3 4 5 6 focus on training and development, leadership and 7 8 9 performance measurement.
1 Jonson Cox Group Chief Executive Chairman Operational performance 2 Scott Longhurst Group Finance Director In 2004 05 Anglian Waters operational success was 3 Peter Simpson Chief Operating Officer reflected in Ofwats Overall Performance Assessment 4 Chris Newsome Director of Asset Management OPA.
Two of these performance targets, water quality 5 Jean Spencer Director of Regulation and leakage management, are detailed below.
6 David Hipple Finance Director 7 Robert Napier Non-Executive Director Water quality 8 John Watkinson Non-Executive Director Drinking water quality remained high, with 99.95 per cent 9 Roger Witcomb Non-Executive Director of all water quality tests performed in 2004 complying with mandatory standards 2003: 99.70 per cent.
Overall Anglian Water 1 microbiological compliance for the period remains at a Operating Board 2 3 4 5 high level.
6 7 8 The company has translated all of the new regulatory requirements, as well as internal standards, into a set of detailed policies, standards and procedures for maintaining water supply hygiene.
1 Peter Simpson Chief Operating Officer 2 Chris Newsome Director of Asset Management The company also carries out continuous monitoring at 3 Jean Spencer Director of Regulation treatment works and other key sites to complement the 4 David Hipple Finance Director 5 Susannah Clements Group Director of Human Resources extensive laboratory sampling and analysis.
6 Trish Brocklebank Director of Customer Services Total leakage cubic metres per kilometre of main per day 7 David Cooke Director of Water Services 1 8 Paul Gibbs Director of Wastewater Services Water and wastewater companies 2003 04 Anglian Water 6 Positioning for AMP4 South West Water 6 Operational reorganisation Southern Water 7 The requirement to deliver the necessary capital and Wessex Water 7 operating efficiencies for AMP4, whilst also meeting Northumbrian Water South 8 increasing service expectations, has necessitated a Dwr Cymru Welsh Water 9 fundamental review of many areas of Anglian Waters Northumbrian Water North 9 operations.
Yorkshire Water 9 Severn Trent Water 11 As a result, a wide range of improvement initiatives have 2 Industry average 11 been identified, ranging from programmes focused on United Utilities 12 reducing energy consumption, through to projects that Thames Water 30 significantly improve the management of biosolids.
The most significant change is a new Capital Alliance business 1 2004 05 data to be officially published in December 2005 model for delivering the majority of Anglian Waters AMP4 2 Average of companies providing both water and wastewater services capital investment programme.
Source: Ofwat Security of supply, leakage and efficient use of water report, 2003-2004 The Capital Alliance is made up of Anglian Water and six partners in a collaborative and integrated team with Leakage management common objectives and incentives.
Its purpose is to deliver Anglian Water has met Ofwats leakage target for programmes of work, for example, refurbishment and 2004 05.
At six cubic metres per kilometre of main per upgrading of water and wastewater treatment works, as day, Anglian Waters leakage performance is one of the quickly and efficiently as possible.
best of the water and sewerage companies in the UK.
The UK industry average is 11 cubic metres per kilometre The company believes strongly that core activities should of main per day.
be kept under its direct control, although outsourcing remains an option for non-core activities.
Management Bathing water and river quality recognises the need to operate as efficiently as possible.
Although not fully measured within Ofwats OPA targets, As a result, the company has reduced its workforce by both bathing water and river quality improved during the some 300 posts approximately eight per cent of the year.
All 46 designated bathing waters in the companys workforce, principally through a programme of voluntary region passed the mandatory standards of the Bathing redundancies.
This is the sixth time in the past eight years that 100 per cent compliance has been achieved.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 Operating and Financial Review continued The Environment Agency published its latest assessment of Risks river water quality in the region in October 2004, relating Supply and demand to the 2003 calendar year.
The assessment showed that Anglian Water operates in one of the driest parts of the 98.0 per cent of rivers biological quality was classed as country.
A combination of national and regional economic Very Good to Fair 2002: 98.1 per cent.
In 89.8 per growth is likely to lead to an increase in household cent of the regions rivers, chemical quality was in the demand, often on a very localised basis.
Through effective Very Good to Fair range 2002: 91.5 per cent.
In its planning and investment, the company manages supply to report, the Environment Agency believes the reduction in meet changes in demand.
Effective leakage control helps chemical quality is attributable to the effect of the long, maintain supply, while increased metering helps manage dry summer in 2003. demand.
Focus on service Anglian Water is reviewing how best to optimise its In addition to the operational performance targets Rutland Water reservoir in order to maintain supply in highlighted previously, the company will be adopting the short to medium term.
Longer term, mindful of the a wider range of targets, focused around customer potential consequences of climate change, the company satisfaction and its wider responsibilities to the is developing additional plans for water resource community.
The company has recently introduced a new management, together with programmes that raise customer experience survey to provide further feedback customer awareness of the issues.
from customers that have contacted Anglian Water in Treated sewage sludge biosolids the previous three months.
The findings will be used Sewage sludge is the waste material from treated to review and improve levels of service to customers.
As higher standards of wastewater treatment Health and safety are required and driven by legislation, more sewage The health and safety of staff, contractors and the public sludge is produced.
The safe and sustainable management is paramount.
There is nothing so important that of sludge, or biosolids, remains a key issue for Anglian employees cannot take the time to do it safely and the Water and the industry as a whole.
commitment to health and safety is enshrined in the The company uses a number of methods for managing companys Safety First Second Nature philosophy.
biosolids, mainly recycling it onto agricultural land.
If Anglian Water has an effective Occupational Health and legislation changed, removing agricultural land as a Safety OH&S management system in place, which disposal option, it would pose a substantial challenge to continues to drive improvements in this area.
The company therefore maintains the highest further strengthen this, and to provide external validation, standards within the current operation and continuously it is actively seeking Occupational Health and Safety researches alternative treatment methods.
Assessment Series OHSAS 18001 accreditation the At present the company does not believe that there is any internationally recognised quality award for OH&S.
reason to expect a change in legislation.
The treatment of In December 2004 Anglian Water scored an excellent 89 sludge, and the recycling of the biosolids, are both highly per cent in an external safety, health and environment regulated processes and are undertaken in accordance audit by The Achilles Group.
with strict quality guideline procedures.
Both the UK Government and the EU Commission support this method The company continued to show improvement in the two of managing biosolids.
key metrics used to assess OH&S performance: Accident Frequency Rate number of accidents per Anglian Water continues to work with the water industry, 100,000 hours worked reduced from 0.48 to 0.42, and the Government and regulators to ensure the Sickness Absence number of days lost per person understanding and confidence of stakeholders in this safe reduced from 9.96 days to 8.26 days.
In recognition of the very high standards that Anglian Environmental hazards Water has demonstrated over the past two years, the One of Anglian Waters key objectives is to minimise company has been awarded a prestigious Royal Society the impact of its operations on the environment.
for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Bronze Award Unfortunately, given the scale of the companys in 2005. operations, covering an area of 27,500 square kilometres, there can be instances of failure.
Seeking continuous improvement in its OH&S performance, Anglian Water has again set stringent In 2004 05 the Environment Agency successfully targets for the year ahead and has a comprehensive prosecuted Anglian Water four times following pollution action plan in place to meet them.
incidents, with fines amounting in aggregate to 61,500.
The company has taken steps to ensure that lessons have been learned following these events and continues to make every effort to prevent any further such incidents from occurring.
Provider of supplier management information to the utility sector: www.
12 AWG Plc Morrison is a support services and construction business with its own investments in Private Finance Initiatives PFI projects.
Morrison employs 7,500 people and is wholly owned by AWG Plc.
Morrison Business overview Each division has its own management structure reporting Morrison is a support services and construction business to the senior executive team see page 17. with its own investment in Private Finance Initiatives Having refocused during 2004 05, the business has three PFI projects through its Project Investments business.
core objectives with regard to financial performance: It employs 7,500 people and is wholly owned by AWG Plc.
To raise operating margins During 2004 05 the Infrastructure Management Business or IMB, as the majority of the business was known, was To ensure a healthy conversion of profit to cash re-branded as Morrison.
The purpose of this was to add To ensure that the order book is strong enough to clarity in the marketplace, particularly where the Morrison sustain and grow the business profitably.
name already had a strong reputation, and avoid the risk and expense associated with introducing a new brand.
The business is self-financed through its own cash generation.
Revenues generated are used to finance With effect from 1 April 2004, Morrison operates through business development and to pay a dividend contribution three divisions: Support Services, Construction Services and to AWG.
As part of the AWG group, Morrison operates to Project Investments.
The Directors have redefined the support the groups policy for the creation and delivery of divisions broadly as follows: shareholder value.
The Support Services division is the principal focus of Support Services Morrisons strategic development and the Directors The division principally provides repair and maintenance believe that the growth prospects within this sector and capital maintenance services to the utility sector and are greater than in the rest of Morrison and the risk the public sector.
It operates through two sub-divisions: profile is also different.
It includes the former Utility Services and Facilities Services, both of which have Government Services division now renamed Facilities long-term relationships with their customers.
The Directors Services, together with the former Utility Services combine these for management purposes and for division including Celtic Anglian Water, transferred segmental reporting as a result of their similar risk profiles.
from the International division and Purac Limited, transferred from the Construction Services division, Utility Services has a regional focus North, South and which have been combined to form the Support Central and clients in the water, gas, electricity and Services division telecommunications sectors.
The water and gas markets are considered to be relatively mature.
The electricity and The Construction Services division continues to be telecommunications sectors still provide good reported separately because its growth prospects and opportunities for expansion and increased market risk profile are unique to that sector penetration.
Project Investments, previously part of the former Government Services division, is now separately managed and reported because its investment returns, risk profile and future growth prospects are different from the rest of the business.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 Improving more social housing Gateshead City Councils social housing now make up part of Morrisons portfolio of 300,000 homes under management.
Morrison is one of the largest providers of repair and maintenance services to social housing in the UK.
It also carries out capital replacement work, for example, central heating, kitchens, bathrooms and windows.
Professional and effective liaison with tenants on behalf of clients is a key part of the process.
14 AWG Plc Operating and Financial Review continued Morrison is working with a number of local authority clients, including Gateshead and Newcastle, on the Governments Decent Homes initiative.
The initiative, backed by funding of 19 billion, is aimed at increasing the standard of all social houses to Decent Homes standard by 2010.
In 2004 05 the business successfully renewed a number of Construction Services major framework contracts with clients for their next fiveThe construction business is focused on civil projects for year asset management period.
Its principal customers utilities, public authorities and private developers.
The include Transco, EDF Energy, United Utilities and BT.
It was business has a strong regional focus in Scotland and 85 per also appointed a Tier 1 supplier to BT in recognition of its cent of the current order book is under long-term skills and abilities.
framework agreements, which considerably enhances contract visibility and reduces risk.
Facilities Services provides outsourced property repair and maintenance and capital investment services to the public Whilst a wide variety of projects is undertaken, the sector, typically through three to 10 year contracts.
It is business is conscious of the need to minimise exposure to the largest provider of social housing services to local development risk.
Consequently, there has been greater authorities in the UK, managing more than 300,000 homes discipline in contract selection with a focus on smaller scale and 3,000 local authority buildings.
It also provides facilities projects and utilisation of joint ventures to diversify risk on services such as repair, maintenance and cleaning services selective larger projects.
to a number of schools and hospitals.
Growth is expected to come from new initiatives promoted Facilities Services operates in a number of British cities, by Government with regard to public buildings such as with a major presence in Birmingham, North Lanarkshire, hospitals, schools and prisons.
As well as offering repair and Project Investments maintenance services and related services such as call centre Morrison has been involved in the Private Finance Initiative management and tenant liaison, Facilities Services also PFI since its inception and currently has an involvement in manages local authorities capital spending programmes, seven projects.
such as kitchen and bathroom replacement programmes.
PFIs provide a highly visible financial model for realising The market for these services is considerable.
In addition to value and fit well with Morrisons skills.
When selecting PFIs, local authorities own current spending, the Government has priority is given to projects that yield construction and or committed funding of 19 billion in order to bring all social long-term facilities contracts, as well as income from the houses up to its Decent Homes standard by 2010.
The majority of these projects are held is working in partnership with its clients to unlock this for the construction phase, rather than for the long-term, funding and the sizeable market opportunity it represents.
and will be sold when the Directors believe that optimum value can be realised.
This is generally as soon as practicable after the construction phase is completed.
The portfolio of PFI projects has been reviewed and is being actively managed to maximise returns that can be used to fund new investment opportunities.
The current portfolio of projects include schools, hospitals, roads, wastewater and housing developments.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 Operating and Financial Review continued Financial performance Support Services performed well in both of its key markets, utility contracting and facilities management.
Turnover 2005 2004 increased to 576.6 million 2004: 506.6 million, while m m operating profit before goodwill amortisation increased by Turnover including share of 34.4 per cent to 16.4 million 2004: 12.2 million.
joint ventures and associates 910.4 864.4 Overall Support Services margins increased from 2.4 to 2.8 per cent.
After goodwill amortisation, operating profit Operating profit, before goodwill increased by 73 per cent to 10.4 million 2004: 6.0 amortisation and exceptional costs 21.8 17.1 million.
Exceptional operating costs 2.5 Goodwill amortisation 12.0 12.2 In Utility Services the vast majority of clients maintained or extended the scope of their contracts, and new clients Total operating profit 9.8 2.4 were acquired.
In Facilities Services, the performance in the Turnover for the year increased by 5.3 per cent to 910.4 local authority housing market showed an improvement as million 2004: 864.4 million.
Most of the increase took a result of a reduction in overhead costs, better place within Support Services.
Turnover fell in Construction management of existing contracts and acquisition of new Services and Project Investments as a result of greater focus ones, many of which are in close proximity to existing and discipline in contract selection.
Decent Homes contracts were won in Havering, Newcastle and Gateshead.
This 19 billion GovernmentOperating profit before goodwill amortisation and funded social housing initiative represents a significant exceptional items increased from 17.1 million to 21.8 opportunity for Morrison.
After goodwill amortisation and exceptional operating costs, operating profit increased from 2.4 Construction Services produced an operating profit before million to 9.8 million.
This improvement was despite goodwill amortisation of 2.0 million 2004: loss of 7.3 Morrison absorbing additional central costs of 6.8 million million and a total operating loss of 3.2 million 2004: 2004: nil.
total operating loss of 15.0 million.
Turnover fell by 17.5 million to 320.3 million as a result of its A central function within Morrison was set up at the concentration on smaller contracts and an increasingly beginning of the financial year to ensure greater selective approach to bidding.
A number of significant commercial focus and financial discipline.
Costs incurred framework contracts have been won during the period, include re-branding, procurement and supply chain including contracts with Salford City Council, Thames initiatives, restructuring and IT costs.
In previous years some Water, Welsh Water and HM Prison Service.
of these costs were included in AWG head office costs, rather than being charged to Morrison.
Project Investments total operating profit before goodwill amortisation was 10.2 million 2004: 12.2 million and Overall margin performance improved from 2.0 per cent to after goodwill amortisation 9.4 million 2004: 11.4 2.4 per cent.
Morrison generated an operating cash inflow million.
of 29.6 million during the period 2004: 21.3 million.
16 AWG Plc Morrison Morrison order book 1 Board of Directors 2 3 4 5 6 1 Jonson Cox Group Chief Executive, 7 8 9 Chairman 2 Scott Longhurst Group Finance Director 3 David Tydeman Chief Operating Officer 4 Rod Holdsworth Finance Director 5 Charles Morrison Managing Director, Utility Services 6 Phillip Russell Managing Director, Facilities Services Support Services 7 Ken Gillespie Managing Director, Construction Services Construction Services 2004 2005 8 Fiona Guthrie Director, Human Resources Project Investments 1,772m 2,755m 9 Anne Sheffield Director, Legal Morrison sold its stake in two PFI concessions in the year: Eighty five per cent of the current order book is now in the A69 Roadlink and a Ministry of Defence housing PFI in long-term or framework contracts.
the Bristol area, which together generated 6.9 million Management operating profit.
The Facilities Services contracts on these The management team, organisational structure and projects were retained.
Morrison concentrates on bidding financial accountabilities were reviewed and substantially for PFIs that combine construction and long-term facilities changed in 2004 05.
The Morrison board comprises the management contracts and is progressing well with a Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director of AWG, number of bids.
In the comparative period the sale of the together with the Chief Operating Officer and Finance Tay wastewater PFI concession generated an operating gain Director of Morrison.
Since the financial year end, the Morrison board also A business disposal was made in January 2005.
MVM, a includes the Managing Directors of Utility Services, Facilities non-core software development company, was sold for Services and Construction Services, Director, Human 13 million.
The disposal generated a non-cash exceptional Resources and the Director, Legal see chart, above.
charge of 7.3 million on exiting the business.
Responsibility and control Order book A managing director has responsibility for the performance The current order book is 2.76 billion 2004: 1.77 of each of the operating divisions, which are in turn billion, an increase of 983 million on last year.
The supported by a number of key head office resources breakdown was as follows: including finance, human resources, legal and supply chain Morrison order book management.
2005 2004 Morrison has reinforced the commercial discipline and m m financial control processes for new business tendering and project development and management.
The selection Support Services 1,541 933 criteria for tendering projects have been tightened, Construction Services 967 504 focusing on core skills in geographic areas where Morrison has appropriate capability, experience or supply chain Project Investments 247 335 availability.
2,755 1,772 The revised structure and processes have improved Much of the growth in the order book was seen in the first Morrisons management controls and financial visibility.
half of the year, with significant framework contracts won It has also sharpened the focus on service delivery and and retained.
This principally reflects the regulatory cycle in delivering financial results.
The higher level of management utilities.
The reduction in Project Investments orders is due coordination is also enabling Morrison to improve joint to the sale of PFI concessions.
This is in line with the initiatives, particularly in areas such as procurement and strategy of actively managing the project portfolio and supply chain management.
There is also greater focus on realising value from concessions as appropriate in order improving coordination of customer contacts between to pursue other investment opportunities.
This is expected to improve future sales for Morrison as a whole.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 Operating and Financial Review continued All new contracts must contribute to Morrisons strategic People and financial targets, measured in terms of cash generation The reshaping of the business is intended to enable more and sustainable profit margin.
In addition, the risk profile efficient and profitable delivery of Morrisons services.
of contracts must be acceptable.
In order to realise this ambition it is vitally important to ensure that Morrisons employees are properly skilled Risks and motivated to deliver the strategy.
The management believes that there are a number of risks to which Morrison is exposed, as described below.
In January 2005 a new Director, Human Resources was appointed to address Morrisons training and Economic trends development.
Human resources is responsible for helping Much of Morrisons activities are operated within to build a clear identity and culture for the business, framework agreements with Government agencies, local following its re-branding as Morrison.
These are relatively insulated from general economic trends.
However, Health and safety Morrison also works in markets and for clients that are Health and safety considerations form a key part of more affected by changes in the economic climate.
Morrison operates safe and reliable working practices through a policy of honesty, Political policy and regulation trust and sharing best practices across all business Morrison serves a large number of organisations that can operations.
be affected by changes in political policy.
Areas impacted include social housing, highways, schools and hospitals The Accident Frequency Rate AFR within Morrison where there are well-established programmes for reduced further during the year to 0.30 against a target investment.
There is also the need, particularly on the part of 0.38. of utility operators, to conform to changes in regulatory The groups theme of making Safety First Second standards.
Nature is highlighted in campaigns throughout the Both the funding of programmes and the political support company, requiring that employees and sub-contractors for private involvement may be subject to change.
For participate in safety improvement.
social housing, the management and renewal of an ageing Morrison gained further ISO 18001 accreditation during portfolio will require a growing maintenance budget.
the year within Construction Services, for its Safety Regulatory risks associated with Morrisons utility clients Management Systems.
This accreditation is already held by are cyclical.
For example, in the water industry prices are Utilities Services, and is being sought in other areas of the set every five years.
The risk is therefore related to the level Morrison business.
of capital investment that will be allowed over the period.
Royal Society for the Prevention of Accidents RoSPA Gold However, once the final determination is announced the Safety Awards were obtained during the year by industry has considerable visibility of its targets and costs Construction Services and Utility Services.
Construction for the next five years.
Services was also awarded the British Safety Council BSC Contractual risk five-star level, the highest level awarded by BSC, after The majority of Morrisons contracts are with public external verification.
authorities and major blue-chip clients.
Morrison is keen to Facilities Services is undertaking significant work in raising operate within long-term framework agreements wherever standards within its local authority-derived businesses.
More than 85 per cent of Construction Services health and safety management systems within the Facilities order book is in long-term or framework contracts.
Services business has now been reviewed by the Framework contracts are a commonly used way of Government-sponsored Contractors Health and Safety procuring services over a period of time without the need Assessment Scheme CHAS and has been awarded an to tender for each piece of work.
They are typically longaccredited status.
CHAS is used by local authorities to assess term five to 15 years and define in broad terms the the health and safety component of potential suppliers.
services required and a maximum contract value.
They do During the year, Morrison was fined 72,500 in relation to not guarantee a minimum value.
two breaches of the Health and Safety at Work Act that As well as increasing the proportion of its work in occurred four years ago at the Tay wastewater construction framework contracts, Morrison spreads its contractual risk project in 2001.
One of these incidents resulted in the by carrying out a larger number of smaller contracts than it fatality of a sub-contractor.
The sub-contractor's employer had previously undertaken.
Morrison has become more was also fined.
Following these regrettable events, Morrison selective about whether the contract matches Morrisons reviewed its safety procedures to avoid a recurrence.
AWG core skills and proximity to its supply chain.
remains committed to the safety of its staff and those working on its sites.
18 AWG Plc AWG Property 1 In 2004 05 AWG Propertys strategic Board of Directors 2 direction changed from being a 3 4 5 6 UK-wide property developer towards 1 Jonson Cox Group Chief Executive 7 8 9 focusing on selective, lower-risk Chairman 2 Scott Longhurst Group Finance Director projects in its core Scottish market.
3 Tony Donnelly Managing Director 4 John Hope Finance Director 5 John Cormie Group Property Director 6 Paul Devine Commercial Director 7 Iain Logue Operations Director 8 Lesley Wallace Investment Director 9 David Kennedy Residential Director AWG Property AWG Property is a separate division within AWG Plc The groups share of sale proceeds predominantly helped that manages a large property portfolio, in many cases contribute to a reduction in joint venture-related offthrough joint ventures.
Following a strategic review of balance sheet debt, which decreased 54 million to a the business in 2004 05, a number of important changes remaining level of only 72 million following the receipt of have taken place.
sale proceeds on Broadway Plaza in April 2005.
The business was separated from Morrison in 2004 05 Debt guarantees also reduced by around half during and continues to operate under the AWG brand.
As a the period, leaving a residual balance of 16 million.
developer, financial strength is an important factor in Off-balance sheet debt has been managed downwards for attracting project partners and securing investment capital.
some time and this has contributed to a further fide-risking Close association with the AWG group helps enhance the of the business.
market profile of this business.
There remains 99 million of invested capital in the In 2004 05 its strategic direction changed from that of a property business.
Approximately 40 million is expected UK-wide property developer towards focusing on selective, to be maintained in AWG Propertys core Scottish business, lower-risk projects in its core Scottish market.
As a which will be realised and re-invested over time.
The consequence of this new focus, the number of employees remaining 59 million relates to the residual legacy has fallen from around 200 to approximately 65 and all contracts, which are expected to be sold over the next two offices outside of Scotland have been closed.
A small amount of additional investment was made in legacy projects during the year in order to optimise their Financial performance potential sale values.
AWG Property continues to dispose of legacy properties, while maintaining a focus on selected development Total operating profit for the period was 0.9 million projects in Scotland, where the division has a successful 2004: 4.8 million before exceptional costs of 10.0 track record.
AWG Property also manages and intends to million on a turnover of 84.2 million 2004: 143.5 maximise value from properties owned elsewhere in the million.
AWG Property has undertaken two important new Over the past few years a large proportion of AWG initiatives with the launch of a property investment fund Propertys legacy portfolio has been sold.
Further progress as detailed below and a new mandate to identify was made this year, including the sale of Broadway Plaza, development opportunities within Anglian Waters Birmingham and Leeds City Square for total gross proceeds property assets.
AWGs interest in these properties was held Management in the balance sheet at their net realisable value and The day-to-day operations are overseen by the Managing consequently there was no impact on earnings in the Director.
AWG Property has its own board, which consists current period from their disposal.
of two AWG Plc Directors the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, the Managing Director of AWG Property and six further Executive Directors see chart, above.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19 Operating and Financial Review continued The 6.5 million High Oak Water Treatment Works in Wicklewood, Norfolk, became fully operational in December 2004 and is one of the largest facilities of its type in the region.
Installation of the Market Harborough pumping station Scotland Other regions Scotland is AWG Propertys traditional core market, where In the rest of the British Isles, AWG Property has withdrawn it holds a prominent position, established track record and from new business and closed its regional offices.
The a strong reputation as a preferred partner in property legacy portfolio, with invested capital of some 59 million, development.
It is envisaged that invested capital in the is being harvested in order to realise optimal value.
This Scottish business will vary between 35 million and 45 investment is expected to be realised over the next two million as properties are developed and sold over time.
Prominent deals in the year under review included property disposals in Leeds and Birmingham.
Business parks AWG Property is developing business parks such as Anglian Water Strathclyde and Hamilton where Scottish Power and Anglian Water owns a large number of sites throughout its Babcock have taken space.
The potential exists for a operating region.
The potential exists to realise value where controlled development of these parks over the next surplus space exists.
A new team is being established five years.
within AWG Property to identify development possibilities in Anglian Waters portfolio.
Offices AWG Property, in joint venture with CALA Properties, is the International Services preferred developer of a 253,000 square feet conference Financial performance building in Edinburghs Exchange district, the citys AWG continues to sell or, where necessary, trade out all of principal business area.
AWG Property has a strong track its international commitments.
During this period it exited record in office developments in the Scottish capital.
from its interests in New Zealand, Russia and South Africa.
Two leakage reduction projects were successfully Retail and residential completed in Thailand.
Since the year end, AWG has sold AWG Property is looking at opportunities to extend its its water treatment works in Taizhou, China.
interests in the retail sector.
The business owns a substantial greenfield land bank, which is being gradually Remaining interests yet to be sold or traded out comprise released through extended planning permission for relatively small investments in Poland, China, Argentina, residential development.
Property Investment Fund International Services total operating profit for the period In partnership with W G Mitchell a property developer was 0.2 million 2004: loss of 5.5 million on continuing AWG Property has raised a 100 million gross investment operations, before 7.7 million exceptional operating fund, targeting property assets in Scotland.
This is a new costs on a turnover of 16.7 million 2004: 26.4 million.
initiative for the business and provides access to the potential benefits of property investment with a reduced risk profile and limited equity commitment of between 5.0 million and 10.0 million.
20 AWG Plc Investing in new infrastructure Anglian Water has invested 2 million in Market Harborough, Leicestershire, to improve the sewer and drainage network in order to alleviate flooding in the town centre.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 Operating and Financial Review continued During the year, AWG has been delivering its existing commitments to sustainable development while also revising its approach to corporate responsibility in line with other business changes.
1 Sustainable development and corporate responsibility Environmental performance highlights Biodiversity Action Plans have been developed for Key aspects of Anglian Waters environmental Morrison Construction Services, Utility Services and performance, treating and supplying high-quality drinking Facilities Services, and implementation will begin in water, reducing leakage and treating wastewater to a high 2005 06.
Environmental management systems certified standard, are described on pages 11 and 12. to the international standard ISO14001 continued to operate in Utility Services and Construction Services and Energy use have been further extended in Facilities Services to cover Anglian Waters energy use was slightly one per cent two out of the four main operations.
The underlying trend is for increased energy use to meet higher water quality Community investment standards.
This year it was partly offset by the drier than AWG operates an employee volunteering scheme called usual winter: less surface water entered the wastewater give me five.
The scheme enables AWG employees to take treatment system and thus pumping requirements were up to 30 hours of work time a year, matched by their own reduced.
The companys strategy is to offset the impacts of time, to participate in community activities.
The groups increased energy demand by improving energy efficiency proviso is that participation also contributes to personal and increasing its use of renewable energy.
Participation in give me five energy accounted for 12 per cent of total energy demand increased slightly during the year, but the uptake rate of 11 per cent in 2003 04 and the company is on course to 7.1 per cent 2003 04: 6.6 per cent, compared with a meet its target to obtain 20 per cent of its energy from target of 10 per cent, is likely to have been affected by renewable sources by 2010. restructuring and workforce reductions.
Biodiversity Individual volunteering activities included mentoring young Anglian Water continued to deliver its commitment to entrepreneurs, conducting mock interviews with school biodiversity and completed the sixth year of its 10-year leavers and supporting those learning English as a second Biodiversity Action Plan.
Ninety six per cent by area of the language.
The 15-team volunteering projects completed Sites of Special Scientific Interest on the companys estate via give me five included one in which senior wastewater are classified by English Nature as in a condition which is managers from Anglian Water spent a day establishing a favourable or recovering and hence the company is new bulb and flower garden at the National Centre for already meeting the target set by Government for 2010.
Schemes to recruit and train young people otherwise at risk of exclusion from employment continued.
Of the approximately 150 people recruited by AWG via such schemes in the past six years, more than 110 are still in employment and most are still working in an AWG business.
1 This section is a summary of AWGs sustainable development performance for the reporting year 2004 05.
A full account of that performance is published on the website: see www.
Acona Limited has verified the full sustainable development reporting system and confirms that the information contained in this section is materially accurate and a balanced summary of the full account.
22 AWG Plc Direct financial support to the community is given in Overall performance certain well-defined areas.
The Anglian Water Trust Fund is Overall performance, measured against the AWG the main example.
Set up in 1995, it supports those Sustainable Development Principles and Targets set in experiencing poverty and hardship in the region by 2001, has been satisfactory: the Indicative Standards have administering a grants programme aimed at reducing been met or largely met in all the businesses.
Of the 16 water, sewerage and other utility debt and facilitating debt targets set for the group as a whole, 10 have been prevention by supporting money advice centres.
Anglian achieved by March 2005 as planned.
Four have been Water donated 1 million to the Fund in the year.
substantially, but not wholly, achieved.
The target for health and safety, remains on track for completion in 2007.
Through give me five, support for the Anglian Water Trust The target to have no prosecutions was not met.
Fund and other contributions, AWG continues to meet 1 Business in the Communitys Per Cent Standard.
Compliance by Anglian Water with a range of drinking water, river and bathing water quality standards has Engagement and dialogue with stakeholders remained high see pages 11 and 12.
However, there were AWGs principal business is a regulated water utility serving eight prosecutions upheld against AWG businesses in the a region where climate change and the growth of new year compared with three in 2003 04.
Under health and communities are issues of particular importance to safety legislation a Morrison company had two stakeholders and highly relevant to Anglian Water.
The prosecutions and Anglian Water had one, whilst under nature of Morrisons business is significantly influenced by environmental legislation Morrison had one and Anglian public policy on sustainable development.
AWG is Water had four prosecutions.
committed to engaging with stakeholders on these and other issues to develop and promote solutions that will Group carbon dioxide emissions were slightly higher than assist sustainable development and to do so in a manner in 2003 04 about 355,000 tonnes compared with reflecting best practice in the transparency of companies 349,000 tonnes.
There was a slight reduction in carbon influence on public policy.
dioxide emissions from Anglian Water, as a result of the lower energy consumption and increased use of renewable Stakeholder engagement has continued during the year energy described above.
However, this was outweighed by and has encompassed, for instance, active involvement in higher reported emissions from Morrison largely due to the water industry trade body, Water UK, work to help improved data capture.
shape Government policy on sustainable public procurement and participation in groups, such as the East of England Sustainable Development Round Table, created to discuss sustainability issues affecting the region.
1 The standard for companies contributing at least one per cent of pre-tax profits in cash donations, staff and management time and gifts in kind.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23 Operating and Financial Review continued Twenty-six staff helped refurbish a disused United States Air Force building in Alconbury for the Cambridgeshire Police Shrievalty Trust.
The space will be used as the base for a programme that will help disadvantaged young people acquire driving licences and learn good citizenship.
AWG scored 89 per cent in the 2004 Business in the The future 1 Community Corporate Responsibility Index 2003: 87 per AWG has revised its approach to sustainable development cent and was ranked 39 out of 100 Companies that and corporate responsibility in line with the new business Count.
The group score on the 2004 Environment Index structure that took effect from April 2005.
Anglian Water was 92 per cent 2003: 86 per cent.
The give me five will be focusing on its contribution to prosperity and programme was awarded the Business In The Community sustainability in the region where it operates and in 2 Big Tick : Construction Services won a Green Apple award particular, the impact of climate change.
Morrisons goal for its work in Antarctica and Facilities Services won a will be to reflect the values and deliver the outcomes British Institute of Facilities Management Award for its consistent with its role as a provider of social public work providing energy management services to West infrastructure.
The underlying commitment to sustainable Lothian schools.
AWG was selected as a component of the development will be reinforced and new group-wide Dow Jones Sustainability STOXX Index.
standards for corporate responsibility will operate to safeguard the interests of investors and all other More information is available.
We will continue to report progress against verified account of sustainable development performance these objectives and standards.
in the AWG group please see the AWG website: www.
More information on environmental aspects of Anglian Waters work, including its role in conservation, access and recreation, is available in a printed report, Anglian Water Environment Report 2005 available The Dow Jones STOXX Sustainability Indexes track the financial performance of the top 20 per on request see inside front cover.
It is also available cent in terms of sustainability of the companies on-line in the Anglian Water website: in the Dow Jones STOXX 600 index.
The Index components are selected according to a www.
systematic sustainability assessment that identifies the leading  companies in each industry group.
1 The index is a voluntary self-assessment survey that provides an annual benchmark of how a company is integrating and managing its impact on society.
2 The Big Tick is awarded to companies that are able to demonstrate to the assessors a high standard of excellence in the way they organise and integrate their responsible business practices, and that can show a positive impact both on society and on the business.
24 AWG Plc AWG helping the community Each year staff throughout the AWG group take part in community activities, both individually and in teams, as part of AWGs give me five programme.
The scheme allows staff to match up to 30 hours of work time with their own time on community activities.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25 Operating and Financial Review continued Other financial matters Pensions Treasury management This was the last year that AWG accounted for pensions Group financing, including debt, interest costs and foreign in accordance with Statement of Standard Accounting exchange, is substantially managed by a central treasury Practice SSAP 24.
Applying SSAP 24 results in the group team reporting to the Group Finance Director.
Treasury having a pension prepayment at 31 March 2005 of policy continues to be focused on the efficient and 86.2 million 2004: 58.0 million.
This compares with the effective management of cash and financial resources Financial Reporting Standard FRS 17 pension deficit of within the group.
The central treasury function actively: 203.2 million 2004: 237.9 million, which includes an Secures funds and invests temporary surplus cash to best aggregate deficit of 9.3 million in respect of eight small advantage at minimal risk schemes, which were not previously reported under FRS 17.
The main reasons for the difference between the two Protects the groups foreign exchange and interest rate accounting policies are that under SSAP 24 the pension exposures scheme is required to be valued once every three years and Maintains an excellent reputation with providers of the last valuation for the two main schemes was for finance and rating agencies 31 March 2002, whereas under FRS 17 the valuation is updated every year and under SSAP 24 differences are Monitors compliance with the groups financial generally amortised over employee service lives, whereas covenants both on an actual and forecast basis adjustments under FRS 17 are reflected in the accounts Promotes improvement of cash management techniques, immediately.
In addition the assumptions used under FRS systems and controls throughout the group.
Under FRS 17 the discount rate used for calculating scheme liabilities is the discount AWGs board, through the Treasury Advisory Group, rate on AA bonds, whereas SSAP 24 uses a higher discount regularly reviews treasury policy, organisation and reporting rate based on the expected return on scheme assets.
to ensure continued effectiveness and relevance.
AWG made additional pension contributions totalling Liquidity 9.4 million in the year 2004: 9.1 million which reduces The groups objective is to maintain flexibility and the FRS 17 pension deficit.
Future contributions to the continuity of funding through access to different markets AWG Pension Fund will continue to be made in line with and debt instruments.
At 31 March 2005 the group held actuarial advice.
cash, deposits and current asset investments of 1,101.5 million 2004: 755.4 million and had undrawn committed multi-currency facilities of 683.0 million 2004: 654.0 million.
These resources are maintained to ensure liquidity and the continuation of the groups investment programme.
The maturity profile of the groups borrowings is set out in note 21 on pages 74 to 77.
26 AWG Plc Borrowing covenants Off balance sheet financing The financing within Anglian Water is asset based with In accordance with current accounting standards, assets security provided to investors under a common terms and liabilities in certain joint venture investments within agreement.
All other group borrowings are raised or Morrison and AWG Property are not included on the guaranteed by AWG Plc, AWG Group Limited and, in groups balance sheet.
This is because the joint ventures certain instances, subsidiary companies.
The central treasury are accounted for on an equity basis and are not function is responsible for monitoring ongoing compliance consolidated.
with the groups financial covenants.
Morrison Project Investments, part of Morrison, has equity Interest rates investments in seven projects, six of which are joint The groups policy, as agreed by the board, is to achieve an ventures and one is a trade investment.
The groups share efficient mix of funding at fixed rates of interest, floating of the debt within these investments was 79.9 million at rates of interest and rates indexed to retail prices.
also reflects utilisation of interest rate swaps so as to AWG Propertys share of the debt within its joint venture manage the groups net exposure to interest rate and retail companies at 31 March 2005 is 96.6 million 2004: price variations.
The composition of the groups total 125.9 million.
borrowings at the year-end was: In April 2005, AWG Property completed the disposal of its 31 March 31 March investment in Broadway Plaza, following which the groups 2005 2004 share of debt within AWG Property joint venture Indexed 29.9% 32.1% companies was 71.6 million.
Fixed 57.7% 62.3% As at 31 March 2005 the group had guaranteed debt Floating 12.4% 5.6% obligations of joint ventures and associates totalling 43.1 The increase in floating rate borrowings in the above table million 2004: 54.7 million.
After the sale of Broadway reflects the issuance by Anglian Water in the second half of Plaza, the guaranteed debt obligations of joint ventures the year of two new bonds totalling 398.0 million, and associates totals 36.4 million.
together with related interest rate swaps.
The 398.0 Transition to International Financial Reporting million raised comprises a 249.7 million 5.25 per cent Standards IFRS 2015 class A bond and a 148.3 million 5.5 per cent The group has continued to report its consolidated 2017 2040 class B bond.
In addition, Anglian Water raised accounts in accordance with UK GAAP Generally Accepted a further 402.0 million before issue costs index-linked Accounting Principles for the year ended 31 March 2005. debt in April 2005.
The effective date of transition to IFRS is 1 April 2004.
These transactions followed the acceptance of the AMP4 The first financial information to be reported by the group final determination, taking the opportunity to pre-finance in accordance with IFRS will be for the six months ending capital expenditure and debt repayment.
30 September 2005 but the requirement for comparative information means that primary statements income Foreign currency statement, balance sheet and cash flow for the year The group has currency exposures resulting from overseas ended 31 March 2005 and the six months ended 30 investments and foreign currency purchases and sales.
The September 2004 will also need to be prepared in group uses a range of instruments to hedge such accordance with IFRS.
All hedges are undertaken for commercial reasons with the objective of minimising the impact of The group plans to provide reconciliations of the UK GAAP exchange rate fluctuations on net assets, profits and 2004 05 results and the balance sheets at 31 March 2004 anticipated disposal proceeds.
and 31 March 2005 to IFRS during the second quarter of 2005 06, before the interim announcement.
Explanations The groups foreign exchange exposure management policy, of the IFRS adjustments will be given as well as details of as agreed by the board, is to hedge material transactional the accounting policies that are expected to be adopted exposures against the reporting currency by means of under IFRS.
This analysis of the impact of IFRS is being forward foreign exchange contracts.
prepared by the Directors using their best knowledge of Net assets are held in a number of currencies and translated the standards and the accounting policies expected to be at prevailing year end exchange rates.
The resulting used for preparing the groups first complete set of IFRS exposures are monitored and, at certain thresholds, are financial statements as at 31 March 2006.
Therefore, as hedged by currency borrowings, cross-currency swaps, these interpretations develop, there is a possibility that the forward foreign exchange contracts or foreign exchange analysis may evolve further before constituting the final options.
IFRS accounts as at 31 March 2006.
The adoption of IFRS for the consolidated group accounts has no impact on the cash flows or commercial activities of the group nor the ability of the group to pay dividends.
Annual Report and Accounts 2005 27 Operating and Financial Review continued The following paragraphs set out the Directors qualitative Expenditure on infrastructure will be capitalised or assessment of the main areas of change.
Care should be expensed depending on the nature of the spend.
Although taken not to infer the overall impact of IFRS on the group replacement expenditure will be capitalised, if it gives rise from looking at any accounting policy changes in isolation.
to an independent tangible asset, certain renewals expenditure such as planned preventative maintenance, Post retirement benefit schemes where capitalisation is permitted under FRS 15, will be Under UK GAAP, the group currently accounts for defined expensed under IAS 16. benefit pension schemes in accordance with SSAP 24 Accounting for Pension Costs.
The group also reports the As mentioned above the effective date of transition to IFRS transitional disclosures required in accordance with FRS 17 is 1 April 2004.
The group will restate fixed assets as if IAS Retirement Benefits, including the adjustment from the 16 had applied at this date reversal of renewals figures reported under SSAP 24 which would be required accounting using 1974 as the starting point, the business if FRS 17 was adopted in the financial statements.
combination exemption being taken at the date of the assets and liabilities being vested in the newly formed The methodology and assumptions used to calculate the Anglian Water Authority.
As a consequence of these value of pension assets and liabilities under FRS 17 are changes the net assets of the group are expected to broadly consistent with the requirements of IAS 19 increase following the implementation of IAS 16.
Both FRS 17 and IAS 19 take a balance sheet approach to pension accounting and use The cumulative depreciation calculated using infrastructure annual valuations of the pension scheme.
Under SSAP 24 renewals accounting will be replaced in the groups the group has obtained triennial pension valuations and accounts by the aggregate of the calculated depreciation SSAP 24 focuses on the pension charge to the income charge with certain amounts previously capitalised being statement.
The group is likely to take the option allowed expensed.
In 2004 05 this is expected to have a negative under IAS 19 of taking actuarial gains and losses directly impact on earnings, but in subsequent years this will to reserves on the assumption that IAS 19 Revised will be become a positive effect due to the planned increases in ratified by the EU.
Adoption will reduce net assets and increase the charge to Proposed dividends the income statement.
Under SSAP 17 Post Balance Sheet Events, proposed dividends are accrued for as an adjusting post balance Infrastructure renewals accounting sheet event in the accounting period to which they relate.
Under FRS 15, water companies in the UK account for Under IAS 10 Events after the Balance Sheet Date infrastructure assets using a system of infrastructure dividends are recognised in the accounting period in renewals accounting.
Infrastructure assets being mains which they are declared and approved.
and sewers, impounding and pumped raw water storage reservoirs, dams, sludge pipelines and sea outfalls Accordingly, the group will reverse the accrual for its comprise a network of systems.
Investment expenditure final dividend at 31 March 2005 and report it in the on infrastructure assets relating to increases in capacity consolidated IFRS accounts for the following period.
or enhancements of the network and on maintaining the This will also be required under UK GAAP in 2005 06. operating capability of the network in accordance with Intangible assets goodwill defined standards of service, is treated as an addition and In accordance with FRS 10 Goodwill and Intangible included at cost after deducting grants and contributions.
Assets the groups policy is to capitalise goodwill in The depreciation charge for infrastructure assets is the respect of businesses acquired and amortise on a straight estimated level of annual expenditure required to line basis over its estimated useful economic life, which has maintain the operating capability of the network, which been assessed as 20 years for all acquisitions to date.
is based on the companys independently certified Asset Management Plan.
In accordance with IFRS 3 Business Combinations no amortisation of goodwill will be charged in the groups Under IAS 16 Property Plant and Equipment, this consolidated IFRS accounts.
Instead, annual reviews of method of accounting is not permitted and infrastructure goodwill will be performed to test for potential assets must be depreciated over their estimated useful impairments.
Thus the current depreciation charge is replaced by a charge calculated using estimated useful lives.
28 AWG Plc Share-based payments The group has certain index-linked derivatives for which Under UK GAAP, the cost of share options is based on the hedge accounting will not be available under IAS 39. intrinsic value in the option at the date of grant, meaning Consequently, changes in the fair value of these that options granted to employees at market price or instruments will be charged in full to the income allowable discount do not generate an expense.
This will introduce an element of non-cash 2 Share-based Payments, the group is required to volatility into the finance charge.
measure the cost of all share options granted since With the adoption of IAS 39, all financial instruments will November 2002 because exemption under IFRS has been be recognised on the balance sheet as either financial taken using fair value models.
As a result, additional assets or financial liabilities.
expense will be recognised in the IFRS income statement over the vesting period of the option.
Capitalisation of interest In accordance with IAS 23 Borrowing Costs, the group Deferred tax will opt for the allowed alternative treatment, which The group has chosen to discount its deferred tax balances permits the capitalisation of borrowing costs that are including its surplus Advance Corporation Tax asset as directly attributable to the acquisition of a qualifying asset.
allowed under FRS 19 Deferred Tax.
However under IAS The effect of this will be to increase the groups net assets 12 Income Taxes, discounting of deferred tax liabilities is by the amount of unamortised interest capitalised, which not permitted and hence will cease on adoption of IFRS.
in previous years has been charged to the income This will reduce the net assets of the group to the extent statement.
There will also be an increase in the annual that the discounting is removed, but will also remove the depreciation charge as a result of depreciating the volatility in the deferred tax charge in the income capitalised interest costs.
Classification of redeemable shares Derivative financial instruments IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and Presentation The group uses a range of instruments to hedge foreign requires financial instruments to be classified as either currency and interest rate exposures on its borrowings and liabilities or equity according to their substance rather than investments.
As such, any unredeemed redeemable shares To achieve hedge accounting under IAS 39 Financial will be classified as liabilities rather than non-equity share Instruments: Recognition and Measurement the group is capital and the dividends payable thereon will be classified required to designate these financial instruments as hedges as interest rather than dividends.
against specific assets, liabilities, income and expenses.
All Classification of cash balances such hedging instruments are measured at fair value as at IAS 32 prescribes conditions under which assets and the balance sheet date and the effectiveness of each hedge liabilities may be offset in the balance sheet.
Offset will tested prospectively and retrospectively against defined only be achievable where the entity can legally enforce it criteria.
Changes in the fair value of the financial and intends to settle on a net or simultaneous basis.
With instruments are recognised either in the income statement the groups current banking arrangements the Directors for the period or, in the case of a cash flow hedge, directly believe this will not significantly affect the groups reported in equity and subsequently recognised in the income cash balance.
statement for the period in which the underlying transaction is realised.
Convergence The ongoing convergence of UK GAAP with IFRS will For financial instruments designated as fair value hedges, inevitably lead to a reduction in the net assets of various changes in the fair value of the hedged item to the extent companies in the group as a result of the adjustments they are deemed to be effective and the related derivative outlined above.
However, this will not adversely affect the are recognised in the income statement for the period.
sustainability of the group's dividend policy.
Gains and losses on financial instruments, both realised and unrealised, that do not qualify for hedge accounting are included in the income statement for the period.
In accordance with the groups treasury risk management policy the group aims to apply hedge accounting treatment for most derivatives that hedge material foreign currency exposures and those interest rate exposures where hedge accounting is considered appropriate.
