FINANCIAL REVIEW Pension arrangements As a result of the Prowting International Financial Reporting Standards Westbury acquisition in 2002, the Group operates two final salary will adopt IFRS for the year commencing 1 March 2005. schemes defined benefit.
It also operates a personal The implementation of IFRS represents a major change pension plan defined contribution.
and in 2004 we established a project team involving our auditors to address the issues.
The Prowting final salary scheme is closed to new entrants whilst the Westbury scheme is also closed other than to To assist shareholders we have converted our 2004 05 profit senior managers and directors.
The decision to close both and loss account, balance sheet and cash flow to IFRS and schemes to new entrants was primarily as a result of have included these unaudited statements with appropriate escalating costs of running such schemes.
It must be appreciated that certain standards have yet to be agreed and therefore the impact on Both schemes were the subject of triennial valuations in the Group may change when they are finalised.
As a result the Companys contribution for both schemes was increased significantly.
The rate of contribution for the Westbury scheme is now 7.4% 2004: 9.4% plus 1.8 million per annum to eliminate the scheme deficit over the prospective life of the scheme.
The rate of contribution for the Prowting scheme is 17.7% 2004: 17.7% plus 178,080 per annum to eliminate the scheme deficit over the prospective life of the scheme.
The employee contributions for the Westbury and Prowting Schemes are 7% and 5.75% respectively.
John Bennett All other employees are offered membership of a personal Finance Director pension plan under which they build up an individual fund to purchase a pension at retirement.
The Company contributes at varying levels to the individuals plan dependent upon their age and their own level of contribution.
The Company has accounted for the pension costs in accordance with SSAP24, the details of which are set out in note 20 on pages 61 and 62.
The adoption of FRS17 has been deferred.
The transitional arrangements of FRS17 Retirement benefits have been adopted in the year ended 28 February 2005 and are disclosed in note 20 on pages 62 and 63 for both final salary schemes.
The deficit under FRS17 for the two final salary schemes is 25.4 million at financial year end 2004: 22.9 million.
Non-audit fees for services provided by  In accordance with best practice we set out below an analysis of non-audit fees for services provided by our auditors, .
Group and Company audit work 206,850 Taxation 258,000 Other 20,000 The audit committee has an adopted process in place for the provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 29 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Geoffrey Maddrell Nigel Fee Chairman 68 Deputy Chief Executive 54 MA Cantab MBA Colombia University has been non-executive BSc Econ joined Westbury in 1991 as a Regional Managing Chairman of Westbury since 1992.
He has had a long-standing Director.
He was appointed Group Operations Director in involvement and strategic interest in the building sector, initially 1996 and Managing Director of the Homes Division in 2000. on the board of Bowater where he was responsible for developing In that role he was responsible for the management and their building products activities.
In 1999 he was appointed co-ordination of all regional activity to achieve the business Chairman of the UNITE Group plc, the UKs leading specialist goals and the implementation of Group policies.
Nigel has provider of student and key worker accommodation and is also extensive experience in the new homes market and has Chairman of BuildStore Limited, the growing hub for the selfpreviously worked with Wimpey Homes and Charles Church.
His other major area of interest is in private Nigel was appointed Deputy Chief Executive on 26 April 2005 investor and employee shareholder participation in company and will succeed Martin Donohue as Chief Executive when equity, as former Chairman of ProShare UK Limited, which he Martin retires in November 2005. set up in 1991.
He is non-executive Chairman of ISIS UK Select Trust plc.
He was also formerly Chairman of Glenmorangie and Colin Cole of LDV Ltd, the van specialists.
He was also Chief Executive of Executive Director and Divisional Chairman 46 Tootal Group plc during a period of international development.
FCCA was appointed to the Board in February 2001.
Colin joined Finally he is also a civil service commissioner.
Westbury in April 1984 as Group Accountant, and was Finance Director of both the South Wales and South West regions before Martin Donohue becoming Deputy Group Finance Director in 1994.
He carried Chief Executive 59 out the role of Company Secretary between 1995 and 2001 FCIOB joined the Group in 1972 and was a member of the and also spent two years as Regional Managing Director of management buy-out team in 1984.
A member of the Board our West Midlands region before becoming Deputy Managing since the Groups flotation 1986, he acted as Operations Director of the Homes Business.
Colin is now the Divisional Director prior to his appointment as Chief Executive in 1995.
Chairman for five regions and Chairman of the Health and Safety He has vast experience and knowledge of the housebuilding Executive Committee.
He is currently a non-executive director industry, both in the UK and in North America, and is deeply of Rockwool Limited and NHBC Building Control Services.
committed to supporting growth and development in the sector.
He has served on the Board of the Housing Forum and Ian Durant was the Chairman of their Customer Satisfaction Committee, a Non-executive director 46 working group responsible for developing customer satisfaction BA, FCA, FCT has been a non-executive director of Westbury measures which provide benchmarks for the housebuilding since October 2003.
He is Chief Financial Officer of Sea industry.
Martin also acted as Chairman of the House Builders Containers Ltd, a NYSE listed transport and container leasing Federation Training and Recruitment Council until 2002.
He is a director of GNER, the UK train operator.
He was addition, he is a member of the Major Housebuilders Group.
formerly Finance Director of Thistle Hotels Plc until 2003, and before that was based in Asia as Finance Director of John Bennett both Hong Kong Land Holdings and then Dairy Farm Finance Director 57 International both UK listed companies with substantial FCA is a chartered accountant and was appointed as Finance operations in the retail and property sectors.
Director when he joined the Company in 1992.
He has wide experience of this sector and was previously a director of John Ferrie Beazer plc, with financial responsibility for its UK operations.
Non-executive director 58 He is a member of the finance directors forum for the major CBE, FREng, FRAes, FIMechE, DEng, BSC, CEng is a main board housebuilders group.
John has overall responsibility for the director of Smiths Group plc, with responsibility for Aerospace, financial management of the Group and is also responsible albn turnover division employing 10,000 people.
Prior to at Board level for personnel, business systems and corporate joining Smiths in 2000, he spent 35 years with Rolls-Royce plc social responsibilities.
where he held a number of senior executive positions.
John was awarded the CBE in the Queens birthday honours in 2004.
He is an Industrial Professor at the University of Warwick, a member of the University of Warwick Faculty of Science Advisory Board, a member of the Cranfield Aerospace Advisory Board and he chairs the SBAC Enterprise Excellence Board.
He was appointed a non-executive director in June 2004.
30 Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Derek Wilson Non-executive director 60 BA, FCA has been a non-executive director of Westbury since 2 3 4 1996.
Derek has wide ranging experience in the sector and was, 5 1 6 until December 2002, Chief Executive of Slough Estates plc, one 7 of the UKs largest property investment companies, following 8 periods as Group Managing Director and Finance Director.
He has held senior positions at Cadbury Schweppes plc, Wilkinson 9 Match Limited and is currently a non-executive director of Candover Investments plc.
Derek Wilson FCMA is also Deputy Group Finance Director.
John Ferrie Westbury in November 1981.
He became Finance Director of the 5.
Geoffrey Maddrell Southern region in 1987 and moved to the Northampton region 6.
Ian Durant as Finance Director in 1991.
He was appointed to his current 7.
Nigel Fee position in October 2000.
John Bennett Westbury plc Annual Report 2005 31 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS Report of the directors The directors present their Annual Report and the audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries for the year ended 28 February 2005.
Principal activities and business review The principal activity of the Group has remained that of housebuilding.
Further details of the Groups activities during the year under review and of its prospects are included in the Chairmans Statement, the Chief Executives Review, the Operating Review and the Financial Review.
Results and dividends The profit on ordinary activities for the year, after taxation, amounted to 81.9m 2004: 72.2m.
The directors recommend the payment of a final dividend of 11.45 pence per share which, together with the interim dividend paid in January 2005, will make a total dividend of 16.8 pence per share for the year ended 28 February 2005.
The total dividend cost is 19.2m, leaving a retained profit for the year of 62.7m.
The final dividend will be paid on 7 July 2005 to shareholders on the register at the close of business on 10 June 2005.
The shares will be quoted ex-dividend from 8 June 2005.
Directors The names of the directors are shown on pages 30 and 31.
MC Donohue retires from the Board by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election.
J Ferrie was appointed as a director of the Company on 17 June 2004.
As his appointment was made since the last Annual General Meeting, he retires at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will offer himself for re-election.
DRWilson retires from the Board by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, offers himself for re-election: he will retire later in 2005 when a suitable replacement is identified.
During the year no director has or had an interest in any significant contract or arrangement to which the Company or any subsidiary undertaking is a party.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred by the director in defending legal proceedings in certain circumstances.
Directors interests The interests of the directors in the share capital of the Company are shown in the Remuneration Report on pages 40 and 41.
Share issue The details of shares issued in the period are given below under the Share Capital heading.
Payment of creditors The policy for payment of creditors is given within the Financial Review on page 28.
Environment Information relating to the Groups responsibilities towards the environment is given within the Operating Review on pages 14 to 25.
Share capital The authorised and issued share capital of the Company, together with details of movements in the share capital during the period, are described in note 21 to the financial statements.
During the year 470,434 ordinary shares, with a nominal value of 47,043, were issued for a consideration of 1,193,491 in respect of the exercise of options under the Executive Share Option Plan.
