William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review To the shareholders of William Hill PLC.
and operating an online casino and channel 425 on the Sky interactive poker room.
The Operating and Financial Review OFR Enhancements in the interactive is only prepared to assist the members to The Group delivers its betting and offering through improvements in assess the Companys strategy and the gaming products to customers through functionality and product potential for that strategy to succeed.
The three principal channels: development continue to be made statutory requirement to prepare an OFR and in 2005 we increased our range of Retail comprises a network of over has been removed by the Government but in-running opportunities, enhanced 2,180 outlets throughout the UK and it is included in this Annual Report as the our single account proposition, Ireland including 560 LBOs retained Board considers it contains important launched additional arcade games following the acquisition of Stanley information for shareholders.
and upgraded our poker product.
As Retail making William Hill one of the at 27 December 2005, the business The OFR contains certain statements that two largest operators of LBOs in the had 341,000 active accounts 28 are or may be forward-looking.
The scale of the network gives December 2004 - 292,000. statements are made by the directors in William Hill a significant competitive good faith based on the information advantage in terms of brand The Group also operates two available to them up to the time of their recognition and allows central costs greyhound stadia situated in the approval of this report.
These statements to be spread across a large estate.
should be treated with caution as they Telephone betting, in which the involve risk and uncertainty because they Operating environment directors believe that William Hill is relate to future events and circumstances.
Historically, the Groups business has the market leader, has the capacity to There are a number of factors which might proven to be less exposed to the operate approximately 700 cause actual results and performance to economic cycle than many other telephone bet capture positions at differ materially from those expressed or consumer facing industries.
Economic call centres in Leeds and Shefeld.
As implied by such statements.
conditions in the UK showed signs of at 27 December 2005, the business weakening in 2005, which may have The OFR has been prepared with reference had 174,000 active accounts 28 adversely impacted the Groups financial to the guidance in the Accounting December 2004 184,000. performance, although the impact Standards Boards Reporting Statement: cannot be quantied.
Interactive betting comprises an Operating and Financial Review which online sportsbook including arcade following the removal of the statutory The business is dened and constrained games www.
com, an requirement for the OFR is considered best by legislation.
Recent legislation online casino www.
practice and the Board has elected to comprises the Gambling Act enacted in williamhillcasino.
com and online incorporate many of the recommended April 2005 although this is unlikely to be poker site www.
disclosures contained in the new fully implemented before autumn 2007 williamhillpoker.
The Board may pending the setting up of the Gambling accepted its first bet via the internet in modify the OFR in future periods to reect Commission.
1998 and the casino was launched in developing best practice.
conjunction with Cryptologic Inc. at Each customer must take responsibility This OFR has been prepared for the Group the end of 1999.
The offering was for complying with local laws in respect as a whole and therefore gives greater enhanced by the introduction of of betting and gaming that differ across emphasis to those matters which are arcade games in 2002 and the launch jurisdictions.
The Groups businesses are significant to the Group taken as a whole.
of a dedicated poker site in January properly licensed in the UK to accept 2003.
Also in 2003, Boss Media AB was sports and other bets and in the introduced as a second supplier of Description of the business Netherlands Antilles to operate online casino software, a Euro denominated William Hill is a leading provider of xed casino and poker sites.
The directors casino was launched and an odds bookmaking services, offering periodically obtain independent legal integrated sportsbook and casino odds and taking bets on a wide range of advice concerning the state of betting account was offered to customers.
In sporting and other events, as well as and gaming laws in particular autumn 2004, the business launched offering FOBTs and AWPs in its LBOs jurisdictions.
a television channel WHTV on 8 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review The Group closely monitors the Monitoring performance against key may have more brand recognition than development of tax policy by the competitors: William Hill in certain markets.
Government in relation to betting and Evaluating new business Betting exchanges enable person-togaming.
It seeks to lobby Government development opportunities against person betting with one person acting to ensure a fair and equitable approach stringent financial criteria and as layer the role of the traditional to the taxation of different forms of alternative uses of capital: bookmaker and the other as punter.
gambling and various platforms, and to The exchange charges a commission on minimise the likelihood that the regime Playing an active role in regulatory the winners profit and gross profit tax is for gross profit tax might be changed to and scal matters which could levied at 15% on all commission and the detriment of the Group.
inuence the business: and levy, if appropriate, is charged at 10% Identifying and implementing The Group in conjunction with other on UK horseracing commission.
The technological change which is bookmakers continues to make a layers and punters are not liable to expected to benefit the business.
variety of statutory, voluntary and these charges.
William Hill lobbied commercial payments to various strongly against the unfair advantage Competition sporting bodies.
In addition, the Group enjoyed by layers on betting The Group faces competition primarily makes commercial payments through exchanges, who compete directly with from other bookmakers, betting Bookmakers Afternoon Greyhound traditional bookmakers without paying exchanges, other interactive operators Services Limited BAGS for the right to a comparable level of gross profit tax or and, to some extent, the National screen pictures from various horse and horseracing levy.
The directors do not believe greyhound racetracks in LBOs.
As taxation of layers on betting exchanges that the Group currently faces explained in the Chief Executives enables them to offer better prices than significant competition from other Review, the Group does not expect any the traditional bookmaker.
The UK participants in the gaming industry, significant increase in the cost of such Government concluded in December namely casinos, bingo halls and football arrangements in the foreseeable future.
2005 that current taxation pools although competition may arrangements remain appropriate.
increase as betting and gaming Strategy The main impact of this competitive products converge, the new Gambling The Group continues to pursue a advantage manifests itself in starting Act comes into force, and as a result of strategy aimed at delivering sustainable prices, at which most off-course bets technological developments.
earnings growth and value for are placed, and theoretical horseracing shareholders.
The key elements of the The Groups principal competitors in the margins, which have been falling in strategy are to: UK retail market are Ladbrokes and recent years, as on-course bookmakers Coral, with William Hill and Ladbrokes have been able to hedge their liabilities Continue to enhance traditional having the largest LBO estates.
on betting exchanges and reduce the earnings and maximise organic Ladbrokes, Coral and the Tote are the margins at which they bet.
William Hill growth opportunities: Groups chief competitors in the UK recently started to switch hedging profitably exploit new platforms: telephone betting market.
In addition, a activity from the on-course market to number of international telephone betting exchanges in an attempt to Capitalise on opportunities from operators compete with the Group from reverse the fall in margins.
regulatory, scal and technological outside the UK.
change: and The National Lottery offers a number of Selectively pursue value-enhancing The Group faces competition in its gambling products, the most important acquisitions.
interactive operations from a large of which is the twice weekly draw.
number of UK-owned operators, The Board monitors performance including Ladbrokes, Coral and various against the strategy by: betting exchanges, and operators based overseas that have entered, and Establishing an annual plan continue to enter, the interactive incorporating strategic objectives market.
Relatively few of these and monitoring results against that competitors have a recognisable or plan: long-established brand name in the UK.
The Group competes overseas with online and off-line competitors that 9 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review To assess the capital structure, the Board Targets for certain KPIs are set on an Key performance indicators focuses on the ratio of net debt to annual basis as part of the Groups The key performance indicators KPIs earnings before interest, taxation, operational objectives for the coming used by the Board in monitoring depreciation and amortisation EBITDA year having regard to historic levels, earnings per share growth are as which is managed to ensure an efficient expected new developments and the follows: balance sheet and is a key driver of Groups strategy.
Gross win represents total customer A comparison of KPIs in the 2004 and stakes less customer winnings : In addition to these financial indicators a 2005 financial years is shown below.
number of non-financial indicators are Gross profit represents gross win also used including numbers of betting less cost of sales : slips processed and the number of active customers in the remote Operating expenses: channels.
Interest charges and cover: and Effective tax rate.
2005 2004 The Board also utilises a range of Growth in gross win 1 2.1% 10.4% measures designed to determine performance at a channel and product Growth in gross profit 1 2.5% 9.8% level, the more important of which are: Growth in operating expenses 1 5.5% 5.4% Gross win percentage by channel: Net interest expense 41.0m 26.7m Interest cover 6.9 10.0 Operating margin by channel and by Effective taxation rate product: excluding exceptional items 31.1% 27.8% Gross win percentage by channel 1,2 Average profit per LBO: OTC 15.8% 16.2% Telephone 8.8% 11.2% Average profit per active Interactive sportsbook and arcade 7.3% 7.9% Telephone Interactive customer where profit is operating profit as Operating margin by channel Retail 30.0% 30.2% shown in Note 2 to the financial Telephone 24.3% 36.7% statements and an active customer is Interactive 49.6% 48.8% dened as one who has placed a bet with their own money in the last Average profit per LBO 1 103,000 104,000 12 months: and Average profit per active Interactive customer 179 177 Return on incremental capital Average profit per active Telephone customer 75 120 invested for example, in relation to Net debt EBITDA 3.4 1.7 investment in the retail estate, the Group seeks returns on capital 1 Excludes Stanley Retail.
invested of 20% on new licences, 15% on resites and extensions and 2 Gross win percentage by product is monitored internally but not publicly 10% on refurbishments.
10 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review In 2005, adjusted basic EPS was just Complete the integration of Stanley GPT, levies, VAT, royalties and other below that achieved in 2004.
Growth in Retail: costs of sale excluding pay-outs to gross win and gross profit were below customers increased 9.8% to 176.5m Continue to invest in the LBO estate internal targets and the levels achieved William Hill excluding Stanley Retail through our ongoing development in the comparative period due to increased 0.5% to 161.5m and programme: and factors explained in the Chief includes gross profit tax, levies paid to Executives review.
Growth in operating the horse and greyhound racing Make significant progress on key expenses was contained within tight industries, VAT and licence fees incurred technology programmes.
in respect of AWPs and more recently Current and future FOBTs, and various royalty payments to Operating margins were at acceptable suppliers of FOBTs and certain services development and levels for the Retail business and for the in respect of the online casino and performance Interactive business but fell below poker sites.
expectations for the Telephone A summary of the key financial results is business.
The total amount of gross profit tax set out in the table below and discussed in this section.
paid has increased by 7.6% William Hill With regard to financial structure the excluding Stanley Retail increased by Board believes that the Group should Growth in gross win has been achieved 0.1% due to the increase in gross win target a net debt to EBITDA ratio of 3.5 through the acquisition of Stanley Retail from betting activity including that times with any excess capital returned and growth in the existing Retail and generated from FOBTs.
Levies have to shareholders through a combination Interactive businesses offset by a increased by 7.8% William Hill of dividends and an ongoing on-market reduction in gross win in the Telephone excluding Stanley Retail decreased share buy-back programme, to the business.
Details of performance are 3.2% due to an increase in the extent that there is no alternative use of described in more detail in the Chief voluntary levy paid to the greyhound the funds.
In the Retail industry net of a small decrease in business, key trends include a reduction payments under the statutory We made significant progress in the in income from OTC and AWP business horseracing levy due to a reduction in year in a number of elements of our being more than offset by increased gross win from UK horseracing.
strategy as described in the Chief income from FOBTs.
The decline in OTC Royalties paid to various suppliers of Executives Review.
business was due to adverse sporting FOBTs have increased due to the roll out results and margin pressures.
FOBTs of additional terminals although the In addition, we made some progress in benefited from improved densities and percentage of gross win paid as royalty developing our international business greater popularity at the expense of has fallen in the period.
Similarly, during the course of the year.
An AWPs and OTC business levels.
Income royalties paid to Crypotologic and Boss agreement to promote the William Hill in the Telephone sportsbook was Media, suppliers of casino and poker brand in Greece was reached with a similarly affected by unfavourable software, have increased in absolute local partner.
We continue to evaluate sporting results and lower margins.
terms due to the continuing success of potential opportunities in select Interactive gross win grew in all areas these products.
Changes in FOBT European markets.
with poker gross win increasing by 90%.
Our policy not to accept sports bets Key nancials from customers based in the United Gross Win Operating profit States remained unchanged and Asian m 2005 2004 2005 2004 markets remained difficult to penetrate due to the legal environment and Retail WH 552.7 548.1 166.0 165.5 restrictions on payment methods.
Stanley 70.7 15.6 In the coming year we expect to: Retail total 623.4 548.1 181.6 165.5 Telephone 53.4 60.3 13.0 22.1 Maximise revenues in each channel Interactive 123.3 106.1 61.2 51.7 through specic initiatives: Other 7.6 7.6 0.1 0.3 Overheads 13.3 8.0 Manage the cost base to ensure efficient use of resources: 807.7 722.1 242.4 231.0 11 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review taxation, explained in the Chief its new loan facilities.
Net indebtedness Strong cash ow generation: Executives Review, and the full-year increased to 939.5m at 27 December A track record of innovation and benefit of changes in FOBT supplier 2005 28 December 2004 437.0m.
profitably exploiting regulatory, scal terms will affect these costs in 2006.
The Group continues to invest in and technological change: and Gross profit, representing gross win less developing each of its businesses so as A strong management team and GPT, levies, VAT, royalties and other costs to underpin its future growth prospects.
workforce of over 13,000 trained of sales, amounted to 631.2m, an It plans to continue to invest circa 40m employees.
increase of 12.4% William Hill excluding per annum in the retail estate including Stanley Retail increased 2.5% over the Stanley Retail which will benefit from a The directors believe that such comparable period.
targeted spend of 26m over the next resources help to secure the Groups three years.
The investment programme position at the forefront of the betting Net operating expenses, excluding to upgrade EPOS equipment and text and gaming industry and ensure it is exceptional items increased to 388.8m, systems in Stanley Retail will be well placed to compete and develop its an increase of 17.6% over the completed by March 2006 at a further business in the future.
comparable period William Hill cost of 5.6m.
The Group has also excluding Stanley Retail increased 5.5%.
earmarked 19m for investment in 2006 Risk and uncertainties and 2007 in new and improved Associate income represents the Groups technology platforms and core The directors are seeking to build an share of profits of its associate company, bookmaking systems that will ultimately increasingly profitable business by Satellite Information Services.
The directors exploiting the above-mentioned also consider opportunities to acquire strengths and, at the same time, Net interest payable increased to additional good quality LBOs.
All carefully managing the risks to the 39.9m, an increase of 58.3% against the investment and acquisition proposals operation.
Such risks include: the comparable period due to the change in are evaluated against strict criteria that potential impact of legislative changes nancing arrangements arising from the focus on return on capital and pay-back in the UK and overseas on the Groups acquisition of Stanley Retail.
scope and conduct of operations and ability to accept bets: the potential Tax on profit on ordinary activities impact of changes to the UK scal Resources relates primarily to the current year and environment: the ability of the Group to as the Group earns its profits in the UK is The Group seeks to exploit a number of manage its bookmaking risk: the calculated at 30% of taxable profits assets and resources that are not relationship with key suppliers, most being the current rate of UK corporation necessarily reected in its financial notably the horse and greyhound tax.
The Groups effective rate of tax statements including: industries: the payment of levies and before exceptional items was 31.1%, as fees to certain sporting bodies under compared to 27.8% in 2004.
The rate in A market leading position in all major various arrangements: the potential betting channels in the UK with an 2004 was lower due to the availability of threat represented by competitors tax losses in that year.
established international presence: based in the UK and overseas: the risk A long-established and widely Basic adjusted earnings per share were that key technology or information recognised brand, with a strong systems could fail: the impact of weather 36.2 pence, a 0.8% decrease against the reputation for quality: comparable period.
or other factors on the sporting programme: the loss of key personnel: An extensive and high quality estate The Group generated net cash inow the risk of a prolonged economic of betting shops which benefit from from operating activities of 242.0m, a recession or other geo-political events significant sustained investment and decrease of 2.1% against the that may result in a reduction of betting ongoing refurbishment and comparable period.
The Group paid activity: the risk that intermediaries such improvements: 33.4m in net debt service costs, 49.4m as banks refuse to accept credit and in corporation tax, invested a net An effective risk management system debit card transactions connected with 53.8m in capital expenditure, spent a and significant bookmaking gambling: and the risk resulting from net 466.1m on acquisitions, paid experience: any inability of the Group to service its 66.6m in dividends, spent 76.8m debt obligations.
A focus on sustainable and profitable purchasing its own shares and repaid a growth and tight management of loan facility in the amount of 500m.
The Board routinely monitors all the costs: The Group drew down 1,020m under above risks and appropriate actions are 12 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review taken to mitigate the risks or their The Group is a major contributor to the As a result of mandatory repayments in potential adverse consequences.
The horse and greyhound racing industries respect of the term loan, the available Chief Executives Review further via the statutory levy and voluntary levy facilities had fallen to 620m as at 28 expands on certain issues that fall into respectively.
December 2004, and further reduced to the above description of risk factors.
570m on 31 December 2004 as a result Our bankers are important providers of of a further mandatory repayment.
funding and nancing products as well Relationships as providing daily banking facilities The Groups acquisition of Stanley Retail The Group has relationships with various through our distribution channels.
during the year required funding and organisations as part of its day-to-day gave the Board the opportunity to give management of the Groups operations.
further consideration to the appropriate Returns to shareholders Our customers and employees are key nancing arrangements for the enlarged The Company paid an interim dividend to our success and our Corporate Group to achieve an efficient capital of 6.1 pence per share and the directors Responsibility CR Statement on structure.
have proposed a final dividend of 12.2 pages 34 to 39 provides further pence per share that would bring total information on our policies and Accordingly, the Group secured new dividends to 18.3 pence per share, an practices in these areas, as well as details facilities of 1.2bn with a consortium of 11% increase over the amount paid in of other key CR issues for the Group.
600m of the respect of the comparable period.
The new facilities have been structured as a The Group also has a number of key proposed level of total dividend five-year revolving credit facility and suppliers who provide products and corresponds to a dividend cover ratio of 600m as a five-year term loan.
These services to the Group.
Two of our most 2.0 times 28 December 2004 2.2 facilities were used to fund the significant relationships in the Retail times.
The Company normally aims to acquisition and to repay the old facilities business are with Leisure Link, the sole pay interim and final dividends that in June 2005. supplier of FOBTs to our LBOs in Great represent about one third and two Britain, and Alphameric, who supply and thirds, respectively, of total dividends.
The directors believe that the new maintain the Groups EPOS systems.
SIS, facilities are sufficient to meet the The Company obtained authority from in which the Group has a shareholding, projected working capital needs of the shareholders at the Annual General is the main provider of pictures and data Group.
Meeting held in May 2005 to buy-back into our LBOs.
The Group also has up to 10% of the issued share capital.
arrangements with the various horse The Company has hedged its exposure The Company bought back 3.6% of its and greyhound tracks via BAGS for the to interest rates on its oating rate debt share capital by the end of 2005 all of right to screen pictures.
by entering into a series of interest rate which was cancelled.
The aggregate cost swaps and collars.
Approximately one Our two online casino providers after expenses and stamp duty of the third of its forecast exposure is xed via Cryptologic and Boss Media are acquired 3.6% of issued share capital interest rate swaps reducing to one important suppliers to the Interactive was 78.7m.
one third is subject to interest rate collar From June 2002, the date of its initial arrangements until 2009.
William Hill operates in a regulated public offering to the end of 2005, the environment where the potential risks Company bought back a total of 9.9% of The remaining exposure is at oating indentied on page 12 include adverse its issued share capital inclusive of rates.
The Board will continue to review changes to the regulatory and tax shares bought back into treasury periodically the borrowing and hedging regimes.
The Group both on its own and returning 223m to shareholders and arrangements to ensure that they via trade associations maintains an paid dividends totalling a further remain appropriate to the needs of the ongoing dialogue with the DCMS and 223m.
Group and take account of changes in HM Treasury and participates in regular market conditions and business plans.
Approximately 2.7% of the issued share liaison meetings with the recently capital at the end of 2005 is retained in established Gambling Commission to The Board will target a ratio of net debt treasury shares to meet future awards assist with their understanding of the to EBITDA of approximately 3.5 times to under the Groups various incentive and bookmaking industry.
We have be achieved over the medium term.
provided, and will continue to provide, September 2005 the Board announced feedback on various consultation that on the basis of this target it documents issued by the Commission.
Financial structure and expected to return via on-market buyThe Government and the Commission backs 200m 300m to shareholders liquidity have identied responsible gambling as within an 18 month period.
By the end At otation in June 2002, the Company a key area of focus and we have a of 2005 78.3m had been returned.
arranged bank facilities amounting to regular dialogue with DCMS, the 660m comprising a five-year Going forward, the Board anticipates Gambling Commission, GamCare, the amortising term loan of 210m and a maintaining an efficient capital structure Reponsibility in Gambling Trust and revolving credit facility of 450m through a combination of dividends and trade associations in this area.
We also, available until 28 May 2007 the old ongoing share buy-backs.
via relevant trade associations, have facilities.
The old facilities were arrangements for alerting sports denominated in sterling as the Groups regulatory bodies to potential sports operations are largely based in the UK.
13 William Hill PLC - Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Adoption of IFRS The Group is well advanced in its plans to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The Group has prepared its financial statements for the 52 week period ended 27 December 2005 in accordance with UK generally accepted accounting principles UK GAAP although supplementary information prepared in accordance with IFRS is shown on pages 83 to 94.
The Group will adopt IFRS as the primary basis for reporting for the 52 week period ending 26 December 2006.
The Group does not expect the adoption of IFRS to have a material impact on the reported financial performance as compared to results prepared in accordance with UK GAAP.
Furthermore, it expects no adverse impact on its tax affairs or banking arrangements resulting from the transition to reporting in accordance with IFRS.
