Financial Review Christopher Rogers Finance Director Earnings Per Share and Dividend Cash Flow and Net Funds Basic earnings per share, impacted At the year-end the Group had net by exceptional items, was 0.1 pence funds of 108.7 million.
Cash generation per share compared with 3.3 pence across the Group remained healthy with per share in 2004.
Adjusted earnings a cash inflow from operating activities per share before exceptional items and of 162.2 million.
the amortisation of acquisition goodwill was 3.6 pence per share compared At the balance sheet date the Group to 3.5 pence per share in 2004. had facilities comprising an undrawn, uncancelled 150 million credit facility In light of the proposal from Apax, the and, in issue, 100 million of 8.75 per Directors are not recommending a final cent Senior Notes due in 2006. dividend.
In the event that an offer is not forthcoming the Directors then expect The net interest charge has further to recommend a dividend.
Details of the decreased this year to 8.8 million Companys forthcoming Annual General from 10.2 million in 2004.
Net interest Meeting are contained in the notice of charges were covered 9.3 times before meeting accompanying these accounts.
exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation.
Exceptional items In March 2004, the Group announced Subsequent to the balance sheet date, the that Woolworths big W as traded from Group took advantage of the favourable its existing property portfolio did not lending market and refinanced.
As a result represent a secure source of long-term the Group has added one bank to its profitability.
As a result, a number of stores existing Club and amended the existing have been reconfigured or are in the facilities to provide a new committed process of being sold.
The operating revolving credit facility of 250 million exceptional item of 60.9 million includes over a five-year term.
Both pricing and the cost of stock write downs, property other terms reflect the further progress impairments, redundancy, and consultancy the Group has made since demerger.
fees partly offset by disposal proceeds.
The restructuring of the big W stores will Treasury Policy continue throughout the current year The Groups Treasury Policy is and an exceptional credit in the region structured to ensure that adequate of 25 million is expected in 2005 06. financial resources are available for This will result in the total net exceptional the development and growth of its being in the range of 3540 million.
operations whilst managing its currency, interest rate and counter-party credit risks.
The Group Treasury strategy, policy and controls are developed centrally and approved by the Board.
The Group does not engage in speculative transactions.
Treasury policy was refreshed, re-presented and approved by the Board in November 2004.
10 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 The main elements of Treasury activity Interest Adoption of New Reporting are outlined below: The Treasury Policy requires that an Standards interest hedging plan for each year is The Group has adopted Urgent Issues Funding approved by the Finance Director at the Task Force, Abstract 38 UITF 38 time of the annual budget.
The Treasury Accounting for ESOP Trusts.
As a result, The Treasury function ensures that the Group has sufficient secure financial function is permitted to hedge in shares in the Company held through accordance with this plan using interest an employee share scheme which were resources to meet its medium-term business objectives whilst arranging a rate products such as swaps, options, previously reported as investments forward rate agreements and futures.
are now recorded as a deduction from blend of facility maturities appropriate to its projected needs.
A table showing the impact of this can be found in note 27 The Group continues to take a reasonably cautious approach to to the accounts, Capital and reserves.
In addition to core financing UITF 17 Revised Employee Share arrangements, the Treasury function hedging its interest expense.
The Group has swapped 30 per cent of its interest Schemes has also been adopted, manages trade finance facilities and although no changes are required overdraft facilities associated with its obligation under the 100 million bond from fixed to floating rate, to hedge its to the financial statements.
The remaining 70 per cent is a straight fixed rate obligation.
International Financial Reporting Currency Standards The Groups currency translation International Financial Reporting exposure is limited to movements in To date, interest payable on drawings from the Groups Revolving Credit Facility Standards IFRS become mandatory exchange rates to the extent that they for the consolidated financial statements affect balances held on its currency bank has been at floating rates driven by market conditions, the relatively short reported by all EU Listed companies accounts and certain foreign currency from 2005 onwards.
The areas of greatest assets and liabilities in the books of its borrowing period that the Groups businesses require each year and the impact for the Group have been identified Hong Kong-based product sourcing and work is underway to ensure the company, Woolworths Group Asia variation in amounts borrowed during this period.
Interest receivable on required compliance with IFRS for Limited.
Foreign currency bank balances the 2005 6 financial year.
The impact are controlled by the Treasury function investments has also been at floating rates for short maturities given the assessment has identified that changes and are actively managed to a level in accounting treatment for property, that minimises currency translation seasonality of the Groups cash flows.
Overall, interest receivable broadly goodwill, pensions and deferred tax may exposures.
The Groups main currency have greatest impact on the Group.
exposure is its transaction exposure offsets interest payable on drawings from the Revolving Credit Facility through movements in exchange rates on its purchases overseas that are not together with interest payable on the The impact of IAS 39 Financial floating rate element on the interest Instruments: Recognition and denominated in Sterling.
These are mainly imports from Asia denominated swap, providing some certainty of Measurement on the Groups Treasury exposure going forward.
operations is largely restricted to in US dollars and imports from Europe denominated in Euros.
treatment of instruments used to hedge its transacted foreign exchange exposure, Counter-Party Credit Risk The Group actively manages its its 100 million Bond, and the interest The Treasury Policy sets out a rate swap linked to this debt instrument.
framework through which the Groups relationships with a panel of highquality financial institutions.
Credit risk Group Treasury anticipates that its forecasted foreign currency transactions, foreign exchange hedging will qualify are hedged.
A proportion of transactions is controlled by the Treasury function setting counter-party credit limits by under the new rules for hedge are hedged up to 12 months forward.
The Treasury function arranges monthly reference to published rating agency credit ratings.
The Treasury Policy currency meetings with the Groups operating subsidiaries where firm and recognises that an exposure to a counter-party arises in relation to both forecast exposures are identified and hedging decisions are made in line derivatives and financial instruments.
11 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Financial Review continued Taxation Pensions Impact of Financial Reporting The effective tax rate for the 52 weeks Following a detailed review the Group Standard 17 Retirements Benefits to 29 January 2005 before exceptional announced in April 2003 that it would The valuation of the WGPS as at items is 30.6 per cent 76.3 per cent retain the Woolworths Group Pension 29 January 2005, as measured in including exceptional items.
This Scheme WGPS final salary scheme.
accordance with FRS 17, was a net compares to an effective tax rate of Whilst revised terms for the participation pension deficit of 68.2 million 2004: 30.9 per cent for the prior year.
Under of new employees have been introduced, 66.1 million after the benefit of existing tax legislation, it is anticipated existing members have been asked potential deferred taxation at 30 per that the effective Group tax rate will to increase contributions with effect cent amounting to 29.3 million 2004: continue to move towards the standard from April 2004 in order to retain 28.4 million.
The increase in the deficit over the Acquisitions and Disposals Financial Reporting Standard 17 year is primarily attributable to asset The Group purchased the remaining Retirement Benefits FRS 17 was returns and membership movements 50 per cent interest in Flogistics Limited issued in November 2000 to replace within the scheme.
a company which sells and distributes Statement of Standard Accounting gift vouchers from Kingfisher for 2 on Practice 24 Accounting for Pension Had the Group charged pension costs 26 September 2004.
There was no Costs SSAP 24, and was initially to the profit and loss account on the difference between the book value and supposed to be fully effective for the FRS 17 basis, then the charge for the the fair value of the assets acquired.
accounting periods ending on or year would have been 18.4 million 2004: Accordingly, up to that date, Flogistics after 22 June 2003.
However, full 25.4 million, compared to a SSAP 24 has been accounted for as a joint venture implementation of FRS 17 has now charge of 16.0 million 2004: 16.2 million.
and since that date as a subsidiary.
been deferred, pending the review of International Accounting Standard Going Concern On 27 September 2004, Woolworths 19 Employee Benefits.
The Directors confirm that, after making Group plc entered into a joint venture enquiries, they have a reasonable with BBC Worldwide Limited to form The Group has continued to account expectation that the Group has adequate 2entertain Limited.
This transaction for pension costs under SSAP 24 resources to continue in operational has been accounted for in accordance although in accordance with the existence for the foreseeable future.
with UITF 31 Exchange of businesses transitional arrangements for FRS 17, For this reason, they continue to adopt or other non monetary assets for an certain additional information is set the going concern basis in preparing interest in a subsidiary, joint venture out below.
The Group has continued to these accounts.
The net effect of this contribute to the WGPS at the rate of transaction was to dispose of a 60 per 13.5 per cent of pensionable pay.
Under cent interest in certain VCI Group trading SSAP 24 the pension cost for the year is entities in return for a 40 per cent interest 16.0 million 2004: 16.2 million, which in 2entertain Limited.
Goodwill relating is split into a regular cost of 14.8 million to the transaction of 52.1 million is 2004: 15.0 million and a variation being amortised over 20 years and of 1.2 million 2004: 1.2 million.
Christopher Rogers amortisation of 0.9 million has been Finance Director charged since completion.
The actuaries have assessed the Minimum Funding Requirement MFR level for the Group at the end of the financial year and it remains above 100 per cent.
12 Woolworths Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005
