All the Groups KPIs but one have shown Operating review either an improvement compared to Overview last year or are broadly unchanged.
The Last year was a successful one for exception is operating cash flow, which the Group, with significantly increased was strong in 2005 but slightly lower than Adjusted profit and strong cash flow.
We last year due to the great improvement have built on the foundations laid in 2004, to working capital management in 2004. when balance sheet restoration and a Turnover was virtually unchanged return to profitability were the priority.
compared to 2004, in line with Our focus on margin growth in our core expectations, due to the Groups focus markets has proved successful, especially on margin improvement, which has been in the Design and Engineering Solutions successful.
This also explains why staff segment which produced excellent results.
numbers were broadly unchanged over the year.
Staff turnover remained at the Outlook same level, though we are striving to Prospects for the business remain good improve this measure, as retention of our and the outlook for the Groups core expertise is critical to the Groups plans.
This is demonstrated Work in hand remains robust.
by the Groups contractually committed Keith Clarke work in hand for 2006, the most Chief Executive A more detailed analysis of turnover, appropriate indicator for our business, trading operating profit, work in hand and which is approximately 57% of budgeted staff numbers for each segment follows, turnover.
We believe that the recent while staff turnover is discussed in the slowing of expenditure in the UK Rail People section below and cash flow is sector is likely to be temporary and is more covered in the Financial review.
than offset by strong demand for our services in other sectors.
Strategy Operating and We are confident that our business Key performance indicators model can deliver sustainable growth in financial review The Groups management uses a range shareholder value.
Our core business is of performance measures to monitor and helping clients to plan, design and enable manage the business.
Certain of these are their capital programmes.
We intend to considered key performance indicators remain in this area of business and our KPIs.
These KPIs fall into two categories, emphasis is on continuously improving financial metrics that measure past delivery to our clients.
Our strategy to performance and measures that allow us achieve growth is to focus upon the to manage the business into the future.
Prospects for the Groups Identity, achieve Excellence and deliver Core Growth.
This may be Our key financial metrics are turnover, business remain good expressed further as follows: trading operating profit and margin and operating cash flow.
These measures and the outlook for Atkins Identity comes from the strength indicate the volume of work we have of our brand and by positioning and the Groups core done, its profitability and the efficiency selling the skills we already have.
Our skills with which we have turned profits markets is positive.
are in planning, designing and enabling into cash.
the delivery of complex infrastructure and buildings for clients in the public and Our KPIs for managing the business private sectors in the UK and selected into the future are work in hand, international markets.
In providing these staff numbers and staff turnover.
services our people are our key resource The proportion of budgeted turnover and the recruitment of first class staff is accounted for by work in hand informs critical.
We therefore seek to forge us about the security of our workload for relationships and enhance our reputation the forthcoming year, while staff numbers with selected universities to ensure future and turnover quantify our key resource staffing needs are met.
and indicate our effectiveness in retaining staff.
The Groups measurement of work in hand includes only contracted and committed obligations.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 14 Surveying track integrity using video technology Managing the project to construct a spur road over the M25 motorway to Heathrows new Terminal 5 We aim to achieve Excellence through Trading operating profit in Transport focused investment, applying technology reduced by 2.2m 9% compared to to increase the effectiveness of our high last year, on turnover which reduced by calibre staff and products and hence 15.9m 4%.
Both turnover and trading deliver a higher quality and more costoperating profit were adversely impacted effective service to our clients.
Provision by the downturn in the Rail market in the of top quality training and development second half of the year.
Our order book is for our talented staff is crucial to meet substantial, with work in hand for 2006 at and exceed the demands of our clients.
70% of budgeted turnover, excluding the two major signalling schemes announced As a consequence, we believe we will after the year-end.
achieve Core Growth in existing markets and by extending and improving our Highways and Transportation range of services, through organic Review of operations growth geographically and by selective Our principal services are transport acquisitions in targeted areas.
planning, design of new roads and improvements, development of intelligent Transport Segment transport systems, management of road Our Transport segment provides planning, maintenance programmes and integrated design and programme management road network management.
Our key services to the Rail and Highways and clients are the Department for Transport, Transportation sectors, principally in the the Highways Agency HA and local and UK.
We are the largest UK consultant regional government bodies.
We are the engineer in both markets, as shown in the largest provider of planning, design and New Civil Engineer Consultants File, 2005. operational services to the highways and Transport is the Groups largest segment transportation sector.
and accounted for 41% of the Groups turnover for the year and 38% of trading Turnover and trading operating margin operating profit.
increased in 2005, despite the impact of some delay in the HAs capital expenditure 2005 2004 programme.
In particular, our highways Turnover 394.4m 410.3m services business performed well with Trading operating operational efficiencies driving margin profit 21.3m 23.5m improvement.
Margins also strengthened Trading operating in our higher value transport planning margin 5.4% 5.7% business due to increasing demand for Joint Venture our services in transport policy, strategy turnover 11.0m 19.3m and network management.
Joint Venture profit before tax 0.8m 0.8m Staff at 31 March 4,702 4,706 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 15 Surveying track on the East Coast Main Line near York Clients are increasingly turning to Outlook Operating and technological solutions to improve travel Government expenditure in the highways financial review information, traffic control and network sector is likely to continue increasing, operations.
The development of according to published spending plans, continued operational and traffic control centres was though the mix between central and a major feature last year.
Our transport supplementary funding is set to change.
systems business has a well established Our market position means we are well capability in this area and our innovative placed to benefit from this continued approach was recognised when we were investment.
Furthermore, the trend named Consultant of the Year at the first towards integrated management annual Highways Magazine Excellence and operational services contracts is Awards in October 2004.
The judges accelerating and we have a proven highlighted in particular the new control competence in this area.
Our partnership rooms incorporating state-of-the-art with Northamptonshire County Council technology which have been introduced was described as groundbreaking in for the Welsh Assembly Government and the governments recent guidance on Northamptonshire County Council.
delivering efficiency in local services.
We believe that the outlook for the sector We won a number of significant remains positive and given our size and contracts this year, including the design capability to plan, design and enable client role for the M1 junctions 6A to 10 projects, we are in a good position to widening scheme.
We recently took to exploit the increasingly sophisticated public consultation the A14 Ellington to government procurement framework.
Atkins provides a fully integrated approach Fen Ditton improvement.
As part of the to County highway management, combining governments local transport planning Rail traditional contractor and engineering process, we have helped 13 local Review of operations consultancy roles authorities classified as weak, based We provide high value rail engineering on their third annual progress reports, services.
Our clients look to us to provide to move out of this category and are them with cost effective solutions to now helping six more authorities to raise reduce the cost of rail investment and their performance.
We also secured improve their returns.
Our principal market professional services partnership and remains the UK and we also operate in term contracts with a number of Scandinavia and the Far East.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 16 This year we worked on many high profile Design and Engineering projects, including the West Coast Main Solutions Segment Line WCML, one of Europes busiest rail Design and Engineering Solutions delivers routes.
We have produced creative, cost design, environment and engineering effective solutions for the implementation based consultancy services to a wide of new systems and technology for the range of public and private sector clients.
WCML, winning an industry award for This segment accounted for 30% of the a major signalling project at Rugby, as well Groups turnover for the year and 43% as resourcing expertise to refurbish old of trading operating profit.
technology signal boxes and equipment 2005 2004 in the north-west.
We are also advising the Turnover 288.4m 264.3m Strategic Rail Authority and Department Trading operating for Transport on how best to handle the profit 24.5m 13.4m increasing demand for rail travel linked Trading operating to the expansion of Stansted Airport.
margin 8.5% 5.1% Joint Venture The UK and Danish railways are going turnover 0.9m 0.1m through a significant period of change, Designing the Jakarta Arch, a five star luxury tower Joint Venture driven primarily by the need to reduce hotel for client Badan Kerjasama Mutiara Buana.
profit before tax 0.2m 0.2m the cost of transportation to the taxpayer The building will form the centrepiece of a Staff at 31 March 4,956 4,339 10-tower residential and leisure development whilst maintaining service levels and in Pantai Mutiara, Jakarta, Indonesia improved network performance.
This affected work levels in the second half The segment had a very successful year, of the year and as a result both turnover due to strong demand for our services and and trading operating profit for the the impact of our strategy of concentrating full year fell compared to 2004.
As a on delivering higher margins in our consequence, we have cut overheads core markets.
Trading operating profit while ensuring that key skills are increased by 11.1m 83% on turnover maintained, to allow us to benefit from growth of 9% with a significantly higher what we believe will be a stronger market trading operating margin of 8.5%.
Our recent work in hand for the year ahead is robust selection as lead bidder for two major at 45% of budgeted turnover.
signalling schemes demonstrates our ability to compete in the currently more challenging market.
Outlook The market slow-down in the UK is likely to continue in the short term.
However, the medium term outlook is more encouraging, based on industry forecasts of expenditure on renewals and enhancements and we remain confident in the prospects of the business.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 17 Design, Environment and Engineering In the Middle East we have grown Review of operations significantly in the last year, with staff Design, Environment and Engineering numbers increasing by over 30% to is central to Atkins core capability to approximately 800.
We added to our plan, design and enable.
Our architects portfolio of landmark building with and engineers design buildings and the design of the Bahrain World Trade provide town planning, urban design Centre and we were appointed by the services and consulting engineering government of Dubai for the design and for civil infrastructure projects.
Our medical planning of the Al Zahra Hospital.
multi-disciplinary services include In China we are one of the largest environmental consultancy and other key international consultants operating in the related specialist disciplines.
Principal areas mainland and continue to expand with a of operation are in the UK, Europe, the further two offices opened in 2004.
At the Middle East and Asia.
Key markets in the end of the year we employed nearly 300 UK are education, environment, health, staff in mainland China, in addition to our public sector, leisure, commercial and 370 staff in Hong Kong.
In Shanghai we urban design.
The 2005 New Civil are currently working as masterplanner, Engineer Consultants File indicated that architect and landscape architect on a Applying sustainable design techniques to we are the largest UK consultant in many 100 hectare English themed new town Chancellor Park Primary School, near Chelmsford of the markets in which we operate, Thames Town.
In Hong Kong we are including the building, geotechnical designing the next phase of the mass and public sectors.
transportation rail network and undertaking the final phase of Hong Our performance in the year was Kongs land reclamation project, which excellent, both in terms of turnover and includes the redesign of the famous improved margins.
Margin growth has Star Ferry terminal.
been driven by the buoyant market for Operating and our range of services and the results of Outlook our efforts to improve our management The current market in the UK is financial review of projects.
Our services are in demand positive, especially in the light of continued and across the business order intake was ongoing investment in public sector good with a number of significant capital projects.
We envisage that contract wins.
healthcare and education will be particular growth areas in the forthcoming year.
In the UK these included a project for the In the private sector, capital investment Greater London Authority for the re-design programmes are being encouraged by the of Parliament Square, a framework stable UK economy.
This strong demand contract for the governments Building means growth prospects in the UK remain Schools for the Future initiative and a good.
Our operations in the Middle East project for Airbus for the re-development continue to benefit from the sustained of its base in Bristol.
Much of our work ongoing investment in the region.
China has been multi-disciplinary, including also presents significant growth prospects the innovative design of the new British and we are well placed to exploit the Library archive storage facility at Boston considerable opportunities in the country.
Spa, for which we have provided a range of architectural, engineering and design services.
Other examples include design work for a major housing and leisure development at Lytham and the design of a multi-modal transport interchange at Wolverhampton.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 18 Atkins designed the Nexus CCTV system, which Following a detailed investigation, Atkins developed provides continuous monitoring and recording at a long-term strategy for the continued operation of Tyne and Wear Metro and bus stations the Thames Barrier to the year 2100 Industry water division started the year slowly due Review of operations to the regulatory cycle but ended the year Our Industry business provides strongly, bolstered by a good performance engineering, planning, design and project by our water technology products.
We management services primarily in the have continued to work on a diverse UK utility, aerospace, defence and oil range of nuclear, conventional and and gas markets.
We are the UKs largest renewable power projects and have independent defence consultant and recently been selected as a partner by the second largest UK utility consultant.
British Energy to support its engineering Our clients are leading companies and division under a Technical Support Alliance organisations within these sectors, with contract.
We are seeing increased demand 70% of Industry business coming from for our integrity management services in 30 key customers with whom good the oil and gas industry as clients such as relationships have been developed over BP, Shell and Total seek to extend the life many years.
We are also able to offer a of their existing assets.
wide range of complementary services from other parts of the Group.
This Outlook feature, along with the Groups size The actions taken during the last two and financial strength, means we years to re-focus the business on core continue to be chosen to undertake large growth sectors have set a solid foundation multi-disciplinary and alliance contracts.
from which we can grow and increase Recent examples include services for profits further.
We continue to see growth United Utilities and decommissioning prospects in all our sectors and entered work at Sellafield.
the new financial year with a strong order book.
In utilities we have been successful in The year was a very successful one for a number of bids under the AMP4 capital Industry.
Although turnover fell slightly, programme for the water industry, which profits and margins increased significantly.
provide us with framework contracts for This is the result of our strategy of exiting work throughout the life of the five year non-core and less profitable businesses in investment cycle.
Demand for our services order to focus on our key growth sectors.
in the aerospace sector is growing from clients such as Rolls-Royce and Airbus.
The We have continued to penetrate the award of the FRES contract is a significant defence and aerospace markets and were step forward for our defence business awarded the Future Rapid Effect System and provides excellent opportunities for FRES systems house role by the MoD.
The formation of the Nuclear Other major projects included design Decommissioning Agency in April 2005 services for Airbus on the A380 aircraft is expected to provide significant and for Rolls-Royce on the Trent 1000 opportunities for our business.
engine and the Joint Strike Fighter.
Our WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 19 Our Project & Cost Management subsidiary Faithful & Gould managed the project to develop the Centre for Engineering and Manufacturing Excellence at Dagenham Management and Project Management Consultants Operating and Services Segment Review of operations financial review Management and Project Services Our Management Consultants business encompasses a range of activities delivering provides clients with the skills and resources continued management and IT consultancy, cost and to manage complex programmes of programme management and whole life business change.
A major part of our cycle services to clients in the public and business is the provision of management private sectors.
This segment accounted for consultancy services to central 22% of the Groups turnover for the year government and its agencies, especially and 12% of trading operating profit.
in the niche areas of programme and project management.
We also provide 2005 2004 services to commercial clients such Turnover 210.8m 209.0m as BAA.
Trading operating profit 6.6m 3.6m The year saw an increase in turnover Trading operating through organic growth.
Trading margin 3.1% 1.7% operating margin also increased, Joint Venture through improved utilisation of staff turnover 1.9m 17.1m and other efficiencies.
Drivers for growth Joint Venture included the government efficiency profit before tax 0.7m 1.1m agenda, national security issues and Staff at 31 March 3,219 3,597 information exchange requirements in respect of government agencies.
Turnover in Management and Project Outlook Services was virtually unchanged compared Public sector efficiency drives are boosting demand Public sector efficiency drives are likely to last year but trading operating profit for our management consultancy services to generate large scale programmes of increased by 3.0m.
Management organisational change requiring specialist Consultants and the UK part of Faithful support.
We are positioning ourselves to & Gould performed well and increased address specific opportunities in this area.
However, our Asset These include reorganisation arising from Management business had another relocation, programme management difficult year due to the need to make services for organisational change and provisions of 3.9m in respect of certain management strategies for integrated long term facilities management contracts.
In order to meet Work in hand for 2006 is healthy at 50% increasing demand we are devoting much of budgeted turnover.
attention to the recruitment, retention and development of staff.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 20 Faithful & Gould Outlook Review of operations The overall outlook is positive and our Faithful & Gould operates in the transport, continued focus on developing higher property and industrial sectors and is one margin business and market leading of the worlds largest project and cost processes provides a good basis for further consultants.
We have a diverse external growth.
Projects for this year include client portfolio and also supply services to commercial advice on the Amsterdam the rest of the Atkins Group.
Our principal Metro and project and cost management operations are in the UK and US and we for British Lands regeneration scheme also have a presence in other selected in Sheffield.
In the US the potential for overseas markets.
client representative work on risk and programme management is substantial The UK business performed well in 2005. and we will continue to focus on Trading operating margin improved improving business performance.
significantly, mainly due to selective bidding and tight control of overheads.
Asset Management Turnover growth was modest, in line Review of operations with our plan to gradually reposition from Asset Management provides independent Providing asset management support to the increasingly commoditised quantity facilities management FM services to the all of Barclays UK branch network surveying market to higher margin project public and private sectors.
Whilst not a management and strategic consultancy.
growth area for Atkins, Asset Management An example of this is our provision of has been re-positioned this year from a project and cost management support volume-driven to a focused FM service to the banking sector relating to branch for the MoD and selected private sector improvements.
We have also won work in clients.
It is expected that the re-focused the water and urban development sectors, business will significantly reduce its risk including cost management consultancy profile, whilst maintaining relationships for United Utilities and the Lea Valley with key clients, such as the MoD.
The majority of the business had a Our operation in the US was impacted satisfactory year, though results were by difficult market conditions which had significantly depressed due to losses made a consequential effect on staff utilisation by certain long term facilities management and margins.
We have reviewed the projects.
Additional provisions of 3.9m carrying value of our investment in were required to cover projected losses Hanscomb, Inc. and this resulted in a over the circa 25 year life of the contracts write-down of 5.5m of the previously concerned.
Action has been taken to capitalised goodwill.
Trading conditions improve the financial performance of in the US have shown some signs of these contracts, including changes in improvement in recent months.
East operation performed well in the year, particularly in the pharmaceutical and Outlook petrochemical sectors.
The Asset Management business will remain a useful part of the Group, operating in its niche markets.
We recently announced that, as part of a Joint Venture, we have won an MoD Housing Prime contract, which will provide a significant workload over seven years and we are preferred bidder, as part of another Joint Venture, in the 30 year Royal School of Military Engineering PFI contract.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 21 Equity Investments Segment Outlook The Equity Investments segment The property markets generally show comprises Lambert Smith Hampton a positive outlook for the coming year, and the Groups interest in PPP PFI Joint with occupier demand supporting a Ventures.
This segment accounted for 7% strengthening office market, particularly of the Groups turnover for the year, 7% in London, and strong demand for of trading operating profit and over 90% investment property.
Whilst the retail of its share of Joint Venture turnover.
market remains exposed to consumer demand, prospects for the industrial 2005 2004 market remain good.
LSH is well placed to Turnover 61.4m 66.8m benefit from these positive market trends Trading operating through further growth in our regional profit 4.3m 5.9m network and expansion of our national Trading operating client base.
margin 7.0% 8.8% Joint Venture Metronet turnover 187.5m 151.2m In common with the vast majority of Joint Venture PPP PFI contracts, Atkins is part of the The Senior Non-Commissioned Officers mess profit before tax 14.2m 12.6m supply chain performing work related building at Colchester Garrison, one of 110 new Staff at 31 March 911 946 to its core skills.
or modernised buildings being designed by Atkins This year was the second year of Lambert Smith Hampton operations of the Metronet consortium, Review of operations in which the Group has a 20% interest.
Lambert Smith Hampton LSH is a wholly Metronet runs the London Underground owned subsidiary run independently infrastructure companies Metronet Rail under its own brand.
It provides a broad BCV Limited, incorporating the Bakerloo, range of commercial property consultancy Operating and Central, Victoria and Waterloo & City and transactional services.
Its activities lines, and Metronet Rail SSL Limited, include commercial agency and financial review incorporating the Metropolitan, District, investment advice, valuation services, continued Circle, Hammersmith & City and East landlord and tenant advice, property London lines.
Together these account management and building surveying.
for over two thirds of the London LSH has 29 offices across the UK and the Underground network.
Metronet is Republic of Ireland and continues to be now undertaking a programme of ranked as the UKs most Active Office upgrading, replacing and maintaining Agent by the Estates Gazette.
the network that will in time deliver substantial improvements and enable During the year LSH benefited from London Underground to operate a more improving conditions, especially in the frequent and reliable service.
London agency, investment and corporate Underground will remain responsible occupier markets.
The investment division for the management of the network, was involved in a number of notable deals, including drivers, signalling and station while commercial agency transactions staff and the Safety Case.
It will also be included the surrender of T-Mobiles lease responsible for ticketing and fares.
in Borehamwood and its subsequent purchase by Property Merchant Group, Trans4m Ltd, a Joint Venture company the largest transaction in the M25 office in which Atkins has a 25% shareholding, market last year.
We further developed has contracted with the Metronet PPP our outsourced property advisory business, companies to undertake the civil winning new work with clients including engineering work and the refurbishment HM Prison Services and NTL.
Staff turnover and modernisation of the stations.
issues early in the year have been 1 Trans4m Ltd has signed a 7 2 year successfully addressed but this disruption contract with Atkins for premises and impacted on profits for the full year.
civils design, inspection and assessment work and the design and build of new communications systems.
Atkins also provides services and staff directly into Metronet, and to help with the delivery of the capital programme, the number of Atkins staff seconded to Metronet may increase.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 22 Metronet has made progress with its In line with the Groups strategy to recycle day-to-day operating performance.
cash invested in PFI at the appropriate time, Since Metronet took over, the reliability we disposed of our 25% shareholding in of the lines for which it is responsible has Mercia Healthcare Holdings Limited in improved, resulting in less passenger January 2005 for 5.6m.
In addition extra trains are available for service on the Central, People Victoria and Metropolitan lines.
Atkins is the largest engineering consultancy in Europe and the 7th largest The capital programme has suffered design firm in the World.
Our goal is to be significant delays which, while not the employer of choice in our sector, and materially affecting the past years our size, strength and breadth of activity operating performance, will unless position us well to attract and retain the 1 recovered affect the first Periods 7 2 best staff in the industry.
We are one of years returns.
A new Chief Executive for the UKs largest employers of engineers Metronet with proven rail experience has and architects, and a major recruiter of been appointed and took up his position graduates.
Worldwide we employ 14,000 on 20 June 2005.
Keith Clarke, on behalf staff, of whom 80% are based in the UK, Modernising or refurbishing 150 London of Metronets five shareholders, has taken 10% in the Middle East and China and Underground stations Bow Road was the first on the role of Non-Executive Chairman.
a further 10% in continental Europe and the USA.
Approximately 80% of staff are At this early stage of the capital professionally or technically qualified.
programme, the financial results of Metronet largely reflect operating As a professional services business, performance rather than the delivery of the skills and energy of our staff are the capital programme.
During the year overwhelmingly our biggest asset and ended 31 March 2005, the operating are critical to the ongoing success of the performance was broadly in line with Group.
Our HR objectives are to recruit expectations.
The results of Metronet and retain staff with the best skills were, however, impacted by the delay in available: to invest in the development the capital programme.
A provision of of our employees to meet our clients 14m was made for the financial impact changing needs: and to provide a working of the potential late delivery of station environment in which staff can flourish.
improvements, of which Atkins share Good progress was made in the year in is approximately 3m.
meeting these objectives: Trans4m plays a key role in delivering the Recruitment and retention capital programme for Metronet.
Atkins Recruitment practice was modernised currently has over 500 people working on with the implementation of a global Metronet-related activities, either within e-recruitment platform that has enabled Trans4m or within the Group.
In addition, us to compile a worldwide database a number of staff have been seconded of vacancies and candidates.
It also into key positions in Metronet.
The provides an exchange for staff to access continuing delay in the delivery of the opportunities across the Group.
The capital programme has impacted the technical strength of the Group has results of Trans4m and the profit that continued to improve, particularly in Atkins has made from its work for design and project management, where Trans4m.
Improvements are being made Atkins is increasingly seen as the leading and progress is now occurring.
Over 2,500 staff joined in the year, with staff turnover remaining Other PPP PFI contracts constant at around 15%.
Whilst this is The Colchester Garrison PFI project higher than we would wish, and is well has now completed its first full year of above our medium term target of 12.5%, operations.
Construction is progressing it represents good performance in a tight well and is expected to be delivered recruitment market.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 23 Training and development addition to the support provided to staff We continue to invest heavily in in pursuing professional qualifications.
the training and development of our These workshops will cover approximately employees with over 11m invested 400 staff per annum and utilise many of in internal and external programmes.
the assessment tools developed for the A major refresh of our management Management Development Centres training portfolio commenced during referred to above.
the year, covering, people, project management, commercial and client Working environment management training.
By the year-end, 70% of staff participated in our annual over 500 managers had attended people Viewpoint survey, which this year covered skills programmes the first of the four all staff worldwide.
The results showed an areas to be implemented, reflecting encouraging improvement in employee our commitment to providing the best engagement and in understanding of our possible working environment for our direction and strategy.
Over 450 managers have now steps to ensure that our employment attended in-house Management package remains competitive and to Development Centres.
These have provide a working environment that meets Graduate recruits are attracted by our work proved very successful in supporting the the changing needs of our staff.
These on major projects in key international markets, career development of our senior staff.
included the introduction of a flexible such as Hong Kong and China Turnover among this group of staff is leave scheme, an employee assistance encouragingly low.
programme and a share incentive plan.
Improvements were also made to our Our approach to graduate recruitment occupational health programme.
We and development was also significantly have also introduced childcare vouchers modified.
We enhanced our graduate and a home computing scheme, taking reward package to ensure that we recruit advantage of tax concessions available Operating and and retain the most able graduates in the to UK staff.
At the year-end 66% of staff face of continuing competition.
Graduate up from 44% are now covered by financial review development workshops were introduced Investors in People accreditation.
continued for all first and third year trainees, in Awards and accolades The Group received numerous awards and accolades during the year.
Some of the more significant ones are shown below: Award Awarding body Major Firm of the Year New Civil Engineer Consultants File Consultant of the Year Highways Magazine Construction Consultant of the Year Building Magazine Rail Innovation Award for Rugby re-signalling project Modern Railways and the Railway Forum RIBA Award for Trafalgar Square development with Foster & Partners and Feilden & Mawson Royal Institute of British Architects Ten Best Big Companies to Work For The Sunday Times Top 100 Graduate Employers The Times UK Graduate Survey Social and community issues Last year saw the publication of the Groups first stand alone Corporate Social Responsibility CSR Report.
A separate report has again been prepared this year.
A summary version is presented in a later section of the Annual Report.
This includes information concerning the Groups approach to health and safety policy.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 24 Adjusted profit before tax for the year Financial review ended 31 March 2005 was 73.6m, an The Group has delivered significantly increase of 17.4m 31% compared to improved trading operating profit with last year.
The increase reflects our success strong cash flow.
in driving up margins by our selective approach to contracts, a continued focus Turnover on overhead control and the impact of Turnover from continuing operations our strengthening cash position.
Adjusted was broadly unchanged at 1,156.3m profit for the year ended 31 March 2005 2004: 1,138.1m and excluding our is stated after an increase in depreciation share of turnover from continuing following a reduction in the estimated Joint Ventures amounted to 955.0m useful life of certain IT fixed assets due to 2004: 950.4m.
These figures reflect our a re-evaluation of replacement cycles the strategy to concentrate on higher margin, impact in 2005 was 3.8m.
Going forward, the Group trading operating margin on continuing will pursue turnover growth in our target operations before Joint Ventures was markets and continue to focus on 5.9% 2004: 4.9%.
Robert MacLeod Joint Ventures Adjusted profit before tax Group Finance Director The Groups share of profit before tax from Adjusted profit is used by the Group to its continuing Joint Ventures, principally measure underlying performance.
The table Metronet, rose from 14.2m to 15.7m.
below shows the calculation of Adjusted The contribution made by Joint Ventures profit before tax and its relationship to to the Groups results will remain profit before tax, as shown in the significant in the next few years.
financial statements: 2005 2004 Net interest m m Excluding Joint Ventures, net interest Segmental trading improved from net interest payable of operating profit 6.7m in 2004 to net interest receivable Continuing operations 56.7 46.4 of 1.5m in 2005.
This primarily reflects Discontinued operations 1.1 the significant improvement in the Groups 56.7 45.3 cash position and the reducing cost of Share of Joint Ventures financing the Groups commitment to profit before tax 15.9 20.6 its investment in Metronet.
Net interest Net interest 1.5 6.7 includes costs in respect of the Metronet PFI bid costs 0.5 3.0 The Group has Standby Letters of Credit of 2.6m 2004: 4.2m.
The costs of these Letters Adjusted profit delivered significantly of Credit will continue to reduce as the before tax 73.6 56.2 Metronet equity payments are made.
Amortisation of pension improved trading scheme net deficit 4.6 3.4 Bid costs operating profit with Amortisation of goodwill 5.9 7.8 The results are after charging bid costs Exceptional items 1.8 13.5 strong cash flow.
of 0.5m 2004: 3.0m relating to PPP PFI Colchester Garrison projects.
There was relatively little bid dilution gain 4.8 activity during the year whilst we awaited Employee Benefit Trusts 1.2 1.3 the award of preferred bidder status on Profit before tax 60.1 62.0 a number of outstanding bids.
No costs were capitalised with respect of PPP PFI WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 25 Managing and maintaining Northamptonshires Atkins was recently selected as lead bidder for two major highways in a partnership commended by the signalling schemes on the West Coast Main Line Deputy Prime Minister bids during the year.
The Group recently Charges Operating and announced that, along with its Joint The defined benefit regular pension cost financial review Venture partners, it has been named as for the year included in Adjusted profit the preferred bidder for the Royal School decreased by 2.7m to 13.8m.
This is continued of Military Engineering PFI contract and due to a reduction in membership of that it has been short-listed for the the closed scheme and the increase in Birmingham Highways PFI contract.
The charge to These bids are likely to increase the amortise the pension deficit increased by costs incurred in 2006.
1.2m to 4.6m, based on the triennial actuarial valuation.
Pensions Valuation FRS 17 The triennial actuarial valuation of the The Group has continued to account for Atkins Staff Scheme as at 1 April 2004 pension costs under SSAP 24, Accounting was completed during the year.
Had the Group adopted indicated that the scheme had a deficit FRS 17, Retirement Benefits, the Groups of 69m, some 4m greater than the profit before tax would have been reduced interim actuarial assessment carried out in by 6.9m 2004: 6.3m.
At that time the Group the Group would have recognised a agreed, along with its staff, an increase in post tax pension liability of 175.7m cash contributions.
its annual cash contributions by 3.5m commencing on 1 April 2004 and the Exceptional items and staffs additional contributions of circa discontinued operations 3.5m per annum, to be phased over two Exceptional items comprise 5.5m in years, also commenced on that date.
It respect of goodwill impairment net was estimated that these contributions of 3.7m profit on disposal.
should eliminate the actuarial deficit over a period of 15 years.
Subsequently, given An impairment charge of 5.5m has the Groups stronger financial position, been made against the carrying value the Board decided to accelerate the of goodwill in respect of the Groups payment of the Groups contributions to American subsidiary, Hanscomb, Inc, the pension scheme.
In addition to the which was acquired in June 2002. annual cash contributions of 3.5m, an additional contribution of 8.6m was In January 2005 the Group disposed made by the Group in January 2005 and of its 25% interest in Mercia Healthcare it anticipates making further contributions Holdings Limited for a cash consideration of circa 10m per annum.
Based on the of 5.6m, resulting in a profit on disposal assumptions used in the last actuarial of 3.7m.
This disposal was in line with valuation, annual funding at this rate the Groups policy of recycling capital should lead to the elimination of the in mature PFI investments at the schemes actuarial deficit in approximately appropriate time.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 26 Designing a new regional airport complex in Yinchuan, China Taxation Cash flow The Groups effective tax rate for the year Net funds excluding EBTs and cash held on ended 31 March 2005 was 31.3% of behalf of subcontractors increased from Adjusted profit 2004: 31.5%.
The 68.4m at 31 March 2004 to 106.7m effective tax rate on profit before at 31 March 2005.
Net cash inflow amortisation of goodwill and exceptional from operating activities was 82.6m items was 31.3% 2004: 41.7%, the rate 2004: 94.4m.
A summary reconciliation in 2004 having been abnormally high due between operating profit and operating to the treatment of loans between Group cash flow is shown below.
companies and the Employee Benefit 2005 2004 Trusts.
The tax charge on exceptional m m items was 0.3m 2004: 1.1m.
Group operating profit excluding share of The Groups effective tax rate should Joint Ventures 39.0 34.5 decrease next year as the Group takes Depreciation and advantage of the research and amortisation 35.6 26.8 development tax credits available for Decrease in working expenditure on innovative projects.
capital 9.2 37.9 Decrease increase Dividends in pension fund provisions 7.9 5.4 The Board has recommended a final Other items 6.7 10.2 dividend of 8.0p per share to be paid on 30 September 2005 to ordinary Net cash inflow shareholders on the register on from operations 82.6 94.4 Designing, planning and project managing the 2 September 2005, making a total delivery of a new 12m diagnostic treatment centre dividend for the year of 12.0p 2004: 9.0p at Shepton Mallet Working capital reduced by a further total for the year.
The Groups dividend 9.2m in the year, reflecting the Groups policy is to see a progression towards a tight control in this area.
Any further dividend that is approximately 2.5 times improvements in working capital are likely covered by cash-backed earnings before to be modest.
Operating cash flow was amortisation of goodwill.
Earnings from impacted by the significant increase in Joint Ventures, including the Metronet cash contributions to the pension scheme PPP companies and other material PPP PFI referred to above.
The movement in other investments, are only therefore included items principally relates to changes in cash in our calculation of dividend cover where held on behalf of subcontractors.
Net they are matched by cash.
capital expenditure in the year was 12.4m 2004: 6.2m, the increase relating EPS and adjusted EPS figures mainly to planned IT investment.
Group made scheduled equity injections Adjusted basic EPS was 51.1p amounting to 11.1m into the Metronet 2004: 39.9p, an increase of 28%.
PPP companies during the year.
Tax A reconciliation between Basic EPS payments in the year increased to 18.3m, and Adjusted EPS is set out in note 11.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 27 compared to 3.1m in 2004 when the liquidity risk and foreign currency risk, Group was able to utilise brought forward along with the risks arising from the losses.
The cash position benefited from financing of the Groups activities in the the disposal proceeds from the sale of the Public Private Partnership and Private Groups Joint Venture interest in Mercia Finance Initiative sectors.
The Groups Healthcare Holdings Limited 5.6m and policies for managing each of these risks net interest receipts.
These policies have remained unchanged during the Looking forward, the Group will continue year.
The Group does not trade in to require an element of the cash it financial instruments.
generates in order to fund its obligations in respect of the Metronet PPP companies Interest rate risk and liquidity risk approximately 50m over the next four The Group funds its ongoing activities years.
Additional pension contributions through cash generated from its will also absorb cash.
The business is well operations and, where necessary, placed to generate sufficient cash to bank borrowings and finance leases.
satisfy these requirements and allow The Groups cash flow is analysed in note investment in people and IT to meet the 29 to the financial statements.
The Group Designing proposals for the regeneration Groups objective of sustainable growth.
has banking facilities which include cash of the Lea Square brownfield site in East facilities and bonding lines, as well as a Londons lower Lea Valley Treasury Letter of Credit facility in relation to the The role of Group Treasury is to manage ongoing equity obligations of the Groups and monitor the Groups external funding PPP PFI projects.
The Group accepts some and investment requirements and financial interest rate risk and any loans drawn risks in support of the Groups corporate under the banking facilities are at floating objectives.
The Board reviews and agrees rates.
At 31 March 2005, the amount policies and authority levels for treasury undrawn under the Groups credit lines Operating and activities.
financial review The Groups financial instruments, other Foreign currency risk continued than derivatives, comprise borrowings, The Group, through its ownership of cash and liquid resources and various companies based overseas, has foreign items, such as trade debtors and trade currency denominated assets.
To mitigate creditors that arise directly from its the effect of currency exposures arising operations.
The main purpose of these from net investments overseas, it is the financial instruments is to finance the Groups policy to hedge those exposures, Groups operations.
The Group also enters where material, using borrowings into derivative transactions, principally denominated in foreign currency.
At forward foreign currency contracts.
31 March 2005 the Group had 10.5m The main risks arising from the Groups 2004: 23.2m of loans denominated financial instruments are interest rate risk, in foreign currency.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 28 Planning, designing and enabling major capital Managing the Docklands Light Railways capacity enhancement projects in strategic markets around the world project to increase train lengths from two to three cars The Group also has transactional currency The application of several of the exposures.
These exposures arise from accounting policies used in the sales or purchases in currencies other than preparation of the financial statements Sterling.
It is the Groups policy to hedge requires assumptions and estimates by such risks, where material, using forward management that affect the assets and currency contracts.
At 31 March 2005 the liabilities at the date of the accounts and Group had outstanding forward foreign the amounts reported in the profit and exchange contracts amounting to the loss account for the year.
could differ from the estimates and assumptions used.
Public Private Partnership PPP and Private Finance Initiative PFI The accounting policies and areas that The Groups PPP and PFI projects involve require the most significant estimates and the Group in arranging finance as part judgements to be used in the preparation of the overall project service.
Individual of the financial statements are in relation projects are undertaken by Special Purpose to contract accounting and defined Companies SPCs in Joint Ventures with benefit pension schemes.
These SPCs contract with end users for the provision of serviced Contract accounting facilities and also arrange funding, Profit is recognised on contracts on a construction, facilities management percentage completion basis, provided the services and, where required, operational outcome of the project can be reasonably support for projects.
Full provision is made for commitments, the funding of the SPCs is estimated losses.
Where contracts span arranged without recourse to the rest of two accounting periods, profit is not the Group.
The Groups share of the gross generally recognised until the project is assets and liabilities of the SPCs is reflected 50% complete.
The projected outcome separately in the Group accounts in of any given contract is necessarily based accordance with the provisions of FRS9.
on estimates of revenues and costs to completion.
Whilst the assumptions made Critical accounting policies are based on professional judgements, The Groups principal accounting policies subsequent events may mean that are described on pages 52 to 54.
The estimates calculated prove inaccurate, financial statements for the year ended with a consequent effect on the reporting 31 March 2005 have been prepared using of results.
accounting policies consistent with those applied in the previous year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 29 Defined benefit pension schemes Principal impact Accounting for pensions and other The Groups assessment of the major post-retirement benefits involves differences between current accounting judgement about uncertain events in practice and IFRS are in the areas listed the future such as inflation, salary levels below.
This summary is not intended at retirement, mortality rates, rates to be a complete list of affected areas.
of return on plan assets and discount Further significant differences may arise rates.
Assumptions in respect of pensions as a result of the Groups continued and post-retirement benefits are set after detailed assessment and interpretation consultation with independent qualified of pronouncements issued by the actuaries.
Management believes the International Accounting Standards assumptions are appropriate.
However, Board IASB and its committees.
a change in the assumptions used would impact the Groups results and net assets.
Defined benefit pension schemes Any differences between the assumptions The Group currently accounts for defined and the actual outcome will affect results benefit pension schemes under SSAP 24, in future years.
Accounting for Pension Costs, and publishes the transitional disclosures Playing a major role in the development and International Financial Reporting required under FRS 17, Retirement operation of traffic control centres for the Welsh Standards IFRS Benefits.
On transition to IFRS, the Group Assembly, the Highways Agency and the counties of Essex and Northamptonshire As required by European Union EU law, will account for such schemes under IAS the Group will prepare its annual financial 19, Employee Benefits.
The methodology statements under International Financial and assumptions used to calculate the Reporting Standards IFRS with effect funding position under IAS 19 are from the year ending 31 March 2006. substantially consistent with those used The Groups interim financial statements under FRS 17.
The Group intends to for the six months ending 30 September recognise actuarial gains and losses in Operating and 2005 will also apply accounting policies full in the period in which they occur in in compliance with IFRS.
the statement of recognised income financial review and expense rather than spreading the continued Conversion to IFRS should not affect the amounts over a longer period through Groups operational prospects or its ability the profit and loss account.
However, conversion to the new reporting framework represents Recognition of the IAS 19 deficit will a significant change and has been a high significantly affect the Groups net asset priority for the Board.
position on transition to IFRS.
The Group has made arrangements to ensure that The conversion project sufficient distributable reserves are in place The Group aims to achieve a smooth to enable payment of dividends for the transition to IFRS, managing all aspects foreseeable future.
of implementation including changes to accounting policies, procedures, training Goodwill and communication.
The conversion The Groups current policy is to capitalise project has progressed according to plan goodwill arising on acquisition of and the Group is prepared for transition businesses and amortise it on a straight in accordance with the necessary line basis over its estimated useful timescales.
We will continue to monitor economic life.
On transition to IFRS, this the development of standards yet to be straight line amortisation methodology issued, notably with regard to accounting will not be applied.
Instead, annual for PPP PFI contracts.
reviews of goodwill will be performed to test for potential impairment in accordance with IFRS 3, Business Combinations.
The Group will elect not to apply IFRS 3 retrospectively to business combinations prior to IFRS adoption.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 30 PPP PFI concessions accounting to its Joint Ventures but under The International Financial Reporting IFRS their post tax results and net assets Interpretations Committee IFRIC has will be shown as single line items on the published draft guidance on accounting face of the profit and loss account and for assets constructed or managed under balance sheet.
Segmental reporting will PPP PFI concessions.
The guidance also be impacted.
The Group currently requires such assets to be classified as reports its operations in three principal financial assets rather than fixed or leased segments Transport: Design and assets, but is potentially subject to change Engineering Solutions: and Management following a consultation process which is and Project Services, supported by Equity currently ongoing.
We will continue to Investments.
IAS 14, Segment Reporting, monitor the progress of IFRICs proposals, places increased emphasis on the but will not be able fully to quantify the alignment of reporting segments with the effect on the Groups PPP PFI concessions organisational units used by management.
until the new accounting rules In addition, the segmental disclosure are finalised.
requirements under IAS 14 differ from those required by UK GAAP.
The Proposed dividends presentation of segmental analysis under Under UK GAAP, proposed dividends are IAS 14 will lead to additional disclosure.
accrued in the accounting period to which they relate.
Under IFRS, dividends are recognised in the accounting period in Keith Clarke Robert MacLeod Designing landmark projects for the Middle East which they are declared and approved.
Chief Executive Group Finance Director including the 21st Century Tower residential building Share-based payments 21 June 2005 Under UK GAAP, the cost recognised in respect of share options is based on the intrinsic value of the option at the date of grant.
Under IFRS 2, Share-based Payments, the method for measurement of the cost of options granted after November 2002 will change to a fair value basis.
It is the Groups expectation that the change in the profit and loss account expense under IFRS 2 will not be material.
Format of financial statements The adoption of IFRS will result in certain changes to the way in which information is presented in the Groups financial statements.
The Group will continue to apply the gross equity method of WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2005 31
