Financial review Income statement 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 million million Revenue 339.4 314.1 Property operating expenses 268.3 260.2 Net valuation surplus on investmentproperty 18.0 48.1 Administrative and other expenses 19.7 17.6 EBITDA 64.8 51.2 Finance costs 129.7 49.4 Exceptional finance charge included in finance costs refer to note 6 72.7 Loss profit for the year 56.5 43.3 Funds from operations FFO 25.5 10.5 Interim dividends declared 25.4 Dividend per share pence share 130p FFO per share pence share 130p 69p Balance sheet As at As at 31 December 31 December 2005 2004 million million Portfolio value 1,643.2 1,103.1 Total non-current assets 1,650.2 1,110.8 Bank loans gross of deductions for loan finance costs 1,086.6 670.0 Financial derivatives liability 28.0 63.7 Net assets 457.0 354.2 Gearing refer to note 31 220% 168% Undiluted per share calculations for the year ended 31 December 2005 are based on the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the period of 19,510,770 shares 31 December 2004: 15,100,000 shares.
To aid comparability, the weighted average number of ordinary shares for the year ended 31 December 2004 has been restated to reflect the share for share exchange that took place on 2 June 2005, in which existing shareholders were offered 100 ordinary shares in the Company for each share held in MUKCO.
Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 17 Financial review continued Since then the Group has acquired 38 freehold or long Revenue leasehold assets, investing in aggregate 531.6 million Revenue for the year ended 31 December 2005 was since making its first purchase in November 2004.
339.4 million compared to 314.1 million for the year Revenue from these properties in the year ended ended 31 December 2004, an increase of 8.1%.
The increase 31 December 2005 was 16.2 million 2004: 0.2 million.
was primarily due to incremental rental income of These properties were acquired throughout the year.
16.0 million earned from the investment property These properties are expected to generate a full year acquired since 31 December 2004 and a net increase annual revenue of 39.0 million in 2006. in income of 14.2 million in accordance with the terms of the Groups contracts with Abbey and HMRC, Property operating expenses partially offset by a decrease in third party rental income The Groups property operating expenses consist of of 2.6 million from the Abbey and HMRC portfolios property rental, lifecycle and facilities management and a fall in other income of 1.8 million.
costs, depreciation of property, plant and equipment The principal component of revenue is the Groups and the costs of trading property disposals.
contractual revenue of 321.0 million 2004: The property operating expenses of the Group in the 310.0 million which comprises income earned by year ended 31December 2005 were 268.3 million its property outsourcing business, rentals and service compared to 260.2 million for the year ended charges received from tenants.
This increase was primarily caused by an increase of 4.1 million in HMRC portfolio facilities management costs due to indexation in the Revenue from the HMRC portfolio accounted for 68% facilities management providers contracts, an increase of total revenue in the year ended 31 December 2005 of 3.6 million in services charges and additional 2004: 70%.
Of this, 93% 2004: 92% represented costs of 0.5 million incurred on property management amounts paid by HMRC under its agreement with the resulting from increased activity in negotiating rent Group.
These amounts are indexed annually by reference reviews and lease renewals.
The balance of 7% 2004: 8% of the revenue derived The most significant element of property operating from the Government portfolio represented rental expenses during the year ended 31 December 2005 income from sub-letting properties to third party tenants.
was rental payments in respect of rack-rented leasehold properties.
Rental payments accounted for Abbey Portfolio more than 63% of total property operating expenses Revenue from the Abbey portfolio accounted for in the year 2004: 67%, before taking account of asset 28% 2004: 30% of total revenue in the year ended management receipts.
Of this, 87% 2004: 86% represented Rental payments excluding service charges of amounts paid by Abbey under its agreement with the 167.7 million 2004: 174.6 million included within Group.
These amounts are subject to a fixed uplift of property operating expenses are stated net of the 3%.
11% 2004: 12% of the revenue derived amortisation of deferred asset management receipts, from the Abbey portfolio represented rental payments which amounted to 4.6 million over the year ended from third party tenants and 2% 2004: 2% was from 31 December 2005 2004: 3.3 million.
The increase the sale of assets designated as trading property.
in the amount of amortised deferred asset management Direct investment portfolio expense reflects the first full year of benefit to the The Group commenced the implementation of its strategy Group of significant asset management transactions to acquire direct investment properties in early 2004. completed during 2004.
18 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 Facility management costs of 51.0 million 2004: by Fortress Investment Group LLC and the former 46.9 million relate to facility management services parent of MUKCO resulting in a gain of 599,000 for provided to HMRC and accounted for 19% of property the year ended 31 December 2005. operating expenses in the year ended 31 December 2005 Administrative and other expenses 2004: 18%.
The contracted price with the facility Administrative and other expenses comprise primarily management suppliers increases annually in line with staff costs, depreciation relating to operating assets RPI, adjusted by indexation factors that vary by contract, and other administrative costs.
Staff costs consist region and year.
mainly of wages paid to employees of the Group.
The Group receives regular income under its outsourcing Other administrative costs consist mainly of IT, travel, contracts, however its lifecycle activity does not arise in accommodation related expenditure and legal and such a regular manner.
In the year ended 31 December professional fees.
2005, a further 2.1 million of lifecycle expenditure has Administrative and other expenses were 19.7 million been deferred and classified as work in progress bringing for the year ended 31 December 2005 compared to the aggregate amount deferred to 17.7 million 2004: 17.6 million for the year ended 31 December 2004, 15.5 million.
The increase was primarily Net valuation surplus on investment property caused by a share benefit expense of 1.7 million Investment property is held at fair value and the deficit 2004: 0.7 million in connection with shares offered or surplus on its revaluation is reported under this line to employees and Non-Executive Directors under the item.
No depreciation is provided in respect of Groups Employee Share Plan implemented at the time investment property.
of the Companys Initial Public Offer in June 2005 and an increase in professional fees of 0.4 million The Group recognised a surplus of 18.0 million on reflecting the Groups public company status.
revaluation of investment property in the year ended 31 December 2005 compared to a surplus of 48.1 million EBITDA in the year ended 31 December 2004 reflecting favourable EBITDA was 64.8 million for the year ended 31 December market conditions including yield compression and the 2005 compared to 51.2 million for the year ended appetite for high-quality real estate investment assets 31 December 2004, an increase of 26.6%.
This increase and after writing down certain acquisition costs on is attributable to all the factors discussed within the direct property investments, where at 31 December 2005, above sections.
the value of the property had not increased sufficiently Finance costs to cover these costs.
Finance costs consist primarily of interest paid on bank Profit on disposal of investment property loans, costs associated with the termination of loans The Group sold no investment properties in 2005 and and related interest rate swap agreements, and the hence realised no gains.
Investment property sales in unwinding of discounts on provisions.
In the year ended 2004 realised a gain of 0.2 million.
31 December 2005, the Group incurred a 72.7 million exceptional charge arising on the termination of loans Gain on disposal of subsidiaries and related interest rate swap contracts on the refinancing During the year and prior to its acquisition by Mapeley of certain borrowings.
Limited, MUKCO, sold the shares of three subsidiaries, Mapeley Milton Keynes Limited, Willen Lake Limited At 31 December 2005, the Group had total gross debt and Mapeley Services Limited to Mapeley Holding outstanding of 1,086.6 million 2004: 670.0 million.
Company Limited, a company outside the Group owned With the exception of the Revolving Acquisition Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 19 Financial review continued Facility which has a fixed coupon rate and is more Loss profit before tax fully described in the Current Financing Arrangements The loss for year ended 31 December 2005 was section, the costs of these borrowings were fixed at the 56.5 million compared to profit of 43.3 million for outset either using interest rate swaps that match the the same period last year.
The results were adversely full term of the underlying committed variable rate affected by the following major points: loan or fixed term debt.
The Groups average cost of The 72.7 million exceptional charge arising on debt at 31 December 2005 was 6.0% 2004: 6.7%.
the refinancing of the original Abbey Facility, Aggregate finance costs increased to 129.7 million repaid during the year: for the year ended 31 December 2005 compared to Net valuation surplus on investment property was 49.4 million for the year ended 31 December 2004, 18.0 million 2004: 48.1 million.
The principal an increase of 80.3 million.
Of this increase, 72.7 reason for the lower surplus was the write off of costs million was attributable to exceptional costs associated of 19.8 million related to the acquisition of direct with refinancing certain parts of the Groups principal property investments and much of the yield compression debt facilities.
This amount comprised swap breakage experienced in the market on high quality tenant costs of 63.9 million, loan termination costs of properties having arisen prior to the current year.
2.0 million and expensing of related unamortised loan issue costs of 6.8 million.
The remaining component Reversal of impairment of non-investment property of the increase of 7.6 million is primarily attributable was nil 2004: 4.6 million.
to additional debt drawn down on acquisition of new Excluding the above mentioned effects, the Groups investment property in the year and a loss on the Groups underlying loss decreased from 9.3 million to 1.9million remaining interest rate swaps.
The swaps entered into in for the year ended 31 December 2005.
The main reason connection with the Revolving Acquisition Facility do not for this decrease was the contribution from the direct meet the criteria required for hedge accounting.
A charge property investments and stronger performance from of 1.4 million due to the change in the market value of the Groups existing outsourcing contracts.
these swaps has been expensed in the Income Statement.
Taxation The Groups refinancing activities have resulted in a The Group and its subsidiaries have not paid income reduction in the rate of interest payable, which fell from or corporation tax in either 2005 or 2004 in any of an average of 6.8% per annum to 5.45% per annum the jurisdictions in which they operate due to their realising an annualised cost saving of approximately tax residence status, current year losses and the 6.8 million per year.
availability of losses brought forward from prior years.
Finance income Certain Group companies are resident in Bermuda Finance income consists of bank interest receivable and are classified as UK Non-resident Landlords for by the Group.
Taxable profits in these companies are subject to UK Income Tax and are exempt from Finance income was 3.8 million for the year ended local Bermuda taxes.
The Group has significant tax 31 December 2005, compared to 3.5 million for the losses available or carry forward to future years.
year ended 31 December 2004, an increase of 8.6%.
In many cases these losses are only available to offset This increase was primarily attributable to interest against future taxable profits in the entity in which earned on funds held in reserve accounts, prior to the the losses arose.
Given the uncertainty over generation refinancing in June, together with operating cash of future taxable profits in those entities, no deferred generated by the business and held on short-term deposit.
tax asset has been recorded.
20 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 Investment property increased to 1,077.4 million from Funds from operations, FFO 549.3 million at 31 December 2004.
This reflects the Funds from operations is a non-GAAP financial measure acquisition of new investment property in the year as defined in note 30 on page 82 to the financial statements to 31 December 2005 excluding property classified as and represents a cash-based measure of the net earnings finance leases of 507.2 million, of which 211.1million from the business.
was acquired in the fourth quarter.
Revaluation gains The funds from operations were 25.5 million in the reflecting the strong UK property market were 18.0 year ended 31 December 2005 against 10.5 million million, restricted after charging certain acquisition costs in the year ended 31 December 2004.
The increase of 19.8 million incurred on new investment properties in FFO of 15.0 million was due to an increase in EBITDA acquired in 2005 where the valuation at the year end primarily driven by income generated by investment had not increased sufficiently to cover these costs.
properties acquired in the year and stronger performance Over the same period, property, plant and equipment from the Groups existing outsourcing contracts.
increased by 15.0 million to 527.9 million at Dividends 31 December 2005 2004: 512.9 million, principally For the 12 months ended 31 December 2005, Mapeley due to the revaluation of certain of the Groups freehold has paid and proposed dividends equating to 130 pence and long leasehold properties.
per ordinary share, including an interim dividend of Capitalised premiums on operating leases of 56.1 million 37 pence per share which was declared on 5 January 2004: 57.7 million are carried at amortised cost.
2006 payable to all shareholders on the register at The book value of capitalised premiums decreased by 13 January 2006.
This represents an annualised dividend 4.0 million from 42.4 million at 31 December 2004 yield of 5.5%.
to 38.4 million at 31 December 2005 principally as The Companys balance sheet is set out in note 33 to the a result of the disposal of a leasehold interest and the financial statements, illustrating that it has distributable regular amortisation charge for the period.
reserves to pay the proposed interim dividend.
Liquidity and capital resources Non-current assets Liquidity requirements arise primarily from the need to Non-current assets comprising investment property, fund lease commitments, facility management services, property plant and equipment, premiums paid for operating central costs, debt service costs and capital expenditure.
leases and non-current trade and other receivables To date, these requirements have been funded through increased by 539.4 million between 31December 2004 cash flow from operations, bank borrowings and and 31December 2005. equity funding.
The Group expects to continue to meet short-term liquidity requirements through cash generated from operations.
In the year to 31 December 2005, the Group generated 55.8 million 2004: 8.5 million of net cash flows from operating activities.
Future acquisitions will be funded from the Groups existing facilities described in the financing section, from facilities to be arranged and from further equity offerings.
The Group receives stable and predictable cash flows from its tenants.
Outgoings under these agreements are timed to follow receipts from HMRC and Abbey.
Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 21 Financial review continued to make assumptions and estimates that can affect the Liquidity and cash flow reported amounts of assets and liabilities.
The Directors The following table summarises the Groups cash flows believe the accounting principles chosen are appropriate for the years ended 31 December 2005 and 2004: under the circumstances and that the estimates, judgements and assumptions involved in its financial 2005 2004 million million reporting are reasonable.
Net cash flows from Accounting estimates made by Mapeleys management operating activities 55.8 8.5 are based on accumulated historical experience and Net cash flows used in information on current events that is available to investing activities 507.5 24.0 management at the time each estimate is made.
Net cash flows from Accordingly, actual results may differ materially from financing activities 458.0 23.6 current expectations under different assumptions and Net increase in cash and conditions.
Mapeleys critical accounting policies that cash equivalents 6.3 8.1 are subject to significant estimates and assumptions are summarised below.
In the year ended 31 December 2005, the Group generated Property valuations and depreciation strong operating cash flows driven by operating profits together with cash released from working capital Investment property management.
The substantial reduction in working The Abbey portfolio and the properties acquired or capital compared with 2004 was due to a considerable to be acquired as direct investments since November decrease in trade and other receivables following the 2004 are held for long-term investment.
Investment receipt of HMRC monthly contractual amounts in properties are accounted for in the Groups accounts at December 2005.
The largest non-operating cash outflows fair value, rather than at historical cost, as of the date have been the acquisition of property at 507.2 million of the annual or interim financial statements i. e. at the 2004: 24.4 million, costs paid of 65.9 million 2004: year end and at each quarter.
The Group has exercised nil on breaking interest rate swaps and related loan the option in IAS 40 to carry investment property at termination charges and interest paid of 48.8 million fair value.
Any surplus or deficit on revaluation is 2004: 44.6 million.
The acquisition of property has recognised in the Income Statement.
No depreciation been funded by equity and debt, and interest paid has is provided against freehold property and property been funded from operating cash flows.
acquired under finance leases except where the lease term has less than 20 years remaining.
Acquisitions of investment property in line with the Groups long-term business strategy were partly funded Property, plant and equipment from the proceeds of the Companys Initial Public Under the relevant provisions of IFRS, the properties Offering in June 2005 and partly funded by long and in the HMRC portfolio are considered to be property, short-term debt.
plant and equipment rather than investment property because of the significant levels of facilities management Critical accounting policies and estimates services provided to HMRC.
Such freehold and long Mapeley reports its results in conformity with leasehold property is revalued as at the date of the International Financial Reporting Standards adopted annual and interim financial statements and depreciated.
Its principal accounting Surpluses or deficits on individual properties are polices are presented in the notes to the consolidated transferred to the revaluation reserve, except for financial statements set out on pages 50 to 56. deficits below depreciated historical cost, which are The application of these policies requires Mapeley taken to the profit and loss account unless value in 22 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 use can be demonstrated to be higher.
To the extent subject to annual uplifts in rental income.
Receipts that the fair value at any balance sheet date exceeds from HMRC are considered contingent as they are depreciated fair value, such depreciation is reversed subject to annual uplifts related to RPI and uncertainty through the revaluation reserve.
of income due to the vacation rights that exist within the HMRC contract.
A similar situation also exists on Short leasehold property is defined as leasehold property the Abbey contract where vacation allowances also with less than 20 years of the lease term remaining.
The components Short leasehold property is stated at cost less depreciation of contractual revenue not contingent on future events and any additional provision for impairment which have been recognised on a straight-line basis over the may be required.
Long leasehold properties are transferred life of the contracts.
Other components of contractual to short leasehold properties at their book value when revenue are recognised on a receivable basis due to the only 20 years of the lease term remains and the book flexibility arrangements within the contracts where income value is depreciated over the remaining lease term.
generation can be terminated with minimal notice.
Basis of depreciation The Group treats any incentives for tenants to enter Depreciation is provided on all property, plant and into lease agreements as a reduction to revenue and equipment, at rates calculated to write off the cost or accounts for rental income from the commencement valuation, less estimated residual value, of each asset date of any rent free period.
The net rental income on a straight-line basis over its expected useful life.
is spread evenly over the shorter of the period to the The fabric of freehold property, and leasehold property first break of the lease and the lease term.
Similarly, with more than 50 years unexpired, is depreciated over the Group treats any incentives given by landlords on 50 years.
Leasehold buildings with less than 50 years the Group's leasehold properties as an offset to the unexpired are depreciated in equal installments over rental cost and accounts for such rental reductions the unexpired term of the lease.
Plant and machinery, from the commencement date of any rent free period excluding information systems equipment, is depreciated over the shorter of the period to the first break of the over four years.
Information systems equipment, lease or lease expiry.
The net rental incentive is spread including computer equipment and telecommunications evenly over the shorter of the period to the first break apparatus is depreciated over two to four years.
of the lease and the lease term.
"The so-called ""straightBasis of valuation lining"" of rent may cause rental income or rental In the case of both investment properties and fixed expense to be recognised as income or expense in a assets, the annual valuations are based upon estimates manner that does not conform to rental receipts or and subjective judgements that may vary from the payments."
As at 31 December 2005, accrued rent payable actual values and sales prices that may be realised of 2.0 million 2004: 1.0 million and accrued rent by the Group upon ultimate disposal of portfolio receivable of 7.3 million 2004: 6.9 million was properties.
The critical assumptions made relating to included within Trade and other payables and Trade valuations have been disclosed in notes 10 and 11 to and other receivables respectively.
These accrued the financial statements.
rents will be recognised over the next 15 years.
Incentives for lessees to enter into lease agreements are Rental income and rental obligations spread evenly over the non-cancellable period of the Rental income receivable under operating leases is lease, even if the payments are not made on such a basis.
recognised on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease, except where income is contingent in which case it is recognised on an arising basis.
The Groups outsourcing contracts with Abbey and HMRC are Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 23 Financial review continued Accounting for the cost of onerous leases Work in progress Provision is made in respect of costs incurred on onerous The Group receives regular income under its outsourcing leases, being vacant leasehold properties, or leasehold contracts, however its lifecycle activity does not arise properties sub-let at a level of rent that would cause the in such a regular manner.
Accordingly, certain costs properties to realise losses over the remaining terms incurred under the service contract element of of leases.
The forecast cash flows of each lease are outsourcing contracts are deferred and classified as discounted to the annual balance sheet date at a rate work in progress.
The amounts deferred are estimated reflecting the time value of money applicable to the from the Groups financial forecasting models which Groups circumstances.
Any annual increase or decrease reflect the Directors best expectations of the likely in the provision for onerous leases is taken to outcome under these contracts at any point in time.
In the profit and loss account.
The imputed interest on the arriving at the amount of costs deferred in the balance costs of onerous leases is recognised as interest expense sheet, the Directors have had regard to those factors and is charged to the profit and loss account each year.
most likely to influence the levels of cost and income The basis of the provision and amounts provided are over the remaining life of the contract.
Financing The annual projections of cash flows for onerous leases Overview are based upon estimates and subjective judgements The Group seeks to finance its property investments that may vary from the actual costs incurred relative with long-term debt facilities that reflect the long-term to such onerous leases.
These estimates are driven from nature of its property investments and on which the the Groups core business management systems and interest rates have been fixed by utilising a mixture property databases which reflect the Directors best of fixed rate debt and floating rate debt with matching expectations of the likely outcome of each property interest rate swap agreements.
At 31 December 2005, at any point in time.
The selection of an appropriate Mapeley had five borrowing facilities which totalled discount rate also requires the exercise of judgement.
Although risk-free rates of return have generally Mapeley purchases direct investment properties in fallen over 2005, a greater range of data was available at accordance with its strategy.
These investment properties 31 December 2005 than at 31 December 2004 which has have been purchased using short-term, revolving enabled the Group to determine what it believes to be a facilities for 100% of purchase costs.
These were risk-free rate that more closely reflects the circumstances subsequently refinanced at a 70%75% Loan To Value of the Group at the current year end.
ratio LTV using long-term debt with a lower interest rate, with the balance of the cost of acquisition funded by new equity raised.
The Directors intend to fund future acquisitions in the same manner.
The Group therefore expects continuing growth in the level of debt and its gearing ratio over the coming years as it pursues its strategy of investing in direct investment property.
24 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 The Group strives to eliminate the effect of interest Current financing arrangements rate fluctuations on its earnings and in order to achieve HMRC portfolio facility this, hedges its anticipated long-term liabilities using The HMRC portfolio is financed by means of a 20-year interest rate swaps or fixed rate debt at the earliest term loan for 210.0 million.
At 31 December 2005, opportunity, normally on the purchase of a property.
177.3 million had been drawn down under this facility.
The facility is split into two tranches.
Group financing At 31 December 2005, 1,086.6 million 2004: Tranche A was originally for 80.0 million and is 670.0 million, had been drawn down under the scheduled to be repaid over the term of the facility.
Groups loan facilities to fund its property acquired At 31 December 2005, 53.6 million was outstanding under outsourcing contracts, to acquire additional under tranche A.
The interest rate on tranche A is properties and to refinance certain existing indebtedness.
currently LIBOR plus a margin of 85 basis points plus The Group drew down funds of 1,060.0 million in mandatory costs if applicable.
the year and repaid loans of 642.9 million, further Tranche B was originally for 130.0 million with no described in Current Financing Arrangements below.
repayment of principal required prior to maturity, other In addition, at 31 December 2004, the Group had total than repayments when properties are sold.
Additional outstanding loans from shareholders of 7.1 million.
voluntary repayments are permitted when properties A further 0.7 million was drawn down in February are sold.
All shareholder loans including interest accrued outstanding under tranche B.
The interest rate on to that date, 8.1 million in total, was capitalised in tranche B is LIBOR plus a margin of 100 basis points.
equity in May 2005 as part of the group reorganisation.
In order to eliminate the risk of interest rate fluctuations, the Group has hedged the interest cost of the facility through two interest rate swap contracts.
The Abbey portfolio facility The Abbey portfolio has been re-financed under a 455.0 million senior loan which was entered into in June 2005 and matures in July 2012.
As at 31 December 2005, the facility was fully drawn.
The Group has an interest rate swap contract with an original notional value of 455.0 million which fully hedges the interest rate risk on the underlying loan.
The swap results in the Group paying fixed base rate interest at 4.5%.
The costs associated with refinancing the original Abbey portfolio facility resulted in an exceptional charge of 72.7 million being recognised in 2005, including 63.9 million to close interest rate swaps at that date.
Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 25 Financial review continued The revolving acquisition facility The investment facility The Group entered into a 200.0 million three-year Mapeleys direct investment portfolio, which was acquired committed acquisition facility in June 2005, which using the acquisition facility raised during 2004 was matures in July 2008.
On 2 December 2005, the facility refinanced with a 10-year, 150.0 million loan facility was increased to 300.0 million, with the maturity in June 2005 which matures in July 2015.
This facility date remaining unchanged.
As at 31 December 2005, was increased to 175.0 million in August 2005 with 283.4 million had been drawn under this facility.
no change to the maturity date.
As at 31 December 2005, 170.9 million was drawn down under the facility.
The purpose of the facility is to fund property The interest rate payable on the facility is fixed at 4.95% acquisitions at 100% of value plus acquisition costs.
plus 0.75% margin and any mandatory costs if applicable.
The facility is in the form of a revolving loan which provides the Group with operational flexibility to The working capital facilities acquire direct investment property in accordance with The 25.0 million one-year working capital facility its strategy.
This facility can be repaid and redrawn as was entered into in June 2005 and has a cost of 2% assets are acquired and then subsequently refinanced over LIBOR per annum on drawn amounts and 0.25% with lower cost and longer term debt such as the per annum on undrawn amounts.
As at 31 December investment facility described below.
The loan has 2005, nil has been drawn down.
It matures in June an interest margin of 1.5% per annum over LIBOR.
2006, although there are options to extend the facility However, in order to eliminate the risk of interest rate for up to a further two years.
A 30.0 million working fluctuations, the Group has hedged the interest rate capital facility relating to the HMRC portfolio is cost of the facility through a series of interest rate available to the Group for drawdown until 7 April 2021. swaps each of which become effective on completion At 31 December 2005, nil was drawn down 2004: nil.
of the acquisition of the asset to which they relate.
Security and covenants The swaps in place as at 31 December 2005 are for All of the above borrowing facilities are secured 188.9 million, representing the Groups estimate of against all of the property assets and investments of the long-term debt principle expected to be drawn on the relevant subsidiary undertakings within the Group.
The Group does not These borrowings are subject to covenant tests and consider such interest rate swaps to be eligible for during the year ended 31 December 2005, the Group hedge accounting until completion of the anticipated was fully compliant with all these tests.
The swaps result in the Group paying annual fixed interest on 188.9 million at 4.55% with Future financing the balance at LIBOR plus 1.5% at 31 December 2005.
In relation to those assets acquired with funds drawn down under the revolving acquisition facility since the year end, the Group has negotiated revised terms and converted the revolving acquisition facility into a 10 year, 4.55 % fixed rate term loan.
The rates of interest payable reflect the cost of the underlying swap agreements in place which were terminated at no cost to the Group on the same date.
26 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 It is also intended that the financing arrangements Liquidity review relating to the HMRC portfolio will be refinanced by For any organisation, the generation of cash and the repaying the existing 20 year, 178.0 million loan ability of the organisation to meet its liabilities as they and replacing it with a seven year 200.0 million become due is of paramount importance.
senior loan arranged by Merrill Lynch International.
For Mapeley, which has entered into a number of long The terms of this facility have been agreed in outline term contracts and funding arrangements, the ability with Merrill Lynch International and the Directors to be liquid and meet its liabilities, be it debt service currently anticipate that the facility will have a loan to or operational obligations, will determine the success value ratio of 55% with Merrill Lynch having a second of those contracts.
In essence, its working capital charge after the Governments secured first charge.
management and ability to remain liquid at all times Entry into this new facility is dependent on the Group is vitally important.
Mapeley, having floated on the obtaining consents from HMRC and it is therefore stock market, has an added dynamic in that it also possible that this refinancing will not proceed or, if it has to offer the best return possible for its investors.
does, that it does so on terms that are different from This comes in the form of capital appreciation but also those currently anticipated.
from regular and consistent dividend payments which It is also currently anticipated that the Group would are to be generated through positive earnings but enter into fixed interest rate agreements at the start funded by cash generated from operations.
of the loan to fix the interest payable and that it Liquidity requirements arise primarily from the need to would be required to write off unamortised loan fund lease commitments, facility management services, finance costs on the current borrowings.
The cost central costs, debt service costs and capital expenditure.
will depend upon the market rates at the relevant times, To date, these requirements have been funded largely but if the transaction had occurred on 31 December through cash flow from operations, bank borrowings 2005 the loan finance costs to be written off and the and equity funding.
swap breakage costs would have been 4.3 million and 20.8 million respectively.
The Group expects to continue to meet these short-term liquidity requirements through cash flow generated from operations.
Future acquisitions will be funded from the loan facilities described in Current Financing Arrangements above, from future borrowing facilities raised and from further equity offerings.
Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 27 Financial review continued The Group receives stable and predictable cash flows Risk management from its tenants, particularly under its agreements with The Group undertakes comprehensive risk assessments HMRC and Abbey.
Outgoings under these agreements and identifies the principal risks that affect it and its are timed to follow the receipt of payments from HMRC activities.
The responsibility for management of each and Abbey.
key risk has been clearly identified and delegated by the Board to the Chief Executive Officer and other During the course of 2005, the Group generated positive senior members of the Groups management.
The Groups operational cash flows on a steady basis throughout senior management team has close involvement with the the year.
Thus at every point where there is a significant day-to-day operational matters of the Group.
demand on liquidity, typically in the month after an English quarter rental period 95% of lease liabilities In addition to the main Board of Directors, operational are due and the debt service on each project is also due, teams have responsibility for the following specific there were sufficient cash reserves to meet all obligations.
areas of the Groups activities: Indeed cash balances are growing, so that not only has Property investment and management: Mapeley been able to meet these liabilities but its uncommitted cash reserves have grown year on year.
Management of property outsourcing activities: In January 2006, the Company received proceeds of Group management and operations: 106.5 million net of issue costs by issuing a further Taxation and regulation: and 4,036,697 ordinary shares and also converted the revolving acquisition facility into a 10-year, 208.6 million, 4.55% Financing.
Property investment and management During 2006, increased cash balances after payment of Market operational costs and debt service and the refinancing Principal risks Commercial property markets are cyclical.
of certain short-term debt with long-term debt, are Rental levels are determined by the supply of suitable expected to return the Group to a position where current space in a market and occupiers demand.
The value of assets exceed current liabilities.
a commercial property depends upon the characteristics of the lease, the credit worthiness of the tenant, the prospects of rental growth and the stage of the property market cycle.
Control of risks A dedicated in-house team supplemented by external advisors monitor current and future market trends.
This includes considering current and future yield prospects which form an integral part of business planning, forecasting and the capital allocation decision making process.
Asset management Principal risks Property values may decline and returns not be optimised.
Uneconomic investments may be made or under-performing properties retained.
Significant tenant defaults may reduce income and property values.
28 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 Control of risks The performance of each property is Group management and operations reviewed at least monthly.
Key performance measures Management such as voids, lease expiry profiles and progress on rent Principal risks The Group is reliant on its small, reviews are reported on a monthly basis and actively high-calibre senior management team.
Tenants are principally of Control of risks Knowledge of all processes and projects low credit risk, either government departments or large is shared by at least two employees and the Group corporations, thereby maintaining the level of tenant recruits and develops high-calibre employees.
defaults to which the Group is exposed at a low level.
Disaster planning Investment performance and returns Principal risks The Group has developed complex IT Principal risks Decisions about the allocation and and other systems to manage its business.
Without investment of capital and other resources may not sufficient recovery planning, there is an increased risk deliver the anticipated returns, or may fail to maximise that the business may fail to recover from a disaster their potential value for the Group.
and potentially suffer long-term damage.
Control of risks An Investment Committee has been Control of risks Disaster recovery plans are in place, established to monitor and mitigate this risk.
The senior which include the use of off-site facilities.
The plans management team monitors actual performance against are regularly updated.
targets, recommending corrective actions as appropriate.
IT integrity and performance Property outsourcing Principal risks The Groups ability to meet its obligations Outsourcing contracts under outsourcing contracts is reliant on the continuing Principal risks Outsourcing contracts typically require the performance of its IT systems.
A major failure in these Group to provide accommodation and certain associated IT systems could result in financial and reputational loss.
services to an occupier in return for an indexed unitary charge.
Outsourcing clients may transfer significant Control of risks The IT back up plan is a key element of the elements of the risks in their property portfolio to the Groups disaster recovery plans.
The Group makes use of an Group.
The ability of Mapeley to manage these risks outsourced, third party, IT service provider which provides creates profit for the Group.
Mapeley is exposed to a a fully managed desktop and application support service.
loss if the unitary charge set at the outset of the contract Taxation and regulation does not reflect the operational risks involved, or if the Taxation Group does not deliver the contracted services to the Principal risks The Group is exposed to financial risks required standard.
from increases in tax rates and changes to the basis of Control of risks Rigorous financial models and systems taxation including corporation tax, VAT and stamp to measure performance against contract requirements duty land tax.
The Groups financial returns are also have been developed, which together with Mapeleys dependent on it retaining non-UK tax residence status financial performance, are reviewed weekly by senior for certain of its subsidiaries.
The Group has also placed its facility Control of risk The Group regularly monitors management contractors on back-to-back arrangements legislative proposals and consults external advisors to with its own terms under the contract with HMRC.
understand, and if possible, mitigate the impact of any Information and experience gained from this monitoring changes.
The Group has specific procedures in place in process are in turn, used to develop the pricing of connection with the management and control of its new contracts.
Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 29 Financial review continued Interest rate management Financing and risk management The Group borrows in pounds Sterling at both fixed Objectives and floating rates of interest, and then uses derivative The aim of Mapeleys financing policy is to fund financial instruments to generate the desired interest the implementation of the Groups strategy whilst rate profile and mitigate the Groups exposure to providing the flexibility to take advantage of interest rate fluctuations.
The Groups policy is to opportunities as they arise, on competitive terms.
manage its interest cost using a mixture of fixed and The principal objectives are to ensure that: variable rate debt.
The Groups policy is to keep significant, committed, undrawn facilities are substantially all long-term borrowings at fixed rates available to support current and future business of interest.
To implement this policy in a cost-efficient requirements: manner, the Group enters into interest rate swaps, in which the Group agrees to exchange, at specified the Group is financed over the longer term with intervals, the difference between fixed and variable borrowings terms matching the anticipated period of interest amounts calculated by reference to an ownership or a substantial period of that ownership: agreed-upon notional principal amount.
These swaps debt levels supported by recurring committed income: are designated to hedge underlying debt obligations.
the Groups cost of capital is minimised: and Liquidity and cash management the Group maintains a prudent financial position The Group seeks to maintain a high level of undrawn by active management of financial risks, including revolving bank facilities to provide financial liquidity.
interest rate, liquidity and counterparty risks.
The Groups objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use Financing policy of its overdraft facilities.
Short term flexibility is Through a mix of debt and equity finance, the Group achieved by using working capital facilities totalling aims to minimise its cost of capital and maximise 55.0 million.
The Group also has in place a revolving equity returns.
The Groups financing policy is to 300.0 million acquisition facility of which 283.4 million leverage equity returns through strategic gearing, was drawn down at 31 December 2005. whilst maintaining an optimal debt structure.
The optimal debt structure varies between the Groups portfolios.
For the acquisition of new properties the optimal debt structure is considered to be in the region of 70%80% LTV.
Debt management The Groups debt and derivative positions are continuously reviewed to ensure they meet current and future debt requirements.
No speculative transactions are undertaken.
The Group maintains a balance between longer term and shorter term financing.
Acquisitions are often funded initially by flexible short-term credit facilities and then refinanced with longer term funding when market conditions are favourable.
30 Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 To facilitate the implementation of this policy the Environmental policy Company has established and will maintain an Mapeley is a market leading property investment and environmental management system.
This system outsourcing company whose core business is the outlines how this statement will be put into operation.
acquisition, ownership and management of a diverse Generally this will be achieved by: portfolio of commercial property.
Mapeley acknowledges its contribution, as a consumer of resources, to the Regular monitoring of all environmental impacts growing global environmental burden and therefore its of our business, setting objectives and targets to responsibilities to future generations of environmental help minimise those impacts and by monitoring our stakeholders under the principles of the sustainability performance to ensure continual improvement: concept.
It is the philosophy of this Group to demonstrate Incorporating our environmental objectives into all a full commitment to the identification of all areas of business decisions in a cost effective manner: environmental impact and to strive to minimise or prevent any negative environmental impacts.
Encouraging all employees to integrate environmentally responsible concepts into their Overall responsibility for environmental policy lies with normal working procedures: the Chief Executive Officer with day to day management provided by the Groups Environmental Manager.
Incorporating environmental considerations into the design process of our development projects, including The Group is committed to: the sustainable use of resources and materials, energy Complying with all environmental legislation and efficiency, avoidance of harm to the local environment other relevant requirements as a minimum standard: and contributing to the well being of the community: Assessing the impacts of all its operations on Promoting efficient use of resources and reduction the environment: in the production of greenhouse gas emissions, and promoting the minimisation, re-use and recycling Complying with Mapeleys codes of corporate governance: of waste arising from our activities: Maintaining on-going dialogue with stakeholders Using our influence to improve environmental and clients to identify key environmental issues and performance in our supply chain and to encourage develop effective strategies to manage these issues: purchasing of sustainable products and materials: and Encouraging environmentally responsible behaviour Improving the environmental performance of existing throughout our work force: and properties with the aim of minimising pollution.
Encouraging our suppliers and contractors to comply The Groups policy is subject to review and development with our environmental policy and to adopt similar in line with our evolving areas of business interests, standards themselves.
and the continual implementation of the policy will be periodically monitored at Board level.
Mapeley Limited Annual report 2005 31 Financial review continued Contractor management Health and safety We have established working groups with our service Following on from our success in 2004 of achieving the providers to ensure that a standard approach to British Safety Council International Health and Safety legislative requirements is adopted, that operational Award, the Board set performance based targets for risks are discussed and controlled and that competencies 2005 with a core emphasis on continual improvement.
are developed appropriate to the services being delivered.
Of significant importance was the requirement for the We have developed processes and procedures for business to achieve certification to the International audit by the Group of the performance of third party Health and Safety Specification OHSAS 18001.
This was suppliers, with quantifiable risk scores established for achieved in November 2005 following external auditing benchmarking safety performance across the range by LRQA of our safety management system.
In receiving of services delivered.
Compliance with performance certification to OHSAS 18001 Mapeley has demonstrated outputs, implementation of legislative requirements effective risk mitigation in our business through and on best practice guides set by the UK Health and operating effective processes for hazard identification Safety Executive is monitored.
Looking forward to 2006, some of our key aims are: We recognise that successful health and safety management directly reflects on the attitude and Continual improvement of our safety culture: behaviour of our staff.
To assist this, we have established The ongoing maintenance of our OHSAS 18001 a consultation group for health and safety chaired by certification: our Chief Operating Officer involving all areas of our business.
A training needs analysis based on risk has been Audit and monitoring of the safe delivery of all undertaken and training courses provided through internal construction projects to ensure compliance with and external suppliers determined from this analysis.
specified health and safety outputs: and Health and safety performance against objectives is Review of best practice and benchmarking our reported to the Groups management team on a regular performance within our business sector.
basis and the information provided used to review the effectiveness of the operational management programme.
For the third consecutive year, no Mapeley employee suffered any work related injury or ill health as defined under the UK Reporting of Injuries, Diseases and Dangerous Occurrence Regulations.
No prosecutions, improvement or prohibition notices were served on Mapeley or any of the services we deliver by the enforcing authorities.
Risk assessment is managed through external accredited training of our assessors in areas of identified risk to ensure competency to undertake suitable and sufficient assessments.
