Group Chief 2005 was an excellent year for Savills, as it Executives Review of expanded its range of property related services Operations to the global market.
& Financial Review 2005 was an excellent year for Savills, as it expanded its range Asia Pacific had an outstanding year and overall revenue of property related services to the global market.
for that region now constitutes 26% of the Groups total.
The largest part of our Asia Pacific profits were generated in Underlying pre-tax profits increased from 43.9m to 57.2m.
Hong Kong where we have a particularly strong market Underlying profit is calculated by adjusting reported profit before position.
We continue to expand our business in China and tax to deduct profits on disposals of 0.4m 2004 - 11.2m, have recently opened a new office in Macau, where the new Aubrey Adams share based payment adjustment of 1.9m 2004 - 3.9m casino developments will provide substantial growth.
and add back amortisation of intangibles and impairment of goodwill of 0.9m 2004 - 0.6m.
There was a smaller corresponding increase in underlying earnings per share based Transactional Advice upon underlying Group profit from 55.0p to 66.5p due to the The Transactional Advice business stream comprises commercial, dilutive effect of the issue of new shares to Trammell Crow residential, agricultural agency and investment.
During the year Company on 29 April 2005. revenue was 166.9m 2004 - 146.3m, representing 45% of our total revenue, generating operating profits of 33.0m In the UK, our Commercial business enjoyed another record 2004 - 26.7m.
year following rapid expansion and success in acquiring significant new teams.
We are recognised as one of the leading Commercial Investment and Agency commercial property service providers with national coverage The investment markets performed well in 2005, as the positive through specialised offices in the main business centres.
money supply and increasing demand from both institutional and retail investors continued to drive pricing.
A significant The UK Residential business made a cautious start to the year deal was advising Land Securities on the acquisition of a retail but the market regained confidence and the year finished on warehouse and food store portfolio for 367m acquired from a much stronger note, particularly in London.
During the year the combined team transacted over 16bn of deals, strengthening our position in the market.
In Europe the main focus of our business is investment and, as with the UK markets, this remains strong.
There is The International Investment team had another record year particular interest at the moment in the German market where with net billings of c10.5m.
The team continued to operate in international 'value' investors are particularly active.
a variety of markets including the UK, France and Italy with the 11 Group Chief Executives Review of Operations & Financial Review continued majority of this year's income generated from projects in the Despite rapidly rising commercial rents, our Leasing teams in specialist asset management advice at Printworks, Manchester, UK: transactions totalled 1.57bn.
Two highlights for the year Hong Kong Island and Kowloon increased revenue on the back a 340,000 sq ft scheme owned by Henderson Global Investors included advising on the sale of One Curzon Street on behalf of very strong tenant demand.
In Shenzhen, the Commercial and British Airways Pension Fund: where we secured four of CGI for 280m and advising on the sale of the Lloyds Leasing team was appointed to let Great China International new operators for Printworks in 2005 and raised footfall by Building, London on behalf of Deka for 231m.
Exchange Square, a project comprising eight stories of 15% in the same period.
c10.0m sq ft of retail and over c19.4m sq ft of office space.
The Business Space team continued to take market share and The Out of Town Retail team returned another strong one of the more interesting deals was the sale of Widewater In Australia, despite a relatively weak sales and leasing market, performance despite some areas of the retail market showing Place, Harefield, Uxbridge on behalf of Invesco for 35m to profitability increased.
The Australian business has particularly signs of weakness.
During the year, the team further extended Insight Investment.
strong operations in Queensland and Western Australia.
its nationwide coverage opening a new commercial office in The Sydney Commercial Leasing team, leased eight floors of Bristol.
The team were appointed by Matalan Plc as their In January 2005, Savills and its partner Trammell Crow Company 60 Union Street, Pyrmont, Sydney, totalling 181,135 sq ft, to national advisers to provide portfolio asset management, were appointed by Norwich Union to advise on its surplus American Express: this was the largest single leasing deal ever acquisitions and disposals.
In 2005, the team advised on over properties throughout the UK.
The portfolio comprised more achieved by Savills in Australia.
100 retail parks for major landlords such as British Land, than 150 properties, with over 200 sub-leases and 1.69m sq ft. Morley, Royal London Asset Management and Legal & General.
The appointment was the result of a competitive tender by The sale of 400 William Street, Melbourne was the Melbourne Norwich Union and underlines Savills capability to undertake central business district's largest site sale in 2005.
Savills acted Hotels and Healthcare multiple disposal transactions for major corporates.
for the purchaser and has been appointed leasing agents for The hotel investment market doubled in 2005 with strong the project.
operator demand: the department capitalised on this by Our Birmingham Development team acted on behalf of leading many transactions including Marstons, Queens Moat Countryside Properties PLC in joint venture with Quintain Retail and Leisure Houses and Radisson.
The apart-hotel concept emerged and Estates and Development PLC in the agreement and lease With a dedicated team throughout the UK, the Leisure team Savills led the market on schemes throughout London and with Birmingham City Council to develop City Park Gate, an advised on all aspects of the leisure industry in 2005.
important regeneration site on the edge of Birmingham city of its strategy for growth, the Commercial Leisure centre.
The scheme will include up to 600 apartments, team expanded their expertise into asset management and The Healthcare team had another strong year in which key 150,000 sq ft of offices and a food store.
investment sectors which culminated in leisure investment valuation and agency staff were recruited, thereby strengthening transactions in excess of 250m.
In particular, we provided the team.
The team have advised on and sold over 800m healthcare related properties and businesses in 2005.
12 Group Chief Executives Review of Operations & Financial Review continued Institutional Residential Investment Auctions The specialist Institutional team has significant activity in the The Residential Investment team continue to value a wide The auction market continues to grow in importance as a conference centre, schools and charity sectors.
Highlights range of investment portfolios as well as several large portfolios method of sale and this year we added a commercial auction included the acquisition of the Sundridge Park Hotel and for institutional clients and banks, including a large investment department to complement our existing residential auction Conference Centre 140,000 sq ft on behalf of Cathedral portfolio of tenanted apartment blocks throughout England on team.
Considerable synergy has developed between the two Group Plc in a deal worth in the region of 15m.
The team behalf of British Land with a value in the region of 300m.
teams that allows a comprehensive sales service to a full range also worked with the Healthcare team on retirement property of clients on a wide range of property types which is reflected projects with assets worth in excess of 150m.
An unusual Purchasing Advice in our achieving sales of over 287m this year.
We sold over sale was that of Green Island, in Poole Harbour, which had Prime Purchase, Savills' independent subsidiary which 1,000 properties, with an overall success rate of 85%: making been used for a number of years by a charitable trust for specialises in acquiring residential property in both central Savills the fourth largest property auction house in the UK by holidays for those with disabilities.
This was acquired by a London and the country for retained clients, continued its volume.
private purchaser for a sum in excess of the 2.5m guide price.
impressive growth since it began in 2002, with an increase in turnover of over 29% during the year.
The Commercial team sold over 104m in its first nine months Residential Agency trading and we expect to improve on this figure with a full After a poor start to the year, the residential markets gained Of particular note was the purchase in London of the freehold year's trading in 2006. momentum and traded well during the late spring and summer of 4 Wilton Crescent and in the country of West Court near with a strong performance during the autumn.
The average Newbury, which was included in the Country Life list of the 10 The Auction business benefits considerably from our extensive Savills property sold for 1.3m in London and 0.7m in the best houses to have been sold during the year.
Country houses office network: this year we created a Savills Auction Subscription country.
Our Knightsbridge office was involved in two of the with amenity land of between 200 and 550 acres were Service which allows subscribers to receive electronic highest value residential sales in central London: a house in acquired for clients in Surrey, the Cotswolds and Devon.
Over catalogues of up-to-date research as well as financial market Belgrave Square, SW1 with an asking price of 33m: and the 55% of purchases in the country last year were secured for movements supplied by Savills Private Finance, our financial sale on behalf of Hammerson plc and Grosvenor of Dudley clients either privately or before marketing.
House, 100 Park Lane at a guide price of 40m.
Residential Letting New Homes Other highlights included the sale of Maperton House, Somerset, With the opening of lettings businesses in Islington, Chiswick, Following the expansion and growth of our New Homes voted Country Life House of the Year in excess of its 3.5m Wimbledon and Tunbridge Wells, residential lettings have department we now offer clients 22 specialised operations guide price, Tor Point in Surrey at a guide price of 5.2m and continued to grow in an increasingly buoyant market.
Our core across the UK with further openings planned in 2006.
In the Ward Estate on Loch Lomond sold for in excess of 3m, lettings business in London had a record year, whilst country 2005, we sold 3,922 units with a combined value of 1.4bn.
possibly the most expensive property in West Scotland during lettings also showed growth with further scope for expansion.
Working independently or with our Development and Planning 2005.
Average rents have increased, particularly in the prime central disciplines we are now advising on a substantial number of London house market and the large country house market.
major regeneration schemes: it is hoped this will lead to significant instructions over the coming years.
13 Group Chief Executives Review of Operations & Financial Review continued New instructions included Pan Peninsula by Ballymore The Development & Regeneration team increased their 2005 Turnover by Region Properties near Canary Wharf, a 340 unit development with a involvement in public sector projects as key authorities have 50th floor cocktail bar and panoramic views over London.
taken a role in the regeneration of east London and the Olympic Asia Pacific Launched in November, 143 reservations were received on area.
We were also instructed by Arsenal Football Club plc on the development of Highbury Stadium into 711 Our expertise and market share in the delivery of major strategic apartments with a total value of 300m: this scheme was developments outside London have also been expanded.
We launched in September 2005 with sales achieving record levels.
are currently advising BP on two major new settlements: UK 68% Rest of Upper Strand Developments instructed us in a 500 unit Harlow 8,000 houses and Swansea 5,000 houses and the Europe 6% development in Edinburgh's Granton district, which forms part design and format of the new settlements is being directed by of one of the largest waterfront regeneration schemes in Europe.
International New Homes Farm and Estate Agency The demand for residential and investment property abroad 2005 has been a year of recovery in the agricultural agency continues to expand both in volume and exposure to new market with more farms for sale but supply still limited.
The 2005 Turnover by Segment regions.
"""Leaseback"" skiing properties in Switzerland and average value of farmland increased by 12% during the year."
France have been particularly popular for both investment The finalising of European support payments in spring 2006 is Financial Services and leisure opportunities.
We have successfully introduced expected to bring more normality to a market still trading on Fund 7% projects in a number of emerging markets such as Croatia and low national turnover.
Sale instructions ranged from Brook Management 1% Bulgaria and established a number of new local associations.
Hall in Suffolk guide price 6.2m to the Trewarthenick Estate in Cornwall guide price 9m.
Transactional Development Advice Property 45% The Development team has substantially grown and the future & Facilities Management pipeline of both consultancy and agency instructions has 28% increased significantly.
The team maintained an involvement in a number of major projects across Greater London which included consultancy work as part of the delivery of the Olympics' facilities in 2012.
Consultancy 19% 14 Group Chief Executives Review of Operations & Financial Review continued Consultancy a price in excess of 175m.
Another key highlight was our Building Consultancy Our Consultancy business generates fee income from a wide appointment to manage and value the renowned Phillimore The Commercial Building Consultancy business was reorganised range of professional property services including valuation, Kensington Estate in London, the first change in managing in 2005 into specialist service focused teams which enabled building consultancy, landlord and tenant, rating, planning, agents for 200 years.
The addition of the Phillimore Estate the business to take on more complex, high value projects.
Operating profit for the year was Management team has provided synergy with the other portfolio 12.9m 2004 - 10.9m on revenue of 71.8m 2004 - and leasehold enfranchisement activities of the department.
The Technical Due Diligence and Project Monitoring teams 59.3m.
were involved in a number of high profile commissions The expanded Loan Security Valuation team valued in excess during the year including the survey of 12 German shopping Valuation of 4bn of residential and mixed use development schemes centres for the Kenmore Group and the construction The Commercial Valuation department is regarded as one of and high value property.
In addition to our valuation departments monitoring of a large City office building for DIFA, Deutsche the leading valuation teams in the UK.
Based in our principal in London, valuations of both commercial and residential Immobilien Fonds AG.
They also acted for the Gatsby offices of London, Manchester and Edinburgh, the team properties are undertaken in 22 offices throughout the country Charitable Foundation on feasibility work in relation to their provides national and international advice on investment and from Edinburgh to Southampton and Norwich to Exeter.
planned donation of c45m to the University of Cambridge development property for a range of purposes including advice for the establishment of a new institute for the study of to lenders for loan security purposes and to clients for litigation, In Asia, Savills were successful in recruiting a 35 man plant diversity and development.
stock exchange, tax and accounts purposes.
Over the course professional team for Hong Kong and mainland China, which of 2005, the department expanded with the addition of new specialises in valuation, land use rights, tribunal and other The Lease Management team provided strategic dilapidations consultants.
The department valued in excess of 20bn of real forms of consultancy.
The team was very active in initial public and service charge advice to some 120 landlord and tenant estate assets and has provided independent valuation advice offering IPO and real estate investment trust REIT clients on claims and reviews valued between 10k and to over 50 different lending organisations as well as many consultancy advice and was involved in the valuation of the 25m.
40% of this work was undertaken in the capacity property companies and property owners.
property portfolio for the listing of the Construction Bank of of expert in dispute resolution procedures.
China, the largest global IPO in 2005.
The Residential Valuation department is also a leader in The Project Management team undertook a number of providing valuation and investment appraisal services for loan In Singapore, the acquisition of Valuers and Property projects for Japanese clients including Mitsui & Co UK Plc, security, acquisition, disposals and accounts.
We acted on Consultants Singapore Pte Ltd, a specialist valuation team, Japan Satellite Television Europe Ltd and Suzuki GB PLC.
behalf of Westminster City Council in the sale of their has increased our revenue and profile considerably.
headlease in the landmark building Dolphin Square, Pimlico The Refurbishment team rolled out an improved full to Westbrook Partners, a US property investment company, for In Australia, the professional services division secured the design and contract administration service to their residential appointment by the Australian Department of Foreign Affairs and commercial clients, securing 18 new projects with a and Trade to value 121 Australian embassies and ambassadorial total value in excess of 20m.
15 Group Chief Executives Review of Operations & Financial Review continued Industrial Building Consultancy has continued to expand and recruitment: retail specialists have been added in Bristol solutions that are marketable, sustainable and most importantly its services in the logistics and distribution sector having and London.
We now act for over 60 landlords in this high can be delivered through the planning process.
acted as 'Fund Surveyors' on over 2m sq ft of new-build profile sector of the property market.
space for MetLife Investments and pre-acquisition support Notable projects during the year included the promotion of on around 1.5m sq ft of new developments.
Retailer and Affordable Housing and Student Accommodation several of the country's largest urban extensions including logistics occupier clients include Mothercare and Frans The department has continued to strengthen its profile in the 14,000 new homes at Harlow and 7,000 houses at Milton Maas.
specialist affordable and student accommodation markets Keynes.
In the energy and water industry sectors, we have winning an increasing proportion of agency instructions: the prepared an application and environmental impact assessment Building consultancy services in our regional offices continued largest of which in 2005 was the disposal of a mixed student for the UK's largest proposed windfarm in Scotland and we to grow at a steady rate with billings for Manchester and affordable scheme in Brentford comprising accommodation of are handling a major new waste water treatment facility on the Birmingham reaching 1.6m.
The team continues to be 1,000 beds.
involved with Kenmore Group on pre-acquisition surveys and the refurbishment of a number of buildings.
Rating Housing Consultancy Our specialist Rating department has been assisting business The department reported its strongest financial performance Our professional team continue to undertake pre-acquisition with all aspects of rating for over 50 years.
The department since it was established in 1989: a new team was recruited in surveys, dilapidations instructions and minor refurbishments is now working on the 2005 list appeals: one supermarket has Horsham which increased the size of the team by 60%.
Working on behalf of ICI Dulux Decorator Centres, who have become already had its 2005 list bill reduced by 0.25m.
internationally for the first time, the team valued several a key client.
Close liaison with Greater Manchester Pension substantial housing portfolios.
Strategic advisory work continued Fund has provided good instructions on the Roundthorn Planning to grow with a number of new instructions from national housing Industrial Estate where a number of refurbishments have The Planning division expanded in 2005, with teams operating providers and strong ongoing instructions for loan security been undertaken in the last twelve months.
from ten offices and increasing the diversity of our skills base valuations.
to include urban design, master planning and environmental Landlord and Tenant impact assessment alongside planning and retail consultancy.
Following the negative rental growth during the last couple of Recent changes to planning legislation are producing a peak years, the markets have seen a return to positive growth in in planning consultancy work and there are pressures to 2005, with the market now generally optimistic about deliver high quality growth and regeneration.
Our ability to increased levels of rental growth in 2006 and beyond.
During integrate planning advice and urban design with wider the year, the Rent Review team expanded through acquisition property and research skills enables us to produce development 16 Group Chief Executives Review of Operations & Financial Review continued Strategic Projects The department continues to have involvement with some Facilities Management Our Telecoms team has significantly increased its market of the biggest UK development sites, providing in-depth Savills Guardian, an integrated facility management business share and has ongoing work with Vodafone, Orange and O2 as studies of housing demand, pricing and phasing as well as based in Hong Kong had another successful year.
The business the mobile phone operators continue to roll out the 3G Network.
ground-breaking research and information on place-making, secured a Public Sector Association contract managing plus the integration, management and funding of neighbourhood 5,000 housing units and a contract for hotel cleaning and Following the electricity regulator's last price review, there has and commercial uses.
maintenance for Disneyland, Hong Kong.
Overall margins in been a significant increase in activity as UK regional electricity Hong Kong for Guardian are under pressure and the business companies invest in the refurbishment of their networks In Asia, the Savills Research & Consultancy business provided is looking to mainland China and Macau to secure more and we are involved in managing the interface between economic and property market analysis for The Link lucrative contract margins.
landowners and the construction teams.
Management on the 2.5bn government privatisation of 180 retail and car park facilities.
This was Hong Kong's largest Commercial Management Portfolio valuation advice was provided to National Grid as part privatisation and the world's largest IPO of a real estate The UK Property Management business has continued to of its disposal of four of its distribution networks.
develop at an impressive rate in terms of overall turnover, quality of instructions and client profile.
Organic growth has In Australia, Savills announced the formation of a Strategic Savills Research & Consultancy was appointed to advise been achieved and our client base now represents the full Project Delivery business, which will focus on the delivery of on the successful launch in December 2005 of Prosperity spectrum of UK property investors with each office acting for infrastructure, commercial and industrial projects.
REIT, established by Cheung Kong Holdings, Hong Kong's a mix of local investors and major funds.
The team has largest property developer.
The REIT consisted of office and successfully expanded a number of existing mandates from Research industrial properties valued at approximately 338.0m.
clients such as GE Real Estate, Morley Fund Management and The Research department advised a wide variety of clients on UBS.
investment, development, planning and other issues relevant Property and Facilities Management to all sectors of the UK and overseas property markets.
Our The Property and Facilities Management business continued Of particular note is the recruitment of a three-man management prognosis for a soft landing in the UK housing market was to grow, generating fee income from managing commercial, team in Birmingham which has helped strengthen the proved to be correct: house price inflation in 2005 according residential and agricultural properties.
A new management department has also been to the Government's index looks set to be very close to our 2% revenue was 104.4m 2004 - 85.8m, generating an set up in Leeds and it is hoped that similar expansion in Bristol forecast and our forecast of falls in urban building land values operating profit of 7.8m 2004 - 6.0m.
was also correct, falling by -2.5% in 2005.
17 Group Chief Executives Review of Operations & Financial Review continued The Japanese business, which is headquartered in Tokyo, Property Trading and Investment In the UK, Cordea Savills achieved strong investment was acquired at the end of 2004 and generated property As there were no properties held for sale during the year no performance for its discretionary pension funds.
The year was management and leasing revenues of 1.2m in 2005.
Long revenue was generated in 2005 2004 - 13.0m nor operating also notable for the growth of the Charities Property Fund, term, Japan will be a key market for Savills in Asia and we are profit reported 2004 - 10.1m.
which expanded in size from 242m to 309m, making it the developing our plans to grow our presence in the worlds leading property fund for UK charities.
We launched our first second largest real estate market.
Financial Services pooled product aimed at UK and European pension funds: the The Financial Services division comprises Savills Private Cordea Savills Student Managed Hall Fund: this fund was The property management business in Hong Kong increased Finance Limited, which provides residential mortgage broking seeded with 65m of halls purchased from UNITE Group plc.
"revenues by 30% and acquired a business called ""Showcase"" services, commercial debt broking services, commercial and 2005 also saw Cordea Savills Wealth Management establish which specialises in offering exhibition and marketing services private insurance services and associated financial planning its brand in the UK private investor market with the launch of to office and retail landlords and has a close alignment with products."
The division made operating profit of 4.4m 2004 its first three products: DIVERSE, QPC and Serviced Land the property management business.
In Korea, Savills acquired a 50% stake in Korean Asset Savills Private Finance continued to trade well, especially in In Italy, Cordea Savills received approval from the Bank of Italy Advisors and BHP Korea, approved by the Bank of Korea on the high net worth mortgage broking market.
The Commercial for an SGR the regulated Italian fund management company 3 January 2006 and which operates property, asset Debt Broking, Financial Planning and Property Insurance and an exceptional team has been formed with Gerardo Solaro management and brokerage services in Seoul.
The business divisions have also made significant contributions.
New offices del Borgo appointed as Managing Director and Riccardo Delli manages over 10m sq ft of grade A office and retail space in have been opened in Leeds, Sevenoaks and York bringing the Santi and Gualtiero Tamburini appointed as Independent Seoul and acts for key institutional clients.
The opportunities total number of offices to twenty.
Despite an increase in fixed Directors.
With strong management and investment teams to expand and grow the Korean business are considerable and costs associated with the investment in and growth of the positioned in offices in Milan and Rome, the business is benefits are already emerging from synergies between our business, profit for the year was ahead of 2004.
The business poised for further growth in the rapidly growing Italian property businesses in China and Korea.
is now well placed to ensure further profit growth.
Land and Farm Management Fund Management We expect Cordea Savills to emerge, in due course, as a major 2005 began to see the countryside adjust to EU reform of the Cordea Savills, the Group's fund management business, made European investment manager servicing the needs of a wide Common Agricultural Policy.
Against this background of operating profit of 0.6m 2004 - loss of 0.5m on revenue of range of domestic and international clients.
reform, Savills has been consolidating the growth of its rural 4.7m 2004 - 3.6m.
Funds under management expanded business following the acquisition of Smith Woolley, Colvilles to 1.7bn during 2005 but the year was characterised by and Elvey & Co.
This has broadened our network and skill investment in infrastructure and developing a pipeline of new base allowing us to provide a much improved service to our funds to be launched in 2006. clients and led to enhanced fee income.
18 Group Chief Executives Review of Operations & Financial Review continued FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FOR THE YEAR On 19 December 2005, Savills Asia announced the Further details of financial instruments are provided in Note 23 acquisition of a 50% shareholding in Korea Asset of these Report and Accounts.
The Board reviews and agrees Underlying Group operating margins of 14.3% 2004- Advisors & BHP Korea, which received formal approval policies for managing each of the above-mentioned risks.
from the Bank of Korea on 3 January 2006.
These have remained unchanged during the year under review Strong cash balances with a year-end balance of 99.9m, and are summarised below.
even after making an additional lump sum payment of Assets Classified as Held for Sale 10m into the Pension Plan.
On 16 December 2005, Savills announced the acquisition of Interest Rate Risk A very strong performance from Asia Pacific this year 100% of the units in a property unit trust which owns a The Group finances its operations through a mixture of retained with turnover up 16% and operating profit up 30%.
portfolio of three student accommodation buildings operated profits and bank borrowings, at both fixed and floating interest by UNITE Group plc.
The assets are to be used as seed capital rates.
Acquisitions and Disposals for a fund launched and managed by Cordea Savills.
The During the year we have completed a number of acquisitions assets acquired are recorded as held for sale and total cash Liquidity Risk and disposals of businesses or interests in ventures, both in consideration was 16.5m.
The Group prepares an annual funding plan approved by the the UK in aggregate 9.4m and overseas in aggregate 3.2m Board which sets out the Group's expected financing including: Net cash outflow for investing activities during the year amounted requirements for the next 12 months.
On 1 March 2005, Savills L&P Limited acquired Holden Foreign Currency Risk Matthews Estate Agents Limited.
FINANCIAL POLICIES AND RISK Our policy is for each business to borrow in local currencies On 31 March 2005, Savills SA acquired AWON Gestion, a MANAGEMENT where possible.
The Group does not actively seek to hedge Paris based property management business.
Treasury Activities and Policies risks arising from foreign currency transactions due to their On 13 May 2005, Savills Commercial Limited acquired The Group's treasury operations are coordinated and managed non-cash nature and the high costs associated with such Mansfield Elstob Main Limited, a Bristol based commercial in accordance with policies and procedures approved by the hedging.
They are designed to reduce the financial risks faced On 22 June 2005, Savills PM Holding purchased by the Group, which primarily relate to funding and liquidity, Borrowing Showcase Ltd. interest rate exposure and currency rate exposures.
The Group retains substantial short-term money market facilities On 26 September 2005, Savills Commercial Limited with its bankers of 5m which are currently not utilised.
acquired Brown Harknett International Limited.
The Group's financial instruments comprise borrowings, some On 7 October 2005, Savills Commercial Limited acquired cash and liquid resources and various other items such as Net Interest S Y Moorhouse Wright Limited.
trade debtors and trade creditors that arise directly from Net interest receivable is 3.5m 2004 - 1.8m.
Higher On 13 October 2005, Savills Overseas Holdings Limited its operations.
The Group does not engage in trades of a operating cash flows and increased average deposit rates gave acquired a major shareholding in Factor Immobilien speculative nature.
rise to increased cash balances and a significant movement Management GmbH.
19 Group Chief Executives Review of Operations & Financial Review continued Taxation The total number of Ordinary Shares issued at 31 December INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY The taxation charge increased marginally to 30.4% of the 2005 was 66.5m 2004 - 60.5m.
No value is attributed in the Group balance sheet to internally profit before tax compared with 29.7% during the year to generated intangibles such as brand name or intellectual 31 December 2004.
CASH FLOW AND LIQUIDITY property rights.
Net cash inflow from operating activities totalled 32.7m CAPITAL AND SHAREHOLDERS which, after allowing for cash flows including taxation, NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS INTERESTS dividends, investments and capital expenditure, produced a International Financial Reporting Standards Minority Interests net increase in cash of 10m.
At 31 December 2005, the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS have been Minority interests increased to 0.6m 2004 - 0.2m and Group's cash at bank and on short term deposit amounted applied, as required for all European listed companies, for our reflects acquisitions and increased profits during the year.
This was deposited with banks and financial financial year ending 31 December 2005.
The Group has institutions with top credit ratings for periods not exceeding worked extensively on the implementation of IFRS and the Earnings and Dividend six months, to match known outgoings.
2005 Report and Accounts are the first to be audited under Basic earnings per share amounted to 67.2p 2004 - 72.7p.
The Company extensively reviewed the impact of the Underlying basic earnings per share from continuing operations The Group continues to operate a centralised treasury applicable International Accounting Standards IAS on the amounted to 66.5p 2004 - 55.0p.
function, which is not a separate profit centre but purely reported UK GAAP results for 2004 to produce adjusted provides a service to the operating companies.
comparables as required in accordance with IFRS1.
The Board is recommending a final dividend of 16p net, making 24p for the full year, a 28% increase on last year.
PENSION SCHEME During the year the Company undertook a further review of the Share Capital funding position of the Pension and Life Assurance Plan of During the year ended 31 December 2005, 570,000 shares Savills 'the Plan'.
Full details of this are provided in the 2005 were issued to participants in the Savills plc United Kingdom Report and Accounts.
As a result of this and in order to Executive Share Option Scheme and 274,840 to participants improve the financial position of the Plan and remove part of in the Savills Sharesave Scheme.
A further 866 shares were the deficit, the Company made a further lump sum payment of issued to the QUEST.
During the year ended 31 December 10m into the Plan in 2005.
2005, 100,000 shares were re-purchased for cancellation.
On 29 April 2005, 5,243,229 shares were allotted to Trammell Crow Company following their exercise of a Deed of Option.
Aubrey Adams, Group Chief Executive 20 Underlying Revenue of Underlying basic earnings pre-tax 373.9m per share of profits up 14% 66.5p up 21% 57.2m Demonstrating strong organic growth and selective expansion Total Full year shareholder dividend 24p return up 30% 506% In recognition of the outstanding Benchmarked against results this year and in line with the FTSE 250 our progressive dividend policy 21 The committed and dedicated efforts of our talented staff whose continued ability to provide a professional service to our clients is the basis for the excellent results achieved in 2005 Talented Staff Results Success 22 23 Savills now provides the full complement of agency, property management and professional services in Shanghai as well as Bejing and Hong Kong 24 We continue to expand our business in China and have recently opened a new office in Macau, where the new casino developments will provide substantial growth 25 Directors & Directors Report 26
