08 Operating and financial review W. A. Oliver Chief Executive Our market For further details of projects referred apartment market, but there is a to in this OFR, see our website, continued demand for a competitively Competitive and Regulatory www.
environment Our market The companys only other activities Business model and strategy The companys core operation is within relate to limited operating ventures the UK property development and entered into to support the core Financial objectives investment market.
operation such as those at the Avonmouth landfill site, Solihull ice rink Development and performance The UK property investment market and Trentham Gardens.
of the business is currently very strong and is likely to remain so as long as interest rates and Competitive and Regulatory Trading returns from bonds remain low and the environment Marshalling countrys economic performance is The UK property market is extremely Acquisitions satisfactory.
Natural barriers to entry Financial Items remains patchy but in a balanced are low.
Finance is usually readily portfolio there are enough available and advantages of scale, opportunities to create a reasonable although they do exist, are limited.
is rare, therefore, for the company not to be in serious competition whether Currently the retail market is showing it is seeking to make an acquisition, some signs of weakness as consumer to achieve selection as preferred spend eases and the stronger retailers developer, or to secure an occupier.
satisfy some of their demand by taking space vacated by weaker retailers.
By contrast, the regulatory However, the food retail market environment is restrictive and remains strong as does the market for becoming increasingly more so.
any well-differentiated retail offer such Attempts to simplify and speed up the as at Trentham Gardens.
planning process have not worked and the cost and timescale involved in The industrial building market follows obtaining planning permission is the pattern of recent years with continuing to escalate.
The process manufacturing enquiries being limited of recycling brownfield land is but distribution and service-led becoming steadily more challenging enquiries remaining strong.
with risk-based environmental assessments requiring a higher level The office market is the most difficult of understanding of the to read.
Increasing strength in financial decontamination process.
and professional services is fuelling greater confidence in traditional office To a considerable extent the regulatory core areas whilst business parks challenges create an opportunity in continue to have to fight hard for every which a developer with appropriate bit of business.
skills and determination can build a long-term viable business.
The market for residential land remains strong.
There is more uncertainty in the St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 09 The skills needed to deliver successful partnership projects have become a core feature of our business.
Business model and strategy St. Modwen is at heart a property development company.
Many of its assets may be classified as investments but that is because of long project gestation and the fact that the company is looking for both an income and a capital return.
The aim is that no property, whether held in work-in-progress or classified as an investment, should be acquired or retained unless it is believed that significant value can be added to that property by the companys own efforts asset management, refurbishment or redevelopment in a flat market over a five to fifteen year horizon.
A classic challenge for property development companies is how to achieve a constant or rising stream of Trentham Lakes 1996 profits from an activity which some see A 267 acre former colliery site acquired in its raw state.
St. Modwen has sought to meet this challenge by a constant and long-term strategy.
Through a network of six regional offices, we carry out a programme of development in our areas of speciality.
These are town centre regeneration: partnering industry in its restructuring: brownfield land renewal: and heritage restoration.
Much of the programme is carried out with partners from both the public and private sectors.
The skills needed to deliver successful partnership projects have become a core feature of our business.
Our public sector partnerships include: long-term joint companies with local authorities such as Stoke-on-Trent Regeneration and Widnes Regeneration Halton Borough Council, both 81 19 ventures: Trentham Lakes 2005 150 acres have been developed to date including the Stoke City Britannia Stadium, a hotel, leisure centre, car showrooms, 275 homes and 1m sq ft of employment space.
10 Operating and financial review continued Special skills in dealing with derelict or contaminated land development agreements or leases broadly based St. Modwen is not The hopper 19992005 Acres 000 with local authorities such as a sectoral specialist.
We can deliver Bedford, Dudley, Enfield, Liverpool, successfully a wide range of Developable Other Manchester, Rushmoor, and Welwyn outputs.
St. Modwen can, therefore, & Hatfield: and adjust the mix of its development development agreements with programme to match market 8 regional development agencies such opportunities: 7 as Advantage West Midlands and geographically spread operating South West England.
through its regional offices, 6 St. Modwen combines the strength 5 We have a number of partnerships of a local developer with the power with other property companies, of a national company: 4 including Prologis Barton Business focused upon regeneration 3 Park, and Rotch Wembley Central St. Modwen goes where it is 2 and Woking, but the most significant needed, rather than where it is is our Key Property Investments fashionable.
It therefore builds long- 1 operation with Salhia Real Estate of term relationships and obtains 0 Kuwait.
This operation, which now repeat business: and 1999 2005 owns property assets of 309m, was acquired in its rawest state most Developable acres in the hopper formed in 1997 to enable us to take on added value and more flexibility can Acres 000 larger projects.
Starting with a 35m be achieved if a developer tackles Town centre portfolio from Refuge Assurance, it has property and risk from the outset of Residential Employment acquired Farnborough Kingsmead and the regeneration process.
Queensmead, the Marconi and Alstom 5 portfolios, Elephant & Castle, and The This needs special skills in: Malls, Basingstoke.
St. Modwen is the land assembly including compulsory 4 operating arm of the joint venture and purchase and occupier relocations: receives management, project dealing with derelict or management and development fees contaminated land: 3 for its work.
total understanding of the planning process: 2 The key to our strategy is the expertise in infrastructure delivery: continuing acquisition of well-located and, of course, in development itself.
1 opportunities to top up the hopper.
It also needs intelligent finance.
0 The hopper is a bank of development The properties in the hopper are held 1999 2005 opportunities.
It is: through a variety of structures, long-term we seldom source such as: properties for development within wholly owned but sometimes with three years.
The normal overage to a vendor: development horizon is five years joint venture, ranging from 50 50 or more: to 81 19, typically with management, project management or development fees for the company as the active partner: and St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 11 Llanwern A 600 acre site, formerly part of a steelworks at Newport Gwent, allocated in the local plan for a major residential and employment opportunity.
development agreements under This business model requires hands-on local relationships, and to exercise which the land or most of it is not management, a skilled committed on-the-spot control, the company acquired until actually required for team and a flexible medium-term operates through a network of six development.
programme of marshalling projects regional offices.
from the hopper through to the In addition, projects are carefully shorter-term development programme.
All development and property structured to optimize cash flow The consistency of future performance management activity is undertaken through early receipts.
depends on the successful interaction by the regional offices, supported and of these elements.
supplemented by a strong central The hopper now comprises more than team, providing construction, planning, 4,500 acres of developable land and In order to understand local financial, and commercial expertise.
18 town or district centre schemes.
community needs, to develop strong In the past six years the size of the Assets hopper has increased, as follows: Staff Rent-roll Tenants managed 1 2 2 Office Nos.
m 1999 2005 London & South East 43 19 750 330 Total Acres 3,239 6,929 Midlands 31 22 550 295 Developable North Staffs 5 0 50 24 Town Centre 105 189 North West 15 8 400 96 Employment 702 3,438 South West 9 1 50 32 Residential 652 894 Yorkshire 2 1 10 24 1,459 4,521 Head Office 36 n a n a n a One of the companys key Operating Ventures 72 1 30 21 performance indicators is to acquire Total 213 52 1,840 822 120% of developable land 1 Staff numbers include site-based personnel.
opportunities used in the year.
2 Rent-roll and assets managed include 100% of joint ventures.
The hoppers performance in the period 1999 to 2005 demonstrates that this indicator has been comfortably exceeded.
12 Return on shareholders funds Operating and financial review Actual Target continued 30% 28% 26% 24% 22% 20% 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Return on shareholders funds profit before tax revaluation surplus as a percentage of average shareholders funds including our share of joint venture results.
Harpurhey, Manchester A 120,000 sq ft mixed use district centre, Financial objectives We also measure return on completed and sold in the year.
The company has a straightforward shareholders funds as a key economic model with a target to performance indicator.
This has double net asset value per share every remained within a band of 24% five years.
This has been achieved for to 29% over the past five years.
over a decade by targeting two key As a result, in the last five year performance indicators, a 20% measurement period, which ended at development return on opening WIP 30th November 2004, net asset value and a 15% total return on fixed assets.
per share increased by 121% from Although these returns are not 100.1p to 221.4p.
The 24% uplift in achieved on every project, the 2005 to 273.9p is an excellent start company has produced a steady to the present five year period.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 13 Development return on opening WIP Total return on fixed assets Actual Actual Target Target 26% 22% 24% 20% 22% 18% 20% 16% 18% 14% 16% 12% 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Development return on opening WIP property Total return on fixed assets profit on sale of fixed development profit for the year as a percentage of assets net rental income revaluation surplus as a the carrying value of opening WIP including our percentage of the carrying value of opening fixed share of joint venture results.
assets including our share of joint venture results.
Development and performance of the business Trading A 21% increase in property profits to 41.2m 2004: 34.0m was the main driver behind a 15% increase in pre-tax profits to 46.3m 2004: 40.3m.
Thirty-eight property disposals were completed in the period with 11 projects earning over 1m.
The North City shopping centre 120,000 sq ft at Harpurhey, Manchester was sold on completion of its development and the Kirkby shopping centre 216,000 sq ft was sold on completion of its initial asset management programme after an adjoining landowner was selected for the next phase of the town centre development.
A further part Wembley Work has started on this major mixed use town centre scheme, to deliver 235 homes and 138,000 sq ft of retail and leisure space.
22,000 sq ft of Worcester Retail Park together with a 20,000 sq ft bingo hall, was sold after we had secured our a 20,000 sq ft Primary Healthcare position on the next phase through a Facility and 177 apartments which joint venture with Helical Retail Limited.
have been pre-sold to a consortium of housing associations for both private We commenced construction on the housing and social rent.
first section of the main phase of the redevelopment at Edmonton Shopping We have also started work on our Centre in North London.
This phase second major mixed use town centre which is the first of the numerous town scheme at Wembley, Central Square centre mixed use schemes we are Shopping Centre, a joint venture with planning, is being constructed in two Rotch.
Just before the end of the year, sections and includes a 55,000 sq ft leisure facility, a 26 stand bus station, a 66,000 sq ft Asda superstore and Kirkby 150,000 sq ft of additional retail space A 216,000 sq ft fully let shopping centre, sold in the year.
14 Operating and financial review continued For further details of these and other projects see our website www.
co. uk Quinton, Birmingham The 50,000 sq ft second phase of this high we commenced a demolition phase constructing a pre-let 70,000 sq ft quality business park was completed in the year.
heralding the launch of a scheme manufacturing facility for Intier which A similar third phase is now under construction.
comprising 138,000 sq ft of retail and has been sold since the year end.
leisure space, 235 residential apartments, of which 85 are affordable At Trentham Lakes we are constructing and have been pre-sold to Genesis pre-sold facilities for Glen Dimplex, Housing Association, refurbished 437,000 sq ft distribution and Rieter offices and multi-storey car park and 100,000 sq ft manufacturing, which a new public square fronting the High will be completed in the present year.
Road, all of which will facilitate a major upgrade of Wembley Central station, We have also completed or have under one of the transport links that will serve construction a number of smaller the new Wembley Stadium.
schemes in Avonmouth, Brighton, Halesowen, Huddersfield, Runcorn, In the industrial distribution sector we Sheffield, Stoke-on-Trent and Walsall.
completed a pre-sold 365,000 sq ft distribution facility for Pirelli at our As the office market has been more Barton Business Park in Staffordshire, difficult our activity in that sector has a joint venture with Prologis, and are been relatively subdued.
The last St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 15 Trentham Lakes, Stoke-on-Trent A 100,000 sq ft manufacturing facility built for Rieter Automotive and sold in the year.
building of 10,000 sq ft from the first 2004: 38.4m.
Acquisitions in the Rental income by sector phase at Quinton Business Park, year contributed only 0.5m additional Birmingham let to RPS was sold in the rent as the majority of properties Industrial 62% Office 6% period.
The 50,000 sq ft second phase acquired during the year came without Retail 32% has been completed with one building income.
However, the full year benefit 10,000 sq ft let and since the year of acquisitions made in 2004 including end sold with fair progress being made the Powertrain facility at Longbridge, on the letting sales of the other two The Malls, Basingstoke and Long buildings.
We have moved our Marston was 3.7m, which offset the Midlands regional and Head Office into 2.6m of rental income lost on one of these buildings.
disposals principally Kirkby Shopping Centre, Crewe Hall Industrial Estate Good progress has been made on the and Worcester Retail Park.
45,000 sq ft office village scheme at Etruria Valley, Stoke-on-Trent.
Two At 30th November 2005, the gross of the buildings have been completed, portfolio rent-roll, including our share one now being under offer to the of rent from joint ventures, was 40.8m Probation Service with interest in the 2004: 44.8m.
A number of our sites other.
The third building has been let such as Farnborough Town Centre are to the Crown Prosecution Service and currently being managed in such a way it will be completed in March.
as to enable development in the near future, and a number of recently Residential land sales from our acquired sites including South brownfield land renewal programme Ockendon, Essex and Brockton Net rental income have again figured prominently in the Business Park, Telford were acquired million year with completions at Halebank, vacant.
Consequently, during the year Widnes: Brierley Hill, West Midlands: under review, our overall voids Coalville, North Leicestershire: increased from 13.1% to 18.7%, which Hilton, Derbyshire: and Norton, is entirely consistent with our Stoke-on-Trent.
development strategy for the portfolio.
4% Our supporting operating ventures In common with most property made useful progress in the year.
The companies, we experienced a number Avonmouth landfill made a contribution of tenant failures during the year, of 0.9m, the Solihull Ice Rink 0.3m reflecting the increasingly difficult 2004: 0.2m and whilst Trentham economic conditions for many Gardens made a loss of 0.5m this occupiers.
Through the close direct was to be expected in the first year involvement of both our on-site and of such a new venture and it is central staff, we were able to avoid any anticipated that it will move into profit write-offs from the administrations of in 2006.
MG Rover, Klaussner, Gaskell Furniture, and Richard Lawson Autologistics, and Net rental income for the year, to work sympathetically with several including our share of rent from joint other tenants to secure their immediate ventures, increased by 4% to 39.8m futures.
2001 24.1 2002 26.4 2003 36.5 2004 38.4 39.8 2005 16 Operating and financial review continued... give Nanjing the time to complete their operational plans to restart motor manufacturing Longbridge, Birmingham Plans for the 414 acre site are being worked up, In the case of our Longbridge site near As a result of this agreement, the with 105 acres edged red leased to Nanjing, Birmingham, we have received rent remaining 238 acres of developable and 2.5m sq ft of buildings earmarked for from the Administrative Receiver of land are now being masterplanned demolition.
MG Rover for the period up to for a major employment-led mixed 22nd February 2006.
the remaining 33 years of the lease were assigned to Nanjing Automotive Marshalling Group UK Limited.
This assignment projects in active preparation is subject to a six month break clause Progress made on projects in 2005 will which will give Nanjing the time contribute to performance in 2006 and to complete their operational plans beyond.
to restart motor manufacturing on 105 acres of the site.
The main phases of demolition and construction have been commenced at Edmonton and Wembley, and these major schemes will continue to contribute to profit in future years.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 17 We acquired some 200 acres for commercial or future residential development.
Planning consent was formally dealership schemes at Trentham At Trentham Gardens, the gardens obtained for the Farnborough mixedLakes, Stoke-on-Trent: a 500 unit attracted 93,000 visitors use scheme, we have exchanged residential and 180,000 sq ft 2004: 17,000, and the monkey agreements with the foodstore commercial scheme at Taunton in park, model railway and lake cruiser anchor, and we await the outcome conjunction with AXA.
had good first seasons even though of a highway closure inquiry held in Development agreements have been they only came on stream January 2006. exchanged on a number of schemes progressively from June onwards.
Planning was also obtained for one where we have previously been The first phase retail 65,000 sq ft million sq ft of distribution space at appointed preferred developer such garden centre and 36,000 sq ft Washwood Heath, Birmingham: a as Bedford: Hednesford, heritage craft and tourist retail traded 99,000 sq ft first phase of a Staffordshire: Great Homer Street, well and an advanced section of the business park at Henley Park, near Liverpool: Hatfield: and Castle Hill, second phase 8,000 sq ft was Guildford: a further 50,000 sq ft Dudley.
In the last two cases we also handed over at the end of the year.
phase of office development at have obtained resolutions to grant The remainder of the second phase Quinton Business Park, Birmingham: planning consent.
is under construction for completion a 118,000 sq ft superstore for Asda We are on site constructing pre-let in midsummer and should support at St. Matthews Quarter, Walsall or pre-sold industrial building the continued progress on this major with an associated 1,000 space schemes at Barton Business Park: project.
multi-storey car park, 41 apartments Hilton, Derbyshire: and three at In Newham we continue to progress and 6,000 sq ft of additional retail: a Trentham Lakes.
the scheme at Upton Park where we number of industrial building and car are the preferred developer, and we are one of three on Southwarks shortlist for the major 1.5bn Elephant & Castle scheme.
Acquisitions Because of the highly competitive and fully valued market, and our determination to be able to add value to all of our transactions, 2005 was a quieter year for acquisitions than in the recent past.
However, we acquired some 200 acres of land for commercial or future residential development principally at Burton upon Trent 21 acres with 425,000 sq ft of existing space: South Ockenden, Essex 29 acres with 600,000 sq ft existing space: Telford two sites totalling 40 acres with 290,000 sq ft existing space : Quedgeley, Gloucester two sites totalling 50 acres : and Hillington, Glasgow, Hillington Glasgow 31 acres with 800,000 sq ft A 31 acre site acquired in 2006 from Rolls-Royce PLC for development as a managed estate for existing space.
18 Operating and financial review continued T. P. Haywood Finance Director We also acquired a number of Financial Items The company properties to reinforce schemes where Overheads increased during the year we were already preferred developer by 2.4m to 17.3m inclusive continues to produce such as in Bedford and Hatfield of employee share option costs, a strong cash flow, or to create further phases of existing principally as a result of recruitments schemes such as at Harpurhey and the regional expansion needed based on recurring and Wythenshawe.
to match our increased activity.
However, as a percentage of profit net rental income Our total expenditure on acquisitions before tax, overheads remained and an ongoing during the year was 40m and our unchanged at 37%.
During the year we hopper was boosted to almost 7,000 recruited an additional 11 staff, programme of asset acres, of which some 4,500 is principally surveyors or construction developable.
employees across our six offices, Since the year end, we have acquired 47 on operating sites and 72 in Melton Park, Hull, a 234 acre other activities.
development opportunity, the principal infrastructure for which is already We continue to adopt the policy of in place.
We have also been selected satisfying employee share options, as preferred developer at Silverstone, when exercised, without issuing new subject to ratification by the British share capital, which would dilute Racing Drivers Club members.
With 4m outstanding options held by 162 employees and a 49% share price increase in the year, the impact has Melton Park, Hull A 234 acre site acquired in January 2006.
Outline planning consent has been granted for 1m sq ft of offices, industrial and distribution accommodation.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 19 Total returns Capital returns Income returns % % % St. Modwen St. Modwen St. Modwen IPD Investment Property Databank IPD Investment Property Databank IPD Investment Property Databank been a charge to the profit and loss rate environment, we have Cash Flow The company continues account of 5.5m 2004: 3.8m.
nevertheless managed to achieve to produce a strong cash flow, based The companys option schemes which a reduction in our effective cost on recurring net rental income of comprise the SAYE scheme which of borrowing through a combination of 39.8m and an ongoing programme is open to all employees, and the hedging and selective renegotiation of of asset disposals, which generated executive share option scheme, which facilities.
This has resulted in a reduced 148m in the year.
This enabled us is available to 37 senior executives weighted average rate of interest to fund a 85m development remain an important tool in the payable as at 30th November 2005 programme, together with property recruitment and retention of key staff, of 5.6% for company borrowings acquisitions of 40.3m during the and in aligning employee interests with 2004: 6.2%.
The cost of joint venture year, and also achieve a 19.4m those of shareholders.
Pensions A formal actuarial valuation The groups borrowings are at variable Balance Sheet of the companys final salary pension rates of interest, although we actively Investment Properties the total value scheme which has been closed manage our interest rate exposure of investment properties, including to new entrants since 1999 was using interest rate swaps.
At the year 100% of joint ventures, increased undertaken, as at 5th April 2005. end, 61% of company net borrowings by 36m during the year to 651m.
This exercise was brought forward by were hedged in this way 2004: 56%, a year in order to assess the impact of and 61% of joint venture borrowings The independent valuation at the changes made to scheme benefits 2004: 51%.
Our strategy is to hedge 30th November 2005 resulted in an in 2004, as the company sought two-thirds of all borrowings, with the uplift on our share of the portfolio to limit its exposure to escalating maturity of both hedges and facilities including our share of joint ventures of pension costs.
The company also being aligned with individual schemes 8.8% 39.2m.
As well as benefiting made a special cash contribution to where applicable, or over a maximum from our active and hands-on the scheme of 2m in that year.
The of 5 years for revolving facilities.
approach to asset management, the valuation showed a deficit of 1.5m revaluation increase reflects the reduced from 3.9m as at 30th April The group has not capitalised interest continuing strong investment market 2003.
The company has therefore on its developments or its investments, for the type of secondary properties provided 0.7m 2004: 1.5m in the but expensed all interest as it has that are typical of our portfolio.
During accounts, a sum which includes the arisen.
the year, we have seen yields move regular cost of current service, and the in on all asset classes, but particularly amortisation of the past service deficit, Taxation the effective rate of tax retail, where we are typically carrying as required under SSAP24.
charge for the year, including provision our shopping centres at net initial for deferred taxation, has fallen yields of around 6%.
Average availability of industrial building and The removal of the disadvantaged group borrowings increased by 27m capital allowances and land areas relief from Stamp Duty Land to 211m due to the steady remediation relief for expenditure on Tax had no adverse effect on our programme of acquisitions and brownfield renewal.
It is anticipated valuations, since we had assumed increased development activity in the that, with the continued utilisation this to be only a temporary relief, and year, while average joint venture of capital allowances, the effective had therefore not factored any benefit borrowings increased by 29m rate will remain below the standard into our carrying values.
to 188m, following the acquisition rate of Corporation Tax.
Benefit from of The Malls, Basingstoke in tax planning activities is only November 2004.
In a stable interest recognised when the outcome is reasonably certain.
1 year 17.0 17.4 3 years 17.3 15.4 5 years 16.6 12.9 10 years 16.6 12.1 1 year 9.2 11.4 3 years 9.0 8.5 5 years 7.9 5.7 10 years 6.8 4.7 1 year 7.8 6.0 3 years 8.3 6.9 5 years 8.7 7.2 10 years 9.8 7.4 20 Operating and financial review continued The companys hopper is an underlying strength which should provide a stream of future profitability.
The valuation approach, which accords In addition, the groups share of debt Capital value of investment properties by sector with the RICS Appraisal and Valuation within joint ventures, which is secured Standards and which has been solely upon the assets within the Industrial 56% Office 6% consistently implemented by our relevant joint venture, was 97m Retail 38% external valuers, King Sturge, values 2004: 99m.
investment properties in their current condition reflecting pre-development The group is financed by shareholders voids and short-term occupancies and funds and bank debt of varying does not anticipate gains from future maturity profiles, which is appropriate development activities.
to the needs of the group and reflects the type of assets in which it invests.
Assets held in work in progress are not At 30th November 2005, the weighted included in the annual valuation.
average facility duration was 5 years 2004: 5 years.
Other investments our 27.2% stake in Northern Racing PLC, an AIM-listed Net Asset Value per share company, was accounted for on Basic net asset value per share at acquisition in accordance with UITF31 30th November 2005 was 273.9p, an Exchanges of businesses and uplift of 24% in the year.
The triple net Capital value of investment properties subsequently as an equity accounted asset value increased by 23% to by region associated undertaking.
As a result, 246.7p, after taking into account London and South East 46% the carrying value of our investment at industry-standard adjustments for South West 4% Midlands 37% 30th November 2005 is 10.5m.
This marking debt to market values, and North West 12% represents the fair value of the assets providing for capital gains tax on Yorkshire 1% acquired, plus post-acquisition profits.
Adjusted net We are not able to recognise the AIM asset value, our preferred measure, market value of our stake, which, which values our investment in at the share price of 140p on Northern Racing PLC at market value, 30th November 2005, was 13.5m.
and discounts the remote likelihood of previously received capital allowances Gearing and Financing being clawed back, has increased by At the year end, group net borrowings 20% to 253.1p.
A fuller reconciliation had reduced to 209m 2004: 227m, is shown in Note 22. representing a gearing ratio of 63% 2004: 85%.
This is below our International Financial Reporting preferred gearing range of 75% to Standards IFRS 125%, but gives us ample headroom The group will be required to adopt and flexibility to move swiftly to IFRS when preparing accounts for the undertake further development and year ended 30th November 2006.
Bank facilities, excluding first statements under IFRS will be for joint ventures, totalled 309m at the the six months ended 31st May 2006, year end 2004: 327m.
At this level, when we will restate the comparative we have undrawn committed facilities first half and full year figures for 2005. of 100m.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 21 Financial Statistics 30th November 30th November 2005 2004 Net borrowing 208m 227m Gearing 63% 85% Gearing, incl.
share of JV debt 103% 137% Average debt maturity 5 years 5 years % debt hedged 61% 56% Interest cover 3.3 3.3 Undrawn committed facilities 100m 96m Return on capital 28.6% 27.1% IFRS will have an impact on the The future 100,000 sq ft manufacturing facility presentation of the groups accounts.
The companys hopper details of for Rieter, and will complete shortly The principal areas affected are the which are set out above is an a 437,000 sq ft distribution facility same as for all property company underlying strength which should for Glen Dimplex.
We have also pre-let accounts, namely: provide a stream of future profitability.
a 64,000 sq ft distribution facility for property valuation movements Portmeirion Potteries.
which will be taken through the The key issues determining the income statement rather than as companys future performance are: At Barton Business Park, we have sold a movement on reserves: whether we can continue to acquire the 70,000 sq ft manufacturing facility deferred tax which must be sufficient opportunities to top up just completed for Intier Automotive: provided on asset revaluations: the hopper: at Quedgeley, Gloucestershire we have dividends which will only be how we marshal projects through pre-let a 95,000 sq ft facility for recognised in the income statement land assembly and planning to Prestoplan: and at Hilton, Derbyshire when formally approved, rather than create annual programmes: and we have pre-let a 70,000 sq ft facility when proposed: whether the occupational market for Daher Sawley.
head leases the carrying value across the various sectors will be of leasehold properties and longsufficiently strong to support A 10,000 sq ft office building on phase term liabilities will both be increased those programmes.
two of Quinton Business Park has by the present value of future been let and sold, and construction ground rents: We have strategies in place to address has started on phase three comprising lease incentives which will be spread each of these issues: another 50,000 sq ft in three buildings.
over the period to the end of the lease our network of regional offices, The 45,000 sq ft Office Village or first break, as appropriate: and supported from the centre, gives us development at Etruria Valley, defined benefit pension schemes a good prospect of identifying and Stoke-on-Trent is proving very the scheme deficit will be included securing the right opportunities: successful, with one building let to on the balance sheet.
regular detailed reviews of all live Crown Prosecution Services, and the projects mean that issues other two buildings under offer.
During the transition to IFRS we will associated with marshalling projects provide reconciliations between UK can be identified and addressed in Residential land sales continue to GAAP and IFRS to increase a timely manner: and attract strong interest, with contracts understanding of the main changes.
by operating across a wide range of exchanged for the sale of an 11 acre It is important to note that, although property sectors, we spread the risk tranche of land at Hilton, Derbyshire.
IFRS will significantly affect the of an occupational downturn in any presentation of financial statements, particular sector.
The programme for the rest of the it will not affect the groups cash flow year is taking shape.
In the light of this, or its future strategic direction.
The current view is that, subject only the Chairman reports in his statement to macro-economic conditions, future that he is looking forward with prospects are good.
confidence to another year of progress for your company.
The current year has started well.
The developments at Edmonton and Wembley Central continue to make W. A. Oliver, Chief Executive good progress.
At Trentham Lakes, T. P. Haywood, Finance Director Stoke-on-Trent, we have completed a 22 Community, environmental and social responsibility Dursley, Gloucestershire A 92 acre former Lister Petter manufacturing The company is a specialist in remediation of contaminated site being developed with SWRDA into an regeneration with many partnerships brownfield land, the regeneration exemplar urban village, to create 600 homes with local and regional authorities and of tired town centres, the reuse of and 1,000 jobs.
engages regularly with government redundant former employment through the planning and complexes, and the restoration environmental regulatory framework.
of heritage assets of both local and The company is determined to national importance.
maintain its high reputation for delivery and integrity and as a good partner for In all of its dealings, the company the community to work with.
seeks to: comply with all applicable St. Modwen is committed to improving environment legislation, regulations, the built environment, and undertakes standards and best practice: projects that seek to transform areas develop operational procedures of dereliction and decay into designed to minimise pollution risks sustainable communities.
One of the and to deal effectively with any companys key strengths is its ability incidents which occur: and willingness to undertake difficult take positive action to minimise and long-term projects in the waste and to encourage recycling wherever possible: St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 23 We believe that it is vitally important to reclaim and redevelop redundant sites to bring them back into effective use.
improve efficiency in the use of land, energy, water and raw materials: work in partnership with our professional advisors, suppliers and subcontractors to ensure effective environmental supply chain management, alongside quality, price and other purchasing criteria: reduce the environmental impact of our schemes through the use of carefully thought-out layout, design and specification: train employees to enhance their awareness of, and commitment to, maximising environmental performance: and review the companys environmental policy annually to take account of organisational, legislative and fiscal changes.
During the year the company has demonstrated its enduring commitment and contribution to the environment and to the principles set out above, as shown by the Brierley Hill, West Midlands following examples: A 10 acre former Royal Brierley Crystal factory remediated and sold for residential development in the year.
Brownfield land renewal 10 acre former industrial area involving At Newton-le-Willows, we have We believe that it is vitally important to the treatment and removal of 6,000 commenced the first 60,000 tonne reclaim and redevelop redundant sites tonnes of hydrocarbon-impacted phase of an extensive site remediation to bring them back into effective use.
strategy that will involve the treatment this end, we aim to build on previously of 300,000 tonnes of hydrocarbon and used land: during 2005 97% of our At Longbridge we are working closely heavy metal-impacted material, and building activity was on brownfield land with the Environment Agency to the demolition of over 400,000 sq ft with 70% of the hopper categorised as remove 500,000 litres of diesel and of derelict buildings.
As far as possible, brownfield.
In achieving these levels, the petrol which had leaked into the works will be done on site, minimising company has become skilled in the ground, of which 150,000 litres has the use of landfills, as well as avoiding techniques of cleaning and remediating already been removed and recycled.
pre-used land ranging from simple site This complex remediation project will clearance to major reclamation projects At Dursley we have commenced involve the excavation of contaminated involving: redundant factories: former remediation of the foundry sand materials, addition of natural bacteria collieries and zinc smelters: disused 200,000 cu m and former gasworks and nutrients, vacuum extraction of airfields: steelworks and power stations.
on the site, to reclaim 20 acres of contaminated vapours, and extraction previously unusable land for residential and filtering of contaminated waters.
At Halebank in Widnes, we are nearing and business park uses.
completion of remediation works on a 24 Community, environmental and social responsibility continued Community Involvement the UK.
Through a programme We recognise that We recognise that our business should of regular high level strategic meetings, be undertaken in a socially as well as coupled with frequent working group our business should an environmentally responsible way, meetings, the company creates those be conducted in a and so we strive to conduct all our vital working arrangements.
business activities in a fair and socially as well as an balanced manner, respecting and Current examples of this are the longresponding to social and ethical issues standing partnerships with Enfield environmentally arising from our commercial activities.
Borough Council for our major responsible way.
Edmonton Green scheme, initiated Our policy is to work for the advantage in 1998, Welwyn & Hatfield District of the local communities around our Council for the Hatfield town centre developments and to treat all of our regeneration project, which business partners as we would hope commenced in 2003, and to be treated ourselves.
Farnborough Town Council a major mixed use regeneration scheme, which A real public private partnership began in 1998. working arrangement lies at the core of any successful regeneration project.
It is the companys policy to undertake St. Modwen is experienced in working extensive consultation at an early stage with public sector bodies throughout on any project to ensure the highest Bedford Our partnership with Bedford Borough Council was confirmed by the signing of a development agreement for a 200m mixed use scheme in the bus station area of the town centre.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 25 Halebank, Widnes A 10 acre former industrial site sold during the year for residential development following extensive remediation of hydrocarbon contamination.
possible level of local involvement.
than the car and to integrate with local St. Modwen is fully All public consultations are led directly facilities.
Where these facilities do not by St. Modwen, rather than relying on exist we are able to use our committed to the external consultants.
This ensures that considerable experience of mixed-use principle of feedback is accurate and informed, development to provide them.
and that a genuine dialogue takes sustainable place, often resulting in improvements For example, at Wembley Central we to the scheme.
have successfully completed a series development which of complex commercial and legal has been put at the An example of this is the consultation agreements with Network Rail, London process undertaken for the Littlecombe Development Agency and the London heart of the planning Village scheme at Dursley, Borough of Brent to facilitate a Gloucestershire.
Working in refurbished underground and main line system.
conjunction with South West England station as part of the 75m mixed use Regional Development Agency, we redevelopment of the shopping centre have transformed our masterplan as constructed above it.
a result of extensive consultation into traffic and education issues.
The At Edmonton Green, we are currently residential development area has constructing a 26 stand bus station in consequently been reduced by partnership with Transport for London as part of our major scheme for the 10 acres, to enable improvements regeneration of this area.
to pedestrian routes to schools, traffic calming measures, and additional public open space.
As part of our Edmonton Green development, we are working with Enfield Borough Council to provide apprenticeships in joinery, painting and plastering for 25 young members of the local community.
The company encourages comments on its activities.
In the event that any issues cannot be resolved locally, the chairman can be contacted at aglossop@stmodwen.
Sustainable Development St. Modwen is fully committed to the principle of sustainable development which has been put at the heart of the planning system.
Cranfield Technology Park Consequently, our developments seek Imaginative design features have been used at to encourage modes of transport other the Innovation Centre.
26 Community, environmental and social responsibility continued One of the companys key strategies is its ability and willingness to undertake difficult and long-term projects.
Trentham Lakes, Stoke-on-Trent The placement of the new A50 road bridge a key part of our 10m highway works to improve access to our site and surrounding areas.
At Stoke-on-Trent, we are working substantially reduce the amount of with the Highways Agency on the material sent to local landfill sites.
construction of a grade separated junction on the A50 to provide At Dursley, we are working with Severn significantly improved access to Wye Energy Agency to produce energy our own site, but also to alleviate for our site from renewable sources road network problems in the and to reduce CO emissions by 30%.
This is being achieved through the construction and use of ground heat At Avonmouth, we are planning an loops, photovoltaic cells and a eco-park on our 212 acre, former zinc bio-mass boiler.
smelter site which we are in the process of reclaiming.
This will enable At Trentham Gardens, we are the site to host a number of recycling implementing an extensive ecolgocial processes including electrical landscape management plan.
This equipment, construction material and involves removing invasive species domestic waste which will such as rhododendron, bracken and St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 27 Woodingdean, Brighton An attractive office built on the site of a former bakery, following extensive groundwork and recycling of demolition material.
Himalayan balsam and introducing be fit for purpose, with competitive St. Modwen is managed enclosures to encourage the full-life costs, minimising environmental natural regeneration of native English impact, respecting the public realm committed to and adjoining properties, and oaks.
Within the Site of Special improving the built attractive.
Full consultation takes place Scientific Interest, we are working on all schemes with appropriate bodies closely with English Nature for environment, and such as the Commission for example by the regular monitoring Architecture and the Built Environment, of the composition and extent of the undertakes projects to ensure that this is achieved.
insect population to assess the that seek to effects of our works on the Examples of innovative design include: surrounding ecology.
transform areas of the overall site layout at Edmonton Green, contributing to the Councils We have recycled 50,000 tonnes of dereliction and decay aim of reinforcing a green chain brick and concrete from the demolition of open space through the area: into sustainable of the former factory and bakery the futuristic pedestrian bridge buildings at Woodingdean, Brighton, communities.
at Trentham Gardens: and for reuse in the construction of our the use of timber clad, new office development.
Similarly, our shingle-roofed retail units at major Wembley Central regeneration Trentham Gardens.
project will result in more than 1,500 tonnes of concrete being crushed and recycled over the next two years, together with 250 tonnes of steel and 4.5 tonnes of glass.
In total, 70% of all materials demolished will be recycled at Wembley.
Our residential apartments at both Edmonton Green and Wembley have been designed to a high environmental specification: with timber from certified sustainable sources: enhanced insulation properties to reduce energy expenditure and CO emissions: and 2 low water usage appliances to reduce consumption by 40%.
Across all of our sites, we have planted 10,200 trees and 73,400 shrubs and hedgerow plants during 2005 as part of our commitment to improving the environment in which we operate.
Trentham Gardens Design Quality The childrens play area and the Little Ferns We aim to deliver design quality and Club: among many initiatives to encourage the innovation in both built form and public involvement of young members of the community in our heritage restoration project.
In practical terms, design has to 28 Community, environmental and social responsibility continued Social Exclusion Our policy is to work Many of the projects undertaken by the company have been integral for the advantage of to efforts to reduce social exclusion, the local communities through the inclusion of improvements to local amenities and social housing around our in areas of significant deprivation.
Outstanding examples in the last year developments and were the inclusion of a swimming pool to treat all of our and other new community leisure facilities in the redevelopment of business partners as Harpurhey a partnership between St. Modwen and Manchester City we would hope to be Council : the commitment to provide treated ourselves.
an important new primary care facility at Edmonton Green a partnership between St. Modwen and Enfield Borough Council : and an agreement with Genesis Housing Group to provide 85 social affordable homes Solihull Ice Rink as the very first stage of the Wembley A number of initiatives are in place at our ice rink Central redevelopment.
to enhance the companys contribution to the local community.
Once a project is under way, active sponsoring local sport, leisure and participation in the social and charitable activities.
community activities in the location of its developments is a key feature of the At our Solihull Ice Rink, we have companys approach to tackling social donated 39,000 worth of ice time and exclusion.
A combination of initiatives skate hire to the Ice Hockey for is used by St. Modwen to encourage Schools scheme, as well as providing local communities to share in the facilities for the Positive Futures improvements brought about by its scheme, a wide range of Friends in regeneration schemes, including: Retirement activities in the Community encouraging the employment of rooms, and NHS Mother and Baby local people: classes.
incorporating opportunities for local traders in markets or small units in In memory of our late chairman, Sir our retail schemes at sustainable Stanley Clarke, we donated 10,000 to levels of rent: the Spinal Injuries Association as well subsidising local initiatives such as as hosting a business luncheon which a Credit Union, arts facilities and raised 50,000 for that organisation.
community wardens: incorporating non-intrusive, but high At a number of our sites, we provide levels of security facilities in our free, or heavily subsidised space and schemes to reassure and protect the facilities for the use of local charities.
vulnerable: and St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 29 Quinton Business Park, Birmingham The company moved into Sir Stanley Clarke House, our new head office, in August 2005.
The building was named in memory of the companys late founder and Chairman.
These include free storage and parking Detailed policies and procedures are The companys for Lawrence Weston Community documented and made available to Buses at Avonmouth: free use of our all staff.
The Health and Safety Forum, health and safety site for the Dursley Town Council chaired by the Assistant Company performance Festival: free use of our Trentham Secretary, and reporting to the Chief Gardens site for the Race for Life Executive, meets regularly to discuss continues to be which raised 600,000 from 13,000 and resolve implementation issues.
participants and for the Donna Louise The procedures are reviewed by the very good.
Trust, Douglas McMillan Hospice, and board annually, with health and safety Newcastle disabled adventure matters included on the agenda of playground.
This Forum provides guidance to Health and Safety employees on all aspects of health The company aims to safeguard the and safety.
To assist, a Health and health and safety of the public and its Safety Procedures Manual has employees by pursuing a policy which been produced.
ensures that: its business is conducted in As we undertake no construction work accordance with standards that are on site directly, our assessment of in compliance with relevant statutory a subcontractors or main contractors provisions for health and safety health and safety procedures forms of staff and any other persons on a key part of our supplier selection company premises: process, and a vital element in our a safe and healthy working health and safety controls.
For our environment is established and operational sites including Trentham maintained at all of the companys Gardens, Solihull Ice Rink, and our locations: shopping centres, individual risk managers at all levels regard health assessments are undertaken, and and safety matters as a prime updated annually, by a retained health management responsibility: and safety consultant.
sufficient financial resources are provided to ensure that policies can As a result of these stringent policies, be carried out effectively: the companys health and safety good standards of training and performance continues to be very instruction in matters of health and good, with only one reportable safety are provided and maintained accident, no reportable dangerous at all levels of employment: occurrences to the Health and Safety risk assessments are carried out Executive, no enforcement notices, where appropriate: no prosecutions for breaches of health co-operation of staff in promoting and safety, and no fatalities.
safe and healthy conditions and systems of work is required: and an adequate advisory service in matters of health and safety is provided and maintained.
30 Community, environmental and social responsibility continued Risks and Uncertainties 2.
Failure to anticipate changes in the We have always The key business risks facing the economy or the property market company are reviewed and sufficiently early.
sought to manage documented annually, following Regular dialogue with industry our affairs to the board discussion.
experts and commentators: Use of high quality professional highest standards The potential impact and mitigation of advisers: and each of these key risks is addressed The hopper and geographical of integrity and as a specific agenda item at board spread gives flexibility and facilitates business meetings throughout the year.
The results of these reviews are Assessment incorporated in the annual business We have chosen to operate only in planning and strategic review process.
one geographical area, the UK, which is subject to relatively low-risk, Management of Key Risks low returns from a stable and mature, The key risks that have been identified, albeit cyclical, economy and property the management approach to each, market.
By involvement with all sectors and the assessment of the residual of that economy and that property risk, are set out below: market, we are as diversified as possible, without venturing overseas.
Failure to recruit and or retain the key executives with the skills necessary 3.
Failure to anticipate or adapt to to implement the company strategy new Government structure changes successfully.
Targeted recruitment procedures: Being alert to policies being Competitive remuneration packages: promoted: Strong performance-related link to Use of high quality professional remuneration: advisers: and Regular assessment of performance In-house expert resources in and identification of training needs: planning residential construction.
Tailored training programme: and Regular communication of strategic Assessment and tactical objectives.
Our daily exposure to all aspects of the planning process, and internal Assessment procedures for spreading best practice Employee turnover has been low, ensure we remain abreast of most indicating good retention levels.
We have not been very Vacancies are few, and are generally active in attempting to influence public filled promptly, indicating the policy debate, but may need to do so attractiveness of the company and as we grow.
To support the financial objectives, we will need to continue to improve the employee base.
St. MODWEN PROPERTIES PLC 31 By involvement with all sectors of the UK economy and property market, we are as diversified as possible, without venturing overseas.
Failure to structure the financing of 6.
Failure to sustain St. Modwens Assessment the company or its individual property reputation as a financially successful, The company is willing to accept opportunities in an adequate, high quality company which delivers on a degree of environmental innovative and competitive manner.
its promises, and operates to very high contamination risk, enabling higher Small number of high-quality ethical and environmental standards.
returns to be made for the perceived banking relationships: Systems of control procedures and higher risks undertaken.
These risks Hedging policy to contain interest delegated authorities: are laid off or minimised where rate risk: Regular and detailed operational and possible, but cannot be eliminated.
Benchmarking of costs of finance: financial reporting: In our recent experience, the residual and Regular dialogue with industry risks have been acceptably low.
Tax strategy identifying areas investors and commentators: of acceptable innovation.
Close supervision of transactions and key relationships: Assessment Proactive press media contacts: and Our conservative approach to financing Regular top-level meetings with local reduces the opportunity for true authorities, RDAs, and other innovation in this area.
This is offset by government or quasi-governmental the benefits of stability, reliability and bodies.
borrowing capacity, ensuring finance is available for all foreseeable projects.
Assessment The company has benefited from 5.
Failure to secure sufficient an excellent reputation.
This is development or investment underpinned by a simple set opportunities.
Regional offices in touch with their local market: 7.
Failure to control adequately Strong performance-related link construction ground condition risks, to remuneration: including forward pricing.
Dedicated central resource A strong internal construction to support regional teams: management team: Streamlined and effective decisionProjects, acquisitions and disposals making process: and are reviewed and financially Availability of adequate finance.
appraised in detail within clearly defined authorisation limits: Assessment Regular management reviews: The increasing focus on the regions Use and close supervision of to deliver acquisitions, and the growing high-quality trusted contractors reputation and financial capacity of the and professionals: and company, have enabled us to more Contractual liability clearly defined.
than deliver the target of replacing 120% of land used over the past five years.
However, current high prices, and the ever-growing target levels for acquisitions, pose a challenge for future years programmes.
