BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 Operating and financial review a BG Groups global operations 6 The integrated gas major BG Group is engaged in the exploration, production, transmission, distribution and supply of natural gas to industrialised countries and developing markets around the world.
Active in over 20 countries, BG Group has the key skills and experience to connect high value markets to competitively priced resources.
NORTH AMERICA AND THE CARIBBEAN BG Group is a major gas producer in Trinidad and Tobago, supplying both the domestic market and exporting gas as LNG to the USA and Europe from its participation in four liquefaction trains.
BG Group holds all the rights to the current and planned regasification capacity at one of the largest LNG import terminals in the USA Lake Charles, Louisiana.
BG Group has further regasification capacity rights at the Elba Island LNG import terminal in Georgia, USA, and operates a shipping fleet to service its LNG business.
BG Group also owns producing and prospective E&P assets in Alaska and Canada.
SOUTH AMERICA BG Group holds the controlling stake in the largest natural gas distribution company in Brazil Comgas in So Paulo.
BG Group also holds a minority stake in MetroGAS S. A. the natural gas distribution company in Buenos Aires, Argentina.
BG Group sells gas in Bolivia and Brazil, and supplies liquids markets in Bolivia, from Bolivian reserves.
BG Group also holds interests in 14 exploration blocks onand offshore Brazil and in the transmission pipelines from Bolivia to Brazil and Argentina to Uruguay.
The Iqara subsidiary in So Paulo provides compressed natural gas, co-generation and related services in the states of So Paulo and Rio fide Janeiro.
com BG Groups main activities Exploration and Production E&P Liquefied Natural Gas LNG BG Group has skills across the gas BG Group explores, develops, produces BG Groups LNG activities combine the chain, in the upstream, midstream and markets gas and oil around the development of LNG liquefaction and and downstream.
Around 73% of 2005 production regasification facilities with the was gas.
The Group uses its technical, purchasing, shipping and sale of LNG.
commercial and gas chain skills to deliver The Group uses its expertise in LNG to projects at low cost, whilst maximising connect its own and other producers the sales value of its hydrocarbons.
BG GROUP ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 7 EUROPE AND CENTRAL ASIA With interests in over 20 UK Continental Shelf UKCS fields, BG Group has a significant offshore E&P business in the UK and has built a portfolio of 15 licences in Norway.
BG Groups downstream activities in the region encompass gas marketing, gas transmission and power generation.
BG Group is also jointly developing a LNG import and regasification facility in Wales.
In Italy, BG Group is developing the Brindisi LNG import and regasification facility and has interests in E&P and power plants.
In Kazakhstan, the giant Karachaganak oil and gas condensate field accounted for 19% of BG Groups production in 2005.
ASIA PACIFIC In the expanding Indian gas market, BG Group has a growing E&P business and has interests in two gas distribution companies, Gujarat Gas in Gujarat, and Mahanagar Gas in Mumbai.
BG Group also has power generation businesses in Malaysia and the Philippines together with gas and condensate production in Thailand.
MEDITERRANEAN BASIN AND AFRICA Production in this region is principally from Egypt, which has increased dramatically in recent years, and from a The Group manages its business Tunisia, with exploration acreage in Israel and areas of segments on a global basis.
From Palestinian Authority, Libya, Mauritania and Nigeria.
March 2006, the operations are LNG exports from Egyptian LNG commenced in the managed in the five main second quarter 2005.
BG Group also has long-term geographical regions shown agreements to buy LNG from Egypt, Equatorial Guinea above.
For further information and Nigeria to supply the USA and Europe.
see Segmental analysis and results presentation, note 2, page 71.
Transmission and Distribution T&D Power Other activities BG Groups T&D expertise and activities A large proportion of the worldwide BG Group leverages its distribution develop markets for natural gas and demand for gas is attributable to customer base to develop provide them with supply from its own power stations.
BG Group develops, complementary businesses that and others reserves through owns and operates gas-fired power stimulate gas demand.
These include transmission and distribution networks generation plants.
compressed natural gas for vehicles and complementary businesses.
