Financial Review Basis of presentation of financial information The financial statements have been prepared on the same basis and using the same accounting policies as were applied in BHP Billitons financial information is presented in accordance drawing up the financial statements contained in the accounts with UK accounting standards and other UK financial reporting of BHP Billiton Plc for the year ended 30 June 2004.
The reporting currency is US dollars, consolidated financial statements of BHP Billiton Plc include the dominant currency in which the BHP Billiton Group operates.
BHP Billiton Limited and its subsidiary companies using the The Directors, having made appropriate enquiries, consider that merger method of accounting in accordance with UK GAAP.
the BHP Billiton Group has adequate resources to continue in operational business for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to adopt the going-concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Key Financial Information for the BHP Billiton Group a 2005 2004 Year ended 30 June US$M US$M Change b Turnover 31 804 24 943 27.5% b c EBITDA Excluding exceptional items 11 446 7 506 52.5% Including exceptional items 11 278 6 943 62.4% b c EBIT Excluding exceptional items 9 330 5 488 70.0% Including exceptional items 9 162 5 020 82.5% Attributable profit Excluding exceptional items 6 512 3 510 85.5% Including exceptional items 6 398 3 379 89.3% d Available cash flow 8 688 5 100 70.4% b Basic earnings per share US cents Excluding exceptional items 106.4 56.4 88.7% Including exceptional items 104.5 54.3 92.4% b Net operating assets 29 581 21 706 36.3% b c e EBITDA interest cover times Excluding exceptional items 34.7 21.1 64.4% Gearing net debt [net debt net assets] 35.7% 25.7% 35.9% a All the items relate to Continuing Operations including the acquisition of WMC Resources Ltd for the period 3 June 2005 to 30 June 2005. b Including share of joint ventures.
c EBIT is earnings before interest and tax.
EBITDA is EBIT before depreciation, impairments and amortisation of US$2116 million comprising Group depreciation, impairments and amortisation of US$1968 million and joint venture depreciation, impairments and amortisation of US$148 million for the year ended 30 June 2005 and US$2018 million comprising Group depreciation, impairments and amortisation of US$1867 million and joint venture depreciation, impairments and amortisation of US$151 million for the year ended 30 June 2004.
Exceptional items for the year ended 30 June 2004 include the reversal of impairment losses of US$95 million.
We believe that EBIT and EBITDA provide useful information, but should not be considered as an indication of, or alternative to, attributable profit as an indicator of operating performance or as an alternative to cash flow as a measure of liquidity.
d Available cash flow is operating cash flow including dividends from joint ventures and after net interest and tax.
e For this purpose, net interest includes capitalised interest and excludes the effect of discounting on provisions and other liabilities, and exchange differences arising from net debt.
Attributable profit excluding exceptional items of US$6.5 billion Results for the financial year ended 30 June 2005 is an increase of 85.5 per cent from the previous year with Overview available cash flow after interest and tax of US$8.7 billion The consistent execution of the BHP Billiton business strategy up 70.4 per cent over last year.
has positioned the Group to take advantage of the current strong market conditions and deliver another record result.
In March 2005 the Group announced a cash offer for WMC The benefits of commodity diversification, focusing on large, Resources Ltd WMC, an Australian based resource company.
low-cost, long-life assets, capturing and sharing efficiencies As of 30 June 2005 BHP Billiton owned approximately 93 per cent across our businesses globally and the identification of, and of WMC, with 100 per cent ownership achieved on 2 August.
continued investment in, value adding growth opportunities BHP Billitons results for the 2005 financial year include the throughout the cycle, are not only reflected in the current result contribution from WMC for the month of June 2005. but enable us to capture our share of demand growth from the rapidly developing regions of the world.
66 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 This transaction provides the ability to build on the Groups Stronger commodity prices across the suite of products existing nickel and copper businesses, as well as introducing increased EBIT by US$5665 million, with higher prices uranium to our suite of energy products.
In addition to providing achieved for iron ore, copper, metallurgical coal, petroleum immediate production to service global customers, the products, energy coal, aluminium, manganese alloy, nickel and acquisition provides significant growth opportunities.
The diamonds being the predominant contributors.
transaction is fully aligned with our strategy of developing, New operations increased EBIT by US$140 million, primarily operating and maximising the performance of large, long-life, due to first production from ROD Algeria which commenced low-cost assets and provided a unique opportunity to acquire commercial production in October 2004, the first full year of operational tier 1 assets in a stable, developed economy well production from Ohanet Algeria which commenced positioned to service the growing demand for commodities commercial production in October 2003, and the start of oil in Asia.
production from Mad Dog US in January 2005.
The acquisition of WMC also resulted in a US$35 million Turnover Turnover including turnover from third party product was favourable impact on EBIT with the inclusion of profit for the month of June.
US$31.8 billion, an increase of 27.5 per cent from US$24.9 billion in the corresponding period.
The increase was primarily due to The current periods EBIT included US$5 million of additional higher prices for all commodities with base metals, carbon profits on the sale of non-core assets.
steel materials, petroleum and energy coal prices contributing Relative to the prior year, exchange rate movements had a significantly.
Increased volumes also benefited the Group result.
negative impact on EBIT of US$465 million.
The continued Sales of third party product increased slightly above the strength of the Australian dollar and rand against the corresponding period to US$6.9 billion.
US dollar had an overall unfavourable impact on operating Earnings Before Interest and Tax EBIT costs and translation of net monetary liabilities of Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, impairments and US$320 million and US$30 million respectively.
In addition, amortisation EBITDA excluding exceptional items, increased the prior period included gains on legacy Australian dollar by 52.5 per cent to US$11.4 billion from US$7.5 billion in the to US dollar currency hedging of US$39 million which expired corresponding period.
Earnings before interest and taxation during that year.
EBIT, excluding exceptional items, were US$9.3 billion Higher price-linked costs decreased EBIT by US$565 million, compared with US$5.5 billion for the corresponding period, primarily due to higher amounts of tax paid on petroleum an increase of 70.0 per cent.
products in Australia, higher royalties and increased The following table details the approximate impact of major LME-linked costs.
factors affecting EBIT excluding exceptional items for the year Increased costs of US$775 million were primarily due to higher ended 30 June 2005 compared with the corresponding year.
fuel, labour, raw material and other operating costs, an increase in stripping and maintenance related activities and US$M development expenditure.
The increase in costs was caused, EBIT excluding exceptional items in part, by the increased level of activity currently experienced for the year ended 30 June 2004 5 488 in the resources industry.
Although the impact is of varying Change in volumes 110 degrees globally, these pressures are particularly acute in Change in sales prices 5 665 Australia.
A portion of the increase in costs was deliberately New operations 140 incurred by the Group to maximise production to capture Asset sales 5 current prices.
Increased costs were partially offset by Exchange rates 465 continued operating cost savings from improvement initiatives Price-linked costs 565 Costs 775 and efficiency gains.
Inflation on costs 235 Inflationary pressures, mainly in Australia and South Africa, Ceased and sold operations 190 had an unfavourable impact on EBIT of US$235 million.
Exploration 20 Other items 172 Ceased and sold operations had an unfavourable impact of US$190 million and includes US$135 million relating to ceased EBIT excluding exceptional items for the year ended 30 June 2005 9 330 production at Boodarie Iron in Western Australia after it was placed on care and maintenance during the year.
The An explanation of the factors affecting EBIT is as follows: unfavourable impact also included the loss of earnings from the Laminaria and Corallina oil fields following their sale in Higher sales volumes measured at last years average margins increased EBIT by US$110 million.
Increased sales January 2005. volumes of iron ore, copper, natural gas, aluminium, silver Exploration expense was US$20 million higher than the and lead contributed approximately US$350 million, and was corresponding period.
partially offset by US$265 million of unfavourable impacts Other items increased EBIT by US$172 million and include resulting from lower oil volumes, due to natural field decline the favourable impact of earnings from sales of third party and planned shutdowns for maintenance activities, and lower product, benefits of freight risk management activities, and diamond sales.
profit on the close out of cash settled derivative contracts for WMC shares.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 67 Financial Review continued Operating profit margin BHP Billiton disposed of its economic interest in the majority The BHP Billiton Group differentiates sales of Group production of its South African chrome business to the Kermas Group in from sales of third party product due to the significant difference June 2005.
In addition, the Group sold its interest in the in profit margin earned on these sales.
The table below shows Palmiet chrome business to Mogale Alloys in May 2005. the breakdown between Group production which includes After the minority share of profit after tax of US$50 million, marketing of equity production and third party product.
the Groups share arising from the sale of the chrome businesses was US$52 million.
a a 2005 2004 In December 2004 the sale of an equity participation in the US$M US$M North West Shelf NWS Projects gas reserves in Western b Australia to China National Offshore Oil Corporation CNOOC Group production was completed.
Turnover 24 859 18 283 Related operating costs 15 792 12 964 Following a decision to permanently close the Boodarie Iron Operating profit 9 067 5 319 Australia operations a charge of US$266 million US$80 million c Margin 36.5% 29.1% tax benefit relating to termination of the operation has been b Third party products recognised.
The charge primarily relates to settlement of existing Turnover 6 945 6 660 contractual arrangements, plant decommissioning, site Related operating costs 6 831 6 627 rehabilitation, redundancy and other costs associated with the Operating profit 114 33 closure.
c Margin 1.6% 0.5% a As part of the Groups regular review of decommissioning and From Continuing Operations and excluding exceptional items.
b Including share of joint ventures.
site restoration plans, the Group reassessed plans in respect of c Operating profit divided by turnover.
A total charge US$121 million US$104 million after tax was recorded and included: BHP Billiton engages in third party product trading for two A charge of US$73 million US$21 million tax benefit in reasons: relation to revision of the Groups assessed rehabilitation 1. in providing solutions for our customers, sometimes products obligation at closed mines at Ingwe South Africa, are provided that the Group does not produce e. g. a particular predominantly resulting from revised water management grade of coal.
To do this, physical product is bought and sold plans.
from third parties to meet customer needs, and manage risk A charge of US$48 million US$4 million tax expense in through both the physical and financial markets, and relation to other closed mining operations.
2. the active presence in the commodity markets provides the The Group is required to recognise provisions and record a Group with physical market insight and commercial charge of US$79 million US$56 million after tax against knowledge.
From time to time the Group actively engages earnings in respect of restructuring certain operations.
This in these markets in order to take commercial advantage of included US$50 million US$15 million tax benefit in respect business opportunities.
These trading activities provide not of restructuring associated with the acquisition of WMC in only a source of revenue, but also a further insight into June 2005 primarily relating to redundancy and termination planning and in some cases gives rise to business costs, office closures and termination of previous contractual development opportunities.
arrangements, and US$29 million US$8 million tax benefit for other restructurings, primarily for redundancies at Ingwe Exceptional items South Africa.
Exceptional items reduced profit after taxation before minority interests by US$64 million and attributable profit by The corresponding period included exceptional items as follows: US$114 million, and incorporated the items outlined below.
A charge of US$534 million US$512 million after tax in Profit on disposal of various assets and interests totalled relation to certain closed operations.
US$298 million US$282 million after tax and before minority A gain of US$66 million US$48 million after tax in relation to interests and included: a settlement with Dalmine SpA with respect to the failure of an underwater pipeline.
Profit A tax benefit of US$95 million resulting from the restatement Proceeds before tax Tax of deferred tax balances following the election to consolidate US$M US$M US$M Australian subsidiaries under the Australian tax consolidation Laminaria & Corallina oil fields 130 134 10 regime.
Chrome business 433 108 6 A tax benefit of US$238 million arising from prior period Interest in North West Shelf 59 56 taxation deductions and foreign tax credits available in the Total 622 298 16 US and Canada.
The Group disposed of its interest in the Laminaria and Corallina oil fields to Paladin Resources plc in January 2005.
68 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Customer Sector Group financial results The table below provides a summary of the Customer Sector Group financial results for the year ended 30 June 2005, compared with the corresponding year.
EBIT excluding exceptionals EBIT including exceptionals 2005 2004 2005 2004 US$M US$M US$M US$M Petroleum 1 830 1 391 2 020 1 457 Aluminium 977 776 977 776 Base Metals 2 177 1 156 2 147 674 Carbon Steel Materials 2 821 1 137 2 536 1 137 Diamonds and Specialty Products 417 410 411 410 Energy Coal 616 234 523 234 Stainless Steel Materials 758 571 861 561 Group and unallocated items 266 187 313 229 BHP Billiton Group 9 330 5 488 9 162 5 020 Petroleum a one-off charge of US$36 million was recorded for the agreed EBIT was US$1830 million, an increase of US$439 million or repurchase of an aluminium supply contract.
The benefits of this 31.6 per cent, compared with the corresponding year.
The repurchase will be realised through increased profit over the increase was mainly due to higher average realised prices for all next ten years.
petroleum products compared with the corresponding period, Base Metals including a higher average realised oil price per barrel of EBIT was US$2177 million, an increase of US$1021 million or US$47.16 compared to US$32.24, and higher average realised 88.3 per cent, compared with the corresponding year.
This natural gas prices of US$2.98 per thousand standard cubic feet increase was mainly attributable to higher average LME prices compared with US$2.62 per thousand standard cubic feet.
for copper of US$1.43 lb compared to US$1.06 lb in the previous New production from North West Shelf LNG Train 4 Australia, period, higher prices for molybdenum, silver, lead and zinc, and ROD Algeria and Mad Dog US, the first full year of production higher copper sales volumes.
Record silver and lead production from Ohanet Algeria, and profits from the sale of third party achieved at Cannington Australia, record copper production at product compared with losses in the corresponding period also Escondida Chile, record copper and molybdenum at Antamina had a favourable impact.
and higher production at Tintaya Peru, together with savings These factors were partly offset by the unfavourable effect of from cost and volume related improvements projects, primarily higher price-linked costs, lower crude and condensate volumes at Escondida and Antamina, also had a favourable impact.
These due to natural field decline at mature assets, higher downtime factors were partially offset by increased input and price-linked for maintenance, and disposal of our interests in the Laminaria costs and the unfavourable impact of the stronger Australian and Corallina oil fields.
The impact of a stronger Australian dollar dollar to US dollar exchange rate.
to US dollar exchange rate on the translation of net monetary Certain sales agreements of Base Metals provide for provisional liabilities also had an unfavourable impact.
pricing based on the LME when shipped.
Final settlement is Exploration expenditure charged to profit was US$202 million based on the average applicable price for a specified future 2004: US$181 million reflecting a capitalisation rate of period.
Base Metals records revenue upon transfer of title using 46.8 per cent 2004: 46.8 per cent.
Gross expenditure on the forward rate in place for the relevant specified future period.
exploration of US$380 million was US$40 million higher than These revenues are adjusted to fair value through profit each the prior period, reflecting increased exploration activity in the period until the date of the final pricing, using the lower of the Gulf of Mexico and Australia.
cash or forward curve price rather than period-end spot price used previously.
This is considered to appropriately measure the Aluminium fair value of the applicable sales agreements at period end.
EBIT was US$977 million, an increase of US$201 million or Outstanding copper volumes subject to this adjustment at 25.9 per cent, compared with the corresponding period.
The 30 June 2005 amounted to 231 874 tonnes compared to increase was mainly attributable to higher realised prices for 197 864 tonnes in the corresponding year.
These were revalued aluminium and alumina.
The average LME aluminium price at a weighted average rate of US$1.54 lb compared to increased to US$1804 per tonne, compared with US$1570 US$1.21 lb in the previous year.
per tonne in the corresponding period.
Higher aluminium sales volumes, mainly reflecting the first full year of production from Carbon Steel Materials the expansion at Hillside South Africa following commissioning EBIT was US$2821 million, an increase of US$1684 million or in December 2003 and the benefits of various operational 148.1 per cent, compared with the corresponding period.
This excellence projects, also had a favourable impact.
increase was mainly attributable to stronger commodity prices for all products, record sales volumes from Western Australian These factors were partially offset by the unfavourable impact iron ore, Queensland Coal and manganese ore operations, on operating costs of a stronger South African rand, Australian modified supply arrangements with BlueScope Steel Limited and dollar and Brazilian real against the US dollar and higher LME larger volumes of CIF shipments.
price-linked and other production input costs.
Increased pot relining activity also had an unfavourable impact.
In addition, BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 69 Financial Review continued This was partially offset by the impact of Boodarie Iron not period benefited from the profit on sale of the Acerinox share operating at all during the year, and unit cost performance investment US$22 million whilst the prior period result included across all operations being impacted by the stronger Australian the profit from the sale of mineral rights in South Africa dollar and the South African rand relative to the US dollar.
Increased price-linked royalty costs and inflationary pressures Group and unallocated items on Australian and South African operations, compared with the Net corporate operating costs, excluding gains and losses corresponding year, were also unfavourable impacts.
In addition, from legacy Australian dollar to US dollar currency hedging and higher labour and contractor costs, increased stripping costs, other exchange impacts, were US$292 million, an increase of principally at Queensland Coal operations due to expansion US$34 million compared to US$258 million in the corresponding projects, and higher fuel costs for all operations had an period.
This was primarily due to employee share award costs unfavourable impact during the year.
Depreciation charges also which increased US$26 million over the corresponding period, increased at Western Australian Iron Ore operations in respect of higher corporate project and regulatory compliance costs offset the Area C and Products and Capacity Expansion projects.
by the profit on the close out of cash settled derivative contracts Diamonds and Specialty Products for WMC shares.
The prior period included gains on legacy EBIT was US$417 million, an increase of US$7 million or Australian dollar to US dollar currency hedging of US$39 million 1.7 per cent, compared with the corresponding period.
which expired during that year.
Higher realised prices for diamonds up 38 per cent from the Interest corresponding period and titanium feedstock were offset by Despite higher US dollar interest rates, net interest expense lower diamond sales volumes down 19 per cent from the prior fell from US$502 million to US$421 million during the period.
year, higher costs due to the processing of lower grade material This was principally driven by lower average debt levels and and the unfavourable impact of the stronger Canadian dollar to increased interest income from higher average cash balances US dollar exchange rate.
In addition, the cessation of earnings and higher interest earning rates compared to the corresponding from Integris Metals US following its sale in January 2005 period.
This was partially offset by higher expense from also had an unfavourable impact.
The prior period also included discounting of provisions and lower capitalisation of interest.
profits realised on the sale of a non-core royalty interest The corresponding period included exchange losses on net debt US$37 million, the impact of which was partly offset by the of US$133 million, primarily related to the translation of rand profit realised on the sale of Integris US$19 million during the denominated debt.
Taxation Energy Coal The tax charge on earnings, excluding exceptional items, was EBIT was US$616 million, an increase of US$382 million or US$2215 million, representing an effective rate of 24.9 per cent.
163.2 per cent, compared with the corresponding year.
The Excluding the impacts of non tax-effected foreign currency increase was mainly attributable to higher export prices, adjustments, translation of tax balances and other functional resulting from continued strong demand in the Atlantic and currency translation adjustments, the effective rate was Pacific markets, as well as higher earnings from the trading of 26.2 per cent.
When compared to the UK and Australian third party product.
In addition, US$37 million was charged to statutory tax rate 30 per cent, the underlying effective tax rate profit in the previous period reflecting previously capitalised benefited 3.9 per cent due to the recognition of US tax losses exploration expenditure being written off as impaired.
In addition, investment incentives and factors were partially offset by higher unit costs at Ingwe development entitlements were recognised during the period reflecting the timing of major overhauls, increased consumable which were offset, to some extent, by non-deductible accounting usage and cost as well as increased utilisation of contractors.
depreciation and amortisation and other items.
The strengthening of the rand, Australian dollar and Colombian peso against the US dollar as well as South African inflationary Financial position and cash flows pressures also had an unfavourable impact on operating costs.
Balance sheet Stainless Steel Materials Total assets less current liabilities for the Group were EBIT was US$758 million, an increase of US$187 million or US$32 954 million at 30 June 2005, an increase of 32.7 per cent, compared with the corresponding period.
The US$7029 million from the 30 June 2004 position.
The large increase was mainly due to higher realised prices for all products increase is attributable to the acquisition of WMC, as well as with the average realised nickel price increasing 23.0 per cent retained profit for the financial year.
The average realised price for Equity shareholders funds for the BHP Billiton Group ferrochrome also increased over the corresponding period.
were US$17 153 million at 30 June 2005, an increase of The EBIT result includes earnings from the ferrochrome US$3115 million from the previous year.
Net debt for the operations for the 11 months to 1 June 2005 during which they BHP Billiton Group increased by US$4743 million, or were owned by BHP Billiton.
These operations were sold 95.5 per cent, to US$9708 million at 30 June 2005. effective 1 June 2005.
Gearing, which is the ratio of net debt to net debt plus net This was partially offset by higher price-linked ore supply costs assets, was 35.7 per cent at 30 June 2005, compared with to the QNI Yabulu refinery and higher royalties at Cerro Matoso.
The significant increase in net In addition, the strengthening of the Colombian peso and debt relates to debt financing for the acquisition of WMC.
Australian dollar against the US dollar, and higher fuel costs, In prior communication the Company had estimated that gearing had an unfavourable impact on operating costs.
The current 70 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 at 30 June 2005, following the WMC acquisition, would be on minerals projects.
Sustaining and maintenance capital 42 per cent.
The strong cash flows from the WMC and expenditure was US$1159 million.
Total expenditure on BHP Billiton businesses have resulted in a significantly lower exploration was US$533 million, including US$380 million on gearing level.
petroleum activities and US$153 million on minerals activities.
Return on capital for 30 June 2005 was 31.5 per cent compared In addition, the current period includes US$1.78 billion for the to the corresponding period, which is in excess of the Groups repurchase of shares as part of the US$2 billion capital objective of 15 per cent, and EBITDA interest coverage management programme.
increased from 21.1 times to 34.7 times at 30 June 2005.
Currency Portfolio management The Group has adopted the US dollar as its reporting currency During the year, the ongoing review of the asset portfolio and, subject to some specific exceptions, its functional currency.
continued to ensure alignment with our strategy of owning and Currency fluctuations affect the profit and loss account in two operating large, low-cost, long-life assets.
As a result, the Group principal ways.
acquired WMC, disposed of its economic interests in the majority Sales are predominantly based on US dollar pricing the principal of its South African chrome business in June 2005 and sold our exceptions being Petroleums gas sales to Australian and UK interests in the Laminaria and Corallina oil fields located in the domestic customers and Energy Coals sales to South African Timor Sea in January 2005.
Our equity interest in Integris Metals domestic customers.
However, a proportion of operating costs US was sold for proceeds of US$202 million in January 2005. particularly labour arises in local currency of the operations, We have also sold 50 per cent of our shareholding in Acerinox most significantly the Australian dollar and South African rand, S. A. for proceeds of US$56 million, and a 5.8 per cent equity but also the Brazilian real, the Chilean peso and Colombian participation in the gas reserves associated with the North West peso.
Accordingly, changes in the exchange rates between these Shelf Project to CNOOC.
Since July 2001, total proceeds on the currencies and the US dollar can have a significant impact on the sale or divestment of assets totalled US$4.6 billion, including Groups reported results.
US$1.8 billion for the capital reduction and loan repayments Several subsidiaries hold certain monetary assets and liabilities resulting from the demerger of the BHP Steel business.
denominated in currencies other than their functional currency Capital management US dollars, in particular non-US dollar denominated tax In October 2004, Moodys Investor Services Moodys upgraded liabilities, provisions and, to a lesser extent, debt.
Net debt is BHP Billitons credit rating from A2 to A1, reflecting the Groups primarily in US dollars, with South African rand net debt now strengthened financial risk profile.
Monetary assets and liabilities are converted into US dollars at the closing rate.
The resultant differences are In March 2005, following the announcement of the takeover offer for WMC, Standard & Poors and Moodys reviewed the accounted for in the profit and loss account in accordance with UK GAAP.
Groups rating, with Standard & Poors maintaining the Groups A stable rating and Moodys placing the outlook on The impact of restatement of non-US dollar debt, tax liabilities developing.
In June 2005 Moodys restored the Groups outlook and other monetary items is included in net interest expense, to stable stating that the rating affirmation was prompted by the income tax expense and EBIT, respectively.
The impact on successful acquisition of WMC at the price and on the terms attributable profit from the restatement of non-US dollar anticipated.
monetary liabilities for the year ended 30 June 2005 is a loss of US$40 million compared to a US$278 million loss in the During the year, the Group completed both stages of its US$2 billion capital management programme.
completed in November 2004 via a US$1.78 billion off-market Dividend share buy-back of 180.7 million BHP Billiton Limited shares or A final dividend for the year ended 30 June 2005 of 14.5 US cents 2.9 per cent of the issued capital of the BHP Billiton Group.
per share will be paid to shareholders on 28 September 2005.
The shares were purchased at A$12.57 per share, representing An interim dividend of 13.5 US cents per share was paid to a 12 per cent discount to the volume weighted average price of shareholders on 23 March 2005.
That dividend included BHP Billiton shares over the five days up to and including the US$220 million 3.6 US cents per share to complete the buy-back closing date.
The residual US$220 million was used US$2 billion capital management programme announced in to rebase the interim dividend declared in February 2005.
BHP Billiton intends to continue with its progressive dividend policy.
Cash flows Available cash flow after interest and tax increased by The dividend paid by BHP Billiton Limited will be fully franked 70.4 per cent to US$8.7 billion.
The key components of this for Australian taxation purposes.
Dividends for the BHP Billiton increase were increased cash generated from operating activities Group are determined and declared in US dollars.
However, mainly due to higher profits, partly offset by increased taxation BHP Billiton Limited dividends are mainly paid in Australian payments.
dollars and BHP Billiton Plc dividends are mainly paid in pounds sterling to shareholders on the UK section of the register and Spending on capital, exploration and investment expenditures totalled US$11.0 billion for the period.
Expenditure on growth rand to shareholders on the South African section of the register.
projects and investments amounted to US$10 467 million, including US$6594 million for the acquisition of WMC, US$845 million on petroleum projects and US$1869 million BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 71 Financial Review continued International Financial Reporting Standards estimates of economically recoverable reserves may change from period to period.
Changes in reported reserves may affect us in a For reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005, number of ways, including the following: the Group must comply with International Financial Reporting our asset carrying values may be affected due to changes in Standards IFRS as issued by the International Accounting estimated future cash flows Standards Board.
The Groups DLC structure results in two parent entities with their own statutory reporting obligations, one in our depreciation, depletion and amortisation charged against Australia and the other in the UK.
This financial information has the profit and loss account may change where such charges been prepared in accordance with UK accounting standards and are determined by the units of production basis, or where the other UK financial reporting requirements UK GAAP.
There are useful economic lives of assets change a number of differences between UK GAAP and IFRS identified our deferred overburden removal costs recorded in the to date as potentially having a significant effect on the Groups balance sheet or charged against the profit and loss account financial performance or financial position.
The impacts of may change due to changes in stripping ratios or where such these adjustments are set out in note 35 of the financial charges are determined by the units of production basis statements in this Annual Report.
our decommissioning, site restoration and environmental provisions may change where changes in our estimated The regulatory bodies that promulgate UK GAAP and IFRS reserves affect our expectations in respect of the timing or have significant ongoing projects that could affect the ultimate cost of these activities, or differences between UK GAAP and IFRS and their impact on the our provisions against deferred tax assets may change due Groups financial statements in the first IFRS compliant reports for the year ended 30 June 2006 and in future years.
Accordingly, to changes in the estimated certainty of realising the tax benefits.
significant uncertainty remains as to the likely impact of IFRS on the Groups financial statements.
Exploration, evaluation and development expenditure Certain exploration, evaluation and development expenditure Critical accounting policies is capitalised where we consider that it is likely that we will be The preparation of the Groups financial statements requires able to recover the expenditure by future exploitation or sale, BHP Billiton management to make estimates and assumptions or where the activities have not reached a stage which permits that affect reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the a reasonable assessment of the existence of commercially disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial recoverable reserves.
This process necessarily requires our statements, and reported turnover and costs during the period.
management to make certain estimates and assumptions as to On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its estimates and future events and circumstances, in particular, whether we can judgments in relation to assets, liabilities, contingent liabilities, establish an economically viable extraction operation.
Any such turnover and costs.
Management bases its estimates and estimates and assumptions may change as new information judgments on historical experience and on various other factors becomes available.
If, after having capitalised expenditure that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
under this policy we conclude that we are unlikely to recover Actual results may differ from these estimates under different the expenditure by future exploitation or sale, then the relevant assumptions and conditions.
capitalised amount will be written off to the profit and loss account.
An amount of US$584 million has been carried forward We have identified the following critical accounting policies in net tangible fixed assets as capitalised exploration and under UK GAAP where management is required to make evaluation expenditure at 30 June 2005.
This primarily relates to estimates and assumptions and where actual results may differ capitalised Petroleum exploration and evaluation costs, mainly from these estimates under different assumptions and conditions for activities in the Gulf of Mexico.
and may materially affect our financial results or financial position reported in future periods.
Tangible assets valuation We review the carrying value of each income-generating unit at Mineral and petroleum reserves least annually to evaluate whether the carrying amount is The reserves we report in this Annual Report are our estimates recoverable.
We may review assets more regularly if an event or of the amount of product that we can economically and legally change in circumstances indicates that the carrying amount extract from our properties.
In order to calculate our reserves, of an asset may not be recoverable.
We determine if an asset is we must make estimates and assumptions about a range of impaired by comparing the carrying value with the higher of net geological, technical and economic factors, including quantities, realisable value and value in use.
We generally determine value grades, production techniques, recovery rates, production costs, in use by discounting expected future cash flows using a risktransport costs, commodity demand, commodity prices in adjusted pre-tax discount rate appropriate to the risks inherent relation to mineral reserves oil and gas reserves are based on in the asset.
We estimate future cash flows based on expected prices existing at the time of the estimates and exchange rates.
production and sales volumes, commodity prices considering Estimating the quantity and or grade of reserves requires us to current and historical prices, price trends and related factors, determine the size, shape, and depth of orebodies or fields by recoverable reserves, operating costs, reclamation costs and analysing geological data such as drilling samples.
These estimates are subject to risk and uncertainty, may require us to make complex and difficult geological hence there is a possibility that changes in circumstances will judgments and calculations in order to interpret the data.
alter these projections, which may impact the recoverability of Because the economic assumptions we use to estimate reserves these assets.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying change from period to period, and because we generate value of these assets may be impaired and we would charge the additional geological data as we undertake operations, our impairment against the profit and loss account.
72 BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 Defined benefit pension costs and other post-retirement At 30 June 2005, we had provided US$3584 million for reclamation and decommissioning costs in the provision for site benefits We operate or participate in a number of post-retirement rehabilitation.
Of this amount, US$1109 million was provided for closed sites.
Adjustments to the provisions in relation to these schemes including pensions and medical benefits plans throughout the world.
The funding of the schemes comply with closed sites are recognised in the profit and loss account during the period in which the adjustments are made.
In addition to local regulations.
The assets of the schemes, where applicable, are generally held separately from ours and are administered by the uncertainties noted above, certain of these activities are subject to legal disputes and depending on the ultimate trustee or management boards.
resolution of these issues the final liability for these matters We use Statement of Standard Accounting Practice SSAP could vary.
We review the amounts provided in relation to closed 24 Accounting for Pension Costs under UK GAAP to record our sites periodically based upon the facts and circumstances assets, liabilities and costs in the balance sheet and profit and available at the time and our provisions are updated accordingly.
loss account in respect of these schemes.
This basis of We believe that it is reasonably possible that, due to the nature measurement takes into account the performance of scheme of closed site liabilities and the degree of uncertainty that assets, where applicable, and changes in the funded status of surrounds them, our liabilities in relation to closed sites could each scheme, to the extent that deficits represent a legal or be in the order of 30 per cent greater or 20 per cent lower than constructive obligation to our employees and that surpluses are the US$1109 million provided for at year end.
recoverable by us, over the expected remaining service lives of employees.
We consequently recognise a liability or asset in the Deferred taxation balance sheet to the extent that the contributions payable either We recognise deferred tax assets in our balance sheet only lag or precede expense recognition.
where it is more likely than not that they will be recovered.
A proportion of deferred tax assets recorded in the balance The process necessarily requires management to make certain sheet relate to current or prior period tax losses and capital estimates and assumptions as to future returns on various losses where management considers that it is more likely than classes of assets, where applicable, future remuneration not that we will recover these losses in future periods through changes, employee attrition rates, administration costs, changes the generation of sufficient future taxable profits.
Our in benefits, inflation rates, exchange rates, life expectancy and assumptions in relation to the generation of sufficient future expected remaining service lives of our employees.
In making taxable profits depend on our estimates of future cash flows, these estimates and assumptions, management considers advice which are estimated based on production and sales plans, provided by external advisors, such as actuaries.
commodity prices, recoverable reserves, operating costs, In addition, an alternative policy acceptable under UK GAAP reclamation costs and planned capital costs.
These estimates are would be the application of FRS 17 Retirement Benefits.
Under subject to risk and uncertainty, hence there is a possibility that FRS 17, which is similar to IAS19 Employee Benefits which we changes in circumstances will alter these projections, which may adopted from 1 July 2005, all surpluses would be recognised to impact the recoverability of the assets recorded in our balance the extent they are considered recoverable and all deficits would sheet and those tax losses and timing differences not be recognised in full.
For disclosures under the transitionary recognised.
In such circumstances, some or all of the carrying provisions of FRS 17, which is not yet mandatory, you should value of these deferred tax assets may require provisioning and refer to note 27 Pensions and post-retirement medical benefits we would charge the expense to the profit and loss account, and of this Annual Report.
If we had applied FRS 17 in preparing conversely, some or all of the provisions against the tax losses our financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2005, and timing differences excluded may be reversed and we would our shareholders funds would have been approximately credit the benefit to the profit and loss account.
US$550 million lower, mainly reflecting the impacts on our At 30 June 2005, our deferred tax assets included schemes of movements in global equity markets, and our profit US$964 million in relation to current or prior period tax losses after tax would have been approximately US$5 million higher.
and capital losses, and our deferred tax assets exclude Decommissioning, site restoration and environmental costs US$609 million in relation to current or prior period tax losses Our activities are subject to various national, regional, and and capital losses and US$668 million in relation to timing local laws and regulations governing the protection of the differences where management has concluded that it is more environment.
Furthermore, we have a policy of ensuring that likely than not that we will not generate sufficient future reclamation is planned and financed from the early stages of any relevant income to recover these losses and timing differences operation.
Provision is made for the cost of reclamation of our in future periods.
mining and processing facilities along with the decommissioning Under UK GAAP deferred tax balances are not recognised for of our oil platforms and infrastructure associated with petroleum unrealised foreign exchange gains and losses on US dollar net activities.
Our estimation of the cost of future reclamation and debt, including intra-group balances, in subsidiaries which decommissioning activities is subject to uncertainties.
These maintain local currency records for tax purposes.
As at uncertainties include the legal and regulatory framework, the 30 June 2005, the BHP Billiton Group has not recognised magnitude of possible contamination, and the timing and extent US$516 million of potential tax expense.
This deferred tax of reclamation and decommissioning activities required.
While liability will be recognised from 1 July 2005 when the Group the provisions at 30 June 2005 represent our best estimate of adopts IAS12 Income Taxes.
the future costs required, these uncertainties might result in future actual expenditure differing from the amounts provided at this time.
BHP BILLITON PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2005 73
