Financial review Overview Introduction Goals Barclays is a major global financial services provider engaged in retail and Barclays primary focus is to deliver superior value to its shareholders.
commercial banking, credit cards, investment banking, wealth management To achieve this we use an operating philosophy, the principles of value and investment management services.
We are one of the largest financial based management VBM, to develop strategy, allocate resources and services companies in the world by market capitalisation.
Operating in over manage performance.
60 countries and employing 113,300 people, we move, lend, invest and In applying VBM principles, Barclays has developed a disciplined fact-based protect money for over 25 million customers and clients worldwide.
approach to strategy development and business planning, which aims to Our business was affected by global economic conditions generally and build sustainable competitive advantage.
Individual businesses generate particularly by conditions in the UK.
The UK economy was weaker in 2005 alternative business strategies to facilitate the selection of the most than 2004, with the economy growing at 1.8%.
The US economy sustained appropriate value-maximising option, in order to achieve profitable growth strong growth in 2005, although slightly lower than in 2004, whilst the in all our businesses.
Eurozone economy growth remained broadly steady from the level of 2004.
We use performance goals as an integral part of our VBM disciplines.
The South African economy maintained its strong economic growth.
These are designed to stretch the thinking and ambition of our businesses.
As a financial services group domiciled in the UK, the majority of our Goals have been set for four-year periods to align with the planning earnings currently arise from the UK.
Nonetheless, with our global processes described above.
businesses and our international activities, we believe that our diverse The primary goal remains to achieve top quartile total shareholder return portfolio provides a broad spread of earnings capabilities and offers greater TSR relative to a peer group of 11 other UK and international financial resilience against systematic events in any single business or geography.
TSR is defined as the value created for shareholders Currently about 40% of Barclays profits come from outside the UK against through share price appreciation, plus reinvested dividend payments.
2004, we announced a new performance cycle TSR goal for the 2004 to The profitability of Barclays businesses could be adversely affected by a 2007 period.
worsening of general economic conditions in the UK or abroad.
Factors The TSR peer group is reviewed annually to ensure it aligns with our such as the liquidity of the global financial markets, the level and volatility business mix and the direction and scale of our ambition.
The peer group of equity prices and interest rates, investor sentiment, inflation, and the for 2005 was: ABN Amro, BBVA, BNP Paribas, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank, availability and cost of credit, could significantly affect the activity level of HBOS, HSBC, JP Morgan Chase, Lloyds TSB, Royal Bank of Scotland and customers.
A continued market downturn would likely lead to a decline UBS.
For 2006 the peer group is unchanged.
in the volume of transactions that Barclays executes for its customers and, therefore, lead to a decline in the income it receives from fees and For the first two years of the new goal period, from 31st December 2003 commissions.
In addition, changes in interest rate levels, yields curves and to 31st December 2005, Barclays was positioned fifth within its peer group, spreads may affect the interest rate margin realised on lending and on which is second quartile TSR performance.
In addition, economic profit EP is used to support the pursuit of the top Continuous focus on improvements in productivity provides the ability to quartile TSR goal.
The strategies we follow and the actions we take are respond flexibly to any pressure on income growth and helps offset its aligned to value creation for all stakeholders.
Since the introduction of impact on overall profitability.
VBM, Barclays has used EP as its key internal financial measure, to support the achievement of our primary top quartile TSR goal.
Barclays Key drivers underpinning the financial performance are detailed in the uses EP, a non-IFRS measure, as a key indicator of performance because subsequent pages of the Financial review section.
These include, for it believes that it provides important discipline in decision-making.
net interest income, the volume and rate of growth of asset and liability Barclays believes that EP encourages both profitable growth and the balances, together with the margin on these balances.
Non-interest efficient use of capital.
More information on the reconciliation of EP to income is driven primarily by net fees and commissions, although it also profit before tax can be found on page 302. includes principal transactions and other operating income.
We believe that, given current and expected market conditions, a Net premiums from insurance contracts and claims and benefits paid on compound annual growth rate in EP in the range of 10% to 13% p. a. insurance contracts are shown separately in the Income Statement.
which would translate into cumulative EP generation of 6.5bn to 7.0bn, The principal drivers of operating expenses are staffing levels and their will be required to deliver top quartile TSR over the 2004 to 2007 goal associated costs, including performance related expenditure, and the level period.
Economic profit for 2005 was 1.75bn, which, added to the of strategic investment spend.
1.57bn generated in 2004, delivered a cumulative total of 3.32bn for 3.3 the goal period to date.
This equates to compound annual growth in Impairment charges and other credit provisions are largely driven by the economic profit of 18% per annum for the goal period to date.
quantity and quality of lending and reflect the condition of the credit environment.
We will continue to report progress against goals on a regular basis.
a In addition to the risk factors outlined on pages 47 to 49, other potential Financial Performance 2005 impacts on Barclays profitability are the consequences of potential Barclays applied International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS with regulation or legislation.
effect from 1st January 2004, with the exception of IAS 32, IAS 39 and IFRS 4, which were applied from 1st January 2005.
The effect of these changes is pervasive throughout these results.
Total income net of insurance claims increased 23% Note 3,225m to 17,333m 2004: 14,108m whilst operating expenses a Restated for IFRS.
