Caledonia Investments plc 24 Annual report 2005 Financial review Caledonia became an investment trust company as from 1 April 2003 and, as such, we believe that the company statement of total return and company balance sheet are the most appropriate statements for reporting our performance.
Therefore, this review discusses the financial results of the company as well as summarising the performance of the group.
Basis of presentation of accounts Caledonia is an investment trust company, but we are relatively unusual in holding trading subsidiaries as part of our investment portfolio.
Our ownership of subsidiaries requires us to prepare consolidated accounts, but the accounting rules prevent us from including subsidiaries in the consolidated accounts at valuation.
The consolidated balance sheet would not, therefore, give a presentation of our investment portfolio consistent with other investment trusts.
However, the company balance sheet does allow us to show the entire portfolio including subsidiaries at Jonathan Cartwright valuation and is, therefore, considered to be the most relevant Finance director statement in presenting our financial position.
Consistent with the presentation of other investment trusts, we also present a company statement of total return.
Actual proceeds from the disposal of any individual investment will inevitably depend on market and economic conditions prevailing at the time.
Company total return Company total return for the year was 173.2m, or 263.6p per share, compared with 282.8m, or 391.5p per share last year.
Gains on investments over the year totalled 165.8m.
This included gains of 39.2m on Kerzner International, 28.3m on British Empire, 24.8m on Paladin Resources and 13.5m on the Aberforth LP fund.
As a result of investment sales during the year, historic gains of 99.2m were realised, notably 45.8m and 43.3m on the sales of part of our stakes in Kerzner International and Close Brothers respectively.
Income from investments of 18.9m fell from last years gure of 21.5m.
The dividends from most of our principal investments were maintained or increased over the year.
However, the dividend from Close Brothers reduced by 1.7m as a result of the sale of part of our stake and a dividend of 1.3m from Wallem in 2004 was not repeated.
Management costs rose to 10.0m from 9.1m last year.
This movement included increased pension contributions of 0.6m as part of a programme to address the companys dened benefit schemes deficit.
Other corporate costs of 0.4m comprised the costs associated with the elective special dividend and reduction of capital, which was completed in July 2004.
The cost last year of 2.5m arose principally from the liquidation proposals promoted by a minority group of shareholders in The Cayzer Trust Company, which were subsequently withdrawn.
Interest payable of 1.0m, the same as last year, arose principally on amounts due to a subsidiary undertaking.
The total taxation charge revenue and capital for the year amounted to 0.1m, compared with 0.4m last year.
Caledonia Investments plc 25 Annual report 2005 Group profit and loss and other gains and losses Elective special dividend and reduction of capital Overall, profit before tax for the year to 31 March 2005 totalled On 15 March 2004, the company announced outline proposals 6.6m, compared with 6.1m reported last year.
for an elective return of funds to ordinary shareholders.
On 19 May 2004, a circular was sent to all shareholders detailing The group operating loss for the year was 9.0m, compared the proposals.
Subject to a number of conditions being met, all with 11.5m last year.
The main factors in this improvement were Caledonia ordinary shareholders were offered the opportunity to increased profits from Sterling Industries of 1.2m, compared receive a special dividend on terms that they gave up part of their with a loss of 0.1m last year, offset by reduced profits from shareholdings.
The elective special dividend was set at a xed Edinmore of 1.0m, compared with 1.7m, and amortisation of discount of 18% to Caledonias net asset value calculated on the goodwill which increased by 0.7m.
Also, as mentioned above, date and according to the methodology set out in the circular.
other corporate costs reduced from 2.5m last year to 0.4m.
Those who elected to receive the special dividend, which could be on a maximum of up to two out of every nine ordinary shares There were no sales of operations or properties last year, compared held, would have those shares on which they elected to receive with a 0.6m loss and 1.1m profit respectively this year.
the special dividend cancelled for nil consideration, pursuant to a Court approved reduction of capital.
Income from investments of 16.5m was down on last years gure of 17.3m.
The main changes were dividends from Close In the event, elections were submitted to receive the special Brothers reduced by 1.7m as a result of the sale of part of our dividend on 8,407,676 Caledonia ordinary shares, representing stake and no dividends from Wallem, compared with 1.3m in 11.58% of the issued ordinary share capital.
Against this, dividends from most of our other principal per share, calculated in accordance with the methodology set investments were maintained or increased over the year.
Interest out in the circular, as at the 25 June 2004 certication date, was receivable was 0.9m, slightly down on last years amount as 1276.91p.
The amount of the special dividend per share was, the group was more fully invested throughout the 2005 financial therefore, 1047.07p, a total of 88.0m for all shares elected, year than in 2004.
Interest payable of 2.3m increased over the which was paid on 2 July 2004.
The 8,407,676 shares were previous years gure of 0.8m as non-recourse bank finance cancelled, reducing the number of ordinary shares in issue of 20.5m was raised in The Sloane Club and Buckingham Gate to 64,205,796 as at that date.
Treasury operations and controls Group realised and unrealised gains and losses mirror those The groups objective for its treasury operations is to ensure that of the company except for small differences where the company adequate financial resources are available for its activities, whilst gures include realised and unrealised gains and losses managing its credit, interest rate and currency risks.
Treasury operations are centred on the Group Treasury function The total taxation charge revenue and capital for the year and managed within policies and procedures approved by the amounted to 2.9m, compared with 2.6m last year, principally board.
The activities of Group Treasury are regularly reviewed due to tax on overseas investments.
by the executive directors and reported to the board.
Dividend Derivative financial instruments are used to manage risks arising An interim dividend of 8.7p per share has been paid and the from group activities.
Caledonia does not trade in derivatives and directors have recommended a final dividend of 19.5p per share, does not enter into treasury transactions of either a speculative making a total of 28.2p per share for the year at a cost of 17.9m.
nature or unrelated to its activities.
This is a 4.4% increase over the total dividend for 2004 of 27.0p per share.
Credit risk The groups objective is to limit the risk of loss arising from Cash ow and balance sheet default by counterparties.
This is achieved by limiting exposure The difference between company and group net funds reects the to single entities and by spreading risk across a number of net funds held by trading subsidiaries and intra-group transactions.
Exposures are only created with counterparties meeting standards predetermined by reference to the major The companys net funds at the year end were 39.6m compared credit rating agencies and within financial limits.
with 34.0m at the start of the year, an increase of 5.6m.
Significant outflows were incurred in respect of investment Interest rate risk purchases totalling 127.4m, annual dividend payments of Interest rate risk arises on the uctuations in value of financial 18.9m and the elective special dividend payment of 88.0m.
instruments as a result of changes in market interest rates.
Investment purchases included 22.8m in Cobepa, 16.9m in The exposure to interest rate movements on treasury assets General Practice, 12.5m in Oval and 10.6m in Incisive Media.
is mitigated by the use of term deposits, certicates of deposit significant inows arose from investment sales of 218.5m, and other instruments.
In respect of specific debt, the group capital dividends from group undertakings of 8.8m and 8.8m manages its exposure by using derivatives, such as caps on the realisation of forward currency contracts.
The group seeks to maximise interest returns proceeds included 62.0m from Kerzner International, 57.1m on cash principally by pooling and using bank deposits of from Close Brothers, 23.8m of distributions from the Aberforth varying maturity.
LP fund and 13.7m from the sale of Radio Investments.
The groups net funds at the year end were 10.4m compared with 8.2m at the start of the year, an increase of 2.2m.
Most of the cash ows were similar to those of the company.
However, the principal difference was due to operating cash ows, tax paid, elimination of intra-group dividends and purchase of xed assets.
Caledonia Investments plc 26 Annual report 2005 Financial review continued Liquidity risk The groups policy is that, where possible, treasury assets and The groups objective is to ensure that funding is available to liabilities are converted into sterling to minimise the net exposure meet its requirements, whilst minimising borrowing costs and to foreign currencies.
securing an advantageous return on liquid funds.
The group also has a small amount of transactional currency The group maintains undrawn committed borrowing facilities exposure.
Such exposure arises from sales or purchases in to provide exibility in the management of the groups liquidity.
currencies other than the companys functional currency.
Where At the year end, the group had undrawn committed facilities these are material, it is the groups policy to hedge using forward of 86.7m.
The management of liquid funds of the company is undertaken International Financial Reporting Standards within guidelines designed to maintain its investment trust status.
The requirement for Caledonia to adopt International Financial The policy of the board is that borrowings shall not exceed Reporting Standards IFRS, commencing with the year 20% of net assets.
The companys undrawn committed facilities beginning 1 April 2005, involves a process of major change, at the year end of 70m had been reduced from 200m as at for which we have established a project team working in 31 March 2004.
In February 2004, the company had increased its conjunction with the external auditors and other technical committed facilities from 30m to 200m to fund the maximum advisers.
The key differences between IFRS and UK GAAP dividend payment were all shareholders to have elected to for Caledonia are the requirements to: receive the special dividend and consequent cancellation of shares proposed in March 2004.
In the event, shareholders Mark listed portfolio investments from mid-market prices elected to receive the special dividend on 11.58% of the issued to bid prices IAS 39. ordinary shares and therefore an amount of 88m was paid in July 2004.
Proceeds from disinvestments enabled us to repay Incorporate the difference between the balance sheet value bank debt and we cancelled 130m of the committed facilities.
of pension fund assets and discounted liabilities IAS 19.
In addition to the committed facilities, the company has an overdraft facility of 10m.
These adjustments are not expected to result in a material change in reported net asset values.
Foreign currency risk The groups exposure to foreign currency risk arises primarily In addition, under IFRS 2 Share-based payments, it will be from holding investments and treasury assets and liabilities necessary to expense benets conferred on employees through denominated in foreign currencies.
Although the group is based the granting of share options.
This entry will be debited through in the UK, it is a significant investor in US dollar denominated the companys income statement, but will have no effect on assets and has investments in Europe, the Far East and other NAV per share.
There is also exposure through UK portfolio investments which have activities abroad.
The first accounts to reect the adoption of IFRS will be the interim report for the six months to 30 September 2005.
This For investments denominated in foreign currencies, the interim report will include comparative gures adjusted in boards current policy is that the company should have no accordance with IFRS, together with the required restatement direct exposure to the US dollar and that direct exposure to of the 31 March 2005 balance sheet.
the euro and other currencies in aggregate should each not exceed 10% of the companys net assets.
The full value of We are committed to ensuring compliance with all material US dollar denominated investments, which amounted to 163.0m aspects of IFRS and action is being taken to establish the equivalent at the year end, is hedged using forward currency accounting policies, systems and reporting changes that will contracts.
This policy is kept under review.
At the year end, direct be required to be implemented.
portfolio exposures to the euro and other currencies in aggregate were within the policy limits at 4.4% and 2.5% respectively.
Consequently, these exposures were not hedged.
