Performance Review In this review, all comparisons between the After deducting the direct costs product, marketing and operational changes 2005 and 2004 financial years relate to the associated with operating company-owned begin to take effect.
52 week period to 26 February 2005 and stores, The Body Shop At Home, mail order The Love Your Body loyalty card the 52 week period to 28 February 2004. and sales via the internet, the profit showed positive growth in the USA, with contribution rose 10% to 139.7 million the benefits of the scheme expected to be Retail Sales 2004: 127.0 million.
enhanced by the installation of a new point In the 52 weeks ended 26 February Other operating expenses were 103.5 of service system during the current year.
2005, total retail sales across all channels million 2004: 96.7 million after The Love Your Body loyalty card was also increased by 5% to 708.7 million 2004: recognising 3.8 million in goodwill launched in Canada during the autumn.
672.5 million, with comparable store amortisation 2004: 3.1 million.
Operating Total retail sales growth of 7% was sales up by 2%.
Retail sales through margins were 8.6% compared with 8.0% in primarily driven by The Body Shop At Home The Body Shop At Home increased by 31% the previous year, with operating profit which continued to perform well, increasing to 46.9 million.
Sales performance by increasing by 19% to 36.2 million.
Profit sales from 14.1 million to 22.1 million.
The region is shown in the table at the bottom before tax increased by 21% to 34.5 US business successfully launched its third of the page.
sales channel during the year, with a new After 38 net store openings during the e-commerce site www.
com year, the number of stores worldwide totalled Geographical Analysis that has performed well ahead of expec- 2,045 at the year end, of which 733 were tations since its launch last September.
Americas company-owned 2004: 596 and the Asia Pacific remainder franchised.
Approximately 120 2005 2004 net store openings are anticipated in the 2005 2004 Stores at year end 429 416 current year.
Store openings net 13 -10 Stores at year end 554 524 Company-owned Store openings net 30 36 Operating Performance stores 351 291 Company-owned Group turnover increased by 10% to stores 60 33 m m change 419.0 million, with 69% representing m m change Store sales 140.5 138.2 2% retail sales through company-owned stores, The Body Shop Store sales 175.4 158.2 11% The Body Shop At Home, mail order and the At Home 22.1 14.1 57% The Body Shop internet 2004: 64%.
The balance of group At Home 7.8 6.1 28% turnover principally represents wholesale Total retail sales 162.6 152.3 7% sales to franchisees.
Turnover 142.3 125.8 13% Total retail sales 183.2 164.3 12% Gross profit increased by 13% to Operating profit 20.9 19.3 8% Turnover 64.4 52.8 22% 272.7 million 2004: 240.4 million, Operating profit 19.7 18.5 6% with gross margins increasing to 65.1% The increase in store numbers in the region 2004: 63.1%.
reflects 14 net openings in the USA and one The 30 store openings in Asia Pacific closure in Canada.
The higher were well spread across the region, number of company-owned including eight in the Philippines, five in Sales performance stores is largely due to the Malaysia, and four each in Korea, Taiwan The Comparable acquisition of the Canadian and Japan.
The increase in the number Body Total Store Sales head franchise business, which of company-owned stores reflects the 28 Store Shop Retail Sales At Home Sales H2 Full Year included 42 stores operated by stores acquired in Hong Kong and Macau.
Total retail sales growth of 12% was Americas 2% 57% 7% 0% 0% Comparable store sales underpinned by the new store openings, Asia Pacific 11% 28% 12% 7% 5% were flat year on year, reflecting together with comparable store sales Europe, Middle growth of 1% in the USA growth of 5%.
Comparable store sales East & Africa 4% 4% 4% 2% offset by a negative trend of continued to benefit from a particularly UK & Republic 3% in Canada.
The trend in strong performance in South East Asia of Ireland -1% 8% 0% 4% 0% Canada has improved since the 14%, Hong Kong 12%, Taiwan Total 4% 31% 5% 4% 2% acquisition of the head 11% and Australia 4%.
Japan franchise business last July as achieved an improved performance H2 refers to the second six months of the 2005 financial year.
The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 Performance Review continued 2%, although Korea continued to show Marketing initiatives included the launch Earnings and Dividends a negative trend -8%.
of the Love Your Body loyalty card in our The profit attributable to shareholders The strong growth in comparable store four company-owned markets during the amounted to 27.0 million, compared with sales was achieved as a result of strong year.
The success of the scheme in these 21.7 million in the previous year.
Earnings brand positioning, enhanced by improved markets will be followed by a roll-out into per share were 13.1 pence on a weighted focus on execution, customer service 12 additional European countries during average number of shares of 206.6 million and marketing events.
The Love Your Body the current year.
which excludes the shares held by The loyalty card was launched in Singapore The movement in operating profit reflects Body Shop International Employee Share during the year.
the improved comparable store sales trend Trust, compared with 10.7 pence in 2004.
The Body Shop At Home, operated by in the region.
The Directors are proposing a dividend of the head franchisees in Australia and New 3.8 pence per share which will be paid on 1 UK & Republic of Ireland Zealand, continued to perform well with July 2005 to shareholders on the register at sales growth of 28%.
Together with the interim The Hong Kong head franchise business, dividend of 1.9 pence, this makes a total for Stores at year end 304 313 acquired in June 2004, has performed the year of 5.7 pence per share, in line with Store openings net -9 1 ahead of expectations in its first year of last year.
stores 228 194 Balance Sheet and Capital Structure m m change Europe, Middle East & Africa Shareholders funds totalled 151.9 million Store sales 144.2 145.6 -1% at the year end 2004: 129.3 million, with 2005 2004 The Body Shop 15.1 million of retained profit having been Stores at year end 758 754 At Home 17.0 15.7 8% transferred to reserves after payment of Store openings net 4 12 dividends.
"In accordance with FRS 10 Total retail sales 161.2 161.3 0% Company-owned ""Goodwill and Intangible Assets"", goodwill is Turnover 137.9 130.0 6% stores 94 78 amortised over its useful economic life not Operating profit 11.7 10.0 17% m m change exceeding 15 years."
Goodwill amortised in These numbers exclude 101 2004: 101 concessions in pharmacies the year amounted to 3.8 million 2004: Total retail sales 201.7 194.6 4% Retail sales in the region were flat, reflecting 3.1 million.
Turnover 74.4 72.5 3% growth of 8% in The Body Shop At Home Operating profit 15.3 14.2 8% offset by nine store closures in the UK.
Cash Flow and Investment The larger number of company-owned The Group generated net cash inflow from The change in store numbers reflects stores represents stores bought back from operating activities of 66.7 million during openings in a number of countries including franchisees during the year.
the year 2004: 41.4 million, which was Saudi Arabia 8, France 7, South Africa 6 Comparable store sales have shown a utilised as follows: and the first openings in Latvia 4 and significant improvement in trend, moving 2005 2004 Lithuania 1.
Some markets with challenging from 13% to a flat position year on year.
m m trading environments saw store closures, This improvement has been achieved as a Opening debt 9.4 22.2 including eleven in Italy, seven in Germany result of successful new product launches, and six in Spain.
a strong Christmas gift range, improved Operating cash flow 66.7 41.4 Retail sales in the region were up 4%, customer service and a higher level of Capital expenditure 25.5 12.4 with comparable store sales improving in-store marketing events that are Acquisitions 19.3 1.0 to 2% from -3% in the previous year.
Dividends 11.7 11.6 Taxation 6.5 7.3 Overall sales trends have benefited from Benefits in sales and in-stock availability strong product launches and improved were also gained during the important Net interest 1.7 1.8 retail execution.
Christmas trading period from the new Other 2.7 5.5 Comparable store sales growth was automatic inventory replenishment system 4.7 12.8 strong in the Middle East 12%, France in UK company stores.
Closing net debt 4.7 9.4 7% and the Nordic countries 5%.
The Love Your Body loyalty card is perGermany showed significant improvement forming well and is beginning to provide good at -1%, despite the overall retail opportunities for cross channel marketing Year end inventory increased from 52.4 environment, with positive growth being events between the stores and The Body million to 62.1 million, with the increase achieved towards the end of the financial Shop At Home.
This synergistic marketing largely due to the Hong Kong and Canadian head franchise acquisitions together with the year.
In Southern Europe, sales improved activity will increase in the current year.
in Spain in the second half to produce 1% The 17% increase in regional operating impact of multi-channel growth in the USA.
for the year, but Italy continued to prove a profit was underpinned by the improved The average inventory level during the year difficult market -8%.
Reductions in average inventory 18 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 holdings will be targeted through investment Liquidity Risk Interest Rate Risk in supply chain management systems in The Groups objective is to maintain a The Groups objective is to minimise the cost the current year and beyond.
balance between continuity of funding of borrowing by matching the maturity dates Capital expenditure excluding through medium term facilities and of loans to the seasonal requirements of the acquisitions amounted to 25.5 million flexibility through short-term local overdrafts.
Interest payable on borrowings is 2004: 12.4 million, invested in broadly The main facility is a 130.0 million fixed for periods of up to six months.
equal proportions in stores and information multi-currency revolving credit agreement The net interest charge of 1.7 million systems.
that runs until December 2009. relates to average net debt of 27.4 million In line with the 100 million capital In addition, there are a number of over the year 2004: 24.4 million.
expenditure programme that began last year, smaller short-term facilities to support local Seasonal borrowing requirements peaked capital expenditure will increase significantly requirements, including overdraft facilities in October 2004 when net debt stood at in the current year to approximately in the UK and elsewhere.
Approximately two thirds will be At 26 February 2005, the available September 2003.
The balance sheet invested in new stores and store refurbishfacilities totalled 134.9 million, of which showed net debt of 4.7 million at the ments, with the majority of the balance in 45.2 million was drawn down.
period end, compared with 9.4 million information systems including SAP.
at the end of the previous year.
The 4.7 Acquisition expenditure amounting to Foreign Currency Risk million reduction in net debt reflects cash 27.0 million related primarily to the The currencies to which the Group is flows of 4.4 million and translation Hong Kong and Canadian head franchise principally exposed are the US dollar and differences of 0.3 million.
Of the total, net cash outflow the Euro.
In addition there is exposure in respect of acquisitions was 19.3 million.
to the Singapore, Hong Kong and Canadian Transition to International Financial Other movements of 2.7 million currencies.
Reporting Standards comprise 2.4 million of cash arising The exposure arises from export sales The Body Shop International PLC will publish through issues of share capital and from the UK and retail royalties payable its first consolidated financial statements 0.3 million of translation differences.
to the UK, as well as from purchases and prepared in accordance with International interest payments.
The Groups policy is to Financial Reporting Standards IFRS for Taxation hedge this transaction exposure through the half year to 27 August 2005 and for the The tax charge for the year is 7.2 million, forward foreign exchange contracts full year ending 25 February 2006. giving an effective rate of 20.9% 2004: covering, on average, nine months.
The implications of the transition to IFRS 23.9%.
Currency exposure also arises from for the Group have been identified and the The effective rate reflects benefits from the translation of the trading results work required to restate historical results the continuing utilisation of brought forward and net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The main impacts operating losses in the US business, the The Groups policy is to limit the exposure are expected to arise from the changes majority of which have now been fully to fluctuations in the value of net assets in accounting for intangibles, specifically realised.
by borrowing in those currencies in which goodwill, property, share based payments In line with FRS 19, these losses are it has significant non-sterling assets.
recognised as a deferred tax asset in the At the year end, the Group held debt in We intend to communicate the full period under review, which has the effect of the following currencies: US$35.0 million, implications of the transition to IFRS in reducing the effective tax rate.
The effective 12.0 million, Singapore $32.0 million and advance of the publication of our 2005 tax rate for the current year is expected to Hong Kong $125.0 million.
Interim Results, including a restatement of rise to around 26%, with a further increase The results of overseas subsidiaries have the results and financial position for the half likely to occur in the subsequent year when been translated at an average sterling dollar year to August 2004 and for the full year to the rate will move towards more normal rate of $1.84 and an average sterling euro February 2005. effective rates of corporation tax in the rate of 1.47.
The movement in the For the avoidance of doubt, references in UK and USA.
exchange rates year on year, notably the these financial statements are to UK GAAP.
10% movement in the US dollar, is the Treasury Policies and Controls principal contributor to the currency impact Accounting Developments The Board approves treasury policies, of 3.1 million.
The Group implemented the requirements with members of the senior management of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts Average Average Year end Year end team directly controlling day-to-day in the year under review.
The Group uses derivatives all companies with ESOP trusts to present only to manage its foreign currency risks the shares held in the trust as a deduction US$ 1.84 1.67 1.91 1.86 arising from underlying business activities.
in arriving at shareholders funds, rather Euro 1.47 1.44 1.45 1.49 No transactions of a speculative nature than as assets.
The balance sheet as at are undertaken.
28 February 2004 has been restated accordingly.
There have been no other accounting developments during the year.
The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19 Performance Review continued Share Price and Market Capitalisation The Body Shop offers a unique opportunity and inform employees about the business During the 2005 financial year, the share for employees to be part of an internationally performance and opportunities to support price ranged between a high of 201 pence recognised brand, and to play an active role volunteering and campaign initiatives.
The share price in promoting social and environmental The Group formally consults employees at the year end was 199 pence 2004: change through our campaigning, in the UK and Europe via Consultation and 131.5 pence, capitalising the Group at volunteering and giving programmes.
Representation Committees, comprising approximately 425.3 million.
We have a long-established policy of employee-elected representatives.
promoting equal opportunities and diversity Delivering Value to Stakeholders across the global business.
All assessments Our Values Making a Difference The Body Shop has an established reputation for selection and promotion are monitored to This has been a very active year for as a socially and environmentally responsible ensure they do not unfairly exclude, promoting our values and improving our company.
We believe that our values are disadvantage or discriminate against any environmental and social performance.
consistent with strong and sustained financial section of the community.
Employees are We have begun strengthening our in-store performance, and that profits with principles assessed on ability and performance and customer communication through our must be achieved in order to sustain the any other measures that are relevant to a MADE WITH PASS!ON panels, which tell long-term future of the Group.
The Group does not the stories behind our ingredients.
We The Body Shop is committed to maintaining discriminate against people it employs on continued to focus on social issues through high standards of social and environmental the grounds of disability.
Employment our campaigns to Stop Violence in the Home performance.
We believe in doing business policies ensure that people with a disability and raising awareness on HIV AIDS, as well with integrity and transparency.
This means receive fair and equitable treatment.
The as through our Ethical Trade and Community using our ethical principles to inform the way Body Shop does not discriminate against Trade programmes.
we do business, setting ourselves and our employees with HIV AIDS.
If employees We continue to promote best practice business partners clear standards of practice.
choose to disclose their status, this is through networks such as the Business It also involves engaging stakeholders with treated in the strictest confidence.
Leaders Initiative on Human Rights and our business aims and publicly reporting on A key performance target for the business multi-stakeholder partnerships to promote our performance within the overall context of is to strengthen our learning and development sustainable raw materials, including wood our business strategy.
programmes for employees who directly and palm oil.
The overall strategic direction of the serve our customers.
Our aim is to develop We have expanded our commitment to Groups values is reviewed periodically by skills that will deliver excellent customer transparency and stakeholder engagement the Board in consultation with the Director service and improve employee retention.
over the last year through the publication of of Values.
The Director of Values reports into Our programmes are designed to be relevant Individual Stakeholder Accounts for suppliers, the Chief Executive Officer and has overall for our stores as well as The Body Shop At employees, franchisees, customers, the responsibility for directing the Groups social Home direct sales channel.
In the current and environmental programme.
Strategic As a retail business, we aim to ensure year, we will take our reporting to a new values objectives are aligned with the that our employees pay and benefits are stage by publishing an integrated online business objectives as well as stakeholder competitive and flexible to their needs.
Values Report accounting for our perceptions and expectations.
These In addition, many of our employees, performance, supported by an independent objectives are fully embraced by the senior including those in our stores, are able assurance and verification process.
management team, who have responsibility to earn bonuses which are generated by for balancing the interests of all key achieving a combination of sales, profits Stop Violence in the Home stakeholder groups.
Sub-committees help and other key performance indicators.
Our customers helped us to raise over direct the social and environmental approach The Group is keen to promote employee 500,000 through our global Stop Violence of the business.
These include an Issues share ownership within the organisation.
in the Home campaign last year.
Management Group, which reports into the The granting of share options has been In the Americas, where the campaign Risk Committee: a Corporate Health and the principal mechanism used to date, the first started, the US programme was Safety Strategy Group: an Environmental details of which are set out in Note 19 to extended through partnerships with Steering Group: and an Animal Protection the Accounts.
The Body Shop also operates the National Coalition Against Domestic Steering Group.
Share Save Option Schemes, through Violence NCADV, Lifetime TV, the Wireless which UK-based employees are granted Foundation and Amnesty International.
Employees options using the Governments Save-AsIn Canada, in-store activities raised funds Our business is about engaging and You-Earn scheme.
for local Stop Violence Against Women inspiring customers around their individual SVAW partners and the Canadian Womens needs for skin and hair care.
This relies on Communication and Dialogue Foundation.
Customers were also invited attracting and retaining the skills, knowledge Instilling a performance-led culture within the to donate products and gifts for mothers and creative talent to deliver excellent business relies on all employees being aware recovering from domestic violence.
Collected products with exceptional service to our of the Groups financial performance.
A mix gifts were delivered to local shelters in time millions of customers worldwide.
In return, of communication vehicles is used to engage for Mothers Day.
In total, 34,000 items were 20 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 donated in the USA and 7,500 in Canada.
develop a programme to help rebuild the with our key suppliers.
During the last In Asia Pacific, the campaign raised funds lives of children in Aceh, the Indonesian financial year, The Body Shop engaged for domestic violence charities across 11 province worst hit by the Tsunami.
in a number of initiatives with suppliers to markets.
In Indonesia, over 7,000 customers enhance performance and ensure ethical signed a petition that contributed to a new HIV AIDS compliance in the supply chain.
These law being passed making domestic violence Many of our markets around the world have included continued focus on improving illegal.
In West Malaysia, Dame Anita Roddick raised funds for HIV AIDS during the year.
performance of our top 20 suppliers which launched 16 days of Activism Against In the USA and Canada, we continued has resulted in: Gender Violence with leaders of womens to support our HIV AIDS partner Until Theres Improved on-time in-full delivery groups.
The public supported this initiative A Cure, with the sale of bracelets in stores of established products by making a lip print or stamping a daisy raising $300,000.
Over the last decade, Reduced quality rejects on Speak Out cards.
The Body Shop The Body Shop in the USA has raised Improved on-time and in-full delivery Australia supported White Ribbon day, the $1 million for the organisations education, of new product development.
United Nations International Day for the prevention and research programmes.
Elimination of Violence Against Women, The EMEA region supported World AIDS The Company has a policy with its principal with 11,000 white ribbons being handed Day 2004 through the sale of red ribbons in suppliers to settle the terms of payment out to customers.
The Body Shop New eight markets, raising 38 000 for two AIDS when agreeing the terms of each transaction.
Zealand raised funds for local support groups projects in South Africa.
Supply Chain Performance Data through sales of 6,000 T-shirts designed by In Asia Pacific, The Body Shop Japan a celebrity.
raised over 6,000 through the sale of 2005 2004 Across 11 European markets, customers limited edition campaign items and customer Average trade donated over 10,600 mobile phones and donations during November and December creditor days 28 28 purchased over 100,000 pin badges.
The funds were donated to World Direct cost of research employees in Sweden lobbied the Minister Vision Japan, the Japan HIV centre, and and development 4.6m 5.3m for Social Welfare and Citizen Health, to charities supporting AIDS orphans in Value of inventory at presenting over 5,000 customer signatures Cambodia.
year end 62.1m 52.4m calling for more womens shelters.
In France, Community Trade: The Body Shop promoted a film about Total purchases of raw domestic violence that featured in cinemas materials and accessories 5.2m 5.3m across the country.
Total number of products In the UK, the campaign funded a pilot containing Community programme to provide vulnerable women Trade ingredients 550 490 with reconfigured mobile phones as 1 1 Number of supplier groups 28 29 emergency alarms.
The initiative has been Number of countries 22 23 backed by the police, the Home Office and Proportion of wood products womens organisations.
The campaign has 2 purchased from FSC also provided funds for Womens Aid, a 3 4 certified sources 49% 72% major national organisation on domestic TAXI!
The Body Shop played the lead role In March 2005, The Body Shop launched of suppliers 88 54 in establishing the Corporate Alliance To End a partnership with Transport for London.
Domestic Violence, working closely with the The London Black Cab network will be 1 The number of Community Trade suppliers reflects Home Office and organisations including the issuing taxi receipts calling on customers the number of suppliers with whom orders have been BBC, AOL, KPMG, Vodafone and the NHS.
to support the Stop Violence in the Home placed during the financial year rather than the total campaign and featuring the national number of suppliers within the sourcing portfolio.
Asian Tsunami domestic violence helpline number.
The 2004 figure has therefore been restated to reflect The Body Shop International PLC responded The Body Shop Stop Violence in The Home the change in reporting.
to the horror of the Asian Tsunami by taxi will be seen driving around London 2 Forest Stewardship Council.
immediately donating 100,000 to the throughout the coming year.
3 This applies to accessories items purchased through Disaster Emergency Appeal.
In addition, central sourcing teams.
our franchise and company markets raised Suppliers and Supply Chain a further 200,000 through customer Management 4 The reduced proportion of products containing collections.
Across the Asia Pacific region, The Body Shop is focused on meeting wood purchased from registered FSC sources during the year is due to increased purchases from a our markets have committed to continue customer expectations for high quality Community Trade supplier who is using a forest that working in support of victims of the Tsunami.
products that deliver value to consumers.
is not yet fully certified but is in the process of Since the period end, The Body Shop Suppliers to The Body Shop are vital to obtaining FSC certification.
International PLC has pledged an additional the success of our business and we are 100,000 to Children on the Edge to committed to building strong relationships The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 Performance Review continued Community Trade stakeholders on our approach to the use of during one weekend.
The Body Shop Community Trade chemicals in products.
In order to increase Donations made by The Body Shop programme seeks to make a positive transparency, The Body Shop published a International PLC include over 90,000 economic and social difference within position paper on the use of chemicals in raised by the on-site charity shop at the individual communities, in return for natural consumer products in 2004, as well as a Littlehampton head office.
The funds ingredients and handcrafted accessories.
detailed list of policies on individual were donated to local charities through We have increased the number of product ingredients in our 2004 Environmental The Body Shop Foundation, an independent lines containing Community Trade ingredients Report.
We have significantly reduced the registered charity.
over the last year and have identified Aloe number of products containing artificial Our head office uses the London Vera as a new Community Trade ingredient.
musks and phthalates, two ingredients that Benchmarking Group Model to measure We have also completed a two-year have been targeted for phase-out.
We are pleased benchmarking review of all Community Trade to have received the PerCent Club award suppliers against the fair trade guidelines.
Community Engagement that encourages companies to compare Supporting the communities in which we themselves against best in class, Strengthening Ethical Sourcing trade is an important part of our heritage.
recognises corporate giving and raises We aim to ensure consistent integrity in the awareness through public reporting.
Community Involvement Data sourcing of all our products and accessories.
In order to ensure that the supplier approval 2005 2004 process includes ethical considerations, the Employee volunteering: global sourcing team has participated in ethical audit training and workshops on Participation of UK head ethical trade.
In order to track supplier office employees 23% 31% compliance, the ethical trade team has Number of community developed more robust monitoring and projects supported 45 41 reporting systems.
The number of ethical assessments has Group charitable donations 1.3m 1.0m increased from 54 to 88 in the last year, continuing our focus on ethical standards The amounts shown include donations of 0.7 million in the supply chain.
The Body Shop has in 2005 2004: 0.6 million to The Body Shop adopted the Ethical Trading Initiative ETI Foundation, an independent registered charity of Base Code, which promotes consistency which some of the Directors are trustees.
During the last year, our employees Working with Stakeholders for supported many projects, although the main Sustainable Ingredients focus of our volunteering has been domestic The Body Shop aims to support suppliers violence.
This has resulted in fewer working toward Forest Stewardship Council opportunities to volunteer as a result of the FSC certification.
During the last financial restrictions placed on local refuge access.
year, the percentage of FSC wood products However, employees from our head offices, sourced dropped from 72% to 49%.
regional offices and stores have provided This is predominantly due to the increase knowledge and skills to support women in wood purchases from a Community Trade and children.
For example, 17 volunteers supplier who currently sources wood from from our Littlehampton head office hosted well-managed forests and is working to 52 women and children from four womens Definitions: achieve FSC certification.
refuges, treating them to a Day at the Total retail sales Sales to consumers through all We also support improvements in Seaside, providing therapy treatments stores, The Body Shop At Home, mail order and the the environmental and human rights for the women and art and play sessions internet.
Retail sales figures are stated at comparable performance of the palm oil industry.
exchange rates, with prior year figures being restated where appropriate.
The Company is represented on the Our head franchisees around the world Executive Board of the Roundtable on have also supported various initiatives: Comparable store sales Sales by all stores which Sustainable Palm Oil, a global multiin Wellington, New Zealand, for example, have been trading for more than one year, excluding stakeholder initiative.
The Roundtable is employees carried out the refurbishment sales through pharmacy concessions.
currently focusing on the development of of a derelict and unsafe playground at Turnover Group revenue derived from a combination an internationally accepted set of criteria a womens refuge: and The Body Shop of retail sales excluding sales taxes through companyand certification for sustainable palm oil.
Malaysia supported A Girls Day Out, owned stores, The Body Shop At Home, mail order The criteria will be launched in Singapore a public event aimed at raising self-esteem, and the internet, together with wholesale revenue and in November 2005. royalties from franchisees.
with over 600 makeovers being provided We have continued to engage with 22 The Body Shop International PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2005
