22 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 financial review During the year we have implemented this During the year, we have invested Our financial strategy was reviewed strategy and returned 300m of surplus substantially in the Boots The Chemists capital.
Net Debt for the group has increased business with 225m of capital expenditure during the year to March 2004 and we from 148.5m to 594.1m as a result of this and 115m of revenue investment to make announced in May 2004 that we intended and an increase in working capital.
The first the business more modern, competitive tranche of share buy back amounting to and efficient.
We continued with our store to increase our debt through returning 350m was completed in May 2005.
In April development programme with 47 new 700m of surplus capital to shareholders 2005, we announced that the second 350m stores opening in the year, including 23 tranche would be returned over a two to in edge-of-town locations.
We have also in order to make our balance sheet more three year period, slower than originally continued to invest in lower prices and in anticipated due to the worsened short-term longer opening hours to make the offer efficient and enhance earnings per share.
market prospects and consequent reduced more competitive.
significant investments At the same time, we intended to maintain cash generation for Boots The Chemists.
have also been made in the logistics and information technology infrastructure and a strong investment grade credit rating.
In April 2005, the company announced both of these programmes have equipped its intention to sell the Boots Healthcare the company to compete more efficiently in The surplus capital was to be returned International business and return a significant the modern retail environment.
We believe amount of the proceeds to the shareholders.
in two tranches, with the second tranche these investments were necessary to enable We also exited the loss making dentistry, Boots The Chemists to achieve long-term dependent on future business performance.
laser eye correction, laser hair removal and sustainable growth.
chiropody businesses during the year, from which an exceptional loss of 57m resulted.
We also announced in April 2005, the Both of these decisions enable resources to groups intention to sell and lease back be even more focused on the core Boots approximately 300 of its secondary freehold The Chemists business in future, and enable properties with anticipated proceeds in the business to maintain an efficient balance excess of 250m.
This transaction will sheet, whilst still retaining a commitment to crystallise the value from a very strong retail a strong investment grade credit rating.
property market, whilst at the same time providing the group with exibility to manage its store portfolio.
The proceeds will be used to repay short-term debt.
Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 23 Turnover from continuing operations Taxation Excluding non-operating Cash ow from operating activities before increased by 2.9% to 5,441.9m.
Sales exceptionals, the effective tax rate for the exceptionals was 529.4m 2004 655.1m, in Boots The Chemists increased by 3.8%, group was 29.6%, reduced from 30.9% weaker than the previous year due to the despite a decline in consumer confidence last year as a result of a number of prior lower operating profit and larger increase during the second half of the year.
Cash outow before Healthcare International also achieved the effect of share repurchase and other Basic earnings per share before strong growth with a like for like sales nancing was 151.5m.
In 2004 this was exceptional items decreased by 4.8% to increase of 5.8%.
an inow of 173.1m due to proceeds from 45.7p per share.
Basic earnings per share the sale of property and lower expenditure Operating profit from continuing operations decreased by 22.5%.
The weighted average on the purchase of xed assets.
Gross margin in number of shares in issue decreased in the Boots The Chemists was down 80 basis year from 780.0m to 739.8m as a result of Share price Our share price rose from points in the year and operating costs were the continuing share buy-back programme.
Ination of 40m, higher peak of 700.5p before ending the year at Dividend The board has a policy of sales volumes increasing store and 623.5p.
The share price underperformed the sustainable dividend growth with a target distribution costs and additional pension FTSE100 by 10.9% over the year.
dividend cover of 1.75 times over the charges were offset by productivity medium-term.
Consistent with this the Pensions improvements and savings from the Gettingboard has proposed a final dividend of The Boots Pension Scheme cost for the year in-Shape programme resulting in underlying 21.0p, in line with the previous year, bringing under SSAP24 is 54m 2004 28m.
costs being lower for the year.
However, the the total dividend for the year to 30.1p, an costs of new stores and improving existing On an FRS17 basis the scheme is in a increase of 1.0% over last year.
On share stores was 80m and investment in IT and deficit position of 83m at March 2005 price at 31st March 2005 of 623.5p this infrastructure added 35m.
2004 58m, with the increase in the year represents a yield of 4.8%.
primarily due to cash contributions being profit before tax declined by 26.3% to Working capital has increased by 118m lower than the FRS17 profit & Loss charge.
This included an exceptional loss in the year.
This was mainly due to growth in Disclosures under FRS17 are included in of 56.7m relating to the exit and disposal the business, including new store openings note 27 to the accounts.
of the dentistry and LASIK businesses.
In and strong final quarter sales in Boots addition, last year included an exceptional The Pension Schemes investment strategy Healthcare International.
Also contributing gain of 36.4m, largely relating to the is to match the cash ow and ination to the increase was the payment of 42m disposal of property.
The interest charge characteristics of the pension liabilities relating to Getting-in-Shape redundancies for the year has increased from 5.5m in with assets to reduce the impact of market during the year, which utilised the provision the previous year to 19.8m, as a result movements.
The Pension Scheme intends in the balance sheet at March 2004.
The of increasing debt to improve balance to allocate 15% of its assets to equities and provision at March 2005 is 10.8m.
24 Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 financial review property to match longer-term liabilities.
The reserves as a result of the new balance Other smaller charges will arise as a result remaining 85% of assets will be invested in sheet treatment.
The full impact is explained of charges to financial instruments and site a diverse portfolio of high quality investment in note 21 to the accounts.
grade bonds of varying maturity, with International Financial Reporting Treasury policy and controls interest rate and ination-linked swaps used Standards IFRS became mandatory for the Treasury policies are reviewed and approved to improve the matching characteristics with consolidated financial statements reported by the board.
Treasury has responsibility for liabilities.
At 31st March 2005, the by all EU listed companies from 2005 the groups funding and cash management, implementation of this investment strategy onwards.
For Boots this means adoption for and manages the groups counterparty was almost complete.
The overall asset the year ended 31st March 2006 and work is credit, interest rate and currency risks.
It allocation provides a relatively good hedge well underway to migrate Boots to the new enters into financial instruments solely for against liabilities on an actuarial basis, and standards.
The full analysis of impacts is the purpose of managing these risks.
It does on an accounting basis under FRS17, and now complete and has confirmed that the not act as a profit centre and the undertaking under IAS19 going forward.
The trienniel impact on the profit and loss account is of speculative transactions is not permitted.
valuation as at April 2004 of the Pension unlikely to be significant.
A number of Scheme has now been completed and the Note 19 shows further details under balance sheet restatements will be made Trustees have agreed a new contribution the disclosure requirements of FRS13 with an overall impact on net assets of 4m, schedule with the group.
Under the actuarial Derivatives and Other Financial the key ones being with March 2005 assumptions used, there was a funding Instruments Disclosures.
estimates : deficit of 83m which the group has agreed Liquidity and funding The group nances to make good with additional contributions Pension Fund deficit will be included on its operations through a mixture of retained over and above the normal accrual rate of the balance sheet and the SSAP24 debtor profits, capital markets funding, bank 11.7m over 10 years.
The impact borrowings and leases.
The objective is to on net assets is a reduction of 136m.
Accounting Standards ensure that the group has access to liquidity The Accounting Standards Board issued Deferred Tax will be provided on revalued at all times and can fund in a cost-effective new standards on accounting for own buildings, rolled over capital gains, leases manner.
This is achieved through arranging shares.
Previously any own shares and brand expenditure.
The impact on net funding ahead of requirements, maintaining purchased were capitalised as xed asset assets will be a reduction of 4m.
sufficient undrawn committed facilities to investments and amortisation charged to the meet unanticipated needs and maintaining Proposed Dividends will no longer be profit and loss account.
The new standards good access to the capital markets through provided for in the financial statements.
require the cost value of own shares to be a strong investment grade credit rating.
This will increase net assets by 150m.
deducted from reserves and for the fair value of shares and options to be charged Leases.
The classication of certain leases through the profit and loss account.
The as finance leases previously treated as impact on profit to Boots is negligible, operating leases and the different although there is a 74.7m reduction in treatment of lease incentives reduces net assets by 11m.
Boots Group PLC annual report and accounts 2005 25 During the year, the group set up a 5 year The capitalised value of these liabilities is Currency exposure Sales are made from 600m committed facility and a 2bn Euro 1,237.7m 2004 1,242.2m based upon the UK in a range of currencies for the Boots Medium Term Note MTN programme.
discounting the rentals, after taking into Healthcare International and Boots Retail Under the MTN programme it issued a account assumed rental growth of 2.5% International businesses and in Euros for publically placed 300m 3 year Floating per annum, at the groups long-term cost Boots The Chemists in Eire.
In addition, Rate Note and 5 small privately placed of borrowing 5.8% 2004 5.85%.
purchases are made in a range of MTNs between 3 and 4 years totalling 26m currencies, but particularly Euros and US The group, in common with the credit rating in order to fund the share repurchase Dollars, for Boots The Chemists and Boots agencies, treats its lease liabilities as being programme.
At 31st March 2005, there was Manufacturing.
The net currency exposures debt like when evaluating financial risk and 520m undrawn committed facilities.
are modest and do not materially impact the investment returns.
The group has At 31st March 2005, the group had Counterparty credit risk The objective is entered into limited currency hedging using long-term investment grade credit ratings to reduce the risk of loss through default forward contracts of its committed future of Afrom Standard & Poors and A3 by counterparties.
The risk is managed by purchases for Boots The Chemists.
During April 2005, the spreading financial transactions, including group does not hedge any currency groups credit rating was changed by bank deposits, across an approved list of exposures arising from future uncommitted Standard & Poors to BBB.
These ratings high quality banks.
The group principally borrows are consistent with our commitment to a positions are monitored on a regular basis.
Euro debt is held to strong investment grade rating.
Dealing in interest rate and foreign partially hedge the groups euro assets and Lease liabilities In common with other UK exchange instruments is controlled through to create a long-term hedge against future retailers, the group has liabilities through dealing mandates, independent conrmation cash generated in euros from its Boots The its obligations to pay rents under property processes and the use of standard Chemists business in Eire and from Boots leases.
The following table shows the settlement instructions.
maturity prole of these lease obligations.
Interest rate exposure The groups interest Capital structure We remain committed to rate policy is to maintain a mix of xed and achieving an efficient balance sheet and Maturity of commitment Annual rent Annual rent oating interest rates reecting a balance returning surplus cash to shareholders, whilst Commitment Commitment between the certainty of interest rate cost, maintaining a strong investment grade credit at 31st March at 31st March 2004 2005 the expected interest cost, and the need for rating.
We have returned over 1.7bn in the m m exibility to repay debt.
At March 2005, form of dividends and share repurchases 1 to 10 years 86.3 104.8 10 to 20 years 76.3 73.2 gross debt comprises xed rate 191m, over the last three years, and will continue 20 to 30 years 7.9 5.1 2004 183m and oating rate 531m, to return surplus cash over the coming year, Over 30 years 5.0 5.1 2004 315m.
The higher proportion of both as part of the 700m programme and Total 175.5188.2 oating rate debt in 2005 reects the from the sale proceeds of Boots Healthcare increased need to maintain exibility given International, consistent with maintaining that the anticipated proceeds from the acceptable credit rating ratios.
proposed sale and leaseback transaction will reduce the level of debt.
27 corporate governance 32 directors remuneration report 42 directors responsibilities statement 43 independent auditors report 44 directors report 46 group profit and loss account 46 other primary statements of the group 47 balance sheets 48 group cash flow statement 49 accounting policies 52 notes relating to the financial statements 68 principal companies 68 group financial record 70 segmental financial record continuing operations 71 shareholder information 72 index
