Governance: board performance report GOVERNANCE AND THE ROLE OF OUR BOARD AGM.
BP is keen to promote the use of electronic platforms in The governance of companies continues to be under scrutiny.
Regulators and commentators maintain their focus on structural Dialogue with directors Presentations given at appropriate intervals elements.
We believe too little attention is paid to the underlying to representatives of the investment community are available to all purpose of governance.
Governance lies at the heart of all the shareholders by internet broadcast or open conference call, details board does and it is the task our owners entrust to the board.
Less formal processes include Governance is not an exercise in compliance nor is it a higher contacts with institutional shareholders by the chairman and other form of management.
Governance is a more powerful concept.
This is supported by the dialogue with shareholders It has a clear objective: ensuring the pursuit of the companys concerning the governance and operation of the group maintained purpose.
The boards activity is focused on this task, which is unique by the company secretarys office, investor relations and other to it as the representative of BPs owners.
This task is discharged BP teams, which meet with investors and shareholder groups by the board through undertaking such activities as are necessary representing both large and small investors.
for the effective promotion of long-term shareholder interest.
In promoting the long-term interest of shareholders, the board Our board is accountable to shareholders for the performance has to ensure that the business is responsive to the views of and activities of the entire BP group.
It embeds shareholder those with whom it comes into contact.
This can include gaining interest in the goals established for the company.
an understanding of the environmental and social consequences of the companys actions.
However, it remains a matter of business AGM and voting The chairman and board committee chairmen were judgement as to how these consequences are properly taken into present at the 2005 AGM to answer shareholders questions and hear account in maximizing shareholder value.
their views during the meeting.
Members of the board met informally with shareholders afterwards.
Given the size and geographical Governance is the system by which the companys owners and diversity of our shareholder base, we recognize that opportunities their representatives on the board ensure that it pursues, does not for shareholder interaction at the AGM are limited.
However, all votes deviate from and only allocates resources to its defined purpose.
at shareholder meetings, whether by proxy or in person, are counted, since votes on all matters, except procedural issues, are taken by As a company, we recognize the importance of good governance way of a poll.
In 2005, we were pleased to note that voting levels and that it is a discrete task from management.
Clarity of roles is increased to 62%, with more than 98% of votes being cast in line key to our approach.
Policies and processes depend on the people with the boards recommendations.
Governance requires distinct skills and processes.
Directors elections Directors stand for re-election each year.
Governance is overseen by the BP board, while management is New directors are subject to election at the first opportunity following delegated to the group chief executive by means of the board their appointment.
All names submitted to shareholders for election governance policies.
Voting levels demonstrate continued Our board governance policies use a coherent, principlessupport for all our directors and affirm the boards assertion of the based approach, which anticipated many developments in UK independence of all our non-executive directors.
These policies ensure that our board and management operate within a clear and efficient governance HOW OUR BOARD GOVERNS THE COMPANY framework that places long-term shareholder interest at the heart The boards governance policies outline its relationship with of all we do.
shareholders, the conduct of board affairs and the boards relationship To that end, our board exercises judgement in carrying out its with the group chief executive.
The policies recognize the boards work in policy-making, in monitoring executive action and in its active separate and unique role as the link in the chain of authority between consideration of group strategy.
The boards judgements seek to the shareholders and the group chief executive.
It is this unique task maximize the expected value of shareholders interest in the company, that gives the board its central role in governance.
rather than eliminate the possibility of any adverse outcomes.
ACCOUNTABILITY TO SHAREHOLDERS Owners shareholders Our board is accountable in a variety of ways.
It is required to be Authority Accountability proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences Delegation Assurance Board through through and to evaluate systematically the economic, social, environmental policy with monitoring and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interests of monitoring and reporting our shareholders.
Group chief executive Reporting A number of formal communication channels are used GCEs management framework delegations to account to shareholders for the performance of the company.
These include the Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual Review, Executive management the Annual Report on Form 20-F, quarterly Forms 6-K and announcements made through stock exchanges on which BP shares are listed, as well as through the annual general meeting 158 Making energy more The dual role played by the group chief executive and executive The board-executive linkage policy also sets out how the group directors as both members of the board and leaders of the executive chief executives performance will be monitored and recognizes that, management is also recognized and addressed.
The policies require a in the multitude of changing circumstances, judgement is always majority of the board to be composed of independent non-executive involved.
The systems set out in the board-executive linkage policy directors.
To assure the integrity of the governance process, the are designed to manage, rather than to eliminate, the risk of failure relationship between the board and the group chief executive is to achieve the goals or observe the executive limitations policy.
governed by the non-executive directors, particularly through the They provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material work of the board committees they populate.
Recognizing that as a group its capacity is limited, our board reserves to itself the making of broad policy decisions.
It delegates WHO IS ON THE BOARD?
more detailed considerations involved in meeting its stated The board is composed of the chairman, 11 non-executive and six requirements either to board committees and officers in the case executive directors.
In total, five nationalities are represented on of its own processes or to the group chief executive in the case the board.
Directors biographies are set out on pages 174-175. of the management of the companys business activities.
The board governs BP through setting general policy for the conduct of business Governance policies and processes depend on the quality and, critically, by clearly articulating its goals and by monitoring and commitment of the people who operate them.
its implementation by the group chief executive.
To discharge its governance function in the most effective manner, As reported last year, the board is actively engaged in succession our board has laid down rules for its own activities in a governance planning issues for both executive and non-executive roles.
The process policy covers: reported in the past two years on our pursuit of an orderly process The conduct of members at meetings.
of evolution to refresh the composition of the board without The cycle of board activities and the setting of agendas.
To that end, we were The provision of timely information to the board.
delighted to welcome Mr Douglas Flint to the board in January 2005.
Board officers and their roles.
At the AGM in April 2005, Sir Robin Nicholson and Mr Charles Chuck Board committees their tasks and composition.
Mr Michael Miles will stand down at the 2006 AGM.
Qualifications for board membership and the process The chairmanships of the principal board committees were also of the nomination committee.
reviewed during 2005: Dr Julius became chairman of the remuneration The evaluation and assessment of board performance.
committee, succeeding Sir Robin Nicholson.
The board committee The remuneration of non-executive directors.
reports on pages 161-163 provide details on the chairmen and The process for directors to obtain independent advice.
The appointment and role of the company secretary.
The efficiency and effectiveness of the board are of paramount The responsibility for implementation of this policy is placed importance.
Our board is large but this is necessary to allow sufficient on the chairman.
executive director representation to cover the breadth of the groups The board-executive linkage policy sets out how the board business activities and sufficient non-executive representation delegates authority to the group chief executive and the extent to reflect the scale and complexity of BP and to staff our board of that authority.
In its board goals policy, the board states what committees.
A board of this size allows orderly succession planning it expects the group chief executive to deliver.
The restrictions on the manner in which the group chief executive may achieve the required results are set out in the executive BOARD INDEPENDENCE limitations policy.
This policy sets boundaries on executive action, The qualification for board membership includes a requirement that requiring due consideration of internal controls, risk preferences, all our non-executive directors be free from any relationship with the financing, ethical behaviour, health, safety, the environment, executive management of the company that could materially interfere treatment of employees and political considerations in any and with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In the boards view, all action taken in the course of our business.
Through the goals all our non-executive directors fulfil this requirement.
It determined all and executive limitations policies, the board shapes BPs values non-executive directors who served during 2005 to be independent.
All have received overwhelming endorsement at successive AGMs, at which they are now subject to annual election.
ACCOUNTABILITY IN OUR BUSINESS Mr Knight and Sir Robin Nicholson were appointed to the BP Our group chief executive outlines how he intends to deliver the board in 1987 and Mr Miles was appointed in 1994.
The length of required outcome in annual and medium-term plans, which also their respective service on the board exceeds the nine years referred address a comprehensive assessment of the groups risks.
Progress to in the Combined Code.
The board considers that the experience towards the expected outcome forms the basis of regular reports to and long-term perspective of each of these directors on BPs business the board that cover actual results and a forecast of results for the during its recent period of growth has provided a valuable contribution current year.
The board considers annual and five-year plans for the to the board, given the long-term nature of our business.
The integrity group and, in doing so, reviews the major influences and risks and independence of character of these directors are beyond doubt.
Both Mr Knight and Sir Robin retired at the 2005 AGM.
Mr Miles will The group chief executive is obliged through dialogue and retire in 2006. systematic review to discuss with the board all material matters Those directors who joined the BP board in 1998 after service on currently or prospectively affecting the company and its performance the board of Amoco Corporation Messrs Bryan, Massey, Wilson and and all strategic projects or developments.
This key dialogue Davis are considered independent since the most senior executive specifically includes any materially under-performing business management of BP comprises individuals who were not previously activities and actions that breach the executive limitations policy Amoco employees.
While Amoco businesses and assets are a key and material matters of a social, environmental and ethical nature.
part of the group, the scope and scale of BP since its acquisition of BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 159 the ARCO, Burmah Castrol and Veba businesses are fundamentally BOARD AND COMMITTEES: MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE different from those of the former Amoco Corporation.
In addition to the AGM which 17 directors attended, the board met seven times during 2005: four times in the UK, twice in the Annual elections for all directors and the provision of US and once in China.
Two of these meetings were two-day strategy independent support to our board and board committees discussions.
2005 saw a continued high number of committee underscore our commitment to good governance practice.
meetings, a trend we expect to continue.
The board requires all members to devote sufficient time to the The board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the work of the board to discharge the office of director and to use their independence of those directors who serve together as directors best endeavours to attend meetings.
Directors attendance at board on the boards of outside entities or who have other appointments and committee meetings is set out below.
Where necessary, our board ensures appropriate processes are in place to manage any possible conflict of interest.
SERVING AS A DIRECTOR: INDUCTION, TRAINING AND EVALUATION Sir Robin Nicholson received fees during 2005 for representing Induction Directors receive induction on their appointment to the the board on the BP technology advisory council.
Since these fees board as appropriate, covering matters such as the operation and relate to board representation, they did not compromise Sir Robins activities of the group including key financial, business, social and independence.
Full details of these fees are disclosed on page 173. environmental risks to the groups activities, the role of the board and the matters reserved for its decision, the tasks and membership DIRECTORS APPOINTMENTS, RETIREMENT POLICIES AND INSURANCE of the principal board committees, the powers delegated to those The chairman and non-executive directors of BP are elected each committees, the boards governance policies and practices, and year and, subject to BPs Articles of Association, serve on the the latest financial information about the group.
The chairman is basis of letters of appointment.
Executive directors of BP have accountable for the induction of new board members.
service contracts with the company.
Details of all payments to Training Our directors are updated on BPs business, the environment directors are reviewed in the directors remuneration report on in which it operates and other matters throughout their period in pages 164-173. office.
Our directors are advised on their appointment of the legal BPs policy on directors retirement is as follows: executive directors and other duties and obligations they have as directors of a listed retire at age 60, while non-executive directors ordinarily retire at the company.
The board regularly considers the implications of these AGM following their 70th birthday.
It is the boards policy that nonduties under the board governance policies.
Our non-executive executive directors are not generally expected to hold office for more directors also receive training specific to the tasks of the particular than 10 years.
board committees on which they serve.
In accordance with BPs Articles of Association, directors are Outside appointments As part of their ongoing development, granted an indemnity from the company in respect of liabilities our executive directors are permitted to take up an external board incurred as a result of their office, to the extent permitted by law.
appointment, subject to the agreement of our board.
Executive In respect of those liabilities for which directors may not be directors retain any fees received in respect of such external indemnified, the company purchased and maintained a directors appointments.
Generally, outside appointments for executive directors and officers liability insurance policy throughout 2005.
This insurance are limited to one outside company board only, although our group cover was renewed at the beginning of 2006.
Although their defence chief executive, by exception, serves on two outside company boards.
costs may be met, neither the companys indemnity nor insurance Our board is satisfied that these appointments do not conflict with provides cover in the event that the director is proved to have acted his duties and commitment to BP.
Non-executive directors may serve fraudulently or dishonestly.
on a number of outside boards, always provided they continue to Directors attendance Board Audit committee EEAC Chairmans Remuneration Nomination meetings meetings meetings committee meetings committee meetings committee meetings Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible a a P D Sutherland 7 7 4 4 6 6 22 Sir Ian Prosser 7 7 12 12 446622 J H Bryan 77 11 12 4466 A Burgmans 7 7 5744 E B Davis, Jr 7 7 12 12 4456 D J Flint 7779 44 Dr D S Julius 7 7 446611 C F Knight 1 2 1113 Sir Tom McKillop 6 7 3466 Dr W E Massey 7 7 7734 22 H M P Miles 7 7 11 12 6744 Sir Robin Nicholson 1 2 112311 M H Wilson 7 7 12 12 7744 Lord Browne 7 7 Dr D C Allen 7 7 I C Conn 7 7 Dr B E Grote 7 7 Dr A B Hayward 7 7 J A Manzoni 7 7 a Attended all remuneration committee meetings as chairman of the board.
160 Making energy more demonstrate the requisite commitment to discharge effectively their the recent and relevant financial experience required to discharge the duties to BP.
The nomination committee keeps the extent of directors committees duties.
Following his appointment to the committee this other interests under review to ensure that the effectiveness of our year, the board satisfied itself that Mr Flint as an individual possesses board is not compromised.
The board attendance table on page 160 the financial experience identified in the Combined Code guidance.
illustrates our directors commitment to the work of the board.
The external auditors lead partner, the BP general auditor head Evaluation The board continued its ongoing evaluation processes to of internal audit, together with the group chief financial officer, the assess its performance and identify areas in which its effectiveness, chief accounting officer and the group controller, attend each meeting policies or processes might be enhanced.
A formal evaluation of board at the request of the committee chairman.
During the year, the process and effectiveness was undertaken, drawing on internal committee meets with the external auditor, without the executive resources.
Individual questionnaires and interviews were completed: management being present, and also meets in private session with no individual performance problems were identified.
The results the BP general auditor.
showed an improvement from the previous evaluation, particularly Role and authority The audit committees tasks are considered by in board committee process and activities, while also identifying areas the committee to be broader than those envisaged under Combined for further improvement.
The committee is satisfied that it addresses each of those matters identified as properly falling within an audit Regular evaluation of board effectiveness underpins our committees purview.
The committee has full delegated authority confidence in BPs governance policies and processes and from the board to address those tasks assigned to it.
In common affords opportunity for their development.
with the board and all committees, it may request any information from the executive management necessary to discharge its functions Separate evaluations of the remuneration, ethics and environment and may, where it considers it necessary, seek independent advice and audit assurance committees took place during the year.
of external providers in the context of board evaluation is being kept Process The committee structures its work programme so as to under review.
discharge its tasks, which include systematic monitoring and obtaining assurance that the legally required standards of disclosure are being THE CHAIRMAN AND SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR fully and fairly observed and that the executive limitations relating BPs board governance policies require that neither the chairman to financial matters are being observed.
Forward agendas are set nor deputy chairman are to be employed executives of the group: each year to meet these requirements and to allow the committee throughout 2005 the posts were held by Mr Sutherland and Sir Ian to monitor and seek assurance on the management of the Prosser respectively.
Sir Ian also acts as our senior independent financial risks identified in the companys annual business plan.
director and is the director whom shareholders may contact if they The committee chairman reports on the committees activities to feel their concerns are not being addressed through normal channels.
the board meeting immediately following a committee meeting.
Between board meetings, the chairman has responsibility for Between meetings, the committee chairman reviews emerging ensuring the integrity and effectiveness of the board executive issues as appropriate with the group chief financial officer, the relationship.
This requires his interaction with the group chief external auditor and the BP general auditor.
He is supported in this executive between board meetings, as well as his contact with task by the company secretarys office.
During the year, external other board members and shareholders.
The chairman represents specialist legal and regulatory advice has also been provided to the views of the board to shareholders on key issues, not least in the committee by Sullivan & Cromwell LLP.
succession planning issues for both executive and non-executive Activities in 2005 Financial reports During the year, the appointments.
The chairman and all the non-executive directors committee reviewed all annual and quarterly financial reports before meet periodically as the chairmans committee see report on recommending their publication on behalf of the board.
The performance of the chairman is evaluated each the committee reviewed the implementation of International year at a meeting of the chairmans committee, for which item of Financial Reporting Standards and their impact on the groups business he is not present.
The company secretary reports to the financial results and the restatement of comparative information.
chairman and has no executive functions.
The committee discussed and constructively challenged judgements related to critical accounting policies and estimates drawing on BOARD COMMITTEES prepared reports, presentations and independent advice from the The governance process policy allocates the tasks of monitoring external auditors.
executive actions and assessing performance to certain board Internal control and risk management During the year, specific committees.
These tasks, rather than any terms of reference, reports on risk management and internal control were reviewed prescribe the authority and the role of the board committees.
for the exploration and production, refining and marketing, and gas, Reports for each of the committees for 2005 appear below.
power and renewables segments, along with the controls and In common with the board, each committee has access to systems underpinning the trading functions that service all BPs independent advice and counsel as required and each is supported businesses.
Reviews were undertaken of the reporting interface by the company secretarys office, which is demonstrably between the group and TNK-BP and of the planned disposal of independent of the executive management of the group.
On a quarterly basis, the committee also monitored the companys progress in evaluating its AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT internal controls in response to applicable requirements of Section 404 Schedule and composition The committee met 12 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Regular advice was also times during 2005 and comprised the following directors: provided by the internal audit function, including an annual assessment Sir Ian Prosser chairman, J H Bryan, E B Davis, Jr, of the effectiveness of the companys enterprise level controls.
Special topics considered during the year included capital project All members of the audit committee are independent non-executive selection processes, the assessment of environmental and litigation directors.
Together, the audit committee members continue to have provisions and accounting for long-term contractual commitments.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 161 Employee concerns reporting whistleblowing The committee Process and activities in 2005 This committee has a broad remit received regular reports of the matters raised through the because it covers all non-financial risks and must necessarily be employee concerns programme, OpenTalk, and, through this selective in setting its agendas.
These are focused on regular process, together with the receipt of quarterly fraud reports reports such as health, safety and environment HSE reviews and from internal audit, was alerted to instances of actual or potential compliance and ethics certification reports that allow the committee concern related to the finances and financial accounting to monitor and assess the observance of the executive limitations.
addition, the committee reviews specific risks that are identified in the External auditors In addition to the lead partners attendance at companys annual plan and developments in business and functional all meetings, the committee regularly invited other relevant audit areas that may emerge during the year.
During 2005, the committee partners to participate during business segment reviews.
Private met specially to consider the incident at the Texas City refinery.
It meetings were held without executive management present.
reviewed the causes of the accident and the implications for the group The committee evaluated the performance of the external auditors of the lessons to be learned.
The committee continues to monitor the and enquired into their independence, objectivity and viability.
executive managements response and the strengthening of its safety Independence was safeguarded by limiting non-audit services and operational capability.
provided by the auditor to defined audit-related work and tax Other areas of specific focus during the year included: services that fall within specific categories.
All such services were Business continuity and crisis management The committee pre-approved by the committee and monitored quarterly.
A new lead received reports and reviewed the groups enhanced focus on audit partner is appointed every five years, with other senior audit bringing more consistency and resilience to these linked topics staff rotating every seven years: no senior staff connected with the across all business segments and functions.
BP audit may transfer to the company.
Health, safety and environmental performance While overshadowed After review of the audit engagement terms and proposed by events at Texas City, the progress in addressing road safety, fees, the committee advised the board of its assessment and employee health, greenhouse gas emissions, oil spills and plant recommended that reappointment of the auditors be proposed integrity was considered during 2005.
Specific attention was to shareholders at the 2005 AGM.
given to the progress made by TNK-BP in improving HSE standards Internal audit The committee agreed with the BP general auditor in its operations in Russia.
the programme to be undertaken during the year and the resources Regional reviews Most board-level monitoring is conducted through required.
Twice-yearly reports of audit findings and management a business segment or functional dimension, but the committee responses were reviewed in detail.
Discussions of these reports also examines risks that require management at regional or country contributed to the committees view of the effectiveness of the level.
In 2005, risk reviews were undertaken for Africa, the Middle companys system of internal controls and hence its advice to the East and Alaska.
The committee also met privately with the BP Digital security The committee considered the companys response general auditor, without the presence of executive management, and to the increasing international threats to communications and evaluated the performance of the function.
computing, threats heightened by the convergence and increased Performance evaluation On an annual basis, the committee conducts interconnectivity of technology infrastructure.
a review of its process and performance.
The form of review varies to encourage fresh thinking and this year involved face-to-face REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT interviews with individual members and with others in regular Schedule and composition The committee met six attendance.
Outcomes were discussed at the committees November times during 2005 and comprised the following directors: meeting.
The committee concluded that few substantive changes Dr D S Julius chairman, J H Bryan, E B Davis, Jr, were required but used the discussion to help shape the 2006 Sir Tom McKillop, Sir Ian Prosser, Sir Robin Nicholson forward agenda and in particular to increase the frequency of the retired at the AGM, C F Knight retired at the AGM.
All members of the remuneration committee are non-executive directors and are considered by the board to be independent.
ETHICS AND ENVIRONMENT ASSURANCE The chairman of the board also attends committee meetings.
COMMITTEE REPORT The committee is independently advised.
Schedule and composition The committee met seven Role and authority The committees main task is to determine the times during 2005 and comprised the following directors: terms of engagement and remuneration of the executive directors.
Dr W E Massey chairman, A Burgmans, H M P Miles, Process and activities in 2005 Full details of the committees remit and M H Wilson.
work are set out in the directors remuneration report on pages 164-173, All members of the ethics and environment assurance committee which is the subject of a vote by shareholders at the 2006 AGM.
The external auditors lead partner and the BP general auditor head of internal audit attend CHAIRMANS COMMITTEE REPORT each meeting at the request of the committee chairman.
Schedule and composition The chairmans committee Role and authority The task of the committee is to monitor on met four times during 2005 and comprised all the nonbehalf of the board matters relating to the executive managements executive directors.
processes to address environmental, health and safety, security and Role and authority The task of the committee is to ethical behaviour issues.
The committee monitors the observance consider broad issues of governance, including the performance of the of the executive limitations relating to non-financial risks to the group.
chairman and the group chief executive, succession planning, the Just as for the audit committee, it has the right to request any organization of the group and any matters referred to it for an opinion information from the executive management that it considers from another board committee.
necessary to discharge its functions.
The committee chairman reports Process and activities in 2005 At its various meetings, the on the committees activities to the board meeting immediately committee evaluated the performance of the chairman and the group following a committee meeting.
chief executive, considered the plan for executive succession and 162 Making energy more considered a number of other broad matters of governance, including segments, at their regular meetings.
That enabled them to assess issues that spanned the remit of the other principal committees.
the effectiveness of the system of internal control in operation Additionally, the committee addressed non-executive succession for managing significant risks, including social, environmental planning issues in co-ordination with the nomination committee.
and ethical risks, throughout the year.
This process did not extend to joint ventures or associates.
NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT The BP general auditor presented reports to the January 2006 Schedule and composition The committee met twice during 2005 meetings of both the audit and ethics and environment assurance and comprised the following directors: P D Sutherland chairman, committees to support the board in its annual assessment of Dr D S Julius from the AGM, Dr W E Massey, Sir Robin Nicholson internal control.
The reports described how significant risks were retired at the AGM, Sir Ian Prosser.
identified and embedded within business segment and function All members of the nomination committee are considered by the plans across the group: the effectiveness of executive managements board to be independent.
controls: and the continuing development of the systems in place Role and authority The task of the nomination committee is to to identify, address and manage risks.
The reports also highlighted identify and evaluate candidates for appointment and reappointment future potentially significant risks that had been reviewed by the as director or company secretary of BP.
board as part of the companys planning process.
The two committees Process During the year, the nomination committee carried out engage with executive management regularly to monitor the a detailed review of the skills and expertise of the non-executive management of risks.
Significant incidents that occurred and directors as part of the board succession planning described managements response to them were considered by the earlier.
The committee receives external assistance as required.
The committee consults with the group chief executive concerning In the boards view, the information it received was sufficient to the identification and appointment of new executive directors.
enable it to review the effectiveness of the companys system of External search consultants are retained in the UK Europe and internal control in accordance with the Internal Control Revised in the US to assist the committee to identify potential candidates Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull.
Activities in 2005 The committee considered the composition of DIRECTORS INTERESTS the board and board committees in the context of forthcoming work in BP ordinary shares or calculated equivalents programmes, BPs strategy and business activities and retirements Change from from the board.
In its succession planning for both executive and non- 31 Dec 2005- At 31 Dec 2005 At 1 Jan 2005 7 Feb 2006 executive directors, the committee is mindful of the requirements of Current directors the groups strategy and five-year plan.
Board and committee evaluation a Dr D C Allen 443,742 408,342 processes informed its work in identifying the skills and experiences b Lord Browne 2,242,954 2,031,279 sought from potential candidates.
Evaluations of the balance of skills c J H Bryan 158,760 158,760 and experience on the board are carried out in conjunction with A Burgmans 10,000 10,000 the chairmans committee.
The committee keeps under review d I C Conn 156,349 121,187 54 contingency planning for key executive and non-executive director c E B Davis, Jr 67,610 66,349 roles.
The nomination committee recommended to the board that D J Flint 15,000 17 incumbent directors be proposed for re-election at the AGM.
c Dr B E Grote 988,812 888,213 Dr A B Hayward 305,543 206,084 54 COMBINED CODE COMPLIANCE Dr D S Julius 15,000 15,000 BP complied throughout 2005 with the provisions of the Combined Sir Tom McKillop 20,000 20,000 Code Principles of Good Governance and Code of Best Practice, J A Manzoni 275,743 196,336 51 c except in the following aspects: Dr W E Massey 49,722 49,722 A.
4.4 Letters of appointment do not set out fixed time commitments H M P Miles 22,145 22,145 since the schedule of board and committee meetings is subject to Sir Ian Prosser 16,301 16,301 change according to the exigencies of the business.
All directors are P D Sutherland 30,079 30,079 c expected to demonstrate their commitment to the work of the board M H Wilson 60,000 60,000 on an ongoing basis.
This is reviewed by the nomination committee in recommending candidates for annual re-election.
1.4 The amount of fees received by executive directors in Directors leaving the board in 2005 respect of their service on outside boards is not disclosed since c C F Knight 98,782 98,578 this information is not considered relevant to BP.
2.2 The remuneration of the chairman is fixed by the board as a Includes 25,368 shares held as ADSs.
a whole rather than the remuneration committee within the limits b Includes 58,713 shares held as ADSs.
c set by shareholders, since the chairmans performance is a matter Held as ADSs.
d Includes 38,836 shares held as ADSs.
The above figures indicate and include all the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of each director of the company in shares of the company or calculated INTERNAL CONTROL REVIEW equivalents that have been disclosed to the company under the Companies The board governance policies include a process for the board to Act 1985 as at the applicable dates.
In making these disclosures, the directors did not distinguish between beneficial and non-beneficial interests.
review regularly the effectiveness of the system of internal control Executive directors are also deemed to have an interest in such shares of the as required by Code provision C. 2.1.
As part of this process, the board company held from time to time by The BP Employee Share Ownership Plan and the audit and ethics and environment assurance committees No.
2 to facilitate the operation of the companys option schemes.
requested, received and reviewed reports from executive No director has any interest in the preference shares or debentures of management, including management of the principal business the company, or in the shares or loan stock of any subsidiary company.
BP Annual Report and Accounts 2005 163
