OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BPB HAS A CLEAR BUSINESS STRATEGY AND DEFINED VALUES, A STRONG INDUSTRY POSITION AND PROVIDES ONE OF THE MAIN GROWTH PRODUCTS IN THE BUILDING MATERIALS SECTOR BPB is the world leader in the supply of plasterboard and gypsum an enlarging European Community, with its mix of moreplasters, and a major supplier of insulation, ceiling tiles and related developed and emerging markets, where BPB is currently products for interiors, serving growing markets for building systems growing at 5-6% per annum from a relatively under-developed in over 50 countries.
It operates more than 130 manufacturing per capita base of less than 3 square metres sites and employs more than 12,500 people worldwide.
the advanced North American market now approaching 11 square metres per head and representing over 50% of The group aspires to be the preferred choice for interior building world demand growing at around 3.5% per annum over systems that provide innovative design solutions.
In pursuing the long-term and providing scope for further investment this vision for future growth, managements key strategic aim is the potentially huge Emerging Markets, particularly Asia, with to strengthen BPBs competitive positioning in plasterboard and their fast expanding economies driving double digit growth building plasters over the medium term and grow profitably from in demand the development of the groups global sector leadership.
Local managing directors and their teams are empowered to run BPBs business model provides the strategic framework for focusing their businesses within a specified framework of Board approved on the delivery of a superior customer offering through world class strategic goals, mandatory governance policies, and key business processes, targeting real progress in three key areas: change initiatives.
The protection of BPBs reputation is of fundamental importance and employees throughout the world are profitable sales growth by enhancing and leveraging BPBs made aware of the behavioural principles and values which should global leadership in plasterboard and gypsum plasters be applied in pursuit of the groups vision and strategic objectives.
continuous cost reduction by pursuing world class standards in repeatable business processes and securing the lowest delivered BPB has a clear business strategy and defined values, a strong cost wherever BPB does business industry position and provides one of the main growth products in development of its people by fostering a common sense the building materials sector.
With these core operating strengths of purpose and promoting a challenging environment of and a robust financial platform, BPB aims to achieve its business empowerment and continuous learning objectives of delivering improving performance, meeting the value expectations of shareholders, customers and employees, The underlying strength of BPBs straightforward business model and acting as a responsible member of its communities, locally, is grounded in the exciting growth characteristics of plasterboard nationally and globally.
across all stages of market development, the contribution to product mix and performance from gypsum plasters and other interior products, and the groups international spread of well-located lowcost operating facilities.
BPBs annual plasterboard sales volume from over 50 growing national markets now represents nearly 20% of a world market of some 6.5 billion square metres, where demand is around 1 square metre per head and exhibiting long-term average annual growth of about 5%.
Behind this positive global picture there are significant business development opportunities for the group arising from: This review along with the chairmans statement on pages main trends and factors underlying the years results and which 10 and 11, the chief executives review on pages 12 and 13 and are likely to affect future performance.
It also describes the groups the corporate responsibility report on pages 30 and 31 is intended business and its key objectives, strategies, values and resources, to assist stakeholders in BPB to assess the strategies adopted by together with the main risks and uncertainties it faces.
A cautionary the company and the potential for those strategies to succeed.
It comment concerning forward-looking statements is given on the sets out a summary account of the development, performance inside back cover.
and financial position of the group for 2004 05, together with the 16 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 BPB STRATEGY AND VALUES THE BENEFIT OF BETTER TRADING PERFORMANCES AND IMPROVED OPERATING EFFICIENCIES ACROSS BPBS BUSINESSES EXCEEDED THE IMPACT OF SIGNIFICANT COST INFLATION, RESULTING IN THE GROUPS RETURN ON SALES IMPROVING FROM 11.5% TO 13.3% GROUP 2005 2004 years of weak demand and, although construction activity in Germany remained subdued, BPBs restructured business achieved Turnover m 2,316.8 2,170.8 a modest improvement in sales volumes.
North American wallboard Underlying operating profit m 308.1 249.2 sales of 520 million square metres continued to be underpinned Return on sales % 13.3 11.5 by strong residential and renovation markets in the US and Canada, People 12,689 12,907 with volume growth of just under 3% restricted by capacity constraints, particularly in the second-half.
Volumes in the Emerging FINANCIAL OVERVIEW Markets advanced over 9% to 90 million square metres driven Group turnover increased by 6.7% to 2,317 million up 10% in local by strong growth in South Africa and substantial Asian demand, currency terms, driven by further good growth in global plasterboard which continued to grow at double-digit rates in Thailand, China demand, substantially increased overall sales of building plasters, and India.
and improved selling prices, as relatively low interest rates in the groups principal markets supported buoyant construction activity, Overall plaster volumes comprising building, industrial and specialist particularly in the residential and renovation sectors.
Underlying plaster sales increased by over 6% to 5.8 million tonnes, with operating profit increased 24% to 308.1 million, with adverse turnover increasing 6% to 367 million 16% of group turnover.
currency translation of over 6 million mainly offset by lower Building plaster sales also increased by over 6% to 4.8 million restructuring and redundancy costs of 15.3 million, some tonnes, driven by growth in Spain, Italy and the British Isles which 4.9 million less than in 2004.
The benefit of better trading more than offset a further contraction in French demand and by performances and improved operating efficiencies across BPBs increased sales in the developing markets of Egypt and Turkey.
businesses exceeded the impact of significant cost inflation, resulting Growth in Spain, BPBs largest building plasters market and in the groups return on sales improving from 11.5% to 13.3%.
representing over 25% of group volumes, reflected further progress with sales mix enrichment as traditional plasters continued to be Underlying profit before tax was up 29% to 287.5 million, reflecting replaced with higher margin lightweight plasters.
In the Emerging the improved trading performance, a reduction in the groups net Markets, sales in Egypt were boosted by further market share gains interest charge as a result of lower average net debt levels, and and encouraging growth was achieved in the developing plaster an increase of over 55% in BPBs share of profits from joint ventures businesses of South Africa, Thailand, India and Mexico.
and associated companies to 6.7 million 2004 4.3 million.
Underlying earnings per share increased by 28% to a record 39.1p Turnover from other building products decreased by 3% to 2004 30.5p, slightly lower than the increase in underlying profit 432 million, with the reduction in paperboard operations offsetting before tax as a result of a higher number of shares in issue: the growth in BPBs Iberian distribution business, which increased its underlying tax rate remained stable at just under 32%.
turnover by 9% to over 70 million.
Following the likely closure this year of the groups remaining paper mill, located at Aberdeen in GLOBAL SALES GROWTH the UK, BPBs other building products segment will mainly comprise Sales of plasterboard and accessories increased almost 10% to European insulation and fixings, textured finishes, Iberian distribution, 1,518 million, representing around two-thirds of group turnover, and the ceiling tile businesses in North America and Europe.
with overall plasterboard volumes growing by almost 5% to 1.2 billion square metres.
European volumes advanced by more than 6% to 600 million square metres, with strong growth in the British Isles, Spain and Eastern Europe and slightly higher sales in the French market.
Nordic volumes began to recover after several UNDERLYING OPERATING UNDERLYING EARNINGS PER SHARE pence PROFIT AND MARGIN 308.1 13.3 05 39.1 05 249.2 11.5 04 30.5 04 220.5 11.4 03 25.8 03 180.0 10.8 02 21.0 02 185.0 11.7 01 24.1 01 l Operating profit million l Margin % BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 17 GROUP PERFORMANCE OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW COST ISSUES CURRENT INVESTMENT PROGRAMME The average annual rate of cost inflation on the total group cost BPBs recent and planned capacity expansions in plasterboard and base rose to 4%, double the previous years level, adding nearly plaster markets, aimed at meeting medium-term sales growth, 75 million to costs in 2004 05.
The major variable cost increases are summarised below: were in energy and freight, driven by higher oil and natural gas prices, with costs for labour, steel, expanded polystyrene beads EUROPE and US paperboard liner also increasing.
Kingscourt, Ireland January 2005 Kirkby Thore, UK January 2005 Group-wide operating cost savings of over 25 million exceeded Country-wide, Spain Ongoing managements on-going annual target of 1% of turnover, reflecting the full year benefits of lower plasterboard liner costs in continental Vaujours, France Mid 2005 Europe and the restructuring of the US ceiling tiles and German Turda, Romania Late 2005 businesses, together with further efficiencies arising from the Madrid, Spain 2006 integration of Gyproc Benelux.
Most of these savings were Sherburn, UK 2007 re-invested in additional functional and systems resources to ensure the delivery of BPBs growth objectives and medium-term capital East Leake, UK 2007 expansion programme.
NORTH AMERICA Key operational efficiency initiatives during the year, which will West Virginia, US 2007 deliver further cost savings in 2005 06, included: North Carolina, US 2008 further reducing the groups plasterboard liner costs in Europe by sourcing substantial quantities from the St Regis paper EMERGING MARKETS division of DS Smith, complementing last years successful Mumbai, India Mid 2005 sourcing of increased liner volumes from the groups German Laem Chabang, Thailand Late 2005 associate, Tecnokarton Mumbai, India Late 2005 restructuring the French and Belgian sales operations, the closure of the gypsum block plant at Grozon, and the planned closure Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 2006 of the plasters plant at Wijnegem with the transfer of production San Luis Potosi, Mexico 2006 to Vaujours progression of the groups world class manufacturing, purchasing expansion of existing plasterboard capacity and supply chain initiatives, with a broader application of best new plasterboard facility practice standards relating to safety, customer service, product expansion of existing plaster capacity quality, operating efficiency and capacity utilisation new plaster facility BPB PLASTERBOARD BPB BUILDING PLASTER VOLUMES VOLUMES 2 BPB group million m BPB group thousand tonnes 05 600 520 90 1,210 05 4,210 551 4,761 04 565 506 83 1,154 04 4,059 426 4,485 03 521 456 71 1,048 03 3,850 471 4,321 02 482 260 67 809 02 3,811 509 4,320 01 475 185 60 720 01 3,645 55 3,700 l Europe l Emerging Markets l Europe l North America l Total l Emerging Markets l Total 18 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 GROUP PERFORMANCE CONTINUED MANAGEMENT FURTHER DEVELOPED THE GROUPS RISK EVALUATION PROCESS, ENHANCING THE RISK PROFILING EXERCISES UNDERTAKEN BY OPERATING BUSINESSES TO IDENTIFY, EVALUATE AND CONTROL RISK BPBs risk environment has improved significantly over the past few replicating plasterboard functionality.
BPBs operating teams are years, with a risk governance framework embedded in operational focused on the continuous improvement of product quality and management processes and good progress being made in better sales mix, customer service performance, and operating efficiency.
understanding and managing the groups significant risks.
In addition, However, unanticipated actions by competitors or customers could the increased scale and geographic spread of the groups operations result in a lower contribution from core products and or a decline serves to mitigate the impact of any single unexpected event, while of market share.
managements strategic focus on the profitable development of BPBs global leadership in plasterboard and building plasters further Inadequate systems of group self-regulation, communication contributes to restricting operational risk.
To support the continuing and co-ordination, resulting in: unforeseen adverse decisions in growth of core products across the groups worldwide operations, the regulatory environment: ineffective integration of acquisitions: BPB is progressing a measured capital expansion programme decline in shareholder support for the stewardship of BPB.
The Board aiming to increase productive capacity to meet global sales demand believes that the alignment throughout the group of comprehensive anticipated over the medium term.
governance policies, standards and procedures with BPBs clear business model for growth engenders responsible corporate The groups approach to internal control is business risk driven, with behaviour, serving to restrict exposure to these categories of emphasis given to both business and financial risks, as explained reputational risk.
in the corporate governance review on page 38.
During the year management further developed the groups risk evaluation process, Key measures and approaches incorporated within BPBs enhancing the risk profiling exercises undertaken by operating operational framework for managing risk include: performance businesses to identify, evaluate and control risk.
audits: compliance confirmations: benchmarking to world class standards: market assessments and forecasts: forward plans and The following represent the significant risks identified by BPB that contingency provisions: monitoring market developments and could materially affect the groups financial condition, performance, building trends: mineral resource and site risk management: strategies and prospects: groupwide repetition of best practices: training and development programmes: and monitoring and addressing stakeholder issues Ineffective execution of BPBs business plan for future profitable and regulatory developments.
growth, specifically in the areas of: productive capacity utilisation: capital investment project management: implementation of changes As well as the specific risks identified by BPB, the groups businesses in business information systems: continuity of key raw material face general risks arising from their exposure to national building supply: people management and development.
Management is cycles, which themselves are influenced by levels of economic engaged in delivering a focused programme of group operational growth, interest rates, demographic change, local building regulations initiatives, aimed at improving manufacturing efficiencies and and the general condition of public and private buildings.
Weather supplying customers with market-leading solutions, as a series can also affect demand.
Local markets are highly competitive, with of significant failures across these key operational risk categories sales volumes sensitive to selling prices, industry production levels could affect the competitive advantage and opportunities for growth and customer demand, while operating costs are sensitive to labour of BPBs low-cost business operations.
costs and raw material price inflation, particularly for energy, freight and paper liner supplies.
Political risk may be an issue in some Significant changes in BPBs key markets arising from: timing locations and, as for all international businesses, variations in of industry investment: rationalisation of distribution channels: currency exchange rates may have an impact, although generally loss of critical BPB production facilities: launch of a new product only through translation of results into Sterling.
The groups approach to internal control is business risk driven, with emphasis given to both business and financial risks BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 19 MANAGING GROUP RISK OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OPERATING PROFIT INCREASED BY 12.2% TO 217.6 MILLION, BENEFITING FROM CONTINUING STRONG DEMAND AND HIGH PLANT UTILISATION LEVELS EUROPE 2005 2004 during the year were offset by increased selling prices, with results also benefiting from improved plant efficiencies and lower freight Turnover m 1,707.8 1,647.4 costs.
Imports from BPBs Belgian business were substantially reduced Underlying operating profit m 217.6 193.9 following the upgrade of the East Leake plant in early 2004.
Return on sales % 12.7 11.8 The UK market continues to benefit from changes in building People 8,836 9,104 regulations which require greater levels of insulation and soundproofing performance.
Sales mix enrichment continues, with higher European underlying operating profit increased by 12.2% to performance boards now accounting for around one-third of total 217.6 million, benefiting from continuing strong demand and plasterboard sales.
To meet the continuing strong demand for core high plant utilisation levels, the recovery of substantial cost inflation products, BPB is progressing plans to construct a new medium-sized through selling price increases, and efficiency improvements plasterboard plant at Sherburn near Leeds to be commissioned in arising mainly from last years restructuring actions and sourcing early 2007, and additional plaster capacity was recently introduced of lower cost paperboard liner.
Turnover growth of almost 4% to at Kirkby Thore, with further capacity planned to come on-stream 1,707.8 million was impacted by the closure of various non-core at East Leake in 2007. paperboard businesses, together with adverse foreign currency translation as Sterling strengthened against the Euro.
Plasterboard Following the previous years closure of the Purfleet paperboard volumes advanced by 6.1% driven by good growth in the British mill there was insufficient demand to support the UK recovered Isles, Spain and Eastern Europe, and continued high levels of demand paper operation and consequently the business was sold in August.
Building plaster volumes grew by almost 4% to 4.2 million In March 2005, the group entered into a substantial long-term tonnes with strong demand experienced in the British Isles, Spain agreement to source lower-cost, lighter grammage plasterboard and Italy.
The benefit of lower restructuring charges was more than liner from DS Smith plc in the UK, complementing the liner offset by a 6 million increase in UK pensions costs, adverse foreign agreement entered into with the groups German associate, exchange translation, and development costs for a new European Tecnokarton, in 2004.
As a consequence, BPBs remaining paper business information system.
Regional return on sales increased mill located at Aberdeen is likely to be closed in July.
Building plaster and plasterboard sales again grew strongly in Ireland NORTH & WESTERN EUROPE as construction activity remained buoyant, particularly in housing.
Continued strong growth in demand in the British Isles and increased Additional capacity was commissioned in January at the Kingscourt trading activity in the Nordic area more than offset a higher UK plant and, during the plant upgrade, plasterboard was imported pension charge, systems development costs and lower profits from from group companies resulting in additional freight costs.
paperboard operations, resulting in regional underlying operating profit advancing by 3% to 108.3 million.
Following the partial exit Greater plasterboard sales in the Nordic area, driven by a more active from paperboard manufacturing activities, turnover was broadly housing sector, combined with cost efficiencies to offset inflationary unchanged at 596.1 million, although the increased focus on core pressures and deliver an improved overall performance.
Denmark plasterboard and plaster businesses improved return on sales by achieved a further good performance, supported by increased 0.3 of a percentage point to 18.2%.
construction activity, with Sweden benefiting from cost efficiencies following a plant upgrade and improved sales.
Strong volume growth UK sales volumes grew strongly, driven by a good housing market, was achieved in Finland but exports to Russia were again restricted further public sector investment in schools, hospitals and housing by the relative strength of the Euro, and BPBs Norwegian profitability and an active renovation sector.
Substantial cost inflation pressures stabilised after a period of severe price competition.
TURNOVER BY PRODUCT SEGMENT Europe 3 2 1 1 Plasterboard & accessories 58% 2 Plasters 21% 3 Other building materials 21% 20 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 EUROPE WCM IS DELIVERING BPBs world class manufacturing But WCM is delivering much more Coaching teams on how to identify programme WCM now established than consistently improving plant areas of loss and inefficiency, the best MUCH MORE THAN as a way of life across the majority of efficiency rates the process ways to plan and deliver their own CONSISTENTLY the groups operations is a continuous generates real value by involving solutions, and the steps necessary improvement process focused on BPBs people and fostering employee to rigorously measure and review IMPROVING PLANT safety, reducing all waste, improving empowerment, motivating local teams progress, represents a significant EFFICIENCY RATES product quality and plant reliability, to excel at their tasks and contributing groupwide change management and converging the performance of to improved working relations.
challenge one that is now delivering BPBs international spread of plants clear gains in manufacturing and with those of the groups best-inpeople development.
BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 21 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW SOUTHERN EUROPE distribution business experienced good sales growth, enhancing Better results in France, good growth in Spain and Italy, improved the groups ability to progress the development of the Iberian regional operating efficiencies and selling prices, and lower plasterboard systems market.
restructuring costs in Belgium led to profitability rising by over 10% to 84.1 million, despite significant commodity cost inflation, on BPBs Italian business also delivered increased profitability as regional turnover up by almost 4.5% to 760.8 million.
Regional plasterboard penetration of the growing residential sector continued, return on sales increased to 11.1% 2004 10.5%.
Further strong growth in plaster volumes was achieved, supported by additional investments.
France experienced modest growth in overall plasterboard volumes albeit at a high level of activity, with local construction activity Profitability in the Netherlands was affected by continuing strong remaining buoyant, particularly in the residential sector.
Profitability competition, with margins affected as cost savings were insufficient improved through a combination of increased demand for to offset cost inflation.
However, a better performance in a relatively performance boards and added-value lightweight plasters, together flat Belgian market was mainly due to a lower restructuring charge with selling price increases which offset considerable cost inflation and the commencement of cost savings following the upgrade of particularly for energy, steel, and expanded polystyrene beads : the Kallo plasterboard plant.
cost savings also contributed, driven by the sourcing of lower-cost plasterboard liner and improved plant performances at Chambery and Cognac.
The Gyproc and Placo sales functions were integrated and simplified to focus on the development of the market leading Placo brand.
The increasing penetration of plasterboard systems in the building sector has contributed to some erosion in demand for gypsum blocks, resulting in the impending closure of the plant at Grozon.
Domestic building plaster volumes declined slightly, although at a less rapid rate than in recent years, as demand for value-added lightweight plasters increased and plaster production was transferred from the now redundant Wijnegem site in Belgium to the recently upgraded Vaujours facility near Paris.
The Spanish construction market continued to grow strongly, and the Portuguese market began to recover from last years recession.
Growth in overall plaster volumes was accompanied by the commencement of the second phase of a substantial investment programme in lightweight plaster capacity to meet increasingly strong demand and enrich the product mix.
Plasterboard volumes grew rapidly as penetration of the commercial construction market continued, assisted by increasing use of plasterboard systems in the new housing sector.
To meet expected medium-term sales growth, a new 26 million square metre capacity plant is to be constructed near Madrid, with commissioning anticipated in late 2006 to support the existing plant at Quinto.
BPBs Iberian BPB PLASTERBOARD Plasterboard volumes advanced by VOLUME GROWTH 6.1% driven by good growth in the 2 Europe million m British Isles, Spain and Eastern Europe 05 600 6% 04 565 8% 03 521 8% 02 482 1% 01 475 3% 22 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 EUROPE CONTINUED CENTRAL & EASTERN EUROPE Significantly improved German profitability particularly in the second-half, further sales volume growth in Eastern Europe and lower restructuring costs drove a doubling of regional operating profit to 25.2 million, on turnover up more than 6% to 350.9 million.
Return on sales increased by over three percentage points to 7.2%.
German plasterboard volumes grew moderately, against the background of a depressed but stable domestic construction market, benefiting from exports to capacity-constrained markets.
Plant utilisation and efficiency levels increased and an improvement in average selling prices towards the end of the year compensated for significantly higher energy, haulage and raw material costs.
Results also reflected the delivery of 110 million of annualised cost savings targeted during the restructuring programme last year.
Elsewhere in Central Europe, sales of plasterboard and gypsum blocks increased in Switzerland, and Austria achieved good plasterboard volume growth in both its domestic market and from exports to the Balkans.
Further good penetration of plasterboard in Eastern Europes developing commercial and residential sectors, together with high levels of construction activity in most countries, resulted in continued double-digit volume growth.
Better prices and increased volumes were achieved in Poland BPBs largest plasterboard market in Eastern Europe despite a declining construction market, while the groups businesses in the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania all delivered strong growth in sales volumes.
The construction of a new plasterboard plant near to the groups existing plaster plant in Romania is progressing towards commissioning in late 2005.
Sales of plasterboard in the Ukraine continued to grow strongly, driven by demand from the commercial and renovation sectors.
Building plaster sales also grew encouragingly, with good progress in the developing Romanian market, and strong demand in Turkey benefiting from a relatively mild Winter.
Over the medium term, it is expected that the recent enlargement of the European Community will contribute to the growing demand in Eastern Europe for plasterboard systems, building plasters and ceiling tiles.
BPB BUILDING PLASTER Building plaster volumes grew VOLUME GROWTH by almost 4% to 4.2 million tonnes Europe thousand tonnes with strong demand experienced in the British Isles, Spain and Italy 05 4,210 4% 04 4,059 5% 03 3,850 1% 02 3,811 5% 01 3,645 4% BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 23 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW RECORD US WALLBOARD DEMAND, COMBINED WITH HIGHER INDUSTRY PLANT UTILISATION LEVELS, SUSTAINED A SIGNIFICANT INCREASE IN BPBS AVERAGE WALLBOARD PRICES NORTH AMERICA 2005 2004 Market acceptance of GlasRoc, an added value high-performance exterior sheathing product launched in early 2004, grew rapidly Turnover m 532.1 488.8 during the year.
This successful glass-reinforced gypsum wallboard Underlying operating profit m 71.4 40.1 became the subject of patent claims, originated by Georgia Pacific, Return on sales % 13.4 8.2 which both parties recently agreed to dismiss.
Demand continued People 1,964 2,022 to grow for BPBs high quality ProFin wallboard finishing products and work began on the construction of a new manufacturing Record US wallboard demand, combined with higher industry plant facility near Toronto.
The new highly automated plant, due for utilisation levels, sustained a significant increase in BPBs average commissioning in the Autumn of 2005, will improve product quality, wallboard prices, resulting in a 78% increase in North American customer service levels and operating efficiency in the Ontario region underlying operating profit to 71.4 million.
Despite further and provide the market with a full range of jointing compounds substantial commodity cost inflation, the restructuring of the and setting powders.
groups Las Vegas mining activities, second-half patent protection costs, and adverse currency translation, regional return on sales The US ceiling tiles business experienced further weak demand in advanced 5.2 percentage points to 13.4% on turnover up almost the commercial sector.
However, efficiency savings arising from 9% to 532.1 million.
restructuring actions taken in the previous year and better selling prices offset the impact of cost inflation, contributing to a near Buoyant activity across the new housing and renovation sectors break-even performance.
A modest recovery in commercial activity led to a further substantial increase in North Americas wallboard is anticipated for the current year and management continues to market, although BPBs first-half volume growth of 5% was restricted focus on strengthening operating efficiency and building a higherto an annualised rate of nearly 3% due to lack of capacity in the margin sales mix.
To strengthen the groups representation in the east, BPB announced in March the completion of a longConstruction activity in Canada remained strong, with BPB plants term agreement with American Electric Power for the supply operating at near capacity levels as the domestic wallboard market of desulphogypsum to a new 700 million square feet capacity grew by 2% to a record level of approximately 3.2 billion square plant to be located near Mitchell in West Virginia.
Export volumes grew by 20% as Canadian plants supplemented $100 million investment complements the agreement made last constrained US manufacturing capacity particularly in the north year with Progress Energy to supply desulphogypsum to a new east.
Higher selling prices were sustained and this, combined with $100 million wallboard plant alongside their coal-fired generator manufacturing efficiencies, offset cost inflation pressures notably at Roxboro in North Carolina.
The new Mitchell-sourced plant will energy, freight and paperboard liner enabling the business to be commissioned in the second half of 2007, with the Roxboro deliver a substantial improvement in results.
plant expected to come on-stream in late 2008.
BPBs average realised US wallboard prices increased to $117 per 1,000 square feet some $23 up on the average for the prior year with most of the price increases being realised in the first half.
A further headline price increase of 10% was announced at the end of April and since the year-end prices have averaged around $125.
BPB WALLBOARD TURNOVER BY VOLUME GROWTH PRODUCT SEGMENT 2 North America million m North America 3 05 520 3% 2 04 506 11% 03 456 75% 02 260 41% 01 185 23% 1 1 Wallboard & accessories 88% 2 Ceiling tiles 10% 3 Other building materials 2% 24 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 NORTH AMERICA WORKING TO BPBs local business teams aim to BPB products provide industrydevelop an advanced range of be the preferred choice the first leading solutions which are fast, products which meet local building WORLD CLASS company that customers turn to reliable and cost-effective for all specifications for energy efficiency, STANDARDS AND working to world class standards stages of market development in comfort and safety, and satisfy and supplying individual markets all market segments renovation, customer needs for interior building SUPPLYING THE with the best product and customer residential and commercial and for systems that deliver space division, BEST PRODUCT service offerings.
all product sectors walls, partitions, thermal insulation, acoustic columns, floors and ceilings.
absorption, fire and humidity AND CUSTOMER Adding real value and shaping the face resistance, utilities and circuitry SERVICE OFFERINGS of retail, work, home, educational, Working alongside architects and distribution, structural integrity and healthcare and leisure environments, specifiers, BPB people promote and design aesthetics.
BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 25 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW OVERALL RETURN ON SALES AGAIN IMPROVED, INCREASING FROM 14.0% TO 15.1%, ON PLASTERBOARD VOLUME GROWTH OF ALMOST 10% EMERGING MARKETS 2005 2004 Substantially increased sales of building plasters and better selling prices resulted in a significantly improved performance in Egypt.
Turnover m 126.4 108.6 Industry competition in the current year is expected to intensify.
Underlying operating profit m 19.1 15.2 Return on sales % 15.1 14.0 Strong growth in plasterboard volumes continued in Thailand, People 1,889 1,781 attracting more intense competition which resulted in reduced profitability as market share was maintained.
Substantial additional Excellent progress was achieved in the profitable development of capacity will come on-stream with the groups new plant at Laem BPBs Emerging Markets businesses, with underlying operating Chabang later this year, significantly improving BPBs domestic and profit of 19.1 million advancing by over 25%, driven by a strong export operating cost platform.
performance from a buoyant South African market, improved South American results and further good volume growth in Asia.
New plasterboard capacity near Kuala Lumpur will be commissioned Overall return on sales again improved, increasing from 14.0% to in early 2006, to support growing demand in the Malaysian 15.1%, on plasterboard volume growth of almost 10% and turnover peninsula and increase BPBs market representation.
Together, BPBs South African and Asian businesses contributed over 80% of regional profit.
BPBs developing Chinese business reported a maiden profit, driven by strong plasterboard sales growth, improved manufacturing Double-digit sales volume growth was achieved by BPBs Asian efficiencies and stable selling prices.
This result was achieved against plasterboard producers although export volumes were restricted the background of continuing substantial growth in construction by capacity constraints.
Capital investment plans were successfully activity and further market consolidation.
The increasing availability progressed during the year, the aim being to meet growing demand of low-cost desulphogypsum close to major markets in eastern for plasterboard and building plasters in selected developing markets.
China will further improve industry operating efficiencies.
In addition BPB spent 36.8 million to acquire substantially all the minority interests in its fast-growing businesses in Thailand and Substantial volume growth of plasterboard and building plasters India where the group has established strong market positions.
was achieved in India, due to further market penetration and continued buoyant commercial construction activity.
This led to Further good plasterboard volume growth was achieved in a significant performance improvement despite increased South Africa and, with better selling prices offsetting higher input competition from plasterboard imports.
While the impact on costs, led to a good improvement in results.
Strong growth in construction activity levels in the current year arising from new residential and renovation activity, and increased commercial government changes to the sales tax regime is uncertain, BPB demand, were underpinned by a stable currency, lower interest anticipates further strong growth in sales volumes and plans to rates and a continuing low rate of inflation.
Economic forecasts bring on-stream in late 2005 a new combined plasterboard and point to continuing strong growth in building sector activity plasters facility near Mumbai to strengthen its distribution during the current year, particularly in housing.
Other factors infrastructure across the sub-continent.
influencing demand during the year were the imposition of antidumping duties on Indonesian importers and the governments South American operations delivered improved results, reflecting promotion of energy efficient low-income housing, an area of good growth of plasterboard sales in Brazil and further solid future opportunity for BPBs Gyproc and Rhino systems.
Sales of progress in strengthening BPBs presence as a manufacturer of building plasters, albeit developing from a low base, continued high quality building plasters in Mexico.
BPB PLASTERBOARD TURNOVER BY VOLUME GROWTH PRODUCT SEGMENT 2 Emerging Markets million m Emerging Markets 05 90 9% 3 04 83 17% 03 71 6% 02 67 12% 01 60 82% 2 1 1 Plasterboard & accessories 62% 2 Plasters 18% 3 Other building materials 20% 26 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 EMERGING MARKETS IMPLEMENTING BPBs plasterboard capacity utilisation Central and operating BPB teams Spreading best practice and is running at a high level after several are now engaged in implementing transferring relevant technologies A PLASTERBOARD years of significant growth in global a plasterboard capacity expansion are essential tasks in BPBs strategy CAPACITY EXPANSION demand which continues to outpace programme of circa 5% pa over the for installing lower-cost capacity, the development of construction medium-term, based on current with the groups technical and PROGRAMME OF markets generally leading to plans for new investments spread innovation teams actively assessing CIRCA 5% PA OVER attractive opportunities in the groups across Europe, North America and the impact of regulatory and three major regions for investing in Emerging Markets principally Asia, environmental influences and THE MEDIUM-TERM future profitable growth.
combined with capacity liberated pilot-testing process developments through performance improvements aimed at achieving step-changes at existing plants.
BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 27 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW BPBS ROBUST FINANCIAL POSITION IS UNDERPINNED BY A HIGHLY CASH GENERATIVE BUSINESS MODEL COMBINED WITH A PRUDENT APPROACH TO FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT Strong results in 2004 05 were driven by a rise in both volumes NET DEBT AND CASH FLOW and selling prices in all three major regions and benefited from Year-end net debt of 422.0 million was 73.0 million lower than restructuring actions taken in previous years.
This further consolidated at the previous year-end, after a net cash inflow of 78.4 million BPBs robust financial position, which is underpinned by a highly and adverse foreign exchange movements of 5.4 million arising cash generative business model combined with a prudent approach from the translation of debt held in foreign currencies.
The main to financial management.
Operating cash flows amounted to over features of the group cash flow statement this year were: 400 million, allowing the group to fund its accelerating capital investment programme, the buy-out of Asian minority shareholders continued strong operating cash flow, which increased by and increased dividend payments to shareholders entirely from 66.1 million to 416.6 million reflecting improved profitability internally generated resources.
The group interest charge was and good working capital management covered over 11 times by underlying operating profit and year-end increased capital expenditure of 154.1 million 2004 gearing was 44.6%.
99.6 million, 1.4 times the annual depreciation charge and consistent with the groups expanded capital investment plans REPORTED PROFIT, GOODWILL AND EXCEPTIONAL ITEMS taxation payments of 66.2 million, with the cash tax rate on A reconciliation of the groups reported profit before tax of underlying profit falling to 23% 2004 27% mainly due to the 258.7 million 2004 180.3 million to the underlying pre-tax utilisation of tax losses brought forward in the US and Germany profit before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items of 36.8 million spent in buying out minority shareholder interests 287.5 million 2004 222.8 million is set out in the table below, in Thailand and India together with equivalent post-tax analysis.
This shows: 2005 2004 GROUP CASH FLOW m m an operating exceptional charge of 34.0 million arising from the likely closure of the paperboard mill at Aberdeen in EBITDA 408.8 344.5 the UK in July.
The charge comprises 24.0 million relating to Net movement in working capital 7.8 6.0 redundancy, plant fide-commissioning and other site closure Operating cash flow 416.6 350.5 costs and a 10 million write-down of the paper machine and related equipment Capital expenditure 154.1 99.6 an operating exceptional pre-tax gain of 14.6 million arising Fixed asset disposals 6.6 15.6 from the companys share of BPB Canadas pension fund surplus Taxation 66.2 60.2 distribution, made following regulatory approval of an agreement Other 1.0 0.5 between the company and the pension scheme members Interest 27.2 31.4 non-operating exceptional profit of 6.9 million, arising principally from the sale of surplus land in the UK and Belgium Dividends 73.1 67.3 amortisation of goodwill of 16.3 million 2004 18.0 million Free cash flow 103.6 108.1 Purchase of Asian minorities 36.8 In addition the group benefited from an operating exceptional tax Acquisitions 9.7 5.1 credit of 13.9 million arising from the recognition of brought forward tax losses in the US, resulting from the substantial improvement Disposals 8.6 7.5 in profitability of the US wallboard business during the year.
Net shares issued 12.7 9.8 Net cash inflow 78.4 120.3 NET BORROWINGS RECONCILIATION OF MOVEMENT Before tax Tax After tax IN PROFIT: YEAR TO 31 MARCH 2005 m m m AND INTEREST COVER Underlying profit 287.5 91.4 196.1 Amortisation of goodwill 16.3 2.7 13.6 05 422 11.3 Aberdeen closure costs 34.0 8.7 25.3 04 495 8.1 Canadian pension refund 14.6 5.8 8.8 03 664 7.5 02 371 6.1 Exceptional US tax credit 13.9 13.9 01 498 6.9 Disposals sales 6.9 2.6 4.3 l Net borrowings million Reported profit 258.7 74.5 184.2 l Underlying interest cover times 28 BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 GROUP FINANCIAL POSITION CAPITAL INVESTED AND RETURN ON INVESTMENT INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS Approximately two-thirds of BPBs 1.73 billion 2004 1.66 billion The groups programme to achieve transition to International capital invested continues to be in Europe with nearly a quarter in Financial Reporting Standards IFRS is progressing to plan and North America and around 10% in Emerging Markets.
BPB, along with other EU listed companies, will prepare and report consolidated financial statements for its current financial year to Return on capital invested advanced strongly to 12.7% from last 31 March 2006 under IFRS.
BPBs September trading update and years 9.9%, well above BPBs weighted average cost of capital.
interim 2005 06 financial statements will also be prepared under This reflects the sharp improvement in operating results on a IFRS.
In advance of these, detailed guidance on the impact of IFRS modestly increased capital base and high plant utilisation levels.
on BPBs 2004 05 financial statements will be provided in July.
PENSIONS Initial indications are that IFRS will have a limited impact on the BPB operates a number of pension schemes detailed in note 6 financial statements for the year to 31 March 2005: to the accounts on pages 53 to 55, with the largest being the principal UK funded defined benefit scheme.
Following actuarial there will be no significant change to revenue and no change to advice ahead of the results of the triennial valuation of the UK actual cash flows, although there will be presentational changes scheme, due later in 2005, that the surplus had largely been eroded, to the cash flow statement the additional annual pension charge introduced in 2002 03 was underlying profit before tax will fall by between 1% and 2%.
increased to 12.2 million 2004 6.2 million and a matching This will mainly be due to additional charges for share-based cash contribution made to the pension scheme.
awards, as other adjustments to the Income Statement, including the impact of adopting IAS 19 in respect of retirement and other TREASURY employee benefits, are not expected to be significant BPBs treasury operations operate within clearly defined Board reported profit before tax will be slightly higher as goodwill is no approved policies and limits.
Group treasury is not a profit centre longer amortised 16.3 million but reviewed annually for and hedging derivative transactions are only undertaken to manage impairment, and the exceptional Canadian pension refund the range of commercial exposures the group faces.
The department 14.6 million, recorded under UK GAAP, is not recognised in follows controlled reporting procedures and is the subject of regular the Income Statement under IFRS internal and external reviews.
net assets will fall following recognition in the balance sheet of defined benefit pension fund deficits similar in size to those Group liquidity is provided through a range of committed debt disclosed under FRS17 in note 6 and additional deferred taxation facilities in excess of immediate needs.
These reductions in net assets will be partly offset by comprise 379.3 million of Euro and US Dollar denominated bonds a reversal of the proposed final dividend accrual of 53.9 million and 644.7 million of committed bank facilities.
The total of these until approval at the annual general meeting facilities of 1,024 million is significantly more than the drawn debt requirement of 560.9 million at 31 March 2005.
The average length IFRS, and in particular their interpretation, are still evolving and of time to maturity of BPBs committed debt facilities was over further adjustments may be identified during the transition and 5 years at the balance sheet date.
Similarly the IFRS impact on the 2005 06 financial statements is unlikely to be the same as that anticipated for Group policy with regard to reducing interest rate risk is to keep 2004 05.
In particular an additional charge of circa 2 million for between 50% and 80% of borrowings at fixed rates of interest.
share-based awards is expected in 2005 06 as the transition rules At the year end, 53% of the groups core debt requirement was of IFRS 2 mean that the full annual impact of the standard is not at fixed rates of interest and the average maturity of the groups expected until the year to 31 March 2008.
Furthermore, BPB has fixed debt remained around 6 years.
adopted IAS32 and IAS39 from 1 April 2005 and hence the potential earnings volatility from marking to market financial instruments The groups current debt ratings are BBB stable from Standard will be reported for the first time in the interim results for the six & Poors and Baa1 stable from Moodys.
More detailed information on the groups treasury policies is provided in note 23 to the financial statements on pages 60 and 61.
CAPITAL INVESTED RETURN ON BY REGION CAPITAL INVESTED million % post tax 3 05 12.7 04 9.9 03 8.8 02 7.6 2 01 9.1 1 1 Europe 66% 2 North America 24% 3 Emerging Markets 10% BPB ANNUAL REPORT 2005 29
