In 2004, the comparative figure did not include interest income and interest expense on trading assets and liabilities except for trading derivatives, and did not include dividend income on trading assets.
HSBC made a profit before tax of particular, US$685 million of what would, in the US$20,966 million, a rise of US$2,023 million or past, have been included in non-equity minority 11 per cent compared with 2004.
Of this increase, interest, has moved within the income statement and US$267 million was attributable to additional is classified as Interest expense in 2005, rather than contributions of ten and two months from M&S Profit attributable to minority interests.
As the Money and Bank of Bermuda respectively, one applicable IFRSs requiring these changes only came months contribution from Metris, and the first full into effect from 1 January 2005, the comparative year effect of HSBCs investments in Bank of 2004 figures are presented on the previous basis.
On an underlying basis, which is described on As a result of the transition to full IFRSs, the pages 2-4, profit before tax increased by 13 per cent.
format of the income statement has changed.
In 26 Total operating income of US$61,704 million higher than in 2004, 9 per cent higher on an was US$5,716 million or 10 per cent higher than in underlying basis.
Much of the growth reflected 2004.
On an underlying basis, total operating income investment to expand the Groups geographic also rose by 10 per cent.
This reflected organic presence and adding product expertise and sales lending growth in all regions and expansion in support.
This expansion was most marked in transactional banking revenues from increased trade, Personal Financial Services in the Rest of Asiafunds management, administration and custody Pacific and in Corporate, Investment Banking and activities.
Strong growth was also seen in fixed Markets, where investment spend peaked during income and credit trading.
In addition, business expansion in Mexico, the performance was well spread geographically with Middle East and South America contributed to cost particularly strong growth in HSBCs operations in growth.
South America, the Middle East and the Rest of Productivity improvements achieved in the UK Asia-Pacific.
and Hong Kong allowed the Group to continue Loan impairment and other credit risk building its Personal Financial Services and provisions as a percentage of gross average advances Commercial Banking businesses in the Rest of Asiato customers was moderately higher in 2005 at Pacific, and expanding its capabilities in Corporate, 1.16 per cent than in 2004, 0.99 per cent.
There was Investment Banking and Markets, without also a small rise in the percentage ratio of new loan deterioration in the Groups cost efficiency ratio.
In impairment charges to gross average advances to the UK, the focus on improving utilisation of the customers from 1.41 in 2004 to 1.50 in 2005.
The existing infrastructure led to broadly flat costs in charge of US$7,801 million was US$1,610 million Personal Financial Services and Commercial or 26 per cent higher than in 2004 and on an Banking compared with underlying combined underlying basis 23 per cent higher.
Of this increase, revenue growth of 10 per cent.
approximately half was driven by growth in lending, HSBCs cost efficiency ratio, which is with the remainder attributable to the higher rate of calculated as total operating expenses divided by net new provisions and the non-recurrence of general operating income before loan impairment charges provision releases benefiting 2004.
Underlying credit and other credit risk provisions, improved slightly to conditions in the UK were adversely affected by 51.2 per cent in 2005 from 51.6 per cent in 2004. slower economic growth and changes in bankruptcy legislation.
This was offset by improved credit HSBCs share of profit in associates and joint experience in the US, notwithstanding the impact of ventures increased by US$376 million, boosted by Hurricane Katrina and an acceleration of bankruptcy full year contributions from Bank of filings ahead of legislative changes in the fourth Communications and Industrial Bank in mainland quarter of 2005.
In Brazil, HSBC also experienced China, and increased income from The Saudi British higher charges as increased credit availability, Bank, which reported a record performance on the particularly in the consumer segment, led to overback of a vibrant economy and a strong oil price.
In 2004, all interest income and expense was included within Net interest income so these figures presented are not strictly comparable.
2 Gross interest yield is the average annualised interest rate earned on average interest-earning assets AIEA.
3 Net interest spread is the difference between the average annualised interest rate earned on AIEA, net of amortised premiums and loan fees, and the average annualised interest rate paid on average interest-bearing funds.
4 Net interest margin is net interest income expressed as an annualised percentage of AIEA.
Net interest income of US$31,334 million was In Europe, higher personal and commercial US$235 million, or 1 per cent, higher than in 2004. lending and increased deposit balances led to a 12 per cent increase in net interest income.
UK Under IFRSs, HSBCs presentation of net Personal Financial Services balances grew strongly interest income in 2005 was particularly affected by: in mortgages, unsecured lending and cards, mainly the reclassification of certain preference funded by a 12 per cent increase in deposit and dividends within non-equity minority interests savings balances.
In Turkey, card balances grew as interest expense: from increased marketing and working with HSBCs retail partners.
Spreads tightened on UK personal the inclusion of certain loan origination fees and lending, reflecting the introduction of preferential expenses as part of an effective interest rate pricing for lower-risk and higher-value customers, calculation instead of being recognised in full on and on savings, due to better pricing for customers.
inception of the loan: and In Commercial Banking in the UK, lending and external interest income and expense on trading overdraft balances increased by 23 per cent, with assets and liabilities now included within Net growth particularly strong in the property, trading income.
Deposit balances grew by 11 per cent, partly from keen pricing, Adjusting for these changes and on an though this reduced deposit spreads.
Yields on UK underlying basis, net interest income increased by corporate lending, which were lower largely as a 12 per cent.
The commentary that follows is on this result of competitive pressure, were only partly basis.
offset by higher loan balances, while lower treasury The benefit of strong growth in interest-earning income reflected the effect of rising short-term rates assets globally more than offset the effect of spread and flattening yield curves on balance sheet compression from flattening yield curves in the management revenues.
This latter phenomenon reduced In North America, net interest income increased opportunities for HSBCs treasury operations to by 6 per cent.
Growth in mortgage, card and enhance margin by placing the Groups surplus unsecured personal lending balances was strong, liquidity longer term than the behaviouralised offsetting spread contraction as the cost of funds rose deposit funding base.
In addition, short-term interest with progressive interest rate rises.
Core deposit rate rises in the US reduced spreads on consumer growth benefited from expansion of the branch finance loans.
28 network and the launch of new savings products, throughout the region.
In the Middle East, buoyant including an online savings product which attracted oil-based economies stimulated demand for credit a significant number of new customers.
Treasury for property and infrastructure projects.
Increasing income from balance sheet management within personal and corporate wealth contributed to growth Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets in deposit balances, while interest rate rises led to diminished as the rise in short-term interest rates higher deposit spreads.
General economic expansion limited opportunities to profit from placing the created demand for consumption credit which liquidity generated from core banking operations boosted credit card lending.
For the reasons noted over extended periods.
above, treasury income from balance sheet management was weaker.
In Hong Kong, net interest income rose by 17 per cent.
Rising interest rates reinvigorated In South America, the positive economic demand for traditional savings products, driving environment encouraged growth in personal and increases in personal and commercial savings commercial lending, particularly in credit cards and balances.
Coupled with the rise in deposit spreads, vehicle finance, which led to a 35 per cent increase which increased in line with interest rates, this led to in net interest income.
A significant rise in customer a sharp rise in net interest income.
Mortgage spreads, acquisition and the development of the Losango however, contracted, as the gradual increase in customer base in Brazil also contributed.
yields during the year, in line with higher rates, was Average interest-earning assets increased by more than offset by rising funding costs.
There was US$23 billion, or 2 per cent, compared with 2004. little net new lending for residential mortgages as At constant exchange rates, and excluding the interest rate rises cooled the residential property US$84.7 billion of trading assets in 2004, average market in the second half of 2005.
Economic growth interest-earning assets increased by 11 per cent, in mainland China boosted commercial lending to reflecting strong growth in mortgages, personal the trade and manufacturing sectors, and property lending and cards globally, and increased lending in lending also increased.
Treasury income remained Commercial Banking.
under pressure, with rising short-term interest rates and a flat yield curve providing limited opportunities HSBCs net interest margin was 3.14 per cent in to profitably deploy surplus liquidity and increasing 2005 compared with 3.19 in 2004.
For the reasons funding costs.
This change in accounting affects both the timing of fee income recognition and its presentation in the accounts.
In accordance with the transition arrangements to IFRSs, the 2004 comparative figure is presented on the previous accounting basis.
Net fee income of US$14,456 million was the selective management of tariffs led to an US$1,508 million or 12 per cent higher than in 2004.
11 per cent increase in account services fees: Under IFRSs, from 2005 a greater proportion of fees in Private Banking, the introduction of a wider related to the provision of credit facilities are now range of alternative investment products and amortised and accounted for in net interest income as services generated higher fee income: part of an effective interest rate calculation than was the case before.
This resulted in a reduction in increased demand for credit among personal reported net fee income of approximately 4 per cent.
and commercial customers drove mortgage and Excluding this effect and on an underlying basis, lending fees up by 11 per cent: and growth in net fee income was 14 per cent and the rising equity markets and renewed interest in comments that follow are presented on this basis.
emerging markets led to higher global custody, The principal drivers of this growth were: broking and asset management fees.
the increase in card fee income, reflecting Offsetting these positive trends, after a strong strong growth in personal credit card sales run of growth, fee income from unit trust sales in across the Group and increased transaction Hong Kong fell as rising interest rates made volumes: traditional deposit products more attractive.
increased customer numbers, higher transaction In Europe, fee income increased by 9 per cent.
volumes, an increase in packaged accounts and Higher personal and commercial lending volumes led to a 19 per cent increase in credit fees.
Card fee 30 income rose by 22 per cent, principally in the UK business in the region.
Rising equity markets, which benefited from higher customer numbers and buoyant regional economies and an increase in greater card utilisation.
Account service fees personal wealth combined with the launch of new increased by 9 per cent, reflecting increased products to increase sales of investment products to customer numbers, the launch of a new packaged personal customers.
Client assets in Private Banking product in the UK and the introduction of a Small also grew.
Global Transaction Banking revenues Business Tariff in Commercial Banking.
Buoyant increased in line with transaction volumes following equity markets benefited custody fees, which grew investment in 2004 to expand capabilities.
Custody as a result of both increased asset values and strong fees grew by 29 per cent as a result of improved new business volumes.
Private Banking fee income investor sentiment and rising local equity markets.
was 12 per cent higher than in 2004 following Trade services income rose by 13 per cent, reflecting increases in client assets under management and strong trade flows.
In North America, net fee income grew by In Hong Kong, net fee income was in line with 21 per cent.
Card fee income grew as a result of 2004.
Unit trust fees decreased by 42 per cent as higher transactions, increased receivables and Personal Financial Services customers switched to improvements in the interchange rate, while US traditional deposit savings and shorter term mortgage lending fees benefited from lower investment products.
The launch of 173 new openrefinancing prepayments and the consequent release ended funds established HSBC as the leading of impairment provisions on mortgage servicing investment service provider in Hong Kong.
In Mexico, strong growth in the cards base together with the successful attraction of client assets drove higher net fee income and increased in Private Banking, contributed to a rise in income transaction volumes delivered higher ATM fees and from funds under management.
Credit card fee increased remittance income.
Investment banking income increased by 18 per cent, reflecting growth fees increased in response to HSBCs success in in cardholder spending as HSBC strengthened its attracting customers with an expanded range of position as the largest credit card issuer in Hong products.
In Commercial Banking, net fees increased as Net fee income in South America increased by trade services, insurance and lending income rose.
23 per cent, principally due to higher card, lending However, lower Structured Finance revenues led to and current account servicing fees.
Current account reduced Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets fees benefited from increased customer numbers and fees.
tariff increases, while lending fee growth was Net fee income in the Rest of Asia-Pacific rose principally related to higher lending volumes.
Card by 28 per cent from higher card transaction volumes fees increased as a result of higher spending in both and increased account services fees in response to Brazil and Argentina.
Under IFRSs, HSBCs industrial sector in 2004. presentation of trading income for 2005 reclassified In Asia, volatility in the value of the Korean into trading income external interest income and won against the US dollar, the introduction of a dividend income on trading assets and interest managed float for Malaysian ringgit and the expense on trading liabilities.
enhancement of capabilities coupled with greater The external funding of long trading positions is focus on trading regional currencies in the Middle reported separately within Net interest income on East all contributed to higher foreign exchange trading activities: in the 2004 comparatives this was revenues.
In Europe, the weakening euro and market included within Interest expense.
The net effect of volatility following the general election in the UK these adjustments added approximately and the French referendum on the EU constitutional US$2.9 billion to net trading income.
treaty afforded opportunities to increase foreign exchange revenues.
In the segmental analysis, both net internal funding and net external interest income on trading Derivatives activity grew strongly as structured activities are reported as Net interest income on product capabilities were added in the credit, equity, trading activities.
The offset on the net internal and interest rate and foreign exchange areas.
Further funding is reported as Net interest income within benefit was derived from the greater focus put on the lending customer group.
The resulting Net client-driven risk management and the investment trading income line comprises all gains and losses made in sales and execution expertise in previous from changes in the fair value of financial assets and years.
In accordance with IFRSs, the inception financial liabilities classified as held for trading, profits on certain derivative transactions are deferred together with related external and internal interest as described in Note 17 on the Financial Statements.
income and interest expense and dividends received.
Further analysis on the trading performance of Income from trading activities rose, reflecting the Global Markets business is provided in the positive revenue trends on core products within regional business commentaries on Corporate, Global Markets following the investment made in Investment Banking and Markets.
In Europe, revenues were boosted from higher volumes through electronic trading platforms and from the expansion of primary dealing activity in European government bond markets.
HSBC may designate financial size and direction of the accounting instruments at fair value under the option in order to consequences of changes in own credit spread remove or reduce accounting mismatches in and ineffectiveness can be volatile from period measurement or presentation, or where financial to period, but do not alter the cash flows instruments are managed and their performance is envisaged as part of the documented interest rate evaluated on a fair value basis.
All income and management strategy: expense on financial instruments for which the fair certain financial assets held by insurance value option has been taken is included in this line operations and managed at fair value to meet except for debt securities in issue and related liabilities under insurance contracts derivatives, where the interest components are shown approximately US$4 billion of assets : and in interest income.
financial liabilities under investment contracts HSBC has principally used the fair value and the related financial assets, when the change designation in the following cases: in value of the assets is correlated with the for certain fixed rate long-term debt issues change in value of the liabilities to policyholders whose interest rate characteristic has been approximately US$8 billion of liabilities and changed to floating through interest rate swaps related assets.
as part of a documented interest rate The introduction of the new categories of management strategy.
Approximately financial instruments under IAS 39 on 1 January US$51 billion of the Groups debt issues have 2005 has led to a change in income statement been accounted for using the option.
The presentation for the results of HSBCs life insurance movement in fair value of these debt issues business.
In 2005, income from assets designated at includes the effect of changes in own credit fair value and held to meet liabilities under insurance spread and any ineffectiveness in the economic and investment contracts of US$1,760 million is relationship between the related swaps and own reported under Net income from financial debt.
Such ineffectiveness arises from the instruments designated at fair value.
In 2004, the different credit characteristics of the swap and corresponding amounts were reported within Net own debt coupled with the sensitivity of the investment income on assets backing policyholder floating leg of the swap to changes in short-term liabilities.
In addition, the economic relationship between the swap and own debt can 33 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Income from assets designated at fair value and element of the increase in liabilities under insurance held to meet liabilities under insurance and contracts that reflects investment performance is investment contracts during 2005 is correlated with reported separately within Net insurance claims increases in liabilities under the related investment incurred and movements in policyholder liabilities.
Under IFRSs, only In 2004, investment income on assets backing investment contracts can be designated as financial policyholder liabilities was offset against the instruments.
Changes in the liability under these movement in policyholder liabilities without contracts, therefore, like the related assets, are distinction between insurance and investment included within the heading Net income from contracts.
financial instruments designated at fair value.
Lower income from HSBCs European operations.
Higher volumes of life increased by US$68 million compared with 2004. assurance new business were directly driven by the On an underlying basis, net earned insurance launch of new endowment products, augmented by premiums were in line with 2004.
HSBCs leading position in online personal insurance provision.
In addition, greater demand for Under IFRSs, in 2005 there were changes in the private medical insurance products was driven by the presentation of certain aspects of HSBCs insurance public response to government deliberation over business, which are now treated as liabilities under reforms to healthcare financing.
Investment income from these HSBCs insurance business included the products is now reported as Net income from establishment of a new Commercial Banking financial investments designated at fair value.
insurance division in October, which positively Income that was previously reported as Net earned contributed to higher volumes of new business.
insurance premiums is now taken directly to the balance sheet as customer liabilities, with a In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, the increase was corresponding movement in net insurance claims.
mainly attributable to growth in the number of Net insurance claims have fallen to a greater extent personal insurance policies, resulting from an than premium income, due to the additional impact expansion of HSBCs insurance operations in the of the reclassification of the fair value movement in region.
respect of liabilities under investment contracts.
In North America, increased cross-sales of The commentary that follows excludes the insurance products through the branch network, presentational changes discussed above, and is on an combined with strong sales of other personal underlying basis.
insurance-related products, resulted in an increase in net earned insurance premiums.
Higher premium income in Europe was due to an increased uptake of creditor protection products On an underlying basis, net earned insurance in the UK.
premiums in South America were broadly in line with 2004.
On an operations in Australia.
underlying basis, other operating income grew by Other operating income in North America 69 per cent.
doubled, in part due to improved revenues from the The commentary that follows is on an sale of consumer real estate owned assets, higher underlying basis.
rental income and disposals of fixed assets.
In Europe, an increase in other operating income In South America, other operating income was largely driven by increased rental income on the increased by US$160 million, primarily as a result of leasing of train rolling stock, higher disposals of the sale of the insurance underwriter HSBC Seguros assets and a number of private equity realisations.
fide Automoveis e Bens Limitada in Brazil, and the receipt of compensation and coverage bonds in In Hong Kong, higher other operating income Argentina.
was driven mainly by an increase in market value of the investment property portfolio and the disposal of HSBCs rental income mainly arose from a leasehold residential property.
HSBCs investment leasing in the UK.
Europe accounted for 80 per cent properties are located principally in Hong Kong.
of total rental income: the remainder was attributable Under IFRSs, valuation movements on investment to North America and Hong Kong.
properties are reflected in the income statement The increase in the Other caption was due, in rather than through revaluation reserves.
Within part to the receipt of non-core income in Mexico Hong Kong, the commercial property sector enjoyed from the distribution of third-party products through good growth as the economy grew and vacant space the HSBC network.
Higher Other income in South fell markedly with a corresponding rise in rents.
America reflected the receipt of compensation and The increase in other operating income in the coverage bonds in Argentina and increased revenues Rest of Asia-Pacific was, in part, due to profit from capitalisation products in Brazil.
On an Excluding the effect of the above underlying basis, net insurance claims incurred reclassification, the most significant reduction in net decreased by 13 per cent.
claims occurred in Europe, due to the effect of As with net earned insurance premiums, the revised actuarial valuations of existing life insurance primary reason for the reduction was the required policies in the UK life operation.
reclassification under IFRSs in 2005 of The reinsurers share of claims incurred and policyholders liabilities in respect of long term movement in policyholder liabilities in 2004 assurance contracts which were reclassified as included the renegotiation of a reinsurance treaty in Liabilities to customers under investment contracts.
the UK life operation, in which a greater proportion As a consequence, reported net insurance claims of risk was transferred to the reinsurer.
The incurred and movement in policyholders liabilities subsequent implementation of a revised liability have reduced.
valuation system in 2005 reduced the amount of The majority of HSBCs non-life insurance reserves held for liabilities in respect of income business largely relates to the provision of personal protection products, bringing additional benefits in insurance products.
Minimal impact from hurricane terms of capital efficiency of the UK life operation.
During 2005, the underlying growth in customer a weakening credit environment in the UK and lending excluding loans to the financial sector and Brazil but an improved credit experience in the the impact of grossing adjustments required from US: and 1 January 2005 under IFRS, was 12 per cent.
the non-recurrence of the 2004 net release of Personal lending accounted for 63 per cent of this general provision of US$498 million.
increase, principally in mortgages, credit cards and other personal lending products.
At 31 December In the US, the underlying trend in loan 2005, personal lending accounted for 56 per cent of impairment charges was favourable compared with the customer loan portfolio, in line with 2004.
The 2004, notwithstanding the negative effect on loan proportion of the portfolio attributable to corporate impairment charges of Hurricane Katrina and a surge and commercial lending was augmented by the in personal bankruptcies in October ahead of new IFRSs adjustment noted above.
Residential legislation making such declarations more onerous.
mortgages comprised 56 per cent of the personal A change in portfolio mix towards higher quality lending portfolio.
lending and a positive economic environment.
The charge for loan impairment adjusts the In the UK, credit costs rose following an balance sheet allowance for loan impairment to the expansion in personal lending, which was level that management deems adequate to absorb accompanied by an increase in delinquencies as the actual and inherent losses in the Groups loan economy slowed during 2005.
The majority of the Groups loan by rising personal bankruptcy, caused in part by impairment charges are determined on a portfolio legislative changes which facilitated debt basis, employing statistical calculations using roll reconstruction procedures, an increase in rate methodologies.
The total charge for loan unemployment and higher levels of personal debt.
In impairment and other credit risk provisions in 2005 Hong Kong, the credit environment remained was US$7,801 million compared with a total charge benign, with falling bankruptcies contributing to a of US$6,191 million in 2004, a rise of 26 per cent.
modest reduction in loan impairment allowances in This reflected: the personal sector.
A fall in releases in the corporate sector, however, contributed to a modest charge for underlying growth in lending of 12 per cent: 38 loan impairment as compared with a net release in border exposures did not necessitate significant 2004.
In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, continuing releases allowances.
and recoveries partly offset the impact of lending Impaired loans to customers were growth in the region.
Higher charges in the personal US$11,446 million at 31 December 2005 compared sector in Brazil followed intense competitive with US$12,427 million at 31 December 2004, pressure in the consumer segment, where significant largely reflecting the write-off of impaired loans increases in the availability of credit led to customers against the provisions held in respect of these loans.
At constant exchange rates, impaired loans were The aggregate customer loan impairment 3 per cent lower than 2004 compared with allowances at 31 December 2005 of US$11,357 underlying lending growth excluding lending to the million represented 1.5 per cent of gross customer financial sector and settlement accounts of 12 per advances net of reverse repos, settlement accounts cent.
and netting compared with 2.0 per cent at 31 December 2004.
This latter category principally includes customer relationships.
Operating expenses of US$29,514 million were cent, trailing net operating income growth before US$3,027 million, or 11 per cent, higher than in impairment charges by 3 percentage points.
On an underlying basis, cost growth was 9 per resulted in a slight improvement in the cost 39 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued efficiency ratio to 51 per cent.
The three main Markets increased by 9 per cent, reflecting increased drivers of cost growth were as follows: staff numbers and investments in technology and infrastructure.
volume expansion in many markets drove both revenue and costs.
In Personal Financial In Hong Kong, higher operating expenses Services and Commercial Banking, business reflected business expansion in Corporate, expansion drove cost growth of 6 per cent and Investment Banking and Markets, supported by 4 per cent respectively, though this was increased staff in the investment banking division exceeded by growth in net operating income and the recruitment of senior relationship managers.
before loan impairment charges of 11 per cent This was partly offset by the effect of branch and 15 per cent respectively.
In Mexico, Turkey restructuring and increased utilisation of the Group and Brazil, cost increases contributed over half Service Centres in Personal Financial Services, of the overall increase, but were significantly which led to a 4 per cent fall in branch headcount.
exceeded by income growth: Underlying operating expenses in the Rest of HSBC continued to improve productivity in Asia-Pacific increased by 31 per cent, reflecting mature markets.
In the UK, reorganisations in investment in broadening the customer base and the Personal Financial Services and Commercial distribution platform.
HSBCs branch network was Banking in 2004 resulted in aggregate, in extended in mainland China, South Korea, and India broadly flat costs, compared with growth of and additional sales and support staff were recruited 10 per cent in net operating income before loan in Personal Financial Services and Commercial impairment charges.
This was delivered through Banking.
Staff numbers also increased in response to greater utilisation of direct channels, improved the migration of call centre activities to the Group training and increased incentives.
In Hong Service Centres in the region.
Growth initiatives Kong, the promotion of cost-efficient delivery required investment in infrastructure and technology, channels and greater utilisation of the Group and accordingly non-staff costs increased by 39 per Service Centres contributed to a 6 percentage cent.
point improvement in the cost efficiency ratios In North America, costs bore a particularly large in Personal Financial Services and Commercial share of the investment in Corporate, Investment Banking: and Banking and Markets, reflecting HSBCs following a number of senior hires in 2004 in commitment to growing its presence in the region.
Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets, Costs also reflected the expansion of the network, subsequent investment was focused on with the opening of 27 new branches in 2005 and the operations and technology, to support revenue launch of HSBCs on-line savings account in the US.
Non-staff costs increased by 23 per cent HSBCs South American operations reported an in 2005, with staff costs growing by 14 per cent.
17 per cent increase in operating expenses on an The rate of cost growth peaked during the year underlying basis, partly as a result of higher average and the cost efficiency ratio was 2 percentage staff numbers following the acquisition of consumer points better in the second half of the year than finance businesses in 2004.
Marketing costs rose the first half, as net operating income before following a number of high profile campaigns in loan impairment charges grew faster than costs.
2005, while transactional taxes and incentive The following points are also of note.
In Europe, payments grew as a direct consequence of higher costs included the rebranding of the Groups income.
operations in France, the refurbishment of 60 UK Productivity improvements and strong disposal branches and increased marketing costs.
These gains allowed HSBC to substantially complete its increases were offset by lower costs in Commercial investment in Corporate, Investment Banking and Banking in the UK following restructuring activity Markets without any deterioration in the Groups in 2004.
Costs in Corporate, Investment Banking and cost efficiency ratio.
The deterioration in cost improved from 52.4 per cent to 51.2 per cent.
This efficiency ratios in the Rest of Asia-Pacific reflected was mainly attributable to improvements in continuing investment to expand HSBCs presence productivity in Personal Financial Services and within the region.
Acquisitions, including Metris in At 31 December 2005, this grossing change resulted the US, added just over US$6 billion to total assets.
in a US$44.2 billion increase in customer loans and The accounting effect of the adjustments required advances.
At constant exchange rates and excluding under IFRSs from 1 January 2005 added a further these changes, total assets grew by 17 per cent.
US$89.8 billion, to which the largest single At 31 December 2005, HSBCs balance sheet contributor was the grossing up of certain customer remained highly liquid.
The proportion of assets 41 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued deployed in customer advances fell to 50 per cent, the Groups surplus deposits and may be disposed of largely due to expansion of the fixed income either to manage liquidity or in response to business and the reclassification of certain financial reinvestment opportunities arising from favourable instruments to Trading assets.
Customer advances movements in economic indicators, such as interest increased by 10 per cent, driven by lending to rates, foreign exchange rates and equity prices.
They finance consumer spending, mortgage financing and are carried at fair value with unrealised gains and cards.
These were areas in which HSBC grew losses from movements thereon reported in equity market share, particularly through competitive until disposal.
On disposal, the accumulated pricing and marketing initiatives in parts of Asiaunrealised gain or loss is recognised through the Pacific, the UK and the US.
Growth in corporate income statement and reported as Gains less losses lending was concentrated in Commercial Banking, from financial investments.
and largely reflected trade financing, project finance Financial investments of US$182.3 billion were in the Middle East and expansion of the customer broadly in line with the balance at 31 December base in the UK, particularly in the property, 2004.
Unrealised gains included in the valuation of distribution and services sectors.
At constant equities amounted to US$1.1 billion.
exchange rates and excluding the grossing change mentioned above, net loans and advances to Funds under management customers grew by 10 per cent in 2005, of which acquisitions represented 1 per cent, or US$5.3 Funds under management of US$561 billion were billion.
US$85 billion, or 18 per cent, higher than at 31 December 2004.
Growth reflected strong inflows At 31 December 2005, assets held by HSBC as of net new money and good investment custodian amounted to US$3,242 billion, 15 per cent performances in both Group Investment Businesses higher than the US$2,819 billion held at and Private Banking, partly offset by the translation 31 December 2004.
At constant exchange rates, effect of the strengthening US dollar on sterling and growth was 22 per cent.
Custody is the safekeeping euro-denominated funds.
and administration of securities and financial instruments on behalf of others.
In Group Investment Businesses, net new money trebled to US$33 billion compared with the Complementing this is HSBCs funds under previous year.
Included in this, HSBCs Sinopia administration business.
At 31 December 2005, the subsidiary in France grew funds under management value of funds held under administration by the by 35 per cent, particularly in alternative funds.
Group amounted to US$779 billion, 28 per cent HSBC continues to manage some of the worlds higher than the US$610 billion held at 31 December largest active equity funds investing in India and 2004.
At constant exchange rates, growth was 37 per China with US$4.7 billion and US$1.9 billion of cent.
assets, respectively, at the end of 2005.
In Private Banking, increased recognition of HSBC in the Trading assets and financial investments private banking sector and an expanded product Trading assets principally consist of debt and equity range contributed to strong funds inflows.
instruments acquired for the purpose of benefiting At 31 December 2005, HSBCs Group from short-term price movements.
Securities Investment Businesses, including affiliates, reported classified as held-for-trading are carried in the funds under management of US$272 billion, and balance sheet at fair value with movements in fair Private Banking reported funds under management value reflected within the income statement.
Other funds under management, Trading assets of US$232.9 billion were 91 per of which the main constituent was a corporate trust cent higher than at 31 December 2004.
This increase business in Asia, comprised US$87 billion.
was primarily driven by the reclassification of Client assets, which are a measure of overall certain financial instruments from loans and Private Banking volumes and include funds under advances to Trading assets, coupled with the management, cash deposits and fiduciary deposits, expansion of the fixed income platform in Global rose by 13 per cent to US$282 billion.
Financial investments also comprise debt and equity instruments and until disposal are mostly classified as available-for-sale or, to a very small extent, held to maturity.
The available-for-sale investments essentially represent the deployment of 42 2005 2004 The effect of adopting IFRSs on the Groups US$bn US$bn financial results has been reflected in the derivation Funds under management of economic profit shown below.
Under IFRSs, there At 1 January.............................. 476 386 is no periodic amortisation charge for goodwill Net new money.......................... 63 64 arising on acquisitions.
In addition, the Group has modified its Exchange and other................... 23 7 calculation of economic profit for the following: At 31 December........................ 561 476 Unrealised gains and losses on effective cash flow hedges.
Gains and losses on the effective Economic profit hedging of future cash flows essentially reflect HSBCs internal performance measures include the opportunity profit or loss on decisions taken economic profit, a calculation which compares the to fix in monetary terms the yield on assets or return on financial capital invested in HSBC by its the cost of liabilities when measured against shareholders with the cost of that capital.
Given that these amounts prices its cost of capital internally and the difference are ultimately reflected in profit for the period, between that cost and post-tax profit attributable to they are excluded from average invested capital ordinary shareholders represents the amount of upon which the capital charge is based.
Economic profit is used Unrealised gains and losses on available-for-sale by management as a means to decide where to securities.
These are excluded from the measure allocate resources so that they will be most of average invested capital for the purpose of productive.
In order to concentrate on external computing economic profit because i the gains factors rather than measurement bases, HSBC or losses represent unrealised profit which may emphasises the trend in economic profit within be offset or reversed in the future, and ii there business units rather than absolute amounts.
In light is accounting asymmetry in that the offsetting of the current levels of world interest rates, and profit or loss on the liabilities taken out to fund taking into account its geographical and customer these assets is not reflected.
group diversification, HSBC believes that its true cost of capital on a consolidated basis is 10 per cent.
On this basis, economic profit increased by HSBC plans to continue using this rate until the end US$1,318 million or 31 per cent compared with of the current five-year strategic plan in 2008 in 2004, reflecting improved underlying profitability.
order to ensure consistency and comparability.
2 Average invested capital is measured as average total shareholders equity after adding back goodwill previously written-off directly to reserves, deducting preference shares issued by HSBC Holdings and deducting average reserves for unrealised gains losses on effective hedges and available-for-sale securities.
This measure reflects capital initially invested and subsequent profit.
3 Return on invested capital is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company.
43 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Analysis by customer group and by geographical region By customer group Profit before tax Year ended 31 December 2005 Corporate, Personal Investment InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment 6 Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense......... 23,351 6,310 3,001 848 472 1,704 31,334 Net fee income................. 7,313 2,876 2,967 1,080 220 14,456 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.......................... 360 150 2,919 317 90 3,656 Net interest income expense on trading activities....................... 214 3 306 13 1,704 2,208 Net trading 1 income expense........ 574 147 3,225 317 103 1,704 5,864 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value.
45 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Personal Financial Services Profit before tax Business highlights Year ended 31 December Pre-tax profits from Personal Financial Services grew 2005 2004 by 17 per cent to US$9,904 million, driven by US$m US$m improved performances in the core operations in the Net interest income............................. 23,351 21,422 UK, North America and Hong Kong.
On an underlying basis, growth in profit before tax was Net fee income................................... 7,313 6,406 15 per cent, and markedly strong rates of growth were Trading income excluding net achieved in Turkey, Canada, the Middle East and interest income............................... 360 320 Net interest income Brazil.
on trading activities........................ 214 1 The importance of direct sales channels continued to Net trading income............................ 574 320 increase globally.
HSBC conducted 183 million Net income from financial transactions online in 2005, an increase of 17 per cent instruments designated at fair value............................................... 574 on 2004.
Online sales to personal customers rose by Net investment income on assets 65 per cent and online revenues by 71 per cent.
backing policyholders liabilities.... 635 Gains less losses from financial The number of customers using HSBC Premier grew investments.................................... 19 79 for the sixth consecutive year, to 1.3 million, an Dividend income................................ 16 16 increase of 17 per cent compared with 2004.
HSBC Net earned insurance premiums.......... 4,864 3,652 Other operating income...................... 729 360 Premier was launched in Bangladesh and South Korea during the year, and is now available in Total operating income.................... 37,440 32,890 35 countries.
2 Net insurance claims......................... 3,716 2,953 Net operating income before loan Europe impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.................... 33,724 29,937 In the UK, investment in marketing and a range of Loan impairment charges and other campaigns, including the first ever January sale for a credit risk provisions...................... 7,537 6,500 UK bank, heightened brand awareness and increased Net operating income....................... 26,187 23,437 market share in most product lines.
In France, marketing campaigns accompanying the rebranding Total operating expenses.................... 16,427 15,009 to HSBC by CCF and four subsidiary banks Operating profit................................ 9,760 8,428 generated sales growth in mortgages, current Share of profit in associates and accounts and savings products.
First Direct was also named Best Direct Profit before tax.................................. 9,904 8,497 Lender over two and ten years by What Mortgage % % magazine, and Best Offset Mortgage by Mortgage Share of HSBCs profit before tax...... 47.2 44.9 magazine.
Cost efficiency ratio........................... 48.7 50.1 The UK business was further streamlined, with the US$m US$m product range simplified and strengthened and the 3 Selected balance sheet data rollout of a branch refurbishment programme initially Loans and advances to customers covering 60 major branches.
Good progress was made with the integration and expansion of M&S Money.
46 HSBCs UK current account offering was HSBCs first nationwide savings product, relaunched in 2005, providing a range of generated total new deposit balances of simplified propositions tailored to customer US$2.5 billion and added over 30,000 new segments, including HSBCs first packaged customers to HSBC.
bank account in the UK market.
Personal Other niche marketing initiatives introduced by Finance Magazine awarded HSBC Best HSBC in the US included the launch of deposit Current Account provider during the year.
generation programmes focused on the Chinese and Hispanic communities.
Together these Hong Kong garnered US$589 million of new deposits.
HSBC built on its leading position with the An agreement was reached for HSBC to offer rollout of 25 new Financial Management American Express branded credit cards in the Centres, providing investment planning services US.
This will allow HSBC to expand its product to non-Premier customers.
range and offer broader choice, value and HSBC was named by the Asian Banker as the convenience to customers.
Best Retail Bank in Hong Kong and Asia in HSBC completed its acquisition of Metris on 2004, and its web site was rated by Global 1 December 2005, and is now the 5th largest Finance as the Best Consumer Internet Bank issuer of MasterCard and Visa cards in the US.
This will strengthen HSBCs capabilities to HSBC maintained its position as the largest serve the full spectrum of credit card customers.
credit card issuer in Hong Kong, increasing the HSBC acquired Invis Inc, the largest number of cards in circulation by 15 per cent independent mortgage broker in Canada.
and its market share of spending from 50.5 per cent to 52.1 per cent.
In Mexico, strong asset and liability growth continued.
Average deposit balances grew by A new innovative retirement planning solution 15 per cent, due in part to the success of the was launched to meet the retirement planning Tu Cuenta product, the only integrated financial needs of customers of all ages.
HSBC was one services product of its kind in the country.
Since of the first banks in Hong Kong to offer such a its launch in February, over 600,000 new comprehensive service.
Product innovation, improved customer service and competitive Rest of Asia-Pacific pricing led to strong growth in mortgages, Customer acquisition was a core focus again in vehicle financing and payroll loans.
2005, with customer numbers growing by 22 per HSBC Mexicos cards in circulation grew by cent to 7.0 million.
HSBC continued to enhance 80 per cent to over one million, following an distribution channels with a 43 per cent increase active marketing campaign, and strong sales to in the sales force.
Seven new branches were the existing customer base.
opened in South Korea, Vietnam and India.
Customer loans grew by 20 per cent, driven by South America the new customer acquisition programmes.
In In Brazil, the integration of two consumer particular, the number of credit cards in finance businesses purchased in 2004 into the circulation grew by 34 per cent, or 1.6 million Losango operating model was completed during cards, to 6.3 million.
In mainland China, HSBC maintains the largest A number of new products were introduced in branch network amongst foreign banks, and 2005.
In Brazil, HSBC launched Consrcio fide opened ten new branches and sub-branches in Imveis, a lending product aimed at funding 2005.
Average deposit balances grew by 80 per property purchases, and a new credit card, cent and income by 61 per cent.
Carto Solidariedade, which enables donations to be made to a childrens charity in lieu of an North America annual fee.
In Argentina, a co-branded C&A HSBC continued to expand its banking presence credit card was launched in November, with in the US by opening 27 new branches.
The over 25,000 cards issued in the following introduction of the HSBC Premier Savings month.
account and the Online Savings Account, 47 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Commercial Banking Profit before tax Business highlights Year ended 31 December Pre-tax profit was 22 per cent higher than last year, 2004 2005 driven by strong growth in net operating income US$m US$m before loan impairment, which more than Net interest income............................. 6,310 4,875 compensated for the non-recurrence of the loan provision releases that benefited results in 2004.
Trading income excluding net interest income............................... 150 234 Customer numbers rose by 10 per cent to 2.5 million Net interest expense as customers were attracted by HSBCs competitive on trading activities........................ 3 1 positioning.
Loans and advances to customers and Net trading income............................ 147 234 customer account balances increased by 9 per cent Net expense from financial and 7 per cent respectively, with significant instruments designated at fair value............................................... 12 expansion in the UK and Hong Kong.
Interest spreads Net investment income on assets increased in Hong Kong, North America and the Rest backing policyholders liabilities.... 324 of Asia-Pacific following interest rate rises.
Gains less losses from financial investments.................................... 9 6 The commercial customer base was refined and now Dividend income................................ 9 37 comprises four categories: Corporate, Mid-Market Net earned insurance premiums.......... 236 1,072 Other operating income...................... 327 513 together, MME, Small and Micro businesses collectively, SME, building upon the successful Total operating income.................... 9,902 9,706 business segmentation model in existence in Hong 2 Net insurance claims......................... 118 1,264 Kong and the UK.
Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other Cross-border sales were strengthened by the launch credit risk provisions.................... 9,784 8,442 of new cross-border referral programmes and the Loan impairment charges and other global implementation of online cross-border account credit risk provisions...................... 547 200 opening and referral tools.
Net operating income....................... 9,237 8,242 HSBCs competitiveness in meeting the needs of Total operating expenses.................... 4,453 4,220 SMEs was enhanced through the introduction of preOperating profit................................ 4,784 4,022 approved loans and lines of credit in Hong Kong, the Share of profit in associates and launch of scored lending in India, the introduction of joint ventures.................................. 177 35 small business accounts in Singapore and the Profit before tax................................ 4,961 4,057 expansion of business banking centres in Malaysia.
South America.................................... 185 159 Business insurance and wealth management sales Profit before tax.................................. 4,961 4,057 continued to advance, supported by two new % % dedicated insurance sales teams in Hong Kong.
A Share of HSBCs profit before tax...... 23.7 21.4 worksite marketing programme launched in Mexico, Cost efficiency ratio........................... 45.5 50.0 and a programme across the Rest of Asia-Pacific to increase the sale of structured investment products, US$m US$m 3 were also notable successes.
Selected balance sheet data Loans and advances to customers Having enhanced its systems, HSBC retained its net................................................ 142,041 130,160 4 position as Best in Cash Management in Asia and Total assets........................................ 175,120 159,251 Customer accounts............................. 148,106 137,801 the Middle East, its number two ranking in the world and its top five ranking for Europe, North America, For footnotes, see page 55.
Latin America and Africa in Euromoneys 2005 Cash Management Survey.
48 Finance Asia named HSBC Best Trade Bank in Supporting customer service, a new SME call Asia for the ninth successive year, reflecting centre, employing 100 staff and incorporating a HSBCs continuing development of new dedicated sales hotline, took over four million products and services.
Europe Rest of Asia-Pacific In the UK, HSBC continued to focus on Regional relationship management offering a business start-ups and customers switching from single point of contact across several countries other banks to grow its customer base.
As a was implemented in the Middle East.
A similar result, more customers moved their banking approach was adopted in Hong Kong, mainland relationships from other financial institutions to China and Taiwan.
HSBC than to any other established high street The sales distribution network was expanded in bank.
In mainland China, three Investment in customer service as a new branches and an additional sub-branch, differentiating factor continued, with the with commercial banking presence, were recruitment of further relationship managers, the opened.
In South Korea, four commercial improved deployment and training of over 600 banking centres were established to extend dedicated small business specialists and a HSBCs presence in the MME market.
substantial investment in mobile working Across the region, several liability products technology.
were tailored for individual markets.
HSBC in Recognising lack of scale, HSBC outsourced the Bangladesh designed an innovative deposit processing of its UK vehicle finance contract scheme, Double Your Money, and in Taiwan hire product to a third party provider, Lex HSBC launched a Cash Marketing Campaign.
As well as releasing capital, this provided HSBC with access to Lexs IT North America systems and expertise to enable a greater range HSBCs market share of small business of services to be offered to customers.
customers in New York City increased, In France, the most experienced relationship supported by the success of the BusinessSmart managers focused on the largest 350 MME Value package which added 41,000 new customers in 2004, resulting in income growth accounts in 2005.
HSBC Bank USA was voted from this segment of 17 per cent in 2005.
1 Small Business Administration lender addition, a centralised and specialised in New York State.
franchising team was established to increase The MME and commercial real estate penetration of this significant and expanding businesses continued to expand in Boston, market.
Miami, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Seattle, A substantial investment was made to grow the with new offices established in Washington DC, Commercial Banking franchise in Turkey with Philadelphia and New Jersey.
the launch of SME banking, invoice discounting HSBC Mexico was awarded The best initiative and commercial cards.
in support of small and medium business owners in Mexico by the Mexican Minister of Hong Kong Economy for Estimulo, a tailor-made financial Loan balances increased as HSBC added services package.
relationship managers and launched two new pre-approved lending products, the PreSouth America approved Small Business Loan and the Pre- 40 commercial centres with 100 specialised staff approved Business Revolving Credit account.
were established to expand sales activity and The first ever Commercial Banking brand address the banking needs of over 12,500 larger awareness campaign was launched in 2005.
SME sales outlets were also rebranded as SME In Argentina, customer service was improved Centres to strengthen the brand identity and through the launch of an in-house internet more closely align HSBC with this market banking solution, PC Banking Empresas, and a segment.
49 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Profit before tax Business highlights Year ended 31 December Increased revenues marginally failed to cover 2005 2004 increased costs arising from continuing investment to US$m US$m expand product capabilities and customer penetration.
Net interest income............................. 3,001 3,994 Notwithstanding a decline in balance sheet management revenues of US$1 billion and a Net fee income................................... 2,967 2,764 US$1 billion increase in costs, pre-tax profit only fell Trading income excluding net by 2 per cent to US$5,163 million.
On an underlying interest income............................... 2,919 1,935 Net interest income basis, pre-tax profits fell by 4 per cent.
Earnings grew on trading activities........................ 306 in key product areas and client sectors where HSBC 1 Net trading income............................ 3,225 1,935 has invested, particularly in foreign-exchange Net income from financial options, project and export finance, and securities instruments designated at fair services, demonstrating the success of the strategy to value............................................... 67 diversify revenue streams.
Operating expenses Net investment income on assets backing policyholders liabilities.... 9 increased by 18 per cent.
The rate of cost growth Gains less losses from financial peaked during the year as the investment phase of the investments.................................... 475 197 Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Dividend income................................ 79 548 development plan neared completion.
Some 3,600 Net earned insurance premiums.......... 76 86 Other operating income...................... 1,621 1,029 additional people were recruited during 2005 and 2,220 people departed.
The cost efficiency ratio was Total operating income.................... 11,511 10,562 2 percentage points better in the second half of the 2 Net insurance claims......................... 54 59 year than in the first half as net operating income Net operating income before loan before loan impairment charges grew faster than impairment charges and other costs.
credit risk provisions.................... 11,457 10,503 Net recovery of loan impairment As the investment-led phase of the development charges and other credit risk strategy moved to implementation, the competitive provisions....................................... 272 499 advantage of HSBCs geographic network and Net operating income....................... 11,729 11,002 emerging market capabilities was underscored by Total operating expenses.................... 6,838 5,809 client demand for cross-border services.
HSBC advised on several cross-border acquisitions, notably Operating profit................................ 4,891 5,193 outward investment by clients in the Middle East and Share of profit in associates and joint ventures.................................. 272 95 inward investment into mainland China.
The parallel development of primary debt finance and secondary Profit before tax................................ 5,163 5,288 debt trading capabilities allowed HSBC, acting as By geographical region bookrunner, to help 792 clients in 65 countries to Europe................................................ 2,114 1,668 raise $867.8 billion in bond and loan financing in the Hong Kong......................................... 922 1,603 public markets.
In Global Transaction Banking, Rest of Asia-Pacific............................ 1,207 942 HSBC won several new multi-country mandates.
Profit before tax.................................. 5,163 5,288 In Global Markets, client revenues and market share % % rose in response to new investment.
Money market Share of HSBCs profit before tax...... 24.6 27.9 and balance sheet management income fell due to Cost efficiency ratio........................... 59.7 55.3 rising short-term US dollar and Hong Kong dollar For footnotes, see page 55. interest rates, together with the flattening and in some cases inversion of yield curves in the US, Hong Kong, the UK, eurozone, Mexico and Brazil.
Credit and rates revenue rose.
HSBC is now a primary dealer in 10 European government bond markets compared with eight at the end of 2004.
Cash equities commission revenue rose, reversing a fouryear declining trend.
50 Management view of total operating income In Corporate and Institutional Banking, which includes relationship management and lending Year ended 31 December activities, market conditions and competitive 2005 2004 US$m US$m pressures resulted in spread contraction in all regions.
This was mitigated by a continued focus on Global Markets fee-generating business, cost management and a Money market and balance sheet........ 1,238 2,376 favourable credit environment.
HSBC introduced a Foreign exchange............................... 1,200 1,125 number of balance sheet management initiatives Credit and rates................................... 931 655 Structured derivatives......................... 387 386 including the implementation of a detailed review of Equities............................................... 324 256 HSBCs portfolio and a balance sheet securitisation programme to enhance return on capital employed.
4,080 4,798 Corporate and Investment Banking In Global Investment Banking, an increase in market Global Investment Banking................ 1,022 877 share reflected HSBCs success in developing Corporate and Institutional Banking customer relationships.
In debt capital markets, and Global Transaction Banking.... 3,433 2,937 HSBC was ranked fifth in the international bond Private Equity..................................... 648 207 league table, up from seventh in 2004.
In project and 5,103 4,021 1 export finance, Dealogic ranked HSBC first in the Other................................................ 2,328 1,743 Global Financial Adviser, Project Finance category.
Total operating income....................... 11,511 10,562 In the advisory business, there was continued momentum in both developed and emerging markets.
3 Selected balance sheet data Notable transactions included advising Dubai Loans and advances to: International Capital on its US$1.5 billion customers net............................ 145,353 169,435 acquisition of Tussauds Group and acting as adviser banks net................................... 106,123 128,032 4 Total assets........................................ 755,056 584,779 to Autoroutes Paris-Rhin-Rhone on its privatisation.
Customer accounts............................. 177,449 202,361 Trading assets, financial instruments Significant equity-related transactions, in which designated at fair value, and HSBC acted as joint global coordinator, were the financial investments...................... 373,787 252,459 US$2.8 billion Link Real Estate Investment Trust Deposits by banks............................... 65,853 80,443 REIT IPO, the largest ever real estate offering 1 Other includes the Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets and REIT IPO in the world, and the US$2.2 billion business of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt, Group Investment IPO by the Bank of Communications.
Businesses, and net interest earned on free capital held in Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets not assigned to In Global Transaction Banking, a move to offering a products.
wider range of integrated solutions to clients played For other footnotes, see page 55. a large part in winning Unilevers first Asian panregional cash management mandate, covering 17 Structured derivatives activity rose strongly as a countries and territories.
significant upgrade and expansion of the quantitative At the end of December 2005, Group Investment skill base and investment in systems allowed HSBC Businesses managed US$272 billion of assets, a to complete higher volumes of derivatives 33 per cent increase on 2004, driven mainly by transactions in 2005.
In accordance with IFRSs, the US$33 billion of net flows from clients.
Assets in inception profits on certain types of these money market products exceeded US$60 billion.
transactions are deferred as described in Note 17 on HSBC manages two of the world's largest active the Financial Statements.
equity funds investing in India and China with The strong momentum in client revenue was US$4.7 billion and US$1.9 billion assets, confirmed by industry surveys.
HSBCs presence in mainland China foreign exchange survey, HSBC ranked second in was strengthened with an asset management joint FX options in 2005, up from fourth in 2004 and venture with Shanxi Trust and Investment eighth in 2003.
In addition, HSBC was ranked fourth Corporation Limited.
in foreign exchange trading market share, retained the premier ranking in Hong Kong and was voted, for the first time, the best foreign exchange bank in London.
51 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Private Banking Profit before tax Business highlights Year ended 31 December Pre-tax profit grew by 31 per cent compared with 2005 2004 2004, supported by strong growth in client assets and US$m US$m lending.
On an underlying basis, growth was also Net interest income............................. 848 718 31 per cent.
Operational efficiency was increased by greater utilisation of Group Service Centres and the Net fee income................................... 1,080 962 cost efficiency ratio was reduced by 4 per cent points 1 Net trading income............................ 317 257 to 62 per cent.
Net expenses from financial HSBC won a number of awards in the Euromoney instruments designated at fair value 1 Gains less losses from financial third annual private banking survey.
In the global investments.................................... 45 39 private banking awards, notable wins included 1st Dividend income................................ 9 5 Private Bank for Trust Services for the second year Other operating income...................... 68 24 running, 1st Private Bank for Islamic Services and Total operating income.................... 2,366 2,005 1st Private Bank for Inheritance and Succession 2 Net insurance claims......................... Planning.
Overall, HSBC improved one place to Net operating income before loan 3rd best Private Bank.
impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.................... 2,366 2,005 Client assets increased by 13 per cent to US$282 billion, benefiting from net new money of Net recovery of loan impairment charges and other credit risk US$35.7 billion in 2005.
Discretionary and advisory Net operating income....................... 2,378 2,016 asset growth benefited from the establishment of dedicated investment advisory resources in all major Total operating expenses.................... 1,466 1,319 regions, and also from growth in the Strategic Operating profit................................ 912 697 Investment Solutions product, in which invested Share of profit in associates and assets increased by US$1.9 billion to US$2.9 billion joint ventures.................................. during the year.
Profit before tax................................ 912 697 HSBC also continued to develop alternative By geographical region investment products.
South America.................................... 1 Profit before tax.................................. 912 697 Dedicated teams working with Commercial Banking, Personal Financial Services and Corporate, % % Investment Banking and Markets produced a Share of HSBCs profit before tax...... 4.4 3.7 significant increase in intra-Group referrals in 2005.
Cost efficiency ratio........................... 62.0 65.8 A closer alignment with the latter was also reflected US$m US$m in the manufacture of tailored structured products for 3 Selected balance sheet data private banking clients.
Bank of Bermudas private Loans and advances to customers banking operations were fully integrated during the net................................................ 27,749 24,463 4 year.
Total assets........................................ 59,827 56,751 Customer accounts............................. 67,205 57,780 The lending book grew strongly, as clients sought to leverage their investments in the low interest rate For footnotes, see page 55. environments in North America, Europe and Asia.
In the UK and US, lending book growth was also buoyed by strong growth in higher value mortgages.
52 Europe Asia In France, HSBC Private Banks subsidiary, Louvre Client assets increased by 17 per cent, or 19 per cent Gestion, was awarded second and fourth places for on an underlying basis.
Investment in Taiwan and overall performance over five and three years Japan continued and HSBC expanded its support of respectively by La Tribune Standard & Poors.
Onshore operations A number of HSBCs individual funds also won were launched in Dubai and India during the year, awards in the Lipper Fund Awards France.
and the expansion of the discretionary managed team aided growth of 47 per cent in this asset class.
Private Banking expanded its onshore business through the launch of regional offices in the UK and HSBC won awards from Euromoney as 1st for France, bringing HSBC closer to customers and Inheritance and Succession Planning, 1st for Tax strengthening referrals with the retail bank.
Regional Guidance and Services and 1st for Trust Services offices were also launched in Russia, and in Asia.
preparations were made for further expansion in 2006.
North America Client assets increased by 12 per cent, or 22 per cent HSBC extended its Private Banking capabilities on an underlying basis, with net new money through front office recruitment in New York, reaching US$23.4 billion.
California and Florida, and expanded its Wealth and Tax advisory business in Philadelphia through Euromoney awarded HSBC Best Private Bank in recruitment and a small acquisition.
Monaco for Ultra High Net Worth Clients.
The business was streamlined through restructuring, delivering front office synergies with Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets, cross-selling with Commercial Banking was enhanced, and a single management structure was put in place to cover the Hispanic customer base.
53 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued 6 Other Profit before tax Notes Year ended 31 December For a description of the main items reported under 2005 2004 Other, see footnote 6 on page 55.
US$m US$m Under IFRSs, from 1 January 2005 dividends payable Net interest expense income............ 472 90 on preference securities classified as liabilities have Net fee income................................... 220 171 been recognised as an interest expense within Other Trading expense income in 2005.
In 2004, these dividends were shown as nonexcluding net interest income......... 90 40 equity minority interests.
This change decreased net Net interest expense on trading interest income by US$653 million compared with activities......................................... 13 1 2004.
It also affected inter-regional dividends and this Net trading income............................ 103 40 increased net interest income in Europe by Net income from financial US$387 million, which was offset at a Group level by instruments designated at fair value............................................... 406 an equivalent reduction in net interest income in Net investment income on assets Hong Kong.
backing policyholders liabilities.... 44 Gains less losses from financial The US Technology Centre incurred and recharged investments.................................... 144 219 US$1,100 million of expense, 18 per cent higher than Dividend income................................ 42 16 2004 as a result of increased activity in support of Net earned insurance premiums.......... 260 558 Other operating income...................... 2,634 2,050 both increased global IT requirements and the development of new capabilities in Corporate, Total operating income.................... 3,131 3,188 Investment Banking and Markets.
2 Net insurance claims......................... 179 359 Costs incurred in the Group Service Centres outside Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other the US increased by 75 per cent to US$302 million, credit risk provisions.................... 2,952 2,829 reflecting the ongoing migration of processing and Loan impairment charges and other call centre activities.
credit risk provisions...................... 1 1 Net operating income....................... 2,951 2,828 Gains on the sale and revaluation of property and investments in Hong Kong were US$65 million lower Total operating expenses.................... 2,976 2,493 than in 2004, at US$263 million.
Operating profit loss....................... 25 335 Share of profit in associates and Increases in US interest rates led to higher net interest joint ventures.................................. 51 69 income earnings on centrally held US dollar Profit before tax................................ 26 404 denominated investments in Hong Kong and the Rest of Asia-Pacific.
By geographical region Europe................................................ 168 366 The reclassification of the Brazilian insurance Hong Kong......................................... 178 129 business from Other to Personal Financial Services Rest of Asia-Pacific............................ 94 26 led to a US$16 million reduction in profit before tax, North America.................................... 169 196 though significant variances were observed on South America.................................... 109 79 operating income and operating expenses lines.
Profit before tax.................................. 26 404 In Argentina, HSBC received compensation bonds in % % 2005 related to the pesification in 2002.
This, Share of HSBCs profit before tax...... 0.1 2.1 together with reduced Amparos provisions and other Cost efficiency ratio........................... 100.8 88.1 items related to the sovereign debt default, led to a US$m US$m US$17 million increase in profit before tax.
3 Selected balance sheet data Movement in the fair value of own debt designated at Loans and advances to customers net................................................ 1,893 2,339 fair value was US$386 million, arising in North 4 Total assets........................................ 27,653 26,201 America and Europe.
54 By geographical region In the analysis of profit by geographical region that follows, operating income and operating expenses include intra-HSBC items of US$938 million 2004: US$631 million.
While such allocations The results are presented in accordance with the have been made on a systematic and consistent basis, accounting policies used in the preparation of they necessarily involve a degree of subjectivity.
HSBCs operations are closely integrated and, accordingly, Where relevant, income and expense amounts the presentation of customer group data includes presented include the results of inter-segment internal allocations of certain items of income and funding as well as inter-company and inter-business expense.
These allocations include the costs of line transactions.
All such transactions are certain support services and head office functions, to undertaken on arms length terms.
Footnotes to Analysis by customer group and by geographical region 1 Net trading income comprises all gains and losses from changes in the fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities classified as held for trading, together with related external and internal interest income and interest expense, and dividends received.
2 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in policyholders liabilities.
4 Excluding Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
5 Assets and liabilities recorded here were significant to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets.
6 The main items reported under Other are the income and expenses of wholesale insurance operations, certain property activities, unallocated investment activities including hsbc.
com, centrally held investment companies, movements in the fair value of own debt designated at fair value, and HSBCs holding company and financing operations.
The results include net interest earned on free capital held centrally and operating costs incurred by the head office operations in providing stewardship and central management services to HSBC.
Net operating income of the Groups wholesale insurance operations amounted to US$460 million in 2005 2004: US$511 million.
Other also includes the costs incurred by the Group Service Centres and Shared Service Organisations and associated recoveries.
The latters results included within UK Personal Financial Services in 2005 were a loss of US$76 million 2004: profit US$97 million.
2 France primarily comprises the domestic operations of HSBC France and the Paris branch of HSBC Bank.
Growth in the UK economy remained subdued sheets and an impressive equity market performance.
during 2005 at 1.8 per cent, the lowest rate since Although commodity prices rose sharply, inflation 1992.
Consumer spending and housing activity remained well contained at around 2 per cent and slowed sharply during the first nine months of the wage growth eased.
In response to weaker economic year, staging a minor recovery in the final quarter.
activity, the Bank of England cut interest rates in Doubts remained over the strength of consumer August to 4.5 per cent.
spending, given the rise in unemployment in ten The eurozone experienced lacklustre economic consecutive months and reduced confidence in the growth in 2005 of 1.4 per cent, although momentum housing market.
The boost to the economy from accelerated during the course of the year.
With government spending in recent years was also not consumer spending growth remaining subdued, the expected to be as significant.
The recovery in strongest areas were exports and fixed investment.
exports was maintained, helped in large part by the There was, as usual, considerable divergence strength of the global economy, though the industrial between countries: Italy and Portugal saw hardly any sector continued to struggle.
Industrial output economic growth while Spain, Greece and Ireland contracted in 2005 for the fourth time in the past five grew by over 3 per cent.
Growth in France slowed years.
Companies remained reluctant to invest from 2.1 per cent in 2004 to 1.4 per cent in 2005 but despite a general profit recovery, stronger balance both investment and consumer spending revived a 57 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued little in the second half of the year.
Weak domestic expansion in Turkey, where pre-tax profit more than demand continued to constrain German gross quadrupled to US$134 million.
In France, revenue domestic product GDP growth, which slowed growth benefited from the rebranding of CCF and from 1.1 per cent in 2004 to 0.9 per cent in 2005, four subsidiary banks to HSBC France, with a despite a strong increase in exports, particularly notable increase in international products, capital goods.
Eurozone inflation averaged a little particularly mortgage lending to overseas customers.
over 2 per cent in 2005, with higher energy prices Continued emphasis was placed on streamlining boosting inflation by around 0.5 per cent.
The the business to improve productivity, and on sales European Central Bank raised interest rates from and channel management, particularly in the UK, 2.0 per cent to 2.25 per cent in early December, the where one third of sales were made through direct first increase for almost five years.
Attention was also paid to further The performance of the Turkish economy in simplifying HSBCs product range in the UK, and on 2005 remained very positive.
GDP grew by integrating the M&S Money business in its first full approximately 5.5 per cent, while inflation continued year since acquisition.
A number of innovative to fall, to 7.7 per cent in December from 9.7 per cent marketing campaigns and promotions during 2005 a year earlier.
Economic policy remained anchored heightened brand awareness, leading to greater by the governments agreement with the IMF.
customer consideration of HSBC products.
This was Turkeys current account deficit, which reached evidenced in strong balance growth and market share US$23.1 billion, or approximately 6.3 per cent of gains across most major product lines.
In Turkey, an GDP in 2005, is increasingly being financed by emphasis on business expansion and customer longer-term foreign direct investment into the acquisition delivered increased card sales and country, which should help reduce Turkeys utilisation combined with higher mortgage sales.
In vulnerability to a sudden reversal in short-term France, marketing campaigns in conjunction with the capital flows.
rebranding exercise boosted mortgage lending and sales of insurance and investment products.
European operations reported a pre-tax profit of US$6,356 million compared with US$5,756 million Net interest income increased by 10 per cent to in 2004, an increase of 10 per cent.
IFRSs changes to US$5,309 million.
This arose substantially in the UK the treatment of preference share dividends led to a through increases in mortgage and credit card US$275 million reduction in pre-tax profits.
On an lending, and in Turkey, mainly in credit cards.
underlying basis, pre-tax profits grew by 25 per cent Increased net interest income from balance sheet and represented around 30 per cent of HSBCs growth in France was offset by spread compression.
In the UK, strong revenue Despite a more subdued housing market, net growth in Personal Financial Services and good cost interest income from UK mortgages increased by discipline were partially tempered by a weaker credit 37 per cent, driven by balance growth of 22 per cent experience.
A quadrupling of pre-tax profits in and improvements in customer retention.
Spreads Turkey reflected the strong growth in customer also increased, reflecting the inclusion from 1 acquisition and retention achieved in the country.
In January 2005 of fee income within the effective Commercial Banking, HSBCs strong service interest rate calculation under IFRSs.
New lending proposition attracted a 5 per cent growth in was strongest in the first time buyer market, where customers with consequent growth in deposits, successful pricing and marketing strategies helped receivables and service revenues.
Corporate, gain market share of new sales in a market which Investment Banking and Markets delivered strong contracted overall.
revenue growth in Europe, notably in client related trading activities, Global Transaction Banking and Net interest income from UK credit cards securities services.
In aggregate, European increased by 24 per cent, driven by balance growth Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets and the IFRSs impact noted above.
Increased card revenues grew by 15 per cent against a 9 per cent utilisation by existing customers, as well as new increase in operating expenses.
customers attracted by competitive pricing, marketing and cross-sales, contributed to an increase The commentary that follows is on an of 16 per cent in average balances.
cards increased market share of new cards issued: Personal Financial Services reported a pre-tax sales of the John Lewis branded credit card also profit of US$1,932 million, an increase of 16 per increased.
Income benefited from the roll-off of cent compared with 2004, driven by revenue growth balance transfers introduced in the 0 per cent and productivity improvements in the UK and campaign at the end of 2004, while more 58 sophisticated risk-based pricing enabled customer In France, net interest income was broadly in rates to be differentiated more acutely.
Marketing campaigns in the run-up to the rebranding exercise contributed to a 54 per Net interest income from other unsecured cent increase in mortgage sales in a buoyant market, lending in the UK increased by 4 per cent.
The and a resulting 18 per cent increase in average launch of differentiated pricing initiatives in April, balances.
Cross-sales of current and special notably through preferential personal lending rate regulated savings accounts were strong, and average offers to lower-risk customers, helped boost average deposit balances grew by 4 per cent to US$14.9 loan balances by 9 per cent, and increase HSBCs billion.
The benefit of this balance sheet expansion market share of gross advances from 10.7 to 11.7 per was largely offset by lower spreads, as competitive cent.
Focused sales and marketing, notably the pricing reduced yields on lending products, and the January sale, also contributed to higher balances.
maturing of older, higher-yielding investments As indebtedness levels grew, growth was curtailed reduced the funding benefit from deposits.
through a tightening of underwriting criteria in the more difficult credit environment.
The introduction Excluding net interest income, net operating of preferential pricing, and a mix change towards income before loan impairment charges grew by higher value but lower-yielding loans, led to a 16 per cent to US$3,386 million, of which 48 basis point narrowing of spreads.
12 percentage points was in the UK and largely attributable to increased fees associated with the Recruitment of new current account customers increase in personal lending, mortgage and credit was strong, and HSBCs market share of new current card volumes described above.
Increased card accounts increased to 14.7 per cent, largely through utilisation also led to higher cash advance fees and brand-led awareness and marketing.
The launch of currency conversion income.
An improved two new current account propositions, including investment fund offering, following the HSBCs first value-driven packaged account in the depolarisation of the previously tied sales force, was UK market, and improved cross-sales aided growth reflected in a 5 per cent increase in related of 6 per cent in overall customer accounts.
In Turkey, fee income benefited from to an increase in net interest income from UK increased lending activity.
In France, privatisations current accounts of 5 per cent to US$1.0 billion, boosted brokerage income, and new product broadly in line with the 6 per cent increase in launches and marketing aided growth in insurance average balances.
Sales of new UK savings accounts increased Under IFRSs, changes in presentation from markedly, and average balances rose by 15 per cent, 1 January 2005, notably for certain contracts driven by a greater front-line focus, competitive previously accounted for as insurance, and with the pricing and the launch of new products, including designation of insurance-related assets at fair value, Regular Saver and Online Saver.
Included in this caused large movements within certain individual was growth of over US$1.2 billion in First Directs income lines.
These had negligible impact on income e-savings product, launched in September 2004. overall.
There was also a US$32 million gain from Net interest income, however, fell by 5 per cent, the fair value measurement of options linked to largely due to the non-recurrence of the benefit to French home-savings products.
spreads from base rate rises in 2004, and a slight reduction in margin.
The latter arose from Loan impairment charges of US$1,711 million competitive pricing initiatives partly designed to were 73 per cent higher than 2004, the majority of improve brand awareness and widen product which occurred in the UK.
In large part, this consideration.
reflected the strong growth in higher margin credit card and other unsecured lending in recent years.
In Turkey, innovative marketing initiatives and Weakening economic conditions and sharply rising advertising campaigns, with an emphasis on personal bankruptcies, following the change in attracting new customers, contributed to strong legislation in 2004, were also significant growth in net interest income, which more than contributors.
Average card balances increased by 66 per cent to US$0.9 billion, and Loan impairment charges as a percentage of average mortgage balances more than doubled to period end net customer advances rose from 0.8 to US$0.6 billion.
Higher card usage by existing 1.4 per cent.
customers, higher average mortgage advances and a HSBC responded to the weaker UK credit 7 per cent increase in overall customer numbers environment by further refining its credit eligibility contributed to the growth.
criteria, and by enhancing its credit scorecards with 59 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued full positive credit reference data.
HSBC became the following a reorganisation in the UK in 2004 to first UK high street clearing bank to share full improve efficiency.
UK credit quality experienced customer credit performance data in 2005. some weakening in the fourth quarter of 2005, Underwriting activity was also further centralised.
reflecting higher interest rates and the resulting Collections capabilities were enhanced, resulting in slowdown in consumer spending.
However, the an increase in amounts collected, and resources were quality of HSBCs commercial lending book added to the Retail Credit Risk Management remained strong overall with impairment charges function.
As a result, lending activity in the second continuing to run below historic levels: as in prior half of the year indicated that the credit quality of periods, loan impairment charges principally more recent unsecured lending had improved.
reflected allowances against a small number of accounts.
Higher charges in Turkey were broadly in line with balance sheet growth, while credit quality in Net interest income increased by 16 per cent.
the UK, lending and overdraft balances increased by 23 per cent, or US$6.6 billion, as a result of strong Operating expenses were broadly in line with customer demand.
The 7.5 percentage point fall in the cost market share, with particularly strong growth in the efficiency ratio, to 58 per cent, was largely driven by property, distribution and services sectors.
In invoice productivity improvements in the UK.
This reflected financing, a 12 per cent increase in customer the benefits of the cost reduction strategy introduced numbers supported by a sales force realignment led in 2004.
Increased focus on direct channels, and the to higher balances and a 10 per cent increase in net greater centralisation of support functions enabled by interest income.
Risk-based pricing improved this, reduced the UK cost base in 2005, which also overdraft spreads by 15 basis points, while term benefited from the non-recurrence of the lending margins were in line with 2004. restructuring costs incurred in implementing this strategy.
Costs in 2004 also included amounts for A campaign designed to secure a greater share compensation expected to be payable to UK of the commercial savings market, in part through customers for shortfalls on certain mortgage more competitive pricing, contributed to an 11 per endowment policies and investment products.
cent increase in UK deposit balances, with spreads Operating expenses in 2005 included the initial falling by 16 basis points.
Overall, UK commercial phase of a UK branch refurbishment programme customer liability balances benefited from both designed to improve customer experience, which deposit growth and a 12 per cent increase in current added US$73 million to costs.
Current account customer numbers rose to over 700,000 with over 20,000 customers In France, a 2 per cent increase in operating switching their business to HSBC following expenses was driven by the recruitment of additional marketing and advertising campaigns in 2005.
In the sales staff, as well as the rebranding exercise and UK, HSBC attracted over 90,000 start-up accounts, associated marketing expenditure.
In Turkey, representing a 20 per cent market share.
Spreads on marketing costs increased by 30 per cent and staff sterling current accounts fell as customers continued costs by 33 per cent, largely in support of the to migrate to interest-paying current accounts.
Increases in US interest rates led to a widening of Commercial Banking reported pre-tax profits spreads on international and foreign currency current of US$1,939 million, an increase of 18 per cent.
highly competitive markets, revenues grew by Net interest income in Turkey increased by 6 per cent and profit improvement largely reflected 29 per cent, principally as a result of higher lending reduced costs, more than offsetting higher loan and deposit balances, which increased by 25 per cent impairment charges.
HSBC deepened its In the UK, improved market segmentation led to relationships with its larger commercial banking a more acute focus on the needs of individual customers and recruited additional sales staff to customers and underpinned a 20 per cent increase in support the launch of SME banking in the second pre-tax profits.
The establishment in 2004 of half of 2005.
Corporate Banking Centres to improve the service In France, increased marketing activity offered to MMEs, and Commercial Centres focusing highlighting HSBCs international capabilities as on larger SMEs, together with the recruitment of CCF rebranded to HSBC France, together with a additional sales staff, contributed to a 6 per cent programme to align the banks 350 largest increase in customers and strong growth in lending.
Commercial Banking customers with the most Revenues responded strongly, and costs were lower 60 experienced relationship managers, led to a 10 per Operating expenses decreased by 5 per cent and, cent increase in medium term loan balances.
Sight together with increased income, resulted in a deposit balances grew by 7 per cent, though deposit 6 percentage point improvement in the cost spreads decreased as maturing funds were placed at efficiency ratio.
In the UK, the non-recurrence of lower prevailing interest rates.
cost reduction expenditure in 2004, together with the resulting fall in staff numbers and strong cost Net fee income increased by 2 per cent to control, contributed to a 10 per cent decrease in US$1,621 million, net of IFRSs changes to switch operating expenses.
Although overall staff numbers some fees into the effective interest rate calculation, declined, additional sales staff were hired to take which led to a 15 per cent reduction in fee income.
advantage of business opportunities in support of In the UK, higher new business volumes and lending revenue growth.
These sales staff were supported by activity contributed to a US$77 million, or 27 per press and other advertising campaigns aimed at cent, increase in loan and overdraft fee income.
attracting customers switching banks and start-up Increased customer numbers, coupled with the businesses to HSBC, together with a campaign introduction of a new small business tariff in January targeting SMEs which contributed to an increase in 2005, led to a 13 per cent increase in current account marketing costs.
Card acquiring income increased by 8 per cent, despite a slowdown in consumer In France, staff recruitment, increased marketing spending driven by a 6 per cent increase in activity and re-branding led to an 8 per cent increase transaction volumes, reflecting merchant acquisition.
Staff costs rose as HSBC France recruited A 21 per cent increase in card customer numbers additional sales staff to support business expansion, contributed to higher card issuing income.
and success led to higher performance-related remuneration.
Campaigns targeting top tier HSBC benefited from the recruitment of commercial customers and supporting product additional sales staff, development of profitable launches led to an increase in marketing expenditure, relationships with brokers and the success of while rebranding and supporting activity to dedicated corporate and commercial centres.
Invoice emphasise the HSBC name change also financing fee income increased by 9 per cent, contributed.
benefiting from an expanded client base, while a tariff review contributed to a 16 per cent increase in In an economy which grew by 5.5 per cent in treasury income.
The recruitment, in both 2004 and 2005, increased business activity, the launch of SME 2005, of commercial independent financial advisors, banking and the recruitment of additional sales and together with the development of existing sales staff, support staff in Turkey contributed to a rise in led to a 13 per cent increase in insurance and income and a 17 per cent increase in operating investment income, with fee income from savings expenses.
and investment products increasing by a third.
Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Income in the vehicle and equipment leasing reported a pre-tax profit of US$2,114 million, an businesses decreased by 13 per cent, following an increase of 27 per cent, compared with 2004. agreement to outsource the operational functions of Revenues from all major client-related trading the UK vehicle finance contract hire business to Lex activities increased, particularly from the credit and Vehicle Leasing, which took effect from November rates, equities and structured derivatives businesses 2005.
Excluding the transfer, net fee income from where HSBC has invested in upgrading its leasing increased by 5 per cent.
Operating expenses rose, reflecting the Loan impairment charges and other credit risk first full-year cost of the expanded sales and provisions increased by 26 per cent to execution capabilities.
However, cost growth slowed US$378 million.
In the UK, lending growth and in the second half of 2005 and in aggregate in sizeable allowances against a small number of Europe, revenue growth comfortably surpassed accounts led to a US$162 million increase in growth in costs.
In Europe, 2005 marked the charges.
Overall credit quality remained relatively transition from the investment phase of Corporate, strong, although some deterioration was evident in Investment Banking and Markets development the market in the last three months of 2005 as strategy to a focus on implementation.
In France, new Total operating income increased by 15 per cent individually assessed allowances were largely offset to US$5,510 million.
Balance sheet management and by higher recoveries, while in Malta net releases money market revenues declined by approximately decreased as a large release against a single customer 46 per cent reflecting a challenging interest rate in 2004 was not repeated.
61 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued environment of higher short-term rates and a The overall credit environment remained flattening yield curve.
favourable, with a net recovery in 2005 as in 2004.
There were, however, lower recoveries of loan Corporate lending spreads remained under impairment charges in the UK and France, as HSBC pressure as customers refinanced and negotiated had benefited from a number of successful better terms in response to falling credit spreads on refinancings in 2004.
In Italy, a net recovery virtually all publicly traded debt instruments and reflected relatively lower allowances against loan strong liquidity in the banking system.
In the UK, impairment, coupled with releases of provisions the adverse impact of a 23 basis point decrease in made in 2004. spreads on customer lending was partly mitigated by a 7 per cent increase in lending balances.
Corporate Operating expenses increased by 9 per cent to and Institutional Banking also implemented a US$3,647 million, partly from the first full year balance sheet securitisation programme to enhance effect of recruitment in 2004 and partly from a returns.
In Global Transaction Banking, net interest further 980 people recruited in 2005 to deliver the income increased, primarily due to an increase in expanded capabilities reflected in the revenue gains balances held on behalf of customers, coupled with described above.
Extensive investment was also the favourable impact of rising short-term rates.
made to develop the infrastructure and technology Customer deposit balances increased by 23 per cent platform required to integrate and support the and spreads improved by 9 basis points.
In Global Markets, costs rose as new capabilities were added to the cash equities Net fees rose by 7 per cent, partly due to an platform, the structured derivatives business in the increase in earnings from the equity capital markets UK and the credit and rates business.
Additionally, as equity markets became operational costs, particularly in Global Transaction more buoyant, HSBC Securities Services fees Banking, was due to higher transaction volumes.
increased and assets under custody grew by 15 per cent to US$3,242 billion, primarily due to Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit of new business and market value appreciation.
The US$539 million, an increase of 23 per cent asset-backed securities product also generated higher compared with 2004, driven by strong growth in fees with several notable transactions closing in client assets, transaction volumes and the lending 2005.
In Germany, a 31 per cent rise in net fees was book.
Operating expenses rose with a recruitmentdriven by origination activity and higher sales of driven increase in staff costs partly offset by structured solutions.
efficiency savings and the non-recurrence of restructuring costs in France in 2004.
The increase in income from trading activities arose from positive revenue trends on core products Net interest income increased by 31 per cent, within Global Markets in response to the investment driven by strong balance sheet growth in the UK, made in client-facing trading capabilities.
Fixed Switzerland and, to a lesser extent, Germany.
income revenues were boosted by higher volumes Overall, lending balances increased by 21 per cent to processed through electronic trading platforms and US$16.7 billion, as clients borrowed in the low by the expansion of primary dealing activity in interest rate environment to make alternative European government bond markets.
This included strong growth in UK strong performance in structured derivatives mortgage balances, which increased by 39 per cent, reflected investment in new hybrid derivatives and in part reflecting synergies with HSBCs residential structured fund derivatives businesses, while income property advisory business.
Deposits increased by in the credit and rates business rose by 25 per cent as 20 per cent to US$38.6 billion, as new clients placed a result of higher revenues from securities trading, cash prior to investment.
asset-backed securities and credit default swaps.
Client assets, including deposits, increased by There was growth in income from currency 22 per cent to US$174.7 billion.
Net new money of derivatives on the back of increasing client business.
US$23.4 billion reflected notably strong inflows in Other income was boosted by gains from the Switzerland, Germany, Monaco and the UK.
In restructuring and syndication of existing assets in Switzerland, an increased marketing effort and Global Investment Banking.
successful product placement aided net new money of US$9.6 billion.
In Germany, US$7.6 billion of Gains from sales of financial investments new money was predominantly due to the success of increased significantly to US$396 million, due to a new wealth management team.
In Monaco, a focus higher realisations from Private Equity.
on building the onshore business generated inflows of US$4.1 billion, while in the UK, cross-referrals 62 with the wider Group contributed to nearly one Operating expenses rose by 11 per cent, of quarter of the US$1.6 billion of new money.
which front office recruitment and increased performance-related remuneration comprised 4 and A US$20 million lower performance fee from a 5 percentage points respectively.
Investment costs, public equity fund dedicated to Russia was more largely in IT and marketing, and supporting business than offset by increased core fees and commissions growth contributed further to the increase.
These in line with growth in client assets, and transactional were in part offset by back office efficiency savings income as new clients invested.
Higher fee income and lower restructuring costs following 2004s also reflected growth in discretionary and advisory merger of HSBCs four French private banks.
managed assets, and volume growth, which was boosted by the success of new products launched in Within Other, net operating income benefited 2005, notably in alternative investments.
Gains from from the change to the presentation of inter-company financial investments in both 2004 and 2005 were preference share dividends received from mainly on the sale of debt instruments.
The overall Hong Kong under IFRSs from 1 January 2005. gain in 2005 of US$27 million was 17 per cent lower Head office operating expenses increased, reflecting than in the previous year.
higher brand advertising and marketing costs, increased professional fees incurred to comply with The net release of loan impairment charges in additional regulatory requirements including 2005 related largely to specific clients: improved Sarbanes-Oxley and Basel II, and restructuring costs.
credit quality overall also led to a release of In 2004, operating expenses benefited from the collective impairment provisions.
63 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Profit loss before tax by customer group Year ended 31 December 2005 Corporate, Personal Investment InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total Europe US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income........... 5,309 2,659 827 548 95 1,217 8,221 Net fee income................. 2,314 1,621 1,339 730 295 6,299 Trading income expense excluding net interest income.......................... 81 16 1,493 93 23 1,660 Net interest income expense on trading activities....................... 3 2 159 5 1,217 1,376 Net trading income expense......... 84 18 1,652 93 28 1,217 3,036 Net income expense from financial instruments designated at fair value.
3 These assets and liabilities were significant to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets.
2 Excluding Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
66 Hong Kongs economy grew by 7.3 per cent in in 2004.
This was largely due to widening deposit 2005, down from the growth of 8.6 per cent achieved spreads, deposit growth and improved credit quality.
Robust domestic demand provided strong During the year, HSBC placed considerable support, particularly in the second half of the year, emphasis on maintaining its leadership position and and external trade maintained its rapid rate of meeting customer needs in both the credit cards and growth.
Despite a substantial rise of more than 3 per insurance businesses.
Market share of both spend cent in local interest rates in 2005, domestic demand and balances grew in respect of credit cards along continued to expand, reflecting a sustained with strong insurance revenue growth.
improvement in business and consumer confidence.
Net interest income grew by 30 per cent to Increased consumer spending, spurred by greater job US$2,618 million.
During 2005, interest rates in security as unemployment fell, and improving Hong Kong rose significantly, reflecting rising US household incomes, became a key driver of growth dollar interest rates.
In addition, adjustments to the in the latter part of the year.
The rise in domestic Hong Kong: US dollar linked exchange rate system spending more than offset the slower growth in reduced the likelihood of an upward realignment of tourists spending which occurred in 2005, the Hong Kong dollar, prompting a reversal of much particularly among mainland visitors, and consumer of the inward flows from investors that had optimism remained unaffected by a cooling in the depressed local market rates in 2004.
Consequently, property market induced by the higher interest rate deposit spreads widened to more normal levels after environment.
Hong Kongs strong export the exceptionally low spreads experienced in 2004. performance also propelled growth, benefiting from Interest rate rises also helped stimulate growth in sustained external demand and foreign importers average deposit balances as investor sentiment building up inventories as trade talks continued on moved away from long-term equity-related textile quotas between mainland China and its major investments into shorter-term liquid deposits.
Domestic exports also picked up, Despite the competitive deposit market, average reflecting increased local production.
In 2005, balances grew by US$2.9 billion, or 3 per cent.
inflation rose to 1.1 per cent, mainly driven by increased demand for property rentals.
The mortgage market remained highly competitive during 2005.
During the first half of the HSBCs operations in Hong Kong reported a year, HSBC did not aggressively compete on price pre-tax profit of US$4,517 million, compared with but maintained a selective approach to mortgage US$4,830 million in 2004.
IFRSs changes to the approvals, mainly by offering competitive rates to treatment of preference share dividends led to a the existing customer base.
Yields gradually US$387 million decrease in pre-tax profits.
improved during the year, as HSBC repriced Excluding this, profits increased by 2 per cent.
upwards following a series of interest rates increases.
Subdued profit growth was largely attributable to a Spreads declined compared with 2004, as turnaround in loan impairment charges, as 2004 improvements in yields were more than offset by benefited from non-recurring releases from general higher funding costs following rising interest rates.
provisions, and a fall in balance sheet management Average mortgage balances, excluding the reduction revenues.
Pre-tax profits in Hong Kong represented in balances under the suspended Hong Kong around 22 per cent of HSBCs total profit at this Government Home Ownership Scheme GHOS level.
In Corporate, Investment Banking and grew by 1 per cent, despite the highly competitive Markets, balance sheet management revenues were environment.
negatively affected by the influence of short-term interest rate rises and a flattening yield curve.
Average credit card balances grew by 10 per Expense growth in Corporate, Investment Banking cent, and HSBCs market share of card balances also and Markets reflected the first full-year effect of the increased by 550 basis points led by targeted investment made to support business expansion.
Prepromotional campaigns and rewards programmes.
tax profits of Personal Financial Services and These volume benefits were more than offset by Commercial Banking grew by 27 per cent and lower spreads, mainly due to higher funding costs as 6 per cent respectively, benefiting from a sharp rise interest rates rose.
in deposit spreads as short-term interest rates Net fees fell by 6 per cent to US$740 million, increased in a benign credit environment.
driven mainly by lower sales of unit trusts and The commentary that follows is on an capital guaranteed funds, partly offset by higher underlying basis.
sales of structured deposit products and open-ended funds.
A 34 per cent fall in unit trust fee income was Personal Financial Services reported a pre-tax driven by a change in market sentiment during 2005. profit of US$2,628 million, 27 per cent higher than 67 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued The combined effect of higher interest rates and a with a net charge of US$56 million in 2004.
This flattening yield curve reduced customer demand for was mainly driven by continued improvement in capital guaranteed funds and longer-term equity credit quality within the credit card portfolio, and a related investment products.
Investors preferred collective provision release of US$23 million in shorter-term investment products which in turn respect of prior year impairment allowances on the generated lower fees.
Revenues from open-ended restructured lending portfolio.
The strong housing fund sales reflected this, increasing by 32 per cent to market also enabled individually assessed allowance US$95 million with the introduction of 173 new releases of US$24 million in the mortgage portfolio.
funds increasing the choice of funds available to There was also a release of US$11 million in respect investors.
This was an important strategic initiative of collective loan impairment allowances, benefiting to position HSBC as the leading investment service from the improved economic conditions highlighted provider in Hong Kong, where customers can now above.
Operating expenses fell by 4 per cent to Revenues from structured deposit products US$1,305 million.
This was largely due to a change grew, with strong sales volumes aided by new in the method by which centrally incurred costs are products launched.
The success of the Exclusive allocated to the customer groups.
IT development Placement Service, launched in 2004 for HSBC costs rose in support of future growth initiatives, and Premier customers, continued with year-on-year higher marketing and advertising expenditures were revenue growth of 178 per cent.
The service offers incurred on behalf of organic growth.
Staff costs an extensive product range of yield enhancement were marginally lower this year.
Branch teams were options, re-priced daily and linked to foreign restructured to dedicate more staff to sales and exchange or interest rates.
IPO certificate of deposit customer service, and significant improvements were offerings doubled.
These were partly offset by lower made to the reward structure to ensure retention of revenues from Deposit plus and Equity linked high calibre individuals.
Overall, headcount in the note products.
branch network fell by 4 per cent, reflecting operating efficiency improvements and higher Fee income from credit cards grew by 9 per utilisation of the Group Service Centres.
cent, reflecting a 21 per cent increase in spending along with a 15 per cent rise in the number of cards Pre-tax profits in Commercial Banking in circulation to four million.
In stockbroking and increased by 6 per cent to US$955 million.
Increased custody services, new services were launched aimed deposit spreads and a rise in lending and deposit at facilitating securities management by customers.
balances led to higher net interest income, though Competitive pricing and a high quality of service on this was partly offset by larger loan impairment the internet led to a 15 per cent growth in customers charges and the non-recurrence of loan allowance holding securities with HSBC.
HSBC continued to place significant emphasis Net interest income increased by 60 per cent as on the growth and development of its insurance a result of increased deposit spreads and growth in business, and increased the range of products both assets and liabilities.
Insurance revenues grew by 20 per cent, number of experienced relationship managers to aided by new products launched which included the service key accounts, together with the establishment Five year excel and the Three year express wealth of core business banking centres, contributed to joint life insurance and wealth products.
HSBC was growth in both deposits and lending.
Interest rate Hong Kongs leading online insurance provider, rises led to a 67 basis point increase in deposit offering 12 insurance products.
This, coupled with spreads and, together with active management of the competitive pricing, led to a 91 per cent growth in deposit base, contributed to increased customer online insurance revenues.
Medical insurance demand for savings products which resulted in a products were enhanced and heavily marketed in 6 per cent increase in deposit balances to US$28.7 response to the growing public demand for private billion.
The introduction of a pre-approved lending medical protection to complement new medical programme for SMEs, together with strong demand reforms being introduced.
for credit in the property, manufacturing, trading and retail sectors, contributed to a 29 per cent increase in Improvements in credit conditions, which lending balances.
However, increased competition benefited from economic growth, higher property reduced lending spreads by 43 basis points.
Current prices and lower bankruptices, underpinned a net account customers rose by 2 per cent to 329,000 and, release of loan impairment charges and other credit together with higher spreads, contributed to an 81per risk provisions of US$11 million in 2005, compared cent increase in current account net interest income.
68 The BusinessVantage all-in-one account continued the Global Investment Banking advisory platform for to perform strongly, with customers increasing by 23 Asia in Hong Kong.
per cent, which led to income more than doubling in A 19 per cent decline in total operating income 2005. was driven by a 74 per cent fall in balance sheet Net fee income increased by 10 per cent to management and money market revenues due to US$402 million as a result of efforts to encourage rising short-term US and Hong Kong interest rates cross-sales, which led to an increase in average and flattening yield curves.
Investment in HSBCs In Corporate and Institutional Banking, deposit insurance business, including the establishment of a spreads increased in line with higher local interest new Commercial Banking insurance division in rates, although this was offset by lending spreads October 2005, delivered a 10 per cent increase in which fell amidst fierce local competition.
Enhanced product offerings and Transaction Banking revenues increased, benefiting focused sales efforts in the areas of currency and from the improvement in deposit spreads, together interest rate management products more than with higher deposit balances as business volumes doubled income.
Growth in the number of merchant grew from the upgraded cash management service customers following targeted marketing campaigns, delivered through HSBCnet.
together with higher consumer spending, led to a 22 per cent increase in card income.
However, these Net fees fell by 19 per cent, driven primarily by increases were partly offset by a reduced a reduction in structured finance revenues.
However, contribution from investment products, even though a number of significant equity related transactions sales increased by 20 per cent, reflecting changes in were concluded.
Fee income from Group Investment the product mix, as demand for capital protected Businesses was boosted by sales of investment funds decreased in the rising interest rate products and a US$3.7 billion growth in funds under environment.
Loan impairment charges and other credit risk Income from trading activities rose as new provisions of US$168 million contrasted with net structured product capabilities were added in respect recoveries in 2004, and included a significant charge of credit, equities, interest rate and foreign exchange against a client in the manufacturing sector.
Higher foreign exchange derivatives and recoveries in 2005 were lower, although revenues reflected an increased focus on sales and impaired loans as a proportion of lending balances execution.
These gains were partly offset by a decreased.
decline in sales of structured product solutions to the personal and commercial businesses, as retail Operating expenses were 3 per cent higher, investors switched to shorter deposit products in the principally as a result of staff recruitment to support higher interest rate environment.
Losses were also business development and expansion.
This was incurred on the trading of Asian high-yield bonds, particularly true with respect to business with where revenues fell following the downgrading of mainland China, where additional resources were the automobile sector in the first half of 2005. focused on increasing cross-sales and insurance income.
Expenditure on new marketing campaigns The overall credit environment remained promoted HSBCs lower-cost delivery channels.
favourable and there was a small net release of loan These campaigns, together with additional impairment charges, although this was below levels investment to increase customer access to ATMs and seen in 2004 when HSBC benefited from corporate cheque deposit machines, grew the proportion of restructuring and refinancing in the property, transactions using low cost channels to 35 per cent industrial and telecommunications sectors.
This released staff to A 20 per cent rise in operating expenses was due concentrate on increasing sales and offering to the first full-year impact of the investment made enhanced customer service.
in Hong Kongs Corporate, Investment Banking and Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets Markets businesses.
Employee compensation and reported a pre-tax profit of US$922 million, benefits rose by 24 per cent, in part driven by an 43 per cent lower than in 2004, primarily driven by a increase in senior relationship managers recruited to decline in net interest income in Global Markets and extend coverage along industry sector lines.
In total, lower recoveries and releases of loan impairment over 90 people were recruited to support the allowances.
In addition, operating expenses expansion.
Technology and infrastructure costs rose increased in line with initiatives taken to extend the as support and control functions added new product range in Global Markets and to strengthen 69 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued resources and improved services to facilitate Overall, client assets increased by 17 per cent to business expansion.
Net new money inflows of US$5.8 billion were notably strong, with recruitment Private Banking contributed a pre-tax profit of of front office staff, the success of last years launch US$190 million, an increase of 45 per cent of the HSBC Private Bank brand, and crosscompared with 2004.
The benefits of strong growth referrals with the wider Group all contributing to the in client assets, and consequently higher brokerage growth.
Marketing, successful product placement and trading income, were partly offset by the adverse and the enhancement of the related front office teams effect of a flattening yield curve on income from the also aided in the increase of discretionary managed investment of surplus liquidity.
assets, with a near doubling of assets invested in the Net operating income was 29 per cent higher Strategic Investment Solutions product.
A 25 per cent increase in fee income Operating expenses increased by 14 per cent.
reflected higher client assets, as well the benefits of a Costs from front office recruitment, and higher strategy to increase the level of higher fee generating expenditure on marketing in support of the growing discretionary managed assets, which increased by customer base, were partly offset by the non- 50 per cent during the year.
Trading income recurrence of rebranding costs in 2004. increased by 39 per cent, boosted by higher volumes which reflected growth in the customer base, and a In Other, gains on the sale of investments and generally buoyant market.
Revenue from bond properties decreased by US$136 million in 2005, trading increased by 13 per cent, and from foreign following significant sales in 2004.
These were exchange and sales of structured products by 6 and partly offset by increased gains on the revaluation of 21 per cent respectively.
Gains from financial properties of US$70 million.
Net interest income investments of US$16 million were mainly from the decreased as, from 1 January 2005 under IFRSs, sale of debt instruments.
dividends paid on intra-group preference shares were reclassified from non-equity minority interests to net interest income: this was partly offset by higher earnings on US dollar denominated assets following interest rate rises in the US.
3 Excluding Hong Kong Government certificates of indebtedness.
4 These assets and liabilities were significant to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets.
Mainland Chinas economy grew by 9.9 per cent in 2004 to US$102 billion in 2005.
Despite ongoing monetary tightening, total prices slowed as China's grain production increased urban fixed asset investment growth showed no sign 3 per cent in 2005.
This lowered consumer price of slowing, though investment in steel and real estate inflation to 1.8 per cent from 3.9 per cent at the end sectors moderated.
Consumer spending also of 2004. remained strong, with retail sales growing by 13 per Japans economy in 2005 achieved its strongest cent in 2005.
Producer price inflation slowed, but growth in five years, and the long process of still remained above 3 per cent thanks to strong structural readjustment following the collapse in investment demand.
In July 2005, the Peoples Bank asset prices was largely completed.
In particular, the of China announced that, with immediate effect, the excess corporate capacity, employment and debt of arrangement by which the renminbi RMB was the past decade was eliminated, and bank impaired pegged to the US dollar would be replaced with a loans returned to historically normal levels.
Initially, the exchange rate was set at downturn which began in mid-2004, exports began to US$1 to RMB8.11, equivalent to an appreciation of recover vigorously in March 2005, led by strong approximately 2 per cent.
This had little impact on demand from mainland China.
The decline in export growth, which remained very strong, boosting corporate borrowing ceased, and the end of net Chinas annual trade surplus from US$32 billion in corporate debt reduction freed up cash which drove 74 stronger growth in private capital investment.
The Personal Financial Services reported a pre-tax tightening of the labour market boosted employment profit of US$377 million, an increase of 6 per cent and led to a sustained rise in real wages for the first compared with 2004, reflecting higher net interest time in five years, providing strong support for income led by strong asset and deposit growth, consumer spending.
The rise in the core consumer increased fee income and higher income from price index in November 2005 set the stage for the investments in the Middle East and mainland China.
end of the Bank of Japans quantitative easing policy.
Costs in support of business expansion rose and were broadly in line with revenue growth.
Higher loan Elsewhere in the region, most economies impairment charges reflected growth in credit card performed impressively in 2005, in particular Indias.
lending and the non-recurrence in 2005 of loan The main drivers of growth were exports, demand for impairment provision releases in 2004. technology, and domestic consumption.
Investment demand, by contrast, remained weak.
Strong Net interest income grew by 25 per cent to domestic growth and continued firmness in energy US$1,208 million, reflecting strong growth across prices resulted in an increase in inflationary the majority of countries in the region.
Deposit pressures, especially in Indonesia and Thailand, balances generally grew strongly during 2005.
This where fuel subsidies were lowered or removed.
was due in part to the range of new products Central banks in both these countries increased rates launched during the year, including dual currency, substantially.
Elsewhere, particularly in South Korea floating rate and higher-yielding time deposits.
The and Taiwan, energy prices did not significantly affect number of Premier account holders rose headline inflation, and the benign inflationary significantly, with a 40 per cent growth across the environment was maintained with less need for region generating US$3.5 billion of additional monetary tightening.
Most Asian currencies ended balances.
In mainland China, organic expansion the year strongly against the US dollar.
continued, with the opening of ten new branches and sub-branches.
The deposit base grew by 80 per cent, 2005 was a good year economically for the as considerable emphasis was placed on the provision Middle East, where growth was boosted by high oil of wealth management services through the HSBC prices and additional capacity in downstream oil and Premier account service.
Deposit spreads also gas, real estate, transportation and tourism.
Longwidened as interest rates rose, contributing to higher term growth was reinforced through economic net interest income in mainland China, Singapore and liberalisation.
The result was to encourage private India.
sector investment in both established and new sectors of the regions economy.
Regional interest rates In the Middle East, a rise of 37 per cent in net mirrored US dollar rate increases during the year interest income was driven by a combination of without any noticeable effect on credit growth, widening deposit spreads and strong loan growth, though inflationary pressures arose from the US partly offset by lower asset spreads as funding costs dollars weakness and general economic expansion.
increased following interest rate rises.
GDP growth is estimated by the International Average mortgage balances increased by 27 per Monetary Fund to have been over 6 per cent in Saudi cent to US$16.7 billion.
This growth reflected Arabia in 2005.
Economies in the region which are marketing campaigns in India, Malaysia and not as dependent on oil also performed well, with the Singapore alongside new products introduced in United Arab Emirates, for example, registering Australia and Korea.
Higher sales volumes were also strong growth in non-oil sectors such as financial generated by direct sales forces across the region, services and tourism.
notably in India, where mortgage balances grew by HSBCs operations in the Rest of Asia-Pacific 43 per cent.
The benefits of higher mortgage balances reported a pre-tax profit of US$2,574 million, were partly offset by lower spreads as pricing stayed compared with US$1,847 million in 2004, highly competitive.
representing an increase of 39 per cent.
On an The credit card business continued to expand in underlying basis, pre-tax profits grew by 29 per cent a number of countries.
Credit card spending and represented around 12 per cent of HSBCs increased by 33 per cent, contributing to a 42 per cent equivalent total profit.
Strong growth across the growth in average card balances.
Other notable majority of countries in the region resulted in higher developments included promotional campaigns, new revenues across all customer groups.
product launches and a series of customer acquisition The commentary that follows is on an underlying strategies including the exclusive rewards basis.
At the end of the year, the number of cards in circulation stood at 75 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued 6.3 million, representing an increase of 34 per cent credit cards, insurance and investment products.
In India, the number of cards in Continued emphasis was placed on brand awareness circulation exceeded one million for the first time.
in order to generate additional business and reinforce Higher card balances led to higher net interest HSBCs position as the worlds local bank across the income in Indonesia, India, Taiwan, Malaysia and the region, and this further increased costs.
growth initiatives required investment in technology, and the development of new distribution channels Net fee income grew by 46 per cent to resulted in higher IT costs.
Other expenses, including US$419 million, largely attributable to strong sales professional fees and communications costs, rose in of investment and insurance products, and increased support of business expansion.
Credit card fee incomes rose, driven by the strong growth in cardholder spending.
Increased contributions from HSBCs Commissions from sales of unit trusts and funds investments in Bank of Communications and under management were particularly strong in Industrial Bank in mainland China, together with Singapore, India and Taiwan.
Sales of investment record earnings from The Saudi British Bank, products, comprising unit trusts, bonds and structured contributed to strong growth in profit from notes, grew by 43 per cent to US$6.5 billion, associates.
generating a 56 per cent increase in fee income.
The Commercial Banking reported a pre-tax profit launch of over 217 tranches of structured notes and of US$818 million, 45 per cent higher than that deposit products in 11 countries across the region delivered in 2004.
The increase was mainly due to achieved total sales of US$952 million.
Total funds higher net interest income as growth in customer under management rose by 33 per cent or numbers and strong credit demand to fund US$7.2 billion, led by increased marketing activity infrastructure investment drove balance sheet growth.
and the considerable focus placed on wealth Higher contributions from Bank of Communications management services during the year.
HSBC Bank and Industrial Bank in China, as well as a strong Malaysia maintained its position as the leading performance in The Saudi British Bank, produced international institutional unit trust agent in the higher income from associates.
Brokerage and custody fees grew, increased by 16 per cent, exceeded by a 24 per cent particularly in Australia, where a 13 per cent rise rise in deposits.
reflected increased stock market activity.
Net interest income increased by 33 per cent to HSBC continued to emphasise the expansion of US$631 million, reflecting growth in the Middle its insurance business across the region.
The number East, Singapore, mainland China, Indonesia and of policies in force increased by 27 per cent and Taiwan.
In the Middle East, strong regional revenues grew by 16 per cent.
economies and significant government backed Loan impairment charges and other credit risk infrastructure and property projects, principally in the provisions doubled compared with 2004.
This was United Arab Emirates, contributed to a 37 per cent due to the non-recurrence of a release of a general growth in lending balances and a 42 per cent increase provision in Malaysia in 2004, and a sharp rise in in customer account balances.
Higher trade flows credit card provisions in Taiwan, reflecting generated a 25 per cent increase in net interest deteriorating credit conditions.
Growth in personal income from trade services, while higher interest unsecured lending and credit cards across the region rates raised liability spreads by 118 basis points.
A contributed further to the increased charge.
new Amanah term investment product was launched in May 2005, attracting US$120 million of deposits, Operating expenses increased by 29 per cent to principally from new customers seeking ShariahUS$1,245 million in support of business growth.
HSBC spent considerable amounts in the region enhancing its existing infrastructure in order to In mainland China, strong economic growth, benefit fully from the opportunities presented by the expansion of the branch network and the recruitment Asian growth economies.
Staff costs of of additional sales staff resulted in a 39 per cent US$469 million rose by 23 per cent, as employee increase in lending balances.
Deposit balances also numbers increased to support business growth and to benefited from economic growth, increasing by increase sales and wealth management activities.
38 per cent, while deposit spreads widened by Performance-related remuneration costs were also 76 basis points following increases in US interest higher as a result of the strong growth in profitability.
Marketing costs rose as major campaigns were In Singapore, interest rate rises prompted run to support product promotions in mortgages, increased demand for savings products and 76 consequently deposit balances grew by 13 per cent, strong economic growth led to improved credit while deposit spreads increased by 13 basis points.
quality, while in Malaysia, Singapore and Indonesia, Lending balances rose by 27 per cent, following the credit quality improved significantly although selective recruitment of more experienced releases of impairment charges were lower than in relationship managers and a reorganisation of 2004. customers into key industrial sectors to provide Operating expenses were 27 per cent higher than greater focus on identifying service opportunities.
last year, broadly in line with revenue growth.
In the Asset spreads decreased by 42 basis points as a result Middle East, the recruitment of sales and support of competitive pressures and market liquidity.
staff substantially increased income, leading to In Taiwan, a loyalty campaign designed to higher incentive payments.
In mainland China, increase deposits, together with higher current revenue growth was driven by branch expansion, account income and an increase in deposit spreads, increased sales and support staff and higher contributed to an 80 per cent increase in net interest marketing expenditure.
In Malaysia, the direct sales income.
In Mauritius, net interest income doubled as teams were expanded and business banking units a result of liability balance growth.
In India, were extended to all branches in support of the increased trade contributed to higher trade services banks growth strategy, resulting in a 16 per cent net interest income and strong economic growth led increase in costs.
to higher demand for credit.
This resulted in lending In India, the recruitment of additional sales staff balances increasing by 72 per cent, while customer boosted customer facing staff by 85 per cent in 2005. acquisition increased average current account In South Korea, staff recruitment and heightened balances by 37 per cent.
Liability spreads widened by marketing activity supported HSBCs four recently 73 basis points following interest rate rises.
In established commercial banking centres, contributing Indonesia, increased sales efforts and a more focused to an increase in costs.
Higher costs throughout the approach to customer relationship management rest of the region largely reflected increases in sales contributed to an 84 per cent growth in asset balances and support staff and initiatives to support business and a 66 per cent increase in net interest income.
Net fee income of US$307 million was 15 per Increased income from associates reflected cent higher than in 2004.
In the Middle East, strong performance in The Saudi British Bank and increased trade flows led to a 17 per cent increase in gains on the sale of HSBCs stake in MISR trade services income, while current account income International, an Egyptian Bank.
Income from the increased by 80 per cent, benefiting from the banks strategic investments in China, Bank of introduction of new cash management capabilities.
Communications and Industrial Bank, which were Short-term IPO loan funding reflecting, in part, acquired in 2004, also increased.
robust regional capital market, also contributed to a 40 per cent increase in net fee income.
In mainland Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets China, a 31 per cent increase in trade customers and a reported a pre-tax profit of US$1,207 million, an significant rise in imports led to higher trade services increase of 22 per cent compared with 2004.
HSBCs income, while a 49 per cent increase in current progress in this region was marked by positive account customers and higher lending fees also revenue trends across most countries, with strong contributed to an 8 per cent increase in fee income.
growth being reported in the Middle East, Malaysia, Increased lending, current account and trade South Korea, India and mainland China.
activities raised net fee income by 30 per cent in Operating income rose by 25 per cent to Indonesia.
A number of sites, including Vietnam and US$1,769 million.
Higher Corporate and Institutional Thailand, also reported strong growth, driven by the Banking revenues reflected a 53 per cent increase in success of HSBCs strategy of focusing on business lending balances in mainland China, a result of opportunities involving international trade.
strong demand for corporate credit, primarily from There was a net release of loan impairment the industrial and technology sector.
Deposit charges of US$67 million, following net charges in balances increased by 36 per cent and, together with 2004. Credit quality in the Middle East improved.
In a 40 basis point rise in deposit spreads, this also mainland China there was a significant reduction in contributed to the growth in revenues.
loan impairment charges as higher collective HSBCs operations in the Middle East reported a impairment charges were more than offset by the 63 per cent rise in customer advances, primarily due release of allowances against a small number of to strong demand for corporate credit, driven by accounts and the non-recurrence of a significant government spending on regional infrastructure charge against a single customer in 2004.
In India, 77 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued projects.
Gains from the disposal of the Groups asset management business in Australia added Global Transaction Banking revenues increased, US$8 million to other operating income.
as payments and cash management benefited from an increase in regional mandates which added to Net recoveries on loan impairment charges were average balances, together with a widening of deposit marginally lower than in 2004. spreads, notably in Singapore, India and Thailand.
Operating expenses increased by 21 per cent to In Global Markets, balance sheet management US$733 million, broadly in line with the growth in and money market revenues fell, particularly in operating income and reflecting higher performanceSingapore and Japan, due to the effect of rising shortrelated incentives.
2005 bore the first full-year effect term interest rates and a flattening of the yield curves.
of the recruitment in 2004 of over 600 additional staff, of which more than half were in Global Net fees increased by 17 per cent.
The upgrade of corporate and Transaction Banking, the expansion in business support teams across the region within Corporate and capabilities which took place in the latter part of Institutional Banking resulted in some 280 additional 2004 drove an increase in volumes, with marked people.
The cost base was further affected by improvements in Singapore, South Korea and India.
investment in HSBCnet and other technology costs Revenues from the custody business increased incurred to support business expansion.
against the backdrop of rising local stock market indices as investment sentiment in the region Income from associates included increased improved.
Additionally, securities services in India contribution from HSBCs investments in Bank of generated higher business volumes, with assets under Communications and Industrial Bank, which were custody growing by US$9 billion to US$34 billion.
In Singapore, fee income increased by 55 per cent, Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit of reflecting an increase in revenues from securities US$78 million, an increase of 32 per cent compared services activities as HSBC leveraged its relationship with 2004.
Investment in the business over the past strength and product capabilities to attract new two years was reflected in strong growth in client business.
assets and net new money inflows of US$2.3 billion, In the Middle East, corporate lending and trade against a backdrop of intense competition in the finance activity generated higher customer volumes region.
Net operating income increased by 17 per as regional economies strengthened from an increase cent, predominantly due to higher trading income.
in foreign investment, tourism and higher real estate Net interest income fell by 29 per cent to and oil prices.
Global Investment Banking benefited US$30 million compared with 2004.
Balance sheet from the resulting demand for cross-border business, growth was mainly in Singapore and Japan, where with an increase in fees from advisory and project client deposits increased by 44 and 64 per cent and export finance services.
Lending to customers also grew Income from trading activities increased, in part strongly, with the loan book increasing by some due to higher revenues from foreign exchange and 26 per cent.
The net interest income benefits of these structured derivatives driven by enhanced were more than offset by lower treasury margins distribution and expanded product capabilities.
In earned in the rising interest rate environment, and the South Korea, volatility in the Korean won against the reclassification under IFRSs from 1 January 2005 of US dollar encouraged strong customer flows in net interest income on certain derivatives to net foreign exchange.
In Malaysia, a rise in customer trading income.
demand, following the move to a managed float for Trading income increased by 62 per cent.
Strong the Malaysian ringgit, improved trading volumes in growth in bond trading and sales of structured foreign exchange.
Global Markets in Taiwan products, which increased by 28 and 20 per cent generated higher revenues, due to improved sales of respectively, was compounded by the reclassification structured derivative products.
Falling interest rates from net interest income mentioned above.
Fee in the Philippines resulted in favourable price income was broadly in line with 2004, with the movements on government bond portfolios.
In the benefit of growth in client assets largely offset by the Middle East, HSBCs enhanced capability in non-recurrence of exceptionally high brokerage structured transactions and greater focus on trading in volumes driven by the market recovery last year.
the regional currencies drove volumes higher in a volatile market.
Client assets increased by 23 per cent to US$13.7 billion.
Front office recruitment and marketing campaigns, and inflows from the 78 operations launched in Dubai in 2005 and Malaysia In Other, the Groups Service Centres continued in 2004, boosted asset growth in the region.
Net new to expand to support HSBCs productivity money of US$2.3 billion was 22 per cent higher than improvements, incurring US$129 million of last year, with inflows strongest in Singapore and incremental costs, offset by higher recharges to other Japan.
Higher interest rates led to increased earnings on centrally held investments.
In Operating expenses increased by only 6 per cent, Thailand, the sale of a residential property led to a leading to a 5 percentage point improvement in the gain of US$11 million and in India, litigation cost efficiency ratio.
Front office recruitment in most provisions raised in 2004 were not repeated.
countries contributed to a small increase in staff costs, and expenditure on marketing and administrative expenses rose to support business growth.
Consumer spending US$1.35 at the end of 2004. grew by a healthy 3.6 per cent in 2005 despite Canadas growth was 2.9 per cent in 2005, as slowing in the fourth quarter because of the strong employment growth and, late in the year, hurricanes, higher energy costs and lower auto sales.
rising earnings, boosted consumer spending.
The Growth in equipment and software investment was unemployment rate fell to 6.4 per cent, the lowest robust, rising 11 per cent.
Unemployment fell by level since 1976.
In the second half of the year, 0.5 per cent to 4.9 per cent in 2005, with 2 million exports rose, boosted by strong global demand.
The Federal Reserves favoured the energy sector, investment and profits rose inflation measure, the core personal consumption strongly as oil prices soared, with the positive expenditure deflator, was contained, rising 2.0 per economic impact being most pronounced in Western cent in 2005.
Headline inflation in 2005 was higher Canada.
Gasoline prices lifted headline inflation to a due to increased energy prices, as the full year peak of 3.4 per cent in September, but it fell back consumer price index rose 3.4 per cent.
The Federal sharply and core inflation was 1.6 per cent by the Reserve raised interest rates eight times during the year-end.
Having been kept on hold for much of the year, from 2.25 per cent to 4.25 per cent.
10-year year, interest rates were raised by 75 basis points bond yields and equity markets rose moderately between September and December.
The Bank of during 2005 as the US dollar strengthened, ending 83 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Canada has indicated that further increases may be driven by widening deposit spreads, strong deposit required.
and customer loan growth and higher fee income, partly offset by lower asset spreads due to higher Mexicos GDP growth was 3.0 per cent funding costs.
Loan impairment charges fell, compared with 4.2 per cent in 2004, in line with notwithstanding the higher charges due to the lower external demand from the US.
The fiscal combined impacts of Hurricane Katrina and changes accounts for the year showed a reduced deficit of in bankruptcy legislation.
In Mexico, excluding the 0.9 per cent, mostly from windfall earnings from transfer of some customers to the Commercial high oil prices.
As in 2004, high oil receipts and Banking segment due to alignment with Group increasing levels of workers remittances helped standards, pre-tax profits rose.
This was driven by minimise the current account deficit at an estimated strong revenue growth from higher deposit balances less than 1 per cent of GDP.
The biggest and widening spreads, strong loan growth and higher achievement was the reduction in headline inflation fee income, partly offset by the non-recurrence in from 5.2 per cent at the end of 2004 to 3.3 per cent 2005 of loan impairment provision releases in 2004. in December 2005, with core inflation finishing the year at 3.1 per cent.
HSBC views macroeconomic Net interest income grew by 5 per cent to stability as encouragingly robust ahead of what looks US$12,753 million, largely from increases in the US likely to be a keenly contested presidential election and Mexico.
In the US, net interest income rose by in mid-2006.
3 per cent largely driven by higher deposit balances and widening deposit spreads.
Average loan HSBCs operations in North America reported a balances grew strongly, in particular from prime and pre-tax profit of US$6,872 million, compared with non-prime residential mortgages.
With ongoing US$6,070 million in 2004, representing an increase strong demand for unsecured lending, the credit of 13 per cent.
On an underlying basis, pre-tax card, private label card and personal non-credit card, profits grew by 12 per cent and represented around portfolios continued to grow.
The benefits of strong 33 per cent of HSBCs equivalent total profit.
In the asset growth were largely offset by lower spreads as US, the benefits from strong deposit growth in interest rates rose.
Personal Financial Services were partly negated by narrowing spreads on lending in a rising interest rate Additional resources were focused on the core environment.
In Commercial Banking, growth in retail banking business in the US as high priority pre-tax profits was largely driven by lending and was given to growing the deposit base.
Investment in deposit balance growth and improved liability the retail branch network continued, to ensure a interest margins.
In Corporate, Investment Banking presence in locations with high growth potential.
and Markets, growth in revenues was offset by During the year, 27 new branches were opened, each investment expenditure to build the required tailored to meet the needs of the local market.
The platform and infrastructure for future growth.
launch of two new deposit products, HSBCs first national savings product, Online Savings, and The commentary that follows is on an HSBC Premier Savings, augmented by a 45 per underlying basis.
cent rise in new personal account openings, led to a Personal Financial Services, including the 4 per cent growth in average deposit balances to consumer finance business, generated a pre-tax US$26.7 billion.
profit of US$4,761 million, 8 per cent higher than in Overall, average mortgage balances including 2004.
Under IFRSs, from 1 January 2005, HSBC US$3.3 billion held for resale were changed the accounting treatment for certain debt US$112.1 billion, representing a 27 per cent issued and related interest rate swaps.
This was due to the significant expansion change the underlying economics of the transactions.
of adjustable rate mortgages ARMs originated The resulting revenues of US$618 million in 2004 during 2004 in the US bank and strong growth are excluded from the following commentary.
In within the mortgage services and branch-based addition, interest income earned on mortgage consumer lending businesses.
These volume benefits balances held on HSBCs balance sheet pending sale were largely offset by narrowing spreads as yields into the US secondary mortgage market has been fell due to changes in product mix and higher reported under trading income.
In 2004 this was funding costs.
reported in net interest income.
This difference in treatment has also been excluded from the following Prime mortgages originated in 2005 were commentary.
largely sold into the large government sponsored mortgage associations, reflecting a strategic decision In the US, profit before tax rose 28 per cent to to focus on loans originated through the retail US$3,853 million.
The rise in profit was largely 84 channel, and reduce HSBCs reliance on lower yielding sub-prime receivable balances, increased spread business generated by the network of pricing on variable rate products and other re-pricing mortgage correspondents.
retail channel sales were achieved by capitalising on In the retail services cards business, average the HSBC brand, and the newly expanded branch loan balances grew by 7 per cent to US$15.9 billion.
As interest rates rose, This growth was driven by new loan originations and demand for ARM products in 2005 declined as the agreement of new merchant relationships with customers migrated towards longer-term fixed rate The Neiman Marcus Group Inc, Bon Ton Stores Inc mortgages.
ARM loans originated fell from 67 per and OfficeMax, which contributed US$506 million cent of all loans originated in 2004 to 30 per cent of the overall increase.
The benefit of higher loan this year.
Spreads narrowed on prime mortgages, balances was more than offset by lower spreads.
largely because of higher funding costs, together Spreads declined as a large proportion of the loan with marginally lower yields due to the full year book, priced at fixed rates, was affected by higher effect of the strong growth of lower-yielding ARMs funding costs as interest rates rose.
Spreads also originated in 2004. narrowed as changes in the product mix reflected HSBC continued to grow its sub-prime and strong growth of lower-yielding recreational vehicle near-prime mortgage portfolios, primarily within the balances and external pricing pressures.
Changes in mortgage services and branch-based consumer contractual obligations associated with a merchant lending businesses.
The mortgage services business, also had an adverse effect, but this resulted in lower which purchases mortgage loans from a network of merchant fees payable.
correspondents, recorded strong average loan growth The vehicle finance business reported strong of 42 per cent to US$39.1 billion, of which organic growth, with a 14 per cent increase in US$1.7 billion related to mortgages held for resale.
average loan balances, largely due to increases in the Continued focus on growing the second lien near-prime portfolio.
This growth in balances was portfolio, widening the first lien product offering and mainly driven by a combination of higher new loan expanding sources for the purchase of loans from originations acquired from the dealer network, in flow correspondents contributed further to the part due to the success of the employee pricing increase.
Within the branch-based consumer lending incentive programmes introduced by a number of the business, average mortgage balances grew by 19 per large car manufacturers, and strong growth in the cent to US$35.7 billion, reflecting a combination of consumer direct loan programme.
A new strategic increased marketing activity and higher sales volume alliance helped grow loans further, generating of near-prime and ARMs, first introduced in the US$234 million of new balances.
These volume second half of 2004.
In addition, the consumer benefits were largely offset by lower spreads, due to lending business purchased US$1.7 billion of largely higher funding costs and lower yields.
Yields fell sub-prime mortgage loans through a portfolio due to product expansion into the near-prime acquisition programme.
The benefits of higher subportfolio, coupled with competitive pricing pressures prime and near-prime balances were largely offset due to excess market capacity.
Yields fell, due to the combined effects of strong refinancing activity, significant Personal non-credit card average loan balances amounts of older higher-yielding loans maturing, in the consumer finance business grew by 8 per cent continued product expansion into the near-prime to US$16.0 billion, reflecting the success of several customer segments and competitive pricing large direct mail campaigns and increased pressures.
The higher cost of funds due to rising availability of this product in the US market.
interest rates also contributed to the decline in Improvements in underwriting processes, aided by spreads.
continued improvements in the US economy, also contributed to the increase.
These benefits were Average loan balances within the consumer partly offset by lower spreads, due to higher funding finance credit cards business rose by 7 per cent to costs.
US$19.8 billion, despite the highly competitive environment, where overall market growth remained In Mexico, net interest income rose, primarily weak.
By increasing the level of marketing due to strong deposit and loan growth, coupled with promotions, HSBC was able to grow organically the the widening of deposit spreads.
In 2005, HSBC in HSBC branded prime, Union Privilege and nonMexico widened its competitive funding advantage, prime portfolios.
The benefit of higher balances was maintaining the lowest funding cost in the market.
more than offset by higher funding costs.
Yields, There was strong growth in consumer lending, however, improved due to a combination of higheralthough asset spreads declined, reflecting a 85 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued reduction in yields in an increasingly competitive because of increased transaction volumes, loan market.
Funding costs rose, due to higher average balance growth and improved interchange rates.
Greater use of the intellicheck product, which enables customers to pay their credit card balances HSBC in Mexico continued to lead the market over the telephone, contributed an additional in customer deposit growth, with a 1.5 per cent US$33m of revenues.
Revenues from ancillary increase in market share to 15.9 per cent, despite a services rose US$77 million, reflecting higher sales highly competitive market place.
This was largely volumes, new product launches and expansion into due to the success of the tu Cuenta product, the new customer segments.
only integrated financial services product of its kind offered locally.
Since its launch in February 2005, Within the US retail services business, fee over 600,000 accounts have been opened, averaging income rose, mainly from lower merchant some 2,300 new customers per day.
partnership payments due to changes in contractual obligations with certain clients.
In part, this reflected The continued success of HSBCs competitive lower loan spreads associated with lower merchant fixed rate mortgage product in Mexico, helped by payments.
strong demand from first time buyers, led to average mortgage balances increasing by 93 per cent to Fee income from the US mortgage-banking US$522 million, and market share reached 10.7 per business increased.
As interest rates gradually rose, cent.
In Mexico, HSBC continued to be the leader in refinancing prepayments of mortgages declined, with vehicle finance with a market share of 26.5 per cent.
levels of loan refinancing activity falling from 50 per A unique new internet based product Venta Directa cent of total loans originated in 2004 to 44 per cent was launched during the year, enabling the direct in 2005.
This led to lower amortisation charges and sales of used cars between customers using HSBCs the subsequent release of temporary impairment financing and website as the intermediary.
The provisions on mortgage servicing rights.
targeting of new customer segments and more Furthermore, the value of servicing rights was better competitive pricing drove average vehicle finance protected by an improved economic hedging loans higher by US$228 million to US$796 million, programme using a combination of derivative a 40 per cent increase over 2004.
Average payroll financial instruments and investment securities.
A loan balances more than doubled to US$253 million, revised fee structure, introduced in the second half of reflecting HSBCs unique position in the market 2004, produced a 6 per cent increase in fee income granting pre-approved personal loans through its from deposit-related services in the US Bank.
Average credit card balances were Within the US taxpayer financial services 55 per cent higher, with cards in circulation business, fee income grew by 12 per cent, driven by increasing by 80 per cent to over 1.1 million cards.
higher average loan balances and the sale of This was largely driven by cross-selling to the previously written-off loan balances.
HSBC is the existing customer base using CRM and the sole provider of bank products to H&R Block, the successful launch of the Tarjeta inmediata or largest retail tax preparation firm in the US, and in Instant credit card, which generated 109,000 new September 2005 extended this arrangement by cards.
Since June 2004, In Canada, net interest income grew by 21 per HSBC has retained in-house the clearing business cent, due to growth in average loan and deposit for refund anticipation payments, previously carried balances, augmented by widening deposit spreads.
This generated additional Branch expansion in the consumer finance business revenues of US$19 million for HSBC in the US.
generated higher average loan balances in real estate HSBC in Mexico reported strong growth in fee secured and unsecured lending.
Credit card balances income, driven by higher revenues from credit cards, also grew, following the successful launch of a remittances, mortgages and ATM transactions.
increase in the number of credit cards in circulation Net fee income grew by 20 per cent to contributed to the 85 per cent increase in credit card US$3,511 million, driven by strong performances in fee income.
Fees from the Afore pension funds the US and Mexico.
In the US, the 23 per cent business continued to perform strongly, with 50 per increase was mainly from retail and credit card cent growth and 394,000 new customers.
Fee income services, the mortgage banking business and the from international remittances rose by 55 per cent, taxpayer financial services business.
Fee income partly led by the continued success of La Efectiva, within the consumer finance credit cards business HSBCs electronic remittance card.
Monthly increased by 19 per cent, or US$300 million, largely transactions exceeded one million, representing a 86 20 per cent market share and a near seven-fold Operating expenses grew by 6 per cent to increase since December 2002.
Strong sales of US$7,382 million, largely in the US and Mexico.
In insurance products resulted from increased crossthe US, costs increased by 3 per cent, as staff and selling through the branch network and combining marketing costs rose in the consumer finance sales with other Personal Financial Services products business to support revenue growth.
Mutual fund costs were incurred following the Metris purchase.
balances grew by 58 per cent, partly attributable to In the credit cards business, higher marketing spend the successful launch of new funds targeting was incurred on the non-prime portfolios and different market segments, along with strong crossinvestment in new initiatives.
Higher marketing sales among HSBCs extensive customer base.
expenses were also incurred following changes in contractual obligations associated with the General Trading income in 2005 was in line with 2004.
Motors co-branded credit card portfolio in July In the US mortgage banking business revenues 2004, but these were partly offset by improved increased, largely as a result of more originations income through lower account origination fees.
and sales related income, which reflected improved gains on each individual sale and a 41 per cent In the US Bank, costs grew to support business increase in the volume of originated loans sold.
In expansion and new branch openings.
Brand addition, a higher percentage of ARM loans that awareness programmes in the second and fourth previously would have been held on balance sheet quarters increased marketing costs, and expenditure were sold in 2005.
This was partly offset by lower was incurred on promoting the online savings gains on Decision One sales in the mortgage services product.
The benefit of these initiatives was reflected business.
in a significant increase in customer awareness of the HSBC brand.
Within the retail brokerage business, The increase in other income was largely due to cost increases reflected more stringent regulatory the US.
Losses from sales of properties repossessed requirements.
after customers default on their mortgage payments, which are recorded as a reduction in other income, In Mexico, operating expenses grew by were US$96 million lower than in 2004.
This was 21 per cent, driven by a combination of higher staff, attributable to improvements in the process by which marketing and IT costs.
Staff costs grew by fair market value is determined at the time of 12 per cent, reflecting increases incurred to improve repossession, and to a reduction in the number of customer service levels within the branch network properties falling into repossession as credit quality and bonus costs in line with increased sales.
Marketing costs grew to support the credit cards business, evidenced by the 80 per cent increase in Loan impairment charges and other credit risk the number of cards in circulation.
IT costs rose as provisions of US$5,086 million were marginally new systems to meet Group standards, such as the lower than in 2004.
In the US, charges were lower WHIRL credit card platform, were rolled out.
In notwithstanding the adverse effect of Hurricane Canada, operating expenses grew due to the opening Katrina and higher bankruptcy filings following of new branches within the consumer finance changes in bankruptcy legislation.
Partly offsetting business, and expansion of the mortgage and credit these impacts was the non-recurrence of cards businesses.
US$47 million charges from adopting Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council chargeCommercial Bankings pre-tax profits off policies relating to retail and credit card balances increased by 23 per cent to US$1,064 million, in 2004.
Excluding these factors, the lower charge primarily due to lending growth and improved reflected favourable credit conditions in the US.
Higher levels of secured lending, continued targeting Net interest income increased by 23 per cent to of higher credit quality customers and improvements US$1,449 million.
In the US, deposit growth, in underwriting contributed to the reduction.
In particularly among small businesses, contributed to a Mexico loan impairment charges rose in line with 20 per cent increase in net interest income.
The higher lending volumes and the non-recurrence in recruitment of additional sales and support staff and 2005 of loan impairment provision releases in 2004, expansion on both the East and West coasts led to a while underlying credit quality remained stable.
In 15 per cent increase in deposits and a 16 per cent Canada, charges were in line with prior year, as increase in lending balances, with income from higher charges in the consumer lending business due commercial real estate lending increasing by 27 per to loan growth were offset by provision releases in cent.
HSBC achieved particularly strong growth in the core bank business.
the SME market and maintained its market leading 87 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued position in small business administration lending in Loan impairment charges were US$13 million, New York state.
Following its launch in the first half following net releases in 2004.
Significant releases of 2005, the Select Investor product, which offers in Canada were more than offset by higher charges, competitive tiered interest rates, attracted driven by lending growth, in the US and Mexico.
In US$420 million of deposits.
Business Smart, a Canada, improved credit quality led to a product offering free checking and other value US$34 million net release of loan impairment offerings to commercial customers, performed provisions.
In the US, credit quality remained high in strongly following its launch at the end of 2004, the favourable economic conditions, with impaired attracting 41,000 new customers and balances of loans as a proportion of assets decreasing by 49 basis over US$1.0 billion.
In Mexico, growth in the lending portfolio led to a US$49 million increase in loan impairment In Canada, net interest income increased by charges, although underlying credit quality 16 per cent, as higher oil and other natural resource improved.
prices led to strong economic growth and low interest rates increased demand for lending products.
Operating expenses increased by 13 per cent to Average lending balances increased by 20 per cent, US$913 million, driven by increases in the US and as leasing balances grew by 33 per cent and Mexico.
In the US, expansion in the SME and MME commercial real estate lending rose by 19 per cent.
markets and in the commercial mortgage sector led Average deposit and current account balances to a 17 per cent increase in staff numbers.
New increased by 21 per cent and 24 per cent MME offices were opened in Philadelphia and New respectively, reflecting the buoyant economy, the Jersey, following the establishment of offices in Los launch of HSBCnet in Canada and more brand Angeles and San Francisco in 2004.
Both asset and liability spreads were Select Investor and promotion of Business Smart broadly in line with 2004. led to higher marketing costs.
In Mexico, operating expenses increased by 29 per cent, due to an 11 per In Mexico, the transfer of a number of cent increase in staff numbers to support business customers from Personal Financial Services growth, higher incentive payments reflecting strong increased both revenues and costs.
Net interest income growth, and increased Estimulo marketing income increased by 42 per cent, due in part to a expenditure.
22 per cent increase in Commercial Banking customers.
Deposit balances grew by 38 per cent as a Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets result of expansion into the SME market, while reported a pre-tax profit of US$774 million, 22 per deposit spreads increased by 76 basis points cent lower than in 2004.
The overall increase in following interest rate rises.
Loan balances rose by revenue was exceeded by higher expenses, which 21 per cent, principally in the services and reflected the full year cost of the expanded commerce sectors, though competitive pricing led to operations in the US and the continuing investment a tightening of lending spreads.
The Estimulo in a number of specific initiatives designed to build combined loan and overdraft product, which was stronger execution and delivery capabilities.
launched at the end of 2004, performed strongly, Total operating income rose by 12 per cent.
In attracting balances of US$155 million.
Mexico, net income more than doubled, due to the Other income lines, including net fee income, strong performance in balance sheet management, increased by 11 per cent to US$541 million.
In which benefited from higher volumes and successful Mexico, marketing campaigns, tariff reductions and strategic positioning against a rising short-term the promotion of business internet banking, together interest rate environment, with an overall flattening with increased customer numbers, contributed to a of the yield curve in the first part of 2005.
In the 31 per cent increase in payment and cash latter half of the year, positions were effectively management fees, while card fees increased managed to take advantage of the decline in local following the launch of a credit card as part of the rates.
In the US and Canada, balance sheet Estimulo suite of products.
Trade services fee management and money market revenues declined income increased by 63 per cent as a result of by US$353 million, as rising US dollar short-term customer acquisition and increased cross-sales to interest rates led to further flattening of the yield existing customers, nearly doubling the banks curve.
market share in a growing market.
In the US, higher Net interest income from the payments and cash gains on the sale of properties and investments management business in the US grew by 65 per cent, contributed to a 4 per cent increase in other income.
principally due to an 82 per cent growth in balances.
Net fees increased by 25 per cent, primarily due 88 to higher volumes in Global Investment Banking, sheet, and the expansion of Wealth and Tax reflecting positive momentum from an extension of Advisory Services WTAS.
the product range, particularly in debt capital Net interest income increased by 13 per cent.
markets, where earnings grew by 67 per cent.
Equity Lending balances rose by over 30 per cent as clients capital markets revenue improved from a low base borrowed on a secured basis to make alternative and higher income streams were generated from a investments.
Mortgage lending also grew, supported regular flow of new deals from asset-backed by the launch of a Tailored Mortgage product securities.
Global Transaction Banking fees rose, during the year.
Spreads on current accounts reflecting higher customer volumes in payments and increased by 40 basis points, reflecting the benefit of cash management, particularly in Mexico.
interest rate increases during the year.
Income from trading activities increased, due in A number of smaller trust accounts were sold in part to higher revenues in the US from credit 2005, generating one-off income of US$9 million.
trading, following losses in 2004, and a tightening of This was partly offset by the non-recurrence of gains credit spreads.
Business lines in which HSBC has from financial investments arising from the sale of invested, such as equities and structured derivatives, seed capital investments in 2004.
WTAS expanded also showed strong year-on-year gains.
In addition, its presence in New York, Philadelphia, Los foreign exchange and derivatives trading was Angeles, San Francisco and Virginia through the facilitated by the introduction of the Groups recruitment of fee-generating staff, and grew standard derivatives system in Mexico.
organically through referrals, contributing to an There was a reduction of US$28 million in the increase of 15 per cent in fee income.
net release of loan impairment allowances, primarily Client assets grew by 12 per cent to due to the non-recurrence of a number of large US$46.2 billion, contributing to the rise in fee and releases.
New impairment allowances against other operating income.
US$4.2 billion of net new corporate clients remained broadly in line with last money reflected client acquisition in the US and in year.
Mexico, following the launch of Private Banking Operating expenses increased by 45 per cent to there in 2004.
This was partly offset by the US$1,511 million.
In 2005, the proportionately divestment of trust accounts referred to above.
The greater investment in North America compared with Strategic Investment Solutions product, launched other regions reflected HSBCs commitment to in March 2004, was markedly successful in strengthen global reach by developing its presence in attracting new funds.
Discretionary managed assets this region.
HSBC continued to invest throughout the invested in this product reached US$0.9 billion.
year in expanding product capabilities, particularly Operating expenses of US$334 million were in structured derivatives, equities, research, 13 per cent higher than last year.
The recruitment of mortgage-backed securities and advisory, and the front office staff in Private Banking, and new feebuild out of specialist sector teams in the US and generating staff in WTAS, added to the cost base.
Nearly half of the incremental cost was This was partly offset by headcount savings through attributable to this investment.
restructuring and the sale of the trust account Staff costs rose by 43 per cent, reflecting the full business referred to above.
year of recruitment in the latter part of 2004 and Increased activity at HSBCs North American selective hiring in 2005, which resulted in an technology centre led to an increase in both costs increase of 870 staff in Corporate, Investment and net operating income in Other, as higher Banking and Markets in North America.
network and systems maintenance costs and Non-staff costs grew correspondingly and development expenditure to meet increased included the expense incurred in building critical technological requirements were recharged to other infrastructure and investment in new technology.
Movements in the fair value of own debt and the associated swap designated at fair Private Banking contributed a pre-tax profit of value led to a US$401 million increase in total US$104 million, an increase of 55 per cent on 2004, operating income.
driven by growth in client assets and the balance 89 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Profit loss before tax by customer group Year ended 31 December 2005 Corporate, Personal Investment InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total North America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense...................... 12,753 1,449 842 190 115 232 14,887 Net fee income expense.
90 Year ended 31 December 2004 Corporate, Personal Investment InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total North America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income expense......... 12,915 1,147 870 166 105 14,993 Net fee income expense.
In Brazil, the cyclical slowdown which began in late between September and the end of 2005 in order to 2004 continued throughout 2005, with full-year GDP stimulate growth and ease the pressure on the real.
growth of 2.3 per cent compared with 4.9 per cent in In Argentina, the recovery from the crisis of 2004.
This modest performance was the result of 2001 continued in 2005, helped by a favourable tight monetary policy, political uncertainty and the external environment and the success of the offer to appreciation of the Brazilian real.
External demand exchange replacement discount bonds issued in June provided support, with exports growing by 23 per for defaulted debt.
Average GDP growth was 9.1 per cent in 2005 to record levels, helping to create trade cent in 2005.
Fiscal performance remained strong, and current account surpluses of US$45 billion and with the public sector posting an overall surplus of US$14 billion respectively, and increasing net approximately 3.3 per cent of GDP.
This surplus international reserves by 96 per cent to helped to offset the expansionary effect on money US$54 billion.
The tight monetary policy, with real supply growth of the large foreign exchange interest rates among the highest in the world at interventions of the Central Bank, which continued to 10.5 per cent, slowed inflation from 7.6 per cent in pursue a nominal rate policy of near stability against 2004 to 5.7 per cent in 2005, in line to achieve the the US dollar despite strong upward pressure on the Central Banks 4.5 per cent inflation target for 2006.
This policy was supported by newly Having established its anti-inflationary credentials, introduced controls on capital inflows.
Inflation the Central Bank cut interest rates by 175 basis points remained a concern, however, having accelerated to 93 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued 12.3 per cent in December 2005.
Following the A combination of increased customers and example of Brazil, at the end of the year the targeted marketing initiatives contributed to 40 per authorities decided to make an early repayment of cent growth in personal lending.
Personal lending Argentinas US$9.8 billion debt owed to the balances also benefited from the successful launch in International Monetary Fund.
the first half of 2005 of pension-linked loans offering attractive rates of interest, with repayments drawn HSBCs operations in South America reported a directly from the borrowers pension income.
pre-tax profit of US$647 million, compared with Balances of pension-linked loans increased to US$440 million in 2004, representing an increase of US$110 million, partly as a result of an agreement to 47 per cent.
On an underlying basis, pre-tax profits acquire the pension-linked loan production of Banco grew by 28 per cent and represented around Schahin, a small local bank.
3 per cent of HSBCs equivalent total profit.
Growth was achieved, in part, as a result of a US$89 million The cards business continued to expand, due to gain on the sale of Brazils property and casualty both the continued strength of consumer expenditure insurance business.
HSBC in Argentina benefited and the development of a private label card with from a strong economic recovery and certain one-off Petrobras gas stations, launched in 2004.
During items including the receipt of compensation bonds.
2005, HSBC improved its competitive position, issuing over a million credit cards and having over The commentary that follows is on an underlying two million in circulation, an increase of 21 per cent.
Card utilisation grew and cardholder spending Personal Financial Services reported a pre-tax increased, while average card balances rose by 30 per profit of US$206 million, an increase of 76 per cent, cent to US$373 million.
Credit card spreads increased partly as a result of gains on the sale of the Brazilian as HSBC repositioned its card proposition by property and casualty insurance business.
The increasing interest rates to fall broadly in line with remaining increase was driven by strong loan growth the banks major competitors.
in vehicle finance and personal lending, together with In Argentina, considerable focus was placed on record credit card sales.
The cost efficiency ratio pre-approved sales mailings and developing direct improved by 5 percentage points, even though higher sales channels.
Net interest income more than income was partly offset by increased costs to doubled, driven by a 59 per cent increase in asset support business expansion and develop alternative balances.
The strong demand for credit resulted in sales channels.
The investment in alternative personal unsecured lending more than doubling.
channels led to a 15 per cent increase in direct sales Credit cards in circulation increased by 25 per cent, volumes to over 3.2 million, with particularly strong following a discount campaign launched in June 2005 growth in personal lending, cards and insurance.
and the launch of a private label card with C&A Loan impairment charges increased, reflecting which contributed to a 53 per cent increase in card lending growth in Brazil and an increase in balances.
Savings and deposit balances increased by delinquency rates in the consumer finance business.
34 per cent, reflecting the improved economic In 2005, the reporting of the Brazilian insurance environment.
business transferred from Other to Personal Financial Services.
Profit before tax increased by Net fee income decreased by 21 per cent, driven US$16 million as a result, though individual account by both the inclusion of HSBCs Brazilian insurance lines showed much larger variances: where business, previously reported in the Other business appropriate, these are noted below.
segment, and IFRSs related changes to the reporting of effective interest rates, which together led to a Net interest income rose by 35 per cent 52 per cent fall in fees.
These decreases were compared with 2004.
Consumer demand for credit mitigated by higher current account, credit card and remained strong, fuelled by lower unemployment lending fees.
Recruitment of new customers, across the region and declining inflation in Brazil.
particularly through the payroll portfolio, led to a This contributed to significant growth in personal 21 per cent rise in HSBCs current account base lending, vehicle finance loans and credit cards.
which, together with revised tariffs, increased In Brazil, HSBC continued to position itself for account service fees by 21 per cent.
Growth in future growth, investing in infrastructure to ensure lending volumes and the introduction of a new the delivery of integrated solutions to customers.
pricing structure contributed to a 36 per cent increase Enhancements to distribution, together with in credit-related fee income.
Higher credit card marketing campaigns and promotions, including spending and additional performance-driven fees partnerships with motor finance dealers, drove a from credit card companies generated a 72 per cent 49 per cent rise in vehicle finance loans.
increase in credit card fee income.
In Argentina, net 94 fee income increased by US$27 million, reflecting a Net interest income increased by 49 per cent, 29 per cent increase in credit card fees and a 29 per driven by asset growth.
In Brazil, a growing economy cent increase in current account fee income, driven and a 30 per cent rise in customer numbers led to by increased transaction volumes in a recovering increases in both assets and liabilities.
balances grew by 41 per cent as both the number and the average size of facilities grew, contributing The sale of HSBCs Brazilian property and US$40 million of additional income.
Overdraft casualty insurance business, HSBC Seguros fide spreads increased by 3 percentage points as a result Automoveis e Bens Limitada, to HDI Seguros S. A. of increases in the rate charged to new borrowers.
led to the recognition of an US$89 million gain, The continuing success of Giro fcil, a revolving loan reported in other operating income.
and overdraft facility, resulted in a 13 per cent Loan impairment charges and other credit risk increase in customer numbers which, together with an provisions increased to US$515 million, reflecting increase in facility utilisation, resulted in a 77 per strong growth in unsecured lending.
Credit quality in cent increase in balances.
Invoice financing balances Brazil remained stable in the majority of product rose by 30 per cent, benefiting from both increased lines, but there was a 5 per cent increase in impaired marketing and higher sales to Losango clients, loans as a proportion of assets in the consumer approximately a third of whom now have a finance business.
The consumer finance sector commercial banking relationship with HSBC.
experienced increased credit availability, which led to Deposit balances in Brazil increased by 21 per indebtedness exceeding customers repayment cent, reflecting initiatives to incentivise staff to capacity, increasing delinquencies.
However, prioritise sales of liability products.
However, tightening of credit approval policies and competitive pressures contributed to a 5 percentage improvements in the credit scoring model led to an points decrease in spreads on loans and advances to improvement in the charge as a proportion of assets customers, while deposit spreads were 13 basis points in the fourth quarter.
Credit quality in Argentina lower.
In Argentina, deposits from commercial improved, reflecting generally better economic customers increased by 42 per cent, reflecting the conditions.
continuing economic recovery, while loans and Operating expenses increased by 27 per cent.
In overdrafts more than doubled and current account Brazil, the acquisition of Valeu Promotora fide Vendas balances increased by 38 per cent.
HSBC increased and CrediMatone S. A. led to a significant increase in its market share in both loans and deposits.
average staff numbers, though by the end of 2005 Net fee income was 14 per cent lower than 2004, staff numbers were 2 per cent lower than at driven by IFRSs changes to accounting for effective December 2004, following a restructuring of the interest rates, which reduced fee income by 40 per consumer finance business.
Excluding this effect, net fee income increased, number of full-time employees, the impact of a due to higher fees from payments and cash mandatory national salary increase and the transfer of management, current accounts, and lending in Brazil.
the Brazilian insurance business from the Other Current account fees increased by 26 per cent, business segment contributed to a 25 per cent reflecting tariff increases, improved collection increase in Brazilian staff costs.
Other expenses grew procedures and higher transaction volumes, while to support business expansion and the development lending fees benefited from higher business volumes.
of direct sales channels, while transactional taxes In Argentina, the launch of a commercial banking increased by 21 per cent, driven by higher operating call centre in the first half of 2005 enhanced the income.
In Argentina, costs were 3 per cent up on customer service proposition.
This, together with the 2004 as increased performance-related remuneration recruitment of additional relationship managers, and union agreed salary increases led to higher staff supported a 14 per cent increase in customer numbers costs.
and, as a result, current account fee income increased Commercial Banking reported pre-tax profits of by 21 per cent.
Improvements in the Argentinian US$185 million, 2 per cent higher than 2004.
In economic climate contributed to increased trade Brazil, pre-tax profits increased by 12 per cent as flows which, together with the establishment of a asset growth drove higher revenues, which were dedicated trade service sales team, led to a 22 per mitigated by increased loan impairment charges and cent increase in trade services income.
In Argentina, pre-tax profits declined by Loan impairment charges and other credit risk 31 per cent, as significant loan recoveries were not provisions were US$55 million, following a small net repeated.
In Brazil, asset growth contributed to a US$47 million increase in charges.
Impaired loans 95 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued as a proportion of assets increased by 3 percentage sheet management and money market revenues as a points in the SME portfolio, in line with overall result of high short-term interest rates and an inverted market performance, and MME credit quality also yield curve.
In Argentina, net recoveries Trading activities generated higher income as decreased as significant releases from amounts Global Markets in Brazil benefited from a wider recognised at the time of the sovereign debt default product range and the addition of new delivery and pesification were not repeated.
This investment and the relatively underlying credit quality improved substantially and buoyant local market resulted in higher business impaired loans as a percentage of assets more than volumes, particularly in foreign exchange.
Argentina, Global Markets income rose in line with Operating expenses of US$368 million were increased trading activity in response to the sovereign 19 per cent higher than in 2004, though the cost debt swap.
efficiency ratio improved by 3 percentage points as In Brazil, a US$15 million net release of loan income grew faster than costs.
Staff numbers in impairment charges compared favourably with a net Brazil increased by 34 per cent following a charge in 2004.
A recovery in the energy sector was recruitment drive initiated in the second half of 2004 accompanied by the non-recurrence of allowances to support expansion of the SME business.
Higher raised against two specific corporate accounts in incentive payments, reflecting increased income, and 2004. union agreed pay increases also contributed to an increase in staff costs.
New marketing campaigns, Operating expenses of US$138 million were including the award winning 30, 60, 90 Dias fide 8 per cent lower than in 2004, primarily due to a Apuros campaign focusing on invoice financing, reduction in profit share and bonus payments in increased advertising and marketing costs.
This was partly offset by higher centralised in Argentina increased by 24 per cent, driven by support function staff costs, driven by pay rises higher staff costs, reflecting pay rises agreed with agreed with local unions.
In Argentina, operating local unions, together with a 9 per cent increase in expenses were broadly in line with 2004. headcount in support of business expansion.
Private Banking reported a pre-tax profit of Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets US$1 million, a modest increase on 2004.
The reported a pre-tax profit of US$146 million, an business was reorganised in 2005, with the transfer of increase of 12 per cent, driven by higher net interest smaller accounts to Personal Financial Services in income in Argentina and a decline in loan impairment Brazil, following a resegmentation of the customer charges in Brazil.
Total operating income at US$313 million In Brazil, HSBCs insurance business was decreased by 7 per cent compared with 2004.
In reclassified from Other to Personal Financial Argentina, a reduction in funding costs in Global Services.
As a result, operating income decreased by Markets was augmented by the positive impact of an US$106 million and operating expenses were appreciating CER an inflation-linked index on US$90 million lower.
In Argentina, the receipt of holdings of government bonds.
Continuing economic compensation bonds and other items related to the growth and improved market confidence stimulated pesification in 2002 led to a US$17 million increase demand for credit, resulting in a 67 per cent growth in profit before tax.
Brazil reported a decrease in balance 96 Profit before tax by customer group Year ended 31 December 2005 Corporate, Personal Investment InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total South America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income........... 1,463 475 111 5 23 327 1,750 Net fee income................. 329 121 73 11 3 537 Trading income excluding net interest income........ 15 4 78 2 99 Net interest expense on trading activities........... 17 327 310 Net trading income........... 15 4 61 2327 409 Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value.................. 174 9 3 186 Gains less losses from financial investments.... 1 3 35 39 Dividend income.............. 4 0 4 Net earned insurance premiums...................... 669 23 57 3 746 Other operating income.... 135 2 1 1 57 188 Total operating income.. 2,790 621 313 15 120 3,859 1 Net insurance claims....... 632 13 45 1 691 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.. 2,158 608 268 15 119 3,168 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions..................... 515 55 151 554 Net operating income..... 1,643 553 283 15 120 2,614 Total operating expenses.. 1,437 368 138 14 10 1,967 Operating profit.............. 206 185 145 1 110 647 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures......... 1 1 Profit before tax.............. 206 185 146 1 109 647 %% %% % % Share of HSBCs profit before tax..................... 1.0 0.9 0.7 0.5 3.1 Cost efficiency ratio......... 66.6 60.5 51.5 93.3 8.4 62.1 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Selected balance sheet 2 data Loans and advances to customers net............. 4,773 3,390 1,143 1 9,307 Total assets....................... 8,270 5,240 9,608 6 1,610 24,734 Customer accounts........... 4,670 3,964 7,589 101 221 16,545 Loans and advances to 3 banks net.................. 3,732 Trading assets, financial instruments designated at fair value, and financial 3 investments................. 3,799 3 Deposits by banks........... 803 1 Net insurance claims incurred and movement in policyholders liabilities.
97 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Profit before tax by customer group continued Year ended 31 December 2004 Corporate, Personal Investment InterFinancial Commercial Banking & Private segment Services Banking Markets Banking Other elimination Total South America US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Net interest income........... 900 267 127 4 12 1,310 Net fee income expense.. 341 119 62 12 75 459 Trading income expense 9 5 41 1 54 Net investment income on assets backing policyholders liabilities.. 40 1 9 45 95 Gains less losses from financial investments.... 1 35 34 Dividend income.............. 2 2 Net earned insurance premiums...................... 148 34 55 359 596 Other operating income.... 19 9 3 1 12 16 28 Total operating income..... 1,457 435 296 17 389 16 2,578 1 Net insurance claims....... 143 25 47 244 459 Net operating income before loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions.............. 1,314 410 249 17 145 16 2,119 Loan impairment charges and other credit risk provisions..................... 268 7 7 1 267 Net operating income....... 1,046 417 242 17 146 16 1,852 Total operating expenses.. 953 258 133 17 68 16 1,413 Operating profit................ 93 159 109 78 439 Share of profit in associates and joint ventures......... 1 1 Profit before tax................ 93 159 109 79 440 %% %% % % Share of HSBCs profit before tax..................... 0.5 0.8 0.6 0.4 2.3 Cost efficiency ratio......... 72.5 62.9 53.4 100.0 46.9 66.7 US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m 2 Selected balance sheet data Loans and advances to customers net............. 3,521 1,525 1,843 2 337 7,228 Total assets....................... 5,829 2,438 7,736 34 1,331 17,368 Customer accounts........... 3,458 2,229 5,150 11 110 10,958 The following assets and liabilities were significant to Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets: Loans and advances to banks net.................... 1,779 Trading assets, financial instruments designated at fair value, and financial investments.................. 3,009 Deposits by banks............. 549 1 Net insurance claim incurred and movement in policyholders liabilities.
98 financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash Critical accounting policies flow to service its debt obligations: audited information the amount and timing of expected receipts and Introduction recoveries: The results of HSBC are sensitive to the accounting the likely dividend available on liquidation or policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the bankruptcy: preparation of its consolidated financial statements.
The accounting policies used in the preparation of the extent of other creditors commitments the consolidated financial statements are described in ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and detail in Note 2 on the Financial Statements.
the likelihood of other creditors continuing to support the company: When preparing the financial statements, it is the directors responsibility under UK company law the complexity of determining the aggregate to select suitable accounting policies and to make amount and ranking of all creditor claims and judgements and estimates that are reasonable and the extent to which legal and insurance prudent.
uncertainties are evident: The accounting policies that are deemed critical the realisable value of security or other credit to HSBCs IFRSs results and financial position, in mitigants and likelihood of successful terms of the materiality of the items to which the repossession: policy is applied, or which involve a high degree of the likely deduction of any costs involved in judgement and estimation, are discussed below.
recovery of amounts outstanding: Impairment of loans the ability of the borrower to obtain, and make payments in, the currency of the loan if not local HSBCs accounting policy for losses in relation to currency: and the impairment of customer loans and advances is described in Note 2 f on the Financial Statements.
when available, the secondary market price of the debt.
Losses in respect of impaired loans are reported in HSBCs income statement under the caption Impairment losses are calculated by discounting Loan impairment charges and other credit risk the expected future cash flows of a loan at its provisions.
Any increase in these losses has the original effective interest rate, and comparing the effect of reducing HSBCs profit for the period by a resultant present value with the loans current corresponding amount while any decrease in carrying amount.
The carrying amount of impaired impairment charges or reversal of impairment loans on the balance sheet is reduced through the use charges would have the opposite effect.
Losses for impaired loans are recognised HSBCs policy requires a review of the level of promptly when there is objective evidence that impairment allowances on individual facilities above impairment of a loan or portfolio of loans has materiality thresholds at least half-yearly, or more occurred.
Impairment losses are calculated on regularly when individual circumstances require.
individual loans and on loans assessed collectively.
This will normally include a review of collateral held Losses expected from future events, no matter how including re-confirmation of its enforceability and likely, are not recognised.
an assessment of actual and anticipated receipts.
Individually assessed loans Collectively assessed loans At each balance sheet date, HSBC assesses on a Impairment is assessed on a collective basis in two case-by-case basis whether there is any objective different scenarios: evidence that a loan is impaired.
This procedure is for loans subject to individual assessment, to applied to all accounts that are considered cover losses which have been incurred but have individually significant.
In determining impairment not yet been identified: and losses on these loans, the following factors are considered: for homogeneous groups of loans that are not considered individually significant.
HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: the viability of the customers business model and its capability to trade successfully out of 99 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Incurred but not yet identified impairment or when information is insufficient or not reliable enough to adopt a roll-rate Individually assessed loans for which no evidence of methodology, HSBC adopts a formulaic loss has been identified are grouped together approach which allocates progressively higher according to their credit risk characteristics for the percentage loss rates in line with the period of purpose of calculating an estimated collective loss.
time for which a customers loan is overdue.
This arises from impairment at the balance sheet date Loss rates are calculated from the discounted which will only be individually identified in the expected future cash flows from a portfolio.
Roll rates, loss rates and the expected timing of The collective impairment allowance is future recoveries are regularly benchmarked against determined after taking into account: actual outcomes to ensure they remain appropriate.
historical loss experience in portfolios of similar The portfolio approach is applied to accounts in credit risk characteristics for example, by the following portfolios: industry sector, loan grade or product : low value, homogeneous small business the estimated period between impairment accounts in certain jurisdictions: occurring and the loss being identified and evidenced by the establishment of an residential mortgages less than 90 days overdue: appropriate allowance against the individual credit cards and other unsecured consumer loan: and lending products: and managements experienced judgement as to motor vehicle financing.
whether current economic and credit conditions are such that the actual level of inherent losses is These portfolio allowances are generally likely to be greater or less than that suggested by reassessed monthly and charges for new allowances, historical experience.
or reversals of existing allowances, are calculated for each separately identified portfolio.
The period between a loss occurring and its identification is estimated by local management for Loan write-offs each identified portfolio.
Loans and the related impairment allowance Homogeneous groups of loans accounts are normally written off, either partially or in full, when there is no realistic prospect of For homogeneous groups of loans that are not recovery of these amounts and, for collateralised considered individually significant, two alternative loans, when the proceeds from realising the security methods are used to calculate allowances on a have been received.
portfolio basis: When appropriate empirical information is Reversals of impairment available, HSBC utilises roll-rate methodology.
If the amount of an impairment loss decreases in a This methodology employs a statistical analysis subsequent period, and the decrease can be related of historical trends of the probability of default objectively to an event occurring after the and the amount of consequential loss, assessed impairment was recognised, the excess is written at each time period for which the customers back by reducing the loan impairment allowance contractual payments are overdue.
The reversal is recognised in estimated loss is the difference between the the income statement.
present value of expected future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate Assets acquired in exchange for loans of the portfolio, and the carrying amount of the portfolio.
Other historical data and current Non-financial assets acquired in exchange for loans economic conditions are also evaluated when in order to achieve an orderly realisation are calculating the appropriate level of allowance recorded as assets held for sale and reported in required to cover inherent loss.
In certain highly Other assets.
The asset acquired is recorded at the developed markets, sophisticated models also lower of its fair value less costs to sell and the take into account behavioural and account carrying amount of the loan net of impairment management trends as revealed in, for example, allowance at the date of exchange.
No depreciation bankruptcy and rescheduling statistics.
is provided in respect of assets held for sale.
Any subsequent write-down of the acquired asset to fair In other cases, when the portfolio size is small 100 value less costs to sell is recorded as an impairment of the business being evaluated.
These variables are loss and included in the income statement.
Any established on the basis of management judgement.
subsequent increase in the fair value less costs to Second, management judgement is required in sell, to the extent this does not exceed the cumulative estimating the future cash flows of the cashimpairment loss, is recognised in the income generating units.
These values are sensitive to the statement.
cash flows projected for the periods for which detailed forecasts are available, and to assumptions Renegotiated loans regarding the long-term sustainable pattern of cash Retail loans, which are generally subject to flows thereafter.
While the acceptable range within collective impairment assessment, whose terms have which underlying assumptions can be applied is been renegotiated, are no longer considered to be governed by the requirement for resulting forecasts past due or impaired but are treated as new loans to be compared with actual performance and only after the minimum required number of verifiable economic data in future years, the cash payments under the new arrangements have been flow forecasts necessarily and appropriately reflect received.
managements view of future business prospects.
Loans subject to individual impairment When the analysis demonstrates that the assessment, whose terms have been renegotiated, are expected cash flows of a cash-generating unit have subject to ongoing review to determine whether they declined and or that its cost of capital has increased, remain impaired or are considered to be past due.
the effect will be to reduce the estimated fair value of the cash-generating unit.
If this results in an Goodwill impairment estimated recoverable amount that is lower than the carrying value of the cash-generating unit, a charge HSBCs accounting policy for goodwill is described for impairment of goodwill will be recorded, thereby in Note 2 o on the Financial Statements.
reducing by a corresponding amount HSBCs profit Goodwill arises on business combinations, for the year.
Goodwill is stated at cost less including the acquisition of subsidiaries, joint accumulated impairment losses.
ventures or associates, when the cost of acquisition Goodwill on acquisitions of joint ventures or exceeds the fair value of HSBCs share of the associates is included in Interests in associates and identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent joint ventures.
By contrast, if HSBCs interest in the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities At the date of disposal of a business, attributable and contingent liabilities of an acquired business is goodwill is included in HSBCs share of net assets in greater than the cost to acquire, the excess is the calculation of the gain or loss on disposal.
recognised immediately in the income statement.
Valuation of financial instruments Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units for the purpose of impairment testing, which is HSBCs accounting policy for valuation of financial undertaken at the lowest level at which goodwill is instruments is described in Note 2 d on the monitored for internal management purposes.
Impairment testing is performed annually by All financial instruments are recognised initially comparing the present value of the expected future at fair value.
The fair value of a financial instrument cash flows from a business with the carrying amount on initial recognition is normally the transaction of its net assets, including attributable goodwill.
price, i. e. the fair value of the consideration given or Significant management judgement is involved received.
In certain circumstances, however, the in two aspects of the process of identifying and initial fair value may be based on other observable evaluating goodwill impairment.
current market transactions in the same instrument, without modification or repackaging, or on a First, the cost of capital assigned to an valuation technique whose variables include only individual cash-generating unit and used to discount data from observable markets.
its future cash flows can have a significant effect on its valuation.
The cost of capital percentage is Subsequent to initial recognition, the fair values generally derived from an appropriate Capital Asset of financial instruments measured at fair value that Pricing Model, which itself depends on inputs are quoted in active markets are based on bid prices reflecting a number of financial and economic for assets held or liabilities to be issued and offer variables including the risk-free rate in the country prices for assets to be acquired or liabilities held at concerned and a premium to reflect the inherent risk the time.
When independent prices are not available, 101 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued fair values are determined by using valuation When unobservable market data have a techniques which refer to observable market data.
significant impact on the valuation of derivatives, the These include comparison with similar instruments entire initial change in fair value indicated by the where market observable prices exist, discounted valuation model is not recognised immediately in the cash flow analysis, option pricing models and other income statement but is recognised over the life of valuation techniques commonly used by market the transaction on an appropriate basis or is participants.
recognised in the income statement when the inputs become observable, or when the transaction matures The main factors which management considers or is closed out.
when applying a model are: Financial instruments measured at fair value the likelihood and expected timing of future through profit or loss comprise financial cash flows on the instrument.
These cash flows instruments held for trading and financial are usually governed by the terms of the instruments designated at fair value.
Changes in instrument, although management judgement their fair value directly impact HSBCs income may be required in situations where the ability statement in the period in which they occur.
of the counterparty to service the instrument in accordance with the contractual terms is in A change in the fair value of a financial doubt: and instrument which is classified as available-forsale is recorded directly in equity until the an appropriate discount rate for the instrument.
financial instrument is sold, at which point the Management determines this rate, based on its cumulative change in fair value is charged or assessment of the appropriate spread of the rate credited to the income statement.
For those debt for the instrument over the risk-free rate.
and equity securities classified as available-forWhen valuing instruments by reference to sale, consideration as to whether any such assets comparable instruments, management takes into should be written down to reflect an impairment account the maturity, structure and rating of the is taken into account in the fair value of the instrument with which the position held is being relevant security.
Any impairment in the value compared.
of debt and equity securities held as availablefor-sale is reported in the income statement and When valuing instruments on a model basis hence reduces HSBCs operating profit for the using the fair value of underlying components, period.
management considers, in addition, the need for adjustments to take account of a number of factors The table below summarises HSBCs portfolios such as bid-offer spread, credit profile, servicing held at fair value by valuation methodology at costs of portfolios and model uncertainty.
These 31 December 2005: adjustments are based on defined policies which are applied consistently across HSBC.
102 IFRSs compared with US GAAP a material impact on the US GAAP information in HSBCs financial statements.
2005 2004 US$m US$m In June 2005, the FASB Emerging Issues Task Net income Force EITF issued EITF 04-5 Determining US GAAP.................................. 14,703 12,506 whether a General Partner, or General Partners as a IFRSs......................................... 15,081 12,918 Group, Controls a Limited Partnership or Similar Entity When the Limited Partners Have Certain Shareholders equity US GAAP.................................. 93,524 90,082 Rights.
EITF 04-5 has a presumption that the IFRSs......................................... 92,432 85,522 general partner in a limited partnership or similar entity, such as a limited liability company, has HSBC provides details of its net income and control unless the limited partners have substantive shareholders equity calculated in accordance with kick-out rights or participating rights.
The guidance US GAAP, which differs in certain respects from contained in the EITF is effective after 29 June 2005 IFRSs.
Differences in net income and shareholders for all new partnerships formed and for existing equity are explained in Note 47 on the Financial partnerships that are modified after that date, and for Statements on pages 375 to 402. all other existing partnerships it is effective no later than the beginning of the first reporting period Future accounting developments beginning after 15 December 2005.
The impact of EITF 04-5 on the US GAAP information in HSBCs At 31 December 2005, HSBC adopted all IFRSs or financial statements is not expected to be material.
interpretations that had been issued by the International Accounting Standards Board IASB In November 2005 the FASB released FASB and endorsed by the EU with the exception of the Staff Position FSP FAS 115-1 The Meaning of Amendments to IAS 39 and IFRS 4 Financial Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and Its Guarantee Contracts.
Application to Certain Investments which supersedes the guidance provided by EITF 03-1 The Financial guarantee contracts are currently Meaning of Other-Than-Temporary Impairment and accounted for under IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Its Application to Certain Investments.
FSP FAS Liabilities and Contingent Assets as contingent 115-1 clarifies when an investment is considered liabilities and are disclosed as off balance sheet impaired, whether that impairment is other than items.
Under the amendment, the issuer of a financial temporary, and the measurement of an impairment guarantee contract should classify such a contract as loss.
FSP FAS 115-1 is effective for fiscal years a financial instrument liability in accordance with beginning after 15 December 2005.
An exception is made for issuers of expected to have a material impact on the US GAAP guarantees deemed to be insurance contracts, who, information in HSBCs financial statements.
subject to certain conditions, may irrevocably elect to account for such contracts as financial liabilities SFAS 155 Accounting for Certain Hybrid under IAS 39 or as insurance contract liabilities Financial Instruments was issued by the FASB in under IFRS 4.
SFAS 155 permits fair value measurement for any hybrid financial instrument that HSBC is required to adopt this amendment for contains an embedded derivative that would the year ending 31 December 2006 and is currently otherwise require bifurcation.
An irrevocable election assessing the impact this will have both in the Group may be made to initially and subsequently measure and the parent company.
such a hybrid financial instrument at fair value, with The Financial Accounting Standards Board changes in fair value recognised through income.
FASB has issued the following accounting Such election needs to be supported by concurrent standards, which will become fully effective in future documentation.
SFAS 155 is effective for financial financial statements.
years beginning after 15 September 2006, with early adoption permitted.
HSBC is currently considering In May 2005 the FASB issued Statement of the impact that adoption of SFAS 155 will have on Financial Accounting Standards SFAS No.
154 its US GAAP financial statements.
Accounting Changes and Error Corrections.
In many, but not all aspects, SFAS 154 converges with IAS 8 Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors in the accounting and reporting of accounting changes and corrections of errors.
SFAS 154 is effective for fiscal years beginning after 15 December 2005.
Adoption is not expected to have 103 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Net interest margin numbers are calculated by Average balance sheet and net dividing net interest income as reported in the interest income income statement by the average interest earning Average balances and the related interest are shown assets from which interest income is reported within for the domestic operations of HSBCs principal the Net interest income line of the income commercial banks by geographic region with all statement.
Interest income and interest expense other commercial banking and investment banking arising from trading assets and liabilities and the balances and transactions included in Other funding thereof is included within Net trading operations.
income in the income statement.
110 Analysis of changes in net interest and rate, and the effect of reclassifying items on the income adoption of IAS 32 and IAS 39 at 1 January 2005, are allocated to rate.
The following table allocates changes in net interest income between volume and rate for 2005 compared with 2004.
-Banco Mltiplo and subsidiaries, plus Banco Lloyds TSB S. A. and Losango Promotora fide Vendas Limitada.
2 Interest income on trading assets is reported as Net trading income in the consolidated income statement.
3 Interest income on financial assets designated at fair value is reported as Net income from financial instruments designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement.
4 Further analysis is given on page 179.
5 Further analysis is given on page 180.
6 Interest expense on financial liabilities designated at fair value is reported as Net income on financial liabilities designated at fair value in the consolidated income statement other than interest on own debt.
7 Excludes eliminations see note iii.
113 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Notes i Average balances are based on daily averages for the principal areas of HSBCs banking activities with monthly or less frequent averages used elsewhere.
ii In 2004 Loans accounted for on a non-accrual basis and Loans on which interest has been accrued but suspended were included in Loans and advances to banks and Loans and advances to customers.
Interest income on such loans was included in the consolidated income statement to the extent to which it had been received.
iii Balances and transactions with fellow subsidiaries are reported gross in the principal commercial banking and consumer finance entities within Other interest-earning assets and Other interest-bearing liabilities as appropriate and the elimination entries are included within Other operations in those two categories.
iv Other than as noted in iii above, Other operations comprise the operations of the principal commercial banking and consumer finance entities outside their domestic markets and all other banking operations.
v In 2004 non-equity minority interests were included within shareholders equity and other non interest-bearing liabilities and the related coupon payments were included within Profit attributable to minority interests.
114 Risk management operating companies are required to comply in Audited IFRS 7 information formulating and recording in dedicated manuals their own more detailed credit policies and All HSBCs activities involve analysis, evaluation, procedures.
All such credit policies and acceptance and management of some degree of risk procedures are monitored by Group Credit or combination of risks.
The most important types of and Risk.
risk are credit risk which includes country and cross-border risk, liquidity risk, market risk, Establishing and maintaining HSBCs large residual value risk, reputational risk, operational risk credit exposure policy.
This policy delineates and insurance risk.
Market risk includes foreign HSBCs maximum exposures to individual exchange, interest rate and equity price risk.
customers, customer groups and other risk concentrations in an approach which is designed HSBCs risk management policies are designed to be more conservative than internationally to identify and analyse these risks, to set appropriate accepted regulatory standards.
All HSBCs risk limits and controls, and to monitor the risks and operating companies are required to comply adherence to limits by means of reliable and up-towith the policy.
date administrative and information systems.
HSBC regularly reviews its risk management policies and Issuing lending guidelines to HSBCs operating systems to reflect changes in markets, products and companies on the Groups attitude towards, and emerging best practice.
Individual responsibility and appetite for, lending to, inter alia, specified accountability, instilled through training, are designed market sectors and industries.
Each HSBC to deliver a disciplined, conservative and constructive operating company and major business unit is culture of risk management and control.
required to base its own lending guidelines on HSBCs standards, regularly update them and The Group Management Board, under authority disseminate them to all credit and lending delegated by the Board of Directors, formulates high executives.
level Group risk management policy.
A separately constituted Risk Management Meeting monitors risk Undertaking an independent review and and receives reports which allow it to review the objective assessment of risk.
Group Credit and effectiveness of HSBCs risk management policies.
Risk assesses all commercial non-bank credit facilities originated by HSBCs operating The management of all risks that are significant companies in excess of designated limits, prior to HSBC is discussed below.
The insurance to the facilities being committed to customers.
businesses manage their own credit, liquidity and Operating companies may not confirm credit market risk along with insurance risk, so these risks approval without this concurrence.
Renewals are discussed separately from those relating to the and reviews of commercial non-bank facilities rest of HSBC in the Risk management of insurance over designated levels are subject to the same operations section.
Credit risk management Controlling exposures to banks and other Audited IFRS 7 information financial institutions.
HSBCs credit and settlement risk limits to counterparties in the Credit risk is the risk of financial loss if a customer finance and government sectors are approved or counterparty fails to meet an obligation under a centrally to optimise the use of credit contract.
It arises principally from lending, trade availability and avoid excessive risk finance, treasury and leasing business.
A dedicated unit within Group standards, policies and procedures dedicated to Credit and Risk controls and manages these controlling and monitoring risk from all such exposures globally using centralised systems activities.
Within Group Head Office, a separate function, Managing exposures to debt securities by Group Credit and Risk, is mandated to provide highestablishing controls in respect of the liquidity level centralised management of credit risk for of securities held for trading and setting issuer HSBC worldwide.
Group Credit and Risk is headed limits for securities held-to-maturity.
Separate by a Group General Manager who reports to the portfolio limits are established for asset-backed Group Chief Executive.
Its responsibilities include securities and similar instruments.
the following: Controlling cross-border exposures.
These are embodied unit within Group Credit and Risk uses in the HSBC standards with which all HSBCs 115 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued centralised systems to manage country and risk concentrations and exposure to industry cross-border risk through the imposition of sectors: country limits with sub-limits by maturity and large customer group exposures: type of business.
Country limits are determined by taking into account economic and political emerging market debt and impairment factors, and applying local business knowledge.
allowances: Transactions with countries deemed to be high large impaired accounts and impairment risk are considered on a case-by-case basis.
allowances: Controlling exposures to selected industries.
specific segments of the portfolio: real Group Credit and Risk controls HSBCs estate, automobiles, insurance, aviation and exposures to the shipping, aviation and shipping, as well as ad hoc reviews: automobile sectors, and closely monitors exposures to other industries such as insurance country limits, cross-border exposures and and real estate.
When necessary, restrictions are impairment allowances: and imposed on new business, or exposures in causes of unexpected loss and lessons HSBCs operating companies are capped.
Maintaining and developing HSBCs risk Managing and directing credit-related systems ratings in order to categorise exposures initiatives.
HSBC has a centralised database of meaningfully and facilitate focused management large corporate, sovereign and bank facilities of the attendant risks.
Historically, HSBCs risk and is constructing a database comprising all rating framework has consisted of a minimum of Group credit assets.
A systems-based credit seven grades, taking into account the risk of application process for bank lending is default and the availability of security or other operational in all jurisdictions and an electronic credit risk mitigation.
A more sophisticated riskcorporate credit application system is deployed rating framework for banks and other customers, in all of the Groups major businesses.
based on default probability and loss estimates and comprising up to 22 categories, is being Providing advice and guidance to HSBCs progressively implemented across the HSBC operating companies in order to promote best Group and is already operative in most major practice throughout the Group on credit-related business units.
This new approach will matters such as: increasingly allow a more granular analysis of regulatory developments: risk and trends.
Rating methodology is based upon a wide range of financial analytics together implementing environmental and social with market data-based tools which are core responsibility policies: inputs to the assessment of counterparty risk.
risk modelling and portfolio collective Although automated risk-rating processes are impairment allowances: increasingly in use, for the larger facilities ultimate responsibility for setting risk grades new products: rests in each case with the final approving training courses: and executive.
Risk grades are reviewed frequently and amendments, where necessary, are credit-related reporting.
Acting on behalf of HSBC Holdings as the Reviewing the performance and effectiveness of primary interface for credit-related issues with operating companies credit approval processes.
external parties including the Bank of England, Regular reports are provided to Group Credit the FSA, rating agencies, corporate analysts, and Risk on the credit quality of local portfolios trade associations and counterparts in the and corrective action is taken where necessary.
worlds major banks and non-bank financial institutions.
Reporting to certain senior executives on aspects of the HSBC loan portfolio.
These Each operating company is required to executives, as well as the Group Management implement credit policies, procedures and lending Board, the Risk Management Meeting, the guidelines which conform to HSBC Group Group Audit Committee and the Board of standards, with credit approval authorities delegated Directors of HSBC Holdings, receive a variety from the Board of Directors of HSBC Holdings to of regular reports covering: the relevant Chief Executive Officer.
In each major 116 subsidiary, management includes a Chief Credit and important mitigant to credit risk, it is HSBCs policy Risk Officer who reports to the local Chief to establish that loans are within the customers Executive Officer on credit-related issues.
All Chief capacity to repay rather than to rely excessively on Credit and Risk Officers have a functional reporting security.
In certain cases, depending on the line to the Group General Manager, Group Credit customers standing and the type of product, and Risk.
Each operating company is responsible for facilities may be unsecured.
The principal collateral the quality and performance of its credit portfolios types are as follows: and for monitoring and controlling all credit risks in in the personal sector, mortgages over its portfolios, including those subject to central residential properties: approval by Group Credit and Risk.
This includes managing its own risk concentrations by market in the commercial and industrial sector, charges sector, geography and product.
Local systems are in over business assets such as premises, stock and place throughout the Group to enable operating debtors: companies to control and monitor exposures by in the commercial real estate sector, charges customer and counterparty.
over the properties being financed: and, Special attention is paid to problem loans.
When in the financial sector, charges over financial appropriate, specialist units are established by instruments such as debt securities and equities HSBCs operating companies to provide customers in support of trading facilities.
with support in order to help them avoid default wherever possible, thereby maximising recoveries Other securities Audited IFRS 7 information for HSBC.
Collateral held as security for financial assets other Regular audits of operating companies credit than loans and advances is determined by the nature processes are undertaken by HSBCs Internal Audit of the instrument.
Debt securities, treasury and other function.
Audits include a consideration of the eligible bills are generally unsecured with the completeness and adequacy of credit manuals and exception of asset backed securities and similar lending guidelines: an in-depth analysis of a instruments, which are secured by pools of financial representative sample of accounts: an overview of assets.
homogeneous portfolios of similar assets to assess The ISDA Master Agreement is HSBCs the quality of the loan book and other exposures: and preferred agreement for documenting derivatives a check that Group standards and policies are activity.
It provides the contractual framework adhered to in the extension and management of within which dealing activity across a full range of credit facilities.
Individual accounts are reviewed to over-the-counter OTC, products is conducted and ensure that risk grades are appropriate, that credit contractually binds both parties to apply close-out and collection procedures have been properly netting across all outstanding transactions covered followed and that, when an account or portfolio by an agreement, if either party defaults or following evidences deterioration, impairment allowances are other pre-agreed termination events.
It is common raised in accordance with the Groups established for the parties to execute a Credit Support Annex processes.
Internal Audit discuss with management CSA in conjunction with the ISDA Master risk ratings they consider to be inappropriate, and Agreement, a practice HSBC encourages.
Under a their subsequent recommendations for revised grades CSA, collateral is passed between the parties to must then be assigned to the facilities concerned.
mitigate the market contingent counterparty risk inherent in the outstanding positions.
Collateral and other credit enhancements Settlement risk arises in any situation where a Loans and advances Audited IFRS 7 information payment in cash, securities or equities is made in the When appropriate, operating companies are required expectation of a corresponding receipt in cash, to implement guidelines on the acceptability of securities or equities.
Daily Settlement Limits are specific classes of collateral or credit risk mitigation, established for each counterparty, to cover the and determine valuation parameters.
Such aggregate of all settlement risk arising from HSBCs parameters are expected to be conservative, investment banking and markets transactions on any reviewed regularly and supported by empirical single day.
Settlement risk on many transactions, evidence.
Security structures and legal covenants are particularly those involving securities and equities, is subject to regular review to ensure that they continue substantially mitigated when effected via Assured to fulfil their intended purpose and remain in line Payment Systems, or on a delivery versus payment with local market practice.
While collateral is an basis.
This, together with the IFRS grossing change mentioned above, increased Loans and advances are well spread across both commercial and financial lending by just over industry sectors and jurisdictions.
2 percentage points to 17 per cent of total gross loans At constant exchange rates, and excluding the and advances.
Within this category of lending, no US$44 billion grossing adjustment to meet IFRSs individual industry exceeded 4 per cent of total gross requirements, gross loans and advances to customers lending.
excluding the finance sector and settlement Advances to banks are widely distributed, accounts grew by US$71 billion, or 12 per cent, principally to major institutions, and with no single during 2005.
On the same basis, personal lending exposure more than 5 per cent of total advances to comprised 63 per cent of HSBCs loan portfolio and banks.
63 per cent of the growth in loans in 2005.
Including the financial sector and settlement Financial investments accounts, personal lending represented Total financial investments were broadly in line with US$420 billion, or 56 per cent, of total loans and 2004.
Investments of US$96 billion in corporate debt advances to customers at 31 December 2005. and other securities were the largest single Within this total, secured residential mortgages were concentration of these, rising to 53 per cent of US$234 billion and, at 31 per cent, of total advances overall investments from 45 per cent at 31 December to customers, the Groups largest single 2004.
Nearly three quarters of these holdings, which concentration.
were spread across a wide range of issuers, as well Commercial and financial lending, including as geographically, were in debt securities issued by settlement accounts, comprised 44 per cent of gross banks and other financial institutions.
lending to customers at 31 December 2005.
The Investments in governments and government largest single industry concentrations were in nonagencies of US$76 billion were 42 per cent of bank financial institutions and commercial real estate overall financial investments, broadly in line with lending, each of which amounted to 7 per cent of 2004.
One third of these investments were held in total gross lending to customers, broadly in line with treasury and other eligible bills.
118 The insurance businesses have a diversified which amounted to US$72 billion, or 48 per cent of portfolio of debt securities designated at fair value overall trading securities.
This included US$13 US$5 billion and debt securities classified as billion of treasury and other eligible bills.
Corporate debt and other securities were US$55 Securities held for trading billion or 37 per cent of overall trading securities.
In percentage terms this was broadly in line with 2004.
Total securities within trading assets were Included within this were US$17 billion of debts US$150 billion.
The largest single class of these securities issued by banks and other financial assets is governments and government agency assets, institutions.
2 Under IAS32 there are restrictions on the ability to offset, for presentational purposes, loans and advances in respect of customers who maintain both deposit and borrowing relationships with HSBC.
This represents the amounts grossed up at 31 December 2005 to isolate underlying charges on the net basis on which HSBC continues to treat such loans and advances for the purpose of credit risk management.
mortgages increased by US$5 billion to The commentary below analyses the underlying US$118 billion.
changes in lending noted in the table above, measured against the position at 31 December 2004.
In North America, mortgage growth was On this basis, total loans and advances to customers concentrated in HSBC Finance in the US, where a grew by 8 per cent, and total gross loans and continued focus on expanding the secured lending advances increased by 5 per cent.
portfolio through the correspondent and branch based businesses generated an 18 per cent increase in Residential mortgages increased by 9 per cent to mortgage lending.
There was also a continued focus US$234 billion and comprised 31 per cent of total on junior lien loans through portfolio acquisitions gross loans to customers including the finance and purchasing newly originated loans through flow sector and settlement accounts at 31 December correspondents.
This was partly offset by a reduction 2005.
Growth was particularly strong in the UK, in the US bank, as newly originated prime mortgages where residential mortgages increased by 17 per cent were sold into the secondary market.
In Canada, to US$68 billion, and in North America, where 119 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued branch expansions in the consumer finance business In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, continuing delivered a 17 per cent increase in mortgage lending.
expansion of the credit card base and higher utilisation of cards by existing customers, together Residential mortgage balances in Hong Kong with successful marketing, contributed to a 25 per were broadly flat, in what remained a highly cent increase in lending.
In South America, competitive market.
There was a net repayment in marketing and new product launches, combined with mortgages under the Hong Kong GHOS, under improved consumer sentiment, contributed to which new advances remained suspended.
In the rest underlying growth of 26 per cent in Brazil.
of Asia-Pacific, an increase of 22 per cent in mortgage lending was driven by operations in the Loans and advances to the corporate and Middle East, India, Taiwan, South Korea, mainland commercial sectors grew by 12 per cent during 2005, China and Singapore, in each of which growth was predominantly in the Commercial Banking customer over 30 per cent.
Other personal lending increased by 17 per cent In Europe, corporate and commercial advances to US$182 billion, and represented 24 per cent of increased by 10 per cent, reflecting customer total gross loans to customers at 31 December 2005. demand for credit, as well as new customer The acquisition of Metris in December 2005 acquisition, particularly in the property, distribution increased personal loans by US$5 billion, or and services sectors.
In Hong Kong, an 11 per cent 3 percentage points of the growth in 2005.
Including increase was mainly in the property and and in part due to this, some 75 per cent of growth manufacturing sectors, in part reflecting the benefit was in North America.
Organic growth within the of economic expansion in mainland China.
This was US in HSBC branded prime, Union Privilege and also reflected in the Rest of Asia-Pacific, where non-prime portfolios, partly offset by the continued strong regional economies, and significant decline in certain older acquired portfolios, also government-backed infrastructure and property contributed to the increase.
The US vehicle finance projects, also contributed to the 16 per cent increase business reported strong organic growth, principally overall.
In North America, a 15 per cent increase in the near-prime portfolios.
This came from newly was driven by lending to finance real estate projects originated loans acquired through the dealer and construction, as well as increases in most other network, growth in the consumer direct loan sectors and industries.
programme and expanded distribution through The following tables analyse loans by industry alliance channels.
Growth in personal non-credit sector and by the location of the principal operations card lending reflected HSBCs increasing the of the lending subsidiary or, in the case of the availability of this product in the second half of operations of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking 2004, as a result of an improving US economy, as Corporation, HSBC Bank, HSBC Bank Middle East well as the success of several large direct mail and HSBC Bank USA, by the location of the lending campaigns launched in 2005. branch.
In Europe, the charge-off of substantially provided personal loans against provisions masked the underlying growth in lending: Other personal lending net of impairment reserves grew by 13 per cent.
In the UK, growth in credit card and other unsecured lending was driven by pricing and marketing initiatives, against the backdrop of subdued consumer spending.
In Turkey, credit card lending rose markedly, also helped by marketing campaigns.
2 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$66,020 million.
2 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$56,222 million.
4 Included in North America are impaired loans of US$3,782 million and specific provisions of US$3,443 million in HSBC Finance: excluding HSBC Finance, specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of impaired loans was 54.6 per cent.
2 Other commercial loans include advances in respect of agriculture, transport, energy and utilities.
3 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$48,634 million.
5 Included in North America are non-performing loans of US$4,380 million and specific provisions of US$4,448 million in HSBC Finance: excluding HSBC Finance, specific provisions outstanding as a percentage of non-performing loans was 69.2 per cent.
3 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$9,950 million.
3 Included within this total is credit card lending of US$8,289 million.
Grade 3 represents satisfactory risk and includes corporate facilities that require closer monitoring, mortgages with higher loan to value ratios than grades 1 and 2, all non-impaired credit card exposures, and other retail exposures which operate outside product guidelines without being impaired.
Grades 4 and 5 include corporate facilities that require various degrees of special attention and all retail exposures that are progressively between 30 and 90 days past due.
127 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued There are a variety of reasons why certain loans designated as past due are not regarded as impaired.
Unless other information is available to indicate to the contrary, all loans less than 90 days past due are not considered impaired.
It is also not unusual for short-term trade finance facilities to extend beyond 90 days past due for reasons that do not reflect any concern on the creditworthiness of the counterparty, such as delays in documentation.
In addition, past due loans secured in full by cash collateral are not considered impaired and, where appropriate, neither are residential mortgages in arrears by more than 90 days where the value of collateral is sufficient to repay both the debt and all potential interest for at least one year.
Impaired loans and advances Audited IFRS 7 information For individually assessed accounts, loans are treated as impaired as soon as there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been incurred.
The criteria used by HSBC to determine that there is objective evidence of an impairment loss include, inter alia: known cash flow difficulties experienced by the borrower: overdue contractual payments of either principal or interest: breach of loan covenants or conditions: the probability that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation: and a downgrading in credit rating by an external credit rating agency.
Accounts in portfolios of homogeneous loans are treated as impaired once facilities are 90 days or more overdue.
Further information on impaired loans is provided below in Impairment assessment.
The total gross amount of impaired loans and advances to customers as at 31 December 2005 was US$11,446 million, of which US$4,960 million related to individually impaired loans and advances and US$6,486 million related to portfolios of homogeneous loans and advances.
The following table presents an analysis of individually impaired loans by industry sector and by geographical region: At 31 December 2005 Gross impaired Gross loans by impaired industry Rest of loans and sector as a Hong AsiaNorth South advances to % of total Europe Kong Pacific America America customers gross loan US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m % Personal....................................... 655 256 119 5 1,035 20.9 Commercial and corporate........... 2,562 198 629 338 198 3,925 79.1 Total impaired loans and advances to customers.............. 3,217 454 748 343 198 4,960 100.0 The types of collateral or other security held are described above in Collateral and other credit enhancements.
128 Loans and advances measured at amortised cost net total credit risk Audited IFRS 7 information Loans and advances against which HSBC had legally enforceable rights to offset with financial liabilities at 31 December 2005 were as follows: Amount for which HSBC had a legally Carrying enforceable Net total 1 2 amount right to offset credit risk US$m US$m US$m Loans and advances to customers................................................................. 751,359 48,495 702,864 Loans and advances to banks........................................................................ 125,974 51 125,923 877,333 48,546 828,787 1 Against financial liabilities with the same counterparty.
2 Excluding the value of any collateral or security held.
If major rating agencies have different ratings for the same debt securities, the securities are reported against the lower rating.
Impairment assessment evidence that an impairment loss has occurred include: Loans and advances Audited IFRS 7 information contractual payments of principal or interest It is HSBCs policy that each operating company which become 90 days overdue: makes allowance for impaired loans promptly when required and on a consistent basis in accordance with breach of loan covenants, conditions or other Group guidelines.
terms: HSBCs rating process for credit facilities known cash flow difficulties experienced by the extended by its operating entities is designed to borrower: and highlight exposures which require closer a significant downgrading in credit rating set by management attention because of their greater an external credit rating agency.
probability of default and potential loss.
Amendments to risk grades, when necessary, are Two types of impairment allowance are in place: implemented promptly, with management individually assessed and collectively assessed.
particularly focusing on facilities to borrowers and These are discussed below.
portfolio segments classified below satisfactory grades.
Management also regularly evaluates the Individually assessed allowances Audited IFRS 7 information adequacy of the established allowances for impaired loans by conducting a detailed review of the loan Impairment allowances on individually assessed portfolio, comparing performance and delinquency accounts are determined by an evaluation of the statistics with historical trends and assessing the exposure to loss on a case-by-case basis.
This impact of current economic conditions.
The criteria procedure is applied to all individually significant that HSBC uses to determine that there is objective accounts and all other accounts that do not qualify for, or are not subject to, the portfolio-based 130 approach outlined below.
In determining allowances assets and ii losses which have been incurred but on individually assessed accounts, the following have not yet been identified on loans subject to factors are considered: individual assessment for impairment.
HSBCs aggregate exposure to the customer: Homogeneous groups of loans the viability of the customers business model Audited IFRS 7 information and his capacity to trade successfully out of Two approaches are available to calculating financial difficulties and generate sufficient cash impairment allowances when homogeneous groups flow to service debt obligations: of assets such as credit card loans, other unsecured the amount and timing of expected receipts and consumer lending, motor vehicle financing and recoveries: residential mortgage loans are reviewed collectively on a portfolio basis: the likely dividend available on liquidation or bankruptcy: When appropriate empirical information is available, the Group uses roll rate methodology the extent of other creditors commitments a statistical analysis of historical trends of the ranking ahead of, or pari passu with, HSBC and probability of default and amount of the likelihood of other creditors continuing to consequential loss, assessed at each time period support the company: for which payments are overdue, other the complexity of determining the aggregate historical data and an evaluation of current amount and ranking of all creditor claims and economic conditions to calculate an appropriate the extent to which legal and insurance level of impairment allowance based on uncertainties are evident: inherent loss.
In certain highly developed markets, sophisticated models also take into the realisable value of security or other credit account behavioural and account management mitigants and likelihood of successful trends such as those indicated by bankruptcy repossession: and restructuring statistics.
Roll rates are the likely deduction of any costs involved in regularly benchmarked to ensure they remain recovering amounts outstanding: appropriate.
the ability of the borrower to obtain and make When portfolios are less than US$20 million in payments in the relevant foreign currency if size, or when information is insufficient or not loans are not in local currency: and sufficiently reliable for roll rate methodology to be adopted, the Group uses a simpler method when available, the secondary market price for based on similar principles which assesses the debt.
impairment based on historical experience and Group policy requires the level of impairment current economic conditions.
allowances on individual facilities that are above The portfolio approach is applied to accounts in the materiality thresholds to be reviewed at least following portfolios: half-yearly, and more regularly when individual circumstances require.
The review normally low value, homogeneous small business encompasses collateral held including reaccounts in certain jurisdictions: confirmation of its enforceability and an assessment residential mortgages that have not been of actual and anticipated receipts.
For significant individually assessed or are less than 90 days commercial and corporate debts, specialised loan overdue except in HSBC Finance : work-out teams with experience in insolvency and specific market sectors are used to assess likely credit cards and other unsecured consumer losses on significant individual exposures.
lending products: and Individually calculated impairment allowances are motor vehicle financing.
only reversed when the Group has reasonable and objective evidence of a reduction in the established These portfolio allowances are generally loss estimate.
assessed monthly and charges for new allowances, or releases of existing allowances, are calculated for Collectively assessed allowances each separately identified portfolio.
Audited IFRS 7 information Collectively assessed allowances are made in respect of i losses incurred in portfolios of homogeneous 131 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Incurred but not yet identified impairment indebtedness, the debt service burden and access to Audited IFRS 7 information external sources of funds to meet the debtor countrys financing requirements.
Political factors Impairment allowances for incurred but not yet taken into account include the stability of the country identified losses relate to loans that are impaired at and its government, threats to security, and the the balance sheet date but which will not be quality and independence of the legal system.
individually identified as such until some time in the future.
HSBC requires each operating company to Impairment allowances are applied to all estimate such impairment losses by taking into qualifying exposures within these countries unless account: these exposures are: historical loss experience in portfolios of similar performing, trade-related and of less than one risk characteristics, for example, by industry years maturity: sector, loan grade or product: mitigated by acceptable security cover which is, the estimated period between a loss being other than in exceptional cases, held outside the incurred and that loss being evidenced by the country concerned: establishment of an individually assessed represented by securities held for trading impairment allowance against that loss: and purposes for which a liquid and active market managements experienced judgement as to exists, and which are measured at fair value whether the current economic and credit daily: conditions are such that the actual level of performing facilities with principal excluding inherent losses is likely to be greater or less than security of US$1 million or below: or that suggested by historical experience.
performing facilities with maturity dates shorter The estimated period between a loss occurring than 3 months.
and its identification as evidenced by the establishment of an individual impairment allowance Loan write-offs Audited IFRS 7 information for that loss is determined by local management for each identified portfolio.
In general, the periods used Loans and the related impairment allowances are vary between four and twelve months although, in normally written off, either partially or in full, when exceptional cases, longer periods are warranted.
there is no realistic prospect of recovering these amounts and when the proceeds from realising In normal circumstances, historical experience security have been received.
Unsecured consumer is the most objective and accurate framework used to facilities are normally written off between 150 and assess inherent loss within each portfolio.
In HSBC Finance, this period is loss experience is generally benchmarked against the generally extended to 300 days overdue 270 days average annual rate of losses over at least five years.
for real estate secured products.
In certain circumstances, economic conditions are such that historical loss experience provides little or In almost no cases does the write-off period no guide to the inherent loss in a given portfolio.
The only exception arises such circumstances, management uses its when certain consumer finance accounts are deemed experienced judgement to determine an appropriate collectible beyond this point.
In the event of impairment allowance.
bankruptcy, write-off can occur earlier.
The basis on which impairment allowances for US banks typically write off problem lending incurred but not yet identified losses is established in more quickly than is the practice in the UK.
This each reporting entity is documented and reviewed by means that HSBCs reported levels of credit risk senior Group credit management to ensure elements and associated allowances are likely to be conformity with Group policy.
higher than those of comparable US banks.
Cross-border exposures Audited IFRS 7 Impairment allowances Audited IFRS 7 information information Management assesses the vulnerability of countries When impairment losses occur, HSBC reduces the to foreign currency payment restrictions when carrying amount of loans and advances and held-toconsidering impairment allowances on cross-border maturity financial investments through the use of an exposures.
This assessment includes an analysis of allowance account.
When impairment of availablethe economic and political factors existing at the for-sale financial assets occurs, the carrying amount time.
Economic factors include the level of external of the asset is reduced directly.
133 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Movement in impairment allowances by industry segment and by geographical region The following tables show details of the movements A discussion of the material movements in the loan in HSBCs impairment allowances by location of impairment charges by region follows these tables.
lending office for each of the past five years.
2 Collectively assessed impairment allowances are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the allowance.
Consequently, the collectively assessed impairment allowances booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in the Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
2 General provisions are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the provision.
Consequently, the general provision booked in Hong Kong may cover assets booked in branches located outside Hong Kong, principally in the Rest of Asia-Pacific, as well as those booked in Hong Kong.
2 Other movements include amounts of US$129 million in Europe and US$4,524 million in North America transferred in on the acquisition of HSBC Finance Corporation, and of US$116 million in South America transferred in on the acquisition of Lloyds TSB Groups Brazilian businesses and assets.
3 General provisions are allocated to geographical segments based on the location of the office booking the provision.
2 Other movements include amounts transferred in on the acquisition of HSBC Mexico of US$1,704 million.
3 Includes US$600 million of additional provisions held against Argentine loans.
In the commercial sector, Loan impairment charges were US$7,860 million, an there were a number of individually significant new increase of 27 per cent compared with 2004. charges raised in the fourth quarter, as well as a Acquisitions accounted for US$107 million of the higher rate of new allowances.
Although credit rise and US$498 million reflected the non-recurrence charges remained low by historic standards, the trend of the general provision release in 2004.
The total is progressively moving back to more normal levels.
charge remained dominated by the personal sector, Elsewhere in Europe, France and Italy saw declines with losses in these portfolios representing 92 per in new allowances, due to the sale of a consumer cent of the Groups net loan impairment charge.
On finance subsidiary during the year and the nona constant currency basis, the trends were as follows: recurrence of corporate charges, respectively.
In New allowances for loan impairment charges Turkey, new allowances have increased in line with were US$10,140 million, an increase of 13 per cent the growth in the personal loan portfolio.
Releases and recoveries of Releases and recoveries in Europe were allowances increased by 4 per cent to US$2,280 US$1,058 million, an increase of 23 per cent.
Including a general provision release of Including a general provision release of US$498 million in 2004, releases and recoveries US$162 million in 2004, releases and recoveries decreased by 15 per cent.
Increased releases in Turkey, In Europe, growth in UK personal lending and largely reflecting higher volumes offset the nona weakening in credit quality were the principal recurrence of the general provision release in causes of a 50 per cent increase in new loan Switzerland.
impairment charges to US$3,042 million in 2005.
New impairment allowances in Hong Kong Slower economic growth and weaker employment were US$359 million, a rise of 51 per cent.
This was conditions were compounded by a change in partially attributable to a small number of individual legislation in 2004 that relaxed conditions for allowances for corporate and commercial customers.
personal bankruptcies, which rose to record highs by However, overall credit quality improved, evidenced the final quarter of 2005.
In response to these trends by a decline in non-performing loans as a proportion in the personal portfolio, HSBC tightened of gross advances, reflecting a strong economy with underwriting controls, focusing more on existing low unemployment.
relationships and changing the product mix towards lower risk customers.
These actions, together with Releases and recoveries in Hong Kong declined further centralisation of underwriting approvals and 53 per cent, including the non-recurrence of a 141 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued general provision release of US$223 million in 2004. delinquency ratio closely, as management views it as Excluding this, releases and recoveries fell by 9 per an important indicator of future write-offs.
The ratio cent to US$213 million, as the significant number of declined from 4.0 per cent at 31 December 2004 to large corporate releases in 2004 was not repeated.
3.6 per cent at 30 June 2005, rising to 3.7 per cent at The general provision release last year reflected a 31 December 2005.
Lending in the US is primarily review of historical loss experience and the in the personal sector.
Credit quality in the improved market environment.
commercial portfolio was stable in 2005.
The favourable trends in the US were partially offset by The effect of strong growth in advances in the rises in new allowances in Mexico and Canada.
In Rest of Asia-Pacific, produced an 11 per cent rise in both cases, this was largely driven by personal new impairment allowances to US$470 million.
In balance growth in the loan portfolio in recent years.
particular, increased allowances in Taiwan were Underlying credit quality was stable in Mexico and driven by a combination of loan growth and an improved in Canada.
increase in credit card delinquency.
There were further increases in Indonesia and the Philippines Releases and recoveries in North America were due to growth in advances, with credit quality stable US$506 million, a decrease of 27 per cent.
These were partially offset by the 2004 general provision release of US$63 million, declines in mainland China and Singapore.
In releases and recoveries declined by 33 per cent.
In general, across the region, advances to customers the US, a rise in releases reflected an improved rose and credit quality improved.
Non-performing credit environment and a strong economy.
Under assets, as a percentage of advances, fell across most IFRSs, from 1 January 2005 certain recoverable major countries.
amounts were incorporated into the loan impairment charge directly resulting in lower reported In the Rest of Asia-Pacific, releases and recoveries.
There were further decreases in Mexico, recoveries rose by 6 per cent to US$334 million, due to a particularly large number of recoveries last including the US$48 million general provision year, and in Bank of Bermuda, following the nonrelease in 2004.
Excluding this, releases and recurrence of the general provision release in 2004. recoveries were 24 per cent higher than 2004.
There These declines were offset by a more than five-fold were higher releases and recoveries across most increase in releases in Canada, where better credit countries in the region reflecting the strong quality was driven by improved economic economic environment, although in Malaysia and conditions, particularly in the resource driven Singapore there were declines, due to the noneconomy of western Canada.
recurrence of the general provision releases in 2004.
In South America, new impairment allowances New loan impairment allowances in North in Brazil were the principal cause of a 51 per cent America declined 4 per cent.
This was despite loan rise in new charges to US$723 million in 2005. growth, and the additional credit allowances raised Significant growth of 24 per cent in gross advances, in relation to Hurricane Katrina, and accelerated coupled with deteriorating credit quality in the bankruptcy filings in the second half of the year consumer finance business, were the main ahead of new legislation in the US.
A portion of the contributing factors to this increase.
Lending growth increase in bankruptcies was an acceleration of combined with a move into the low-income segment, write-offs that would have otherwise been where finances have been stretched by higher experienced in future periods.
In an effort to assist interest rates, drove higher delinquency.
Changes customers affected by Hurricane Katrina, HSBC were made to underwriting procedures during the initiated various programmes, including extended year, to improve the credit quality of new business.
The reduction in the charge This resulted in a falling impairment charge to asset also reflected the non-recurrence of a US$47 million ratio towards the end of the year.
New allowances in charge in 2004, following the adoption of FFIEC Argentina were in line with 2004. write-off policies relating to retail and credit card balances.
Excluding these factors, credit quality Releases and recoveries in South America improved year on year, reflecting an improving increased by 16 per cent to US$169 million.
This contributed to the fall Recoveries in Brazil rose as a result of improved in new impairment allowances, which was only collections, compounded by higher releases as a partially offset by increased requirements due to loan result of greater volumes of advances.
HSBC has benefited from the shift in the releases fell as impaired loans reduced, partially balance of the consumer lending business towards offsetting the rise in Brazil.
Following restructuring, an During 2005, HSBC obtained assets by taking overdue consumer account is normally reset from possession of collateral held as security, or calling delinquent to current status.
Restructuring policies other credit enhancements, as follows: and practices are based on indicators or criteria Carrying which, in the judgement of local management, amount indicate that repayment will probably continue.
obtainable These policies are kept under continuous review and 1 in 2005 their application varies according to the nature of the US$m Nature of assets market, the product, and the availability of Residential property................................. 1,171 empirically based data.
When empirical evidence Commercial and industrial property........ 26 indicates an increased propensity to default on 1,197 restructured accounts, the use of roll-rate 1 Audited IFRS 7 information.
methodology ensures this factor is taken into account when calculating impairment allowances.
Repossessed properties are made available for Renegotiated loans that would otherwise be past sale in an orderly fashion, with the proceeds used to due or impaired totalled US$18.1 billion at reduce or repay the outstanding indebtedness.
Restructuring is most commonly excess funds are available after the debt has been applied to consumer finance portfolios.
The largest repaid, they are available either for other secured concentration is in HSBC Finance, and amounts to lenders with lower priority or are returned to the US$14.8 billion or 82 per cent of the total customer.
HSBC does not generally occupy renegotiated loans.
The majority of restructured repossessed properties for its business use.
The amounts arise from secured lending.
majority of repossessed properties in 2005 arose in HSBC Finance Corporation in the US.
HSBC Holdings Audited IFRS 7 information Renegotiated loans Audited IFRS 7 information HSBC Holdings manages its credit risk by limiting its exposure to transactions with its subsidiary Restructuring activity is designed to manage undertakings.
No outstanding balances were customer relationships, maximise collection considered past due or impaired as at 31 December opportunities and, if possible, avoid foreclosure or 2005. repossession.
These include extended payment arrangements, approved external debt management 143 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued HSBC Holdings maximum exposure to credit other credit enhancements, was as follows: risk at 31 December 2005, excluding collateral or 2005 Carrying Off-balance Maximum value sheet exposure exposure US$m US$m US$m Derivatives......................................................................................................... 968 968 Loans and advances to HSBC undertakings....................................................... 14,092 3,663 17,755 Financial investments debt securities of HSBC undertakings.......................... 3,256 3,256 Guarantees.......................................................................................................... 36,877 36,877 18,316 40,540 58,856 No collateral or other credit enhancements were and other varieties of instalment finance, was more held by HSBC Holdings in respect of its transactions subdued than in the prior year.
Following a review of with subsidiary undertakings, other than cash the UK personal unsecured lending book, deposited in respect of interest rate contract margins.
US$1 billion of gross lending to personal customers was written off, and related collectively assessed loss HSBC Holdings financial assets are held with allowances extinguished.
This reflected those subsidiaries of HSBC, primarily those domiciled in amounts for which it was deemed there was no Europe and North America.
realistic possibility of recovery, and was the main cause of more subdued growth.
At 31 December Areas of special interest 2005, the combined portfolios totalled Group advances to personal customers US$182 billion, or 43 per cent, of total lending to the personal sector, compared with US$160 billion, or The loan impairment charge in 2005 remained 41 per cent, at 31 December 2004.
The acquisition of dominated by the charge relating to the personal the credit card portfolios of Metris added sector, which represented 92 per cent of the Group US$5 billion to unsecured lending in 2005. total after taking account of losses from HSBCs other credit related activities.
Within this total, losses Growth in these portfolios reflected resilient on residential mortgages remained modest.
consumer spending in most of the main economies in which HSBC operates.
In the UK, demand for At 31 December 2005, HSBCs lending to the additional consumer credit moderated, and personal sector amounted to US$420 billion, or marketing and competitive pricing initiatives were 56 per cent of total gross loans and advances, the main drivers of growth.
Again, growth in Europe compared with US$388 billion 57 per cent at was masked by the strengthening US dollar.
Acquisitions in 2005 accounted for 1 per cent of the overall increase on the previous Geographically, total lending to personal year.
The main characteristics of this portfolio and customers was dominated by the diverse and mature the economic influences affecting it are outlined portfolios in North America US$218 billion, the below.
UK US$107 billion and Hong Kong US$38 billion.
Collectively, these books accounted Secured residential mortgages, including the for 87 per cent of total lending to the personal sector Hong Kong GHOS, accounted for US$239 billion, 31 December 2004: 87 per cent.
or 57 per cent of total lending to the personal sector, compared with US$228 billion, or 59 per cent, at Account management within HSBCs personal 31 December 2004.
The US and the UK were the lending portfolios is generally supported by main areas of growth in 2005, though increased sophisticated statistical techniques, which are lending to European customers was masked by the enhanced by the availability of credit reference data effect of the strengthening US dollar on currency in key local markets.
The utilisation of an translation.
In percentage terms, growth in the Rest increasingly analytical approach to the management of Asia-Pacific was also strong, and mortgage of these portfolios remains an ongoing objective of lending increased by over 30 per cent in each of the the Group.
Middle East, India, Taiwan, South Korea, mainland In the US, excluding the acquisition of Metris, China and Singapore.
growth was largely in the mortgage services and Growth in the unsecured element of the branch-based consumer lending businesses.
portfolio, consisting of credit and charge card Promotions in the dealer network, and strong growth advances, personal loans, vehicle finance facilities in the consumer direct loan programme, also 144 contributed to increased vehicle finance lending.
The mortgage market remained With the exception of the areas immediately affected intensely competitive, with competitors offering very by Hurricane Katrina, the US housing market low rates, along with up-front cash incentives to remained strong, supported by low interest rates and attract new mortgage business.
Overall mortgage transaction costs, and increased availability of credit.
balances, excluding the reduction in balances under Within the US, HSBCs portfolios remained the GHOS, which remained suspended, were broadly geographically diverse, and were largely secured by flat compared with December 2004. Credit quality first lien positions.
continued to improve, with consumers benefiting from employment levels and rising property prices, Although increased mortgage borrowing has with a notable reduction in the level of negative contributed to the record level of consumer debt equity on mortgage balances.
burden in the US, levels have largely stabilised and are expected to decline gradually, as incomes rise In contrast with Hong Kong, personal lending in sufficiently to repay debt, notwithstanding higher the Rest of Asia-Pacific grew strongly in most interest rates.
Bankruptcy filings increased sharply in countries in 2005, boosted by a series of mortgage the second half of 2005 as a result of a change in and credit card campaigns during the year and legislation, but receded to more modest levels by the growth in the card base, which added 1.6 million end of the year.
This has continued into 2006. cards, to reach 6.3 million cards in issue at the end of Notwithstanding the effect of additional impairment 2005. allowances required for the Hurricane Katrina and Growth was also notable in Brazil, where increased bankruptcy filings, delinquency rates marketing and new product launches contributed to continued to fall across the majority of portfolios growth of 44 per cent in personal unsecured lending, during 2005, and trends in lending quality improved.
as consumer sentiment improved with economic In Mexico, HSBC utilised well-developed growth.
Credit quality deteriorated, notably in the distribution capabilities and enhanced marketing consumer finance business, however, actions taken initiatives to grow consumer lending, card and to mitigate this, notably through tightening mortgages.
Net interest margin was partially offset underwriting, delivered an improvement in the by a lower interest rate environment during the year.
In the UK, growth in personal lending was Elsewhere, credit quality remained relatively mainly in the mortgage market, where HSBC stable, although HSBC continued to monitor focused on retaining existing customers, and carefully those portfolios that possess the greatest increasing market share through competitive pricing potential for future economic stress.
Fixed rate mortgages were and loss trends differed across jurisdictions, the main driver of growth, against the background of reflecting these varied conditions.
Overall, the secured mortgage portfolio represented 64 per cent of total Non-traditional lending lending to personal customers in the UK, and In response to customer demand, HSBC offers although delinquency increased modestly during interest only residential mortgage loans in more 2005, losses remained negligible.
These loans allow customers to The unsecured portfolio in the UK also pay only accruing interest for a period of time, and continued to expand, driven by credit and charge provide customers with the repayment flexibility cards, and to a lesser extent unsecured personal inherent in the structures of such products.
An lending, though growth in gross lending was largely increasing number of customers prefer to make oneoffset by the US$1 billion write-off mentioned off, or irregular capital reduction payments through above.
In response to prevailing market conditions, the lifetime of such loans, reflecting their individual which saw a progressive rise in personal income patterns.
indebtedness, bankruptcies and delinquencies over HSBC underwrites and prices these loans in a the course of 2005, HSBC revised credit scorecards, manner appropriate to compensate for their risk by adopted positive credit reference data, further ensuring, for example, that loan-to-value ratios are centralised underwriting, and expanded its more conservative than for traditional mortgage origination and collection analytics and efforts.
HSBC does not offer loans which are result, there were indicators in the second half of the designed to expose customers to the risk of negative year that the credit quality of more recent unsecured amortisation.
Personal lending in Hong Kong remained 145 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Risk elements in the loan portfolio In accordance with IFRSs, interest income continues to be recognised on assets that have been The disclosure of credit risk elements under the written down as a result of an impairment loss.
In the following headings reflects US accounting practice following tables, HSBC presents information on its and classifications: impaired loans and advances which are designated in loans accounted for on a non-accrual basis: accordance with the policy described above.
accruing loans contractually past due 90 days or Impaired loans are consistent with the nonmore as to interest or principal: and accrual basis classification used in US GAAP and in prior years.
troubled debt restructurings not included in the above.
There were further US$981 million to US$11,446 million at the end of declines in France, due to corporate restructuring and 2005.
At 31 December 2005, impaired loans acquisition activity, and a 21 per cent decline in represented 1.5 per cent of gross customer loans and Malta.
This reflected the write-off of fully provided advances after grossing, compared with 1.8 per cent loans that were no longer deemed to have a realistic at 31 December 2004.
Following a review of the prospect of recovery.
personal unsecured lending portfolio in the UK, In Hong Kong, impaired loans declined by US$1 billion of impaired loans, for which there was 28 per cent to US$506 million in 2005.
Improvement no realistic possibility of recovery, were written-off.
was seen in both the personal and corporate The commentary that follows is based on portfolios, driven by the strong economy, lower constant exchange rates.
unemployment and stable property prices following a recovery in 2004.
Some weakness in the real estate Impaired loans in Europe fell by 5 per cent to market was evident in the fourth quarter, following US$5,068 million in 2005.
In the UK, impaired successive interest rate rises, but loan quality loans decreased by 4 per cent.
This was primarily remains strong.
due to the write-offs mentioned above.
Excluding this, impaired loans rose, in part due to the strong Impaired loans, both in absolute terms and as a growth in unsecured personal lending and credit proportion of gross advances, declined across most cards.
The UK has experienced weakening personal major countries in the Rest of Asia-Pacific.
In total, credit quality in recent years, driven by record levels impaired balances declined by 19 per cent to of consumer debt, slower economic growth and US$936 million.
In particular, there were significant higher unemployment.
These factors, coupled with a falls in Malaysia, due to a significant number of change in legislation, have resulted in a significant restructurings and to strong economic growth.
There 146 were also improvements in mainland China and The fall in troubled debt restructurings was driven by Singapore, due to strong economic growth.
the decline in Hong Kong, a product of the continuing improvement in the quality of the loan In North America, impaired loans increased by book.
This rise reflected portfolio growth and accelerated bankruptcies ahead Unimpaired loans past due 90 days or more of new US legislation, particularly in secured and personal unsecured lending.
The trend in US The rise in Europe was due to the UK, where impaired loans as a percentage of gross receivables improved processes led to better credit data was stable year-on-year.
In Mexico, impaired loans collection.
In North America, HSBC Finances increased in line with portfolio growth.
Improving business benefited from improvement in delinquency credit conditions in Canada, on the back of a strong and default trends year on year.
In common with economy, drove a decrease in impaired loans, other card issuers, including other parts of HSBC, offsetting the rises in the US and Mexico.
HSBC Finance continues to accrue interest on credit cards past 90 days until charged off.
Appropriate A rise of 26 per cent to US$891 million in South provisions are raised against the proportion judged to Americas impaired loans was mainly due to the be irrecoverable.
34 per cent increase in Brazil.
This was partly driven by strong balance sheet growth, but there was also Potential problem loans some weakening in credit quality in the consumer finance business, particularly in the low income Credit risk elements also cover potential problem segment.
Action taken during the year to amend loans.
These are loans where information about lending parameters has assisted in stabilising borrowers possible credit problems causes delinquency.
Argentinas economy continued its management serious doubts about the borrowers steady recovery and as a result impaired loans ability to comply with the loan repayment terms.
declined by 9 per cent, offsetting the rise in Brazil.
There are no potential problem loans other than those identified in the table of risk elements set out Troubled debt restructurings below.
US GAAP requires separate disclosure of any loans whose terms have been modified because of problems with the borrower to grant concessions other than are warranted by market conditions.
These are classified as troubled debt restructurings and are distinct from the normal restructuring activities described above.
Disclosure of troubled debt restructurings may be discontinued after the first year if the debt performs in accordance with the new terms.
Interest income of Interest income that would have been recognised approximately US$120 million from such loans was under the original terms of the impaired interest and recorded in 2005, compared with US$182 million in restructured loans amounted to approximately 2004.
148 Country distribution of outstandings and the country of residence of the borrower but also cross-border exposures recognises the transfer of country risk in respect of third party guarantees, eligible collateral held and HSBC controls the risk associated with cross-border residence of the head office when the borrower is a lending, essentially that foreign currency will not be branch.
In accordance with the Bank of England made available to local residents to make payments, Country Exposure Report Form CE guidelines, through a centralised structure of internal country outstandings comprise loans and advances limits which are determined by taking into account excluding settlement accounts, amounts receivable relevant economic and political factors.
Exposures to under finance leases, acceptances, commercial bills, individual countries and cross-border exposure in certificates of deposit, and debt and equity securities aggregate are kept under continuous review.
net of short positions, and exclude accrued interest The following table summarises the aggregate and intra-HSBC exposures.
Comparative figures for of in-country foreign currency and cross-border 2003 were calculated in accordance with the outstandings by type of borrower to countries which requirements of the Bank of Englands Form C1, individually represent in excess of 1 per cent of which was replaced by Form CE with effect from HSBCs total assets.
The classification is based on 31 December 2004 reporting.
counterparties in Hong Kong, Australia and Canada At 31 December 2003, HSBC had in-country of between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total foreign currency and cross-border outstandings to assets.
The aggregate in-country foreign currency counterparties in Australia and Japan of between and cross-border outstandings were: Hong Kong: 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total assets.
The US$14.6 billion: Australia: US$12.5 billion: Canada: aggregate in-country foreign currency and crossUS$11.7 billion.
border outstandings were: Australia: US$9.1 billion: At 31 December 2004, HSBC had in-country Canada: US$7.9 billion.
foreign currency and cross-border outstandings to counterparties in Australia and Canada of between 0.75 per cent and 1 per cent of total assets.
The aggregate in-country foreign currency and cross- 149 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Liquidity and funding management maintaining debt financing plans: Audited IFRS 7 information monitoring depositor concentration in order to The objective of HSBCs liquidity and funding avoid undue reliance on large individual management is to ensure that all foreseeable funding depositors and ensure a satisfactory overall commitments and deposit withdrawals can be met funding mix: and when due, and that wholesale market access is maintaining liquidity and funding contingency co-ordinated and disciplined.
These plans identify early indicators of maintains a diversified and stable funding base stress conditions and describe actions to be comprising core retail and corporate customer taken in the event of difficulties arising from deposits and institutional balances.
This is systemic or other crises, while minimising augmented by wholesale funding and portfolios of adverse long-term implications for the business.
highly liquid assets which are diversified by currency and maturity, in order to enable HSBC to Primary sources of funding Audited IFRS 7 respond quickly and smoothly to unforeseen information liquidity requirements.
Current accounts and savings deposits payable on The management of liquidity and funding is demand or at short notice form a significant part of primarily carried out locally in the operating HSBCs funding.
HSBC places considerable companies of HSBC in accordance with practice and importance on the stability of these deposits.
limits set by the Group Management Board.
These Stability depends upon maintaining depositor limits vary by local financial unit to take account of confidence in HSBCs capital strength and liquidity, the depth and liquidity of the market in which the and on competitive and transparent deposit-pricing entity operates.
It is HSBCs general policy that each strategies.
HSBC seeks to support this confidence by banking entity should be self-sufficient with regard consistently reinforcing HSBCs brand values of to funding its own operations.
Exceptions are trust and solidity across the Groups geographically permitted to facilitate the efficient funding of certain diverse retail banking network.
shortterm treasury requirements and start-up HSBC accesses professional markets in order to operations or branches which do not have access to provide funding for non-banking subsidiaries that do local deposit markets, all of which are funded under not accept deposits, to maintain a presence in local strict internal and regulatory guidelines and limits money markets and to optimise the funding of asset from HSBCs largest banking operations.
These maturities not naturally matched by core deposit internal and regulatory limits and guidelines serve to funding.
In aggregate, HSBCs banking entities are place formal limitations on the transfer of resources liquidity providers to the inter-bank market, placing between HSBC entities and are necessary to reflect significantly more funds with other banks than they the broad range of currencies, markets and time borrow.
zones within which HSBC operates.
The main operating subsidiary that does not HSBC requires operating entities to maintain a accept deposits is HSBC Finance Corporation, which strong liquidity position and to manage the liquidity funds itself principally through taking term funding profile of their assets, liabilities and commitments so in the professional markets and through the that cash flows are appropriately balanced and all securitisation of assets.
At 31 December 2005, funding obligations are met when due.
US$132 billion of HSBC Finance Corporations The Groups liquidity and funding management liabilities were drawn from professional markets, process includes: utilising a range of products, maturities and currencies to avoid undue reliance on any particular projecting cash flows by major currency and funding source.
considering the level of liquid assets necessary in relation thereto: Of total liabilities of US$1,502 billion at 31 December 2005, funding from customers monitoring balance sheet liquidity ratios against amounted to US$810 billion, of which internal and regulatory requirements: US$773 billion was contractually repayable within maintaining a diverse range of funding sources one year.
However, although the contractual with adequate back-up facilities: repayments of many customer accounts are on demand or at short notice, in practice short-term managing the concentration and profile of debt deposit balances remain stable as inflows and maturities: outflows broadly match.
Liabilities in trading portfolios have not been Minimum liquidity ratio limits are set for each analysed by contractual maturity because trading bank operating entity.
Limits reflect the local market assets and liabilities are typically held for short place, the diversity of funding sources available, and periods of time.
the concentration risk from large depositors.
Compliance with entity level limits is monitored Assets available to meet these liabilities, and to within the Group Finance Function and reported cover outstanding commitments to lend regularly to the Risk Management Meeting.
US$642 billion, included cash, central bank balances, items in the course of collection and Although consolidated data is not utilised in the treasury and other bills US$75 billion : loans to management of HSBCs liquidity, the consolidated banks US$156 billion, including US$121 billion liquidity ratio figures of net liquid assets to customer repayable within one year : and loans to customers liabilities shown in the following table provide a US$793 billion, including US$313 billion repayable useful insight into the overall liquidity position of within one year.
In the normal course of business, a the Groups banking entities.
The Groups liquidity proportion of customer loans contractually repayable risk has not changed materially during the year.
within one year will be extended.
In addition, HSBC held debt securities marketable at a value of Ratio of net liquid assets to customer US$273 billion.
Of these assets, some US$98 billion liabilities of debt securities and treasury and other bills have Average been pledged to secure liabilities.
At 31 December Minimum during Maximum 2005 2004 2005 in 2005 in 2005 HSBC would meet unexpected net cash 17.1% 15.9% 16.3% 17.5% 14.4% outflows by selling securities and accessing additional funding sources such as interbank or HSBC Holdings Audited IFRS 7 information asset-backed markets.
HSBC Holdings primary sources of cash are interest A key measure used by the Group for managing and capital receipts from its subsidiaries, which it liquidity risk is the ratio of net liquid assets to deploys in short-term bank deposits or liquidity customer liabilities.
HSBC Holdings primary uses of cash are comprise cash balances, short-term interbank investments in subsidiaries, interest payments to debt deposits and highly-rated debt securities available holders and dividend payments to shareholders.
On for immediate sale and for which a deep and liquid an ongoing basis, HSBC Holdings replenishes its market exists.
Net liquid assets are liquid assets less liquid resources through the receipt of interest on, all wholesale market funds, and all funds provided and repayment of, intra-group loans, from dividends by customers deemed to be professional, maturing in paid by subsidiaries, and from interest earned on its the next 30 days.
The definition of a professional own liquid funds.
The ability of its subsidiaries to customer takes account of the size of the customers pay dividends or advance monies to HSBC Holdings total deposits.
depends, among other things, on their respective regulatory capital requirements, statutory reserves, and financial and operating performance.
151 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued HSBC actively manages the cash flows from its it to meet anticipated cash obligations.
Also, in subsidiaries to optimise the amount of cash held at normal circumstances, HSBC Holdings has full the holding company level, and expects to continue access to capital markets on normal terms.
The wide range of HSBCs The following is an analysis of cash flows activities means that HSBC Holdings is not payable by HSBC Holdings under financial dependent on a single source of profits to fund its liabilities by remaining contractual maturities at the dividends.
Together with its accumulated liquid balance sheet date: assets, HSBC Holdings believes that planned dividends and interest from subsidiaries will enable Due Due Due between between Due within 3 after 5 On 3 and 12 1 and 5 demand months months years years US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Amounts owed to HSBC undertakings.................. 664 176 1,060 1,654 521 Financial liabilities designated at fair value........... 140 420 3,442 20,382 Other liabilities.................................................. 1,196 7 Accruals and deferred income............................. 13 82 Subordinated liabilities........................................ 107 321 2,771 15,638 Total at 31 December 2005.................................. 677 1,701 1,801 7,867 36,548 At 31 December 2005, the short-term liabilities Non-trading portfolios primarily arise from the of HSBC Holdings totalled US$3,191 million effective interest rate management of HSBCs retail including US$1,193 million in respect of the and commercial banking assets and liabilities.
proposed third interim dividend for 2005.
Short-term The management of market risk is principally assets of US$5,599 million consisted mainly of cash undertaken in Global Markets using risk limits at bank of US$756 million and loans and advances approved by the Group Management Board.
Limits to HSBC undertakings of US$4,661 million.
are set for each portfolio, product and risk type, with market liquidity being a principal factor in Market risk management determining the level of limits set.
Traded Markets Audited IFRS 7 information Development and Risk, an independent unit within The objective of HSBCs market risk management is Corporate, Investment Banking and Markets, to manage and control market risk exposures in order develops the Groups market risk management to optimise return on risk while maintaining a market policies and measurement techniques.
Each major profile consistent with the Groups status as a operating entity has an independent market risk premier provider of financial products and services.
control function which is responsible for measuring market risk exposures in accordance with the Market risk is the risk that movements in market policies defined by Traded Markets Development risk factors, including foreign exchange rates and and Risk, and monitoring and reporting these commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads and exposures against the prescribed limits on a daily equity prices will reduce HSBCs income or the basis.
Credit risk is discussed separately in the Credit risk management section.
Each operating entity is required to assess the market risks which arise on each product in its HSBC separates exposures to market risk into business and to transfer these risks to either its local either trading or non-trading portfolios.
Trading Global Markets unit for management, or to separate portfolios include those positions arising from books managed under the supervision of the local market-making, proprietary position-taking and Asset and Liability Management Committee other marked-to-market positions so designated.
The aim is to ensure that all market risks marked-to-market positions so designated but not are consolidated within operations which have the held with trading intent have historically not been necessary skills, tools, management and governance material to the Trading Value at Risk figure.
to manage such risks professionally.
However, this is no longer the case following the transition to accounting under IFRSs, which has Value at risk VAR Audited IFRS 7 information increased the proportion of financial instruments measured at fair value.
The contribution of these One of the principal tools used by HSBC to monitor positions to the Trading Value at Risk is disclosed and limit market risk exposure is VAR.
152 technique that estimates the potential losses that the use of a 1-day holding period assumes that could occur on risk positions as a result of all positions can be liquidated or hedged in one movements in market rates and prices over a day.
This may not fully reflect the market risk specified time horizon and to a given level of arising at times of severe illiquidity, when a confidence for HSBC, 99 per cent.
HSBC 1-day holding period may be insufficient to calculates VAR daily.
The VAR model used by liquidate or hedge all positions fully: HSBC is predominantly based on historical the use of a 99 per cent confidence level, by simulation.
The historical simulation model derives definition, does not take into account losses that plausible future scenarios from historical market rate might occur beyond this level of confidence: time series, taking account of inter-relationships and between different markets and rates, for example, between interest rates and foreign exchange rates.
VAR is calculated on the basis of exposures Potential movements in market prices are calculated outstanding at the close of business and with reference to market data from the last two therefore does not necessarily reflect intra-day years.
The model incorporates the impact of option exposures.
features in the underlying exposures.
HSBC has HSBC recognises these limitations by changed the assumed holding period from a 10-day augmenting its VAR limits with other position and period to a 1-day period as this reflects the way the sensitivity limit structures.
Additionally, HSBC risk positions are managed.
Comparative VAR applies a wide range of stress testing, both on numbers have been restated to reflect this change.
individual portfolios and on the Groups Although a valuable guide to risk, VAR should consolidated positions.
HSBCs stress-testing regime always be viewed in the context of its limitations.
provides senior management with an assessment of For example: the financial impact of identified extreme events on the market risk exposures of HSBC.
As interest rates rose in place on a similar basis and to include the during 2005 in the major markets, the ris k arising Futures and Equities revenues which comprise part in Global Markets positions was managed down to of the Global Markets business.
As a result of limit exposure to further interest rate rises.
these restatements, the average daily revenue in 2004 increased from US$18.3 million to Unaudited information US$20.5 million.
The histogram below illustrates the frequency The average daily revenue earned from Global of daily revenue arising from all Global Markets Markets business and other trading activities in business and other trading activities.
In 2005, 2005 was US$18.7 million, compared with HSBC implemented a change in the transfer pricing US$20.5 million in 2004.
The standard deviation of of funds between the Personal Financial Services these daily revenues was US$10.4 million and the Corporate, Investment Banking and compared with US$8.1 million for 2004.
The Markets segments in North America, following a standard deviation measures the variation of daily transfer of the management of all of the interest revenues about the mean value of those revenues.
rate risk of the held prime residential mortgage portfolio.
The numbers for 2004 have been restated 153 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued An analysis of the frequency distribution of validation ultimately rests with independent finance daily revenue shows that there were three days with functions which report functionally to the Group negative revenue during 2005 compared with two Finance Director.
All significant valuation policies, days in 2004.
The most frequent result was a daily and any changes thereto, must be approved by revenue of between US$20 million and senior finance management.
HSBCs governance of US$24 million, with 43 occurrences.
financial reporting requires that Financial Control departments across the Group are independent of Daily distribution of Global Markets and other the risk-taking businesses, with the Finance trading revenues in 2005 functions having ultimate responsibility for the determination of fair values included in the Number of days financial statements, and for ensuring that the 70 Groups policies comply with all relevant 60 accounting standards.
Both senior executive 50 43 41 management and the Group Audit Committee 37 39 40 assess the resourcing and expertise o f Finance 30 22 functions within the Group on a regular basis to 21 17 20 ensure that the Groups financial control and price 11 10 6 10 verification processes are properly staffed to 4 4 2 1 1 1 0 support the required control infrastructure.
-8 -4 0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 44 48 52 56 Revenues US$m Trading Audited IFRS 7 information Profit and loss frequency HSBCs control of market risk is based on restricting individual operations to trading within a Daily distribution of Global Markets and other trading revenues in 2004 list of permissible instruments authorised for each site by Traded Markets Development and Risk, and Number of days enforcing rigorous new product approval 70 61 procedures.
In particular, trading in the more 59 60 complex derivative products is concentrated in 50 offices with appropriate levels of product expertise 40 34 33 and robust control systems.
30 22 19 In addition, at both portfolio and position 20 11 levels, market risk in trading portfolios is 8 6 10 3 2 2 1 0 0 0 0 monitored and controlled using a complementary 0 -12 -8 -4 0 4 8 12 16 20 24 28 32 36 40 44 48 52 56 set of techniques such as VAR and present value of Revenues US$m a basis point, together with stress and sensitivity testing and concentration limits.
These techniques Profit and loss frequency quantify the impact on capital of defined market movements.
Fair value and price verification control Audited IFRS 7 information Total trading VAR for Global Markets at 31 December 2005 was US$32.7 million.
The Where certain financial instruments are carried on contribution from positions taken without trading the Groups balance sheet at fair values, the intent was US$6.9 million, the principal valuation and the related p rice verification components of which are hedges that fail to meet processes are subject to independent validation the strict documentation and testing requirements across the Group.
Financial instruments which are of IAS 39 and are designated as non-qualifying accounted for on a fair value basis include assets hedges, and other positions transacted as economic held in the trading portfolio, financial instruments hedges but which again do not qualify for hedge designated at fair value, obligations related to accounting.
HSBCs policy on hedging is to securities sold short all derivative financial manage economic risk in the most appropriate way instruments and available-for-sale securities.
without regard as to whether hedge accounting is The determination of fair values is therefore a available, within limits regarding the potential significant element in the reporting of the Groups volatility of reported earnings.
Trading VAR is Global Markets activities.
Maximum 2005.......................................................................... 24.5 24.5 2004.......................................................................... 155 HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Financial Review continued Non-trading Audited IFRS 7 information Market risk within HSBC Finance primarily arises from mismatches between future The principal objective of market risk management behaviouralised asset yields and their funding costs.
of non-trading portfolios is to optimise net interest This mismatch mainly comes from the fact that asset income.
yields are predominantly fixed and relatively Market risk in non-trading portfolios arises insensitive to market movements in interest rates, principally from mismatches between the future whereas the related wholesale funding and its yield on assets and their funding cost, as a result of associated derivatives are more sensitive to such interest rate changes.
Analysis of this risk is movements.
This non-trading risk is principally complicated by having to make assumptions on managed by controlling the sensitivity of projected optionality in certain product areas, for example, net interest income under varying interest rate mortgage prepayments, and from behavioural scenarios: see Net interest income below.
assumptions regarding the economic duration of VAR limits are set to control the total market liabilities which are contractually repayable on risk exposure of HSBC Finance.
The VAR as at demand, for example, current accounts.
The 31 December 2005 was US$13.5 million 2005 prospective change in future net interest income average: US$13.4 million: 2005 minimum: from non-trading portfolios will be reflected in the US$6.2 million: 2005 maximum: US$41.6 million, current realisable value of these positions, should compared with US$9.1 million at 31 December 2004 they be sold or closed prior to maturity.
In order to 2004 average: US$16.1 million: 2004 minimum: manage this risk optimally, market risk in nonUS$4.1 million: 2004 maximum: US$31.9 million.
trading portfolios is transferred to Global Markets or to separate books managed under the supervision of Market risk arising in the prime residential the local ALCO.
mortgage business of HSBC Bank USA is primarily managed by a specialist function within the business, The transfer of market risk to books managed by under guidelines established by HSBC Bank USAs Global Markets or supervised by ALCO is usually ALCO.
A range of risk management tools is applied achieved by a series of internal deals between the to hedge the sensitivity arising from movements in business units and these books.
The key element of market risk within behavioural characteristics of a product differ from the US prime mortgage business relates to the its contractual characteristics, the behavioural prepayment options embedded in US mortgages, characteristics are assessed to determine the true which affect the sensitivity of the value of mortgage underlying interest rate risk.
Local ALCOs regularly servicing rights MSRs to interest rate movements monitor all such behavioural assumptions and and the net interest margin on mortgage assets.
interest rate risk positions, to ensure they comply MSRs represent the economic value of the right to with interest rate risk limits established by the Group receive fees for performing specified residential Management Board.
They are sensitive to As noted above, in certain cases, the non-linear interest rate movements because lower rates characteristics of products cannot be adequately accelerate the prepayment speed of the underlying captured by the risk transfer process.
For example, mortgages and therefore reduce the value of the both the flow from customer deposit accounts to MSRs.
The reverse is true for rising rates.
HSBC alternative investment products and the precise uses a combination of interest rate-sensitive prepayment speeds of mortgages will vary at derivatives and debt securities to help protect the different interest rate levels.
In such circumstances, economic value of MSRs.
An accounting asymmetry simulation modelling is used to identify the impact can arise in this area because the derivatives used to of varying scenarios on valuations and net interest hedge the economic exposure arising from MSRs are income.
always measured at fair value, but the MSRs themselves are measured for accounting purposes at Once market risk has been consolidated in the lower of amortised cost and valuation.
It is, Global Markets or ALCO-managed books, the net therefore, possible for an economically hedged exposure is typically managed through the use of position not to be shown as such in the accounts, interest rate swaps within agreed limits.
when the hedge shows a loss but the MSR cannot be The principal non-trading risks which are not revalued above cost to reflect the related profit.
included in VAR for Global Markets see Value at HSBCs policy again is to hedge the economic risk.
risk above are detailed below.
156 VAR limits are set to control the exposure to schemes at 31 December 2005 comprised: equity MSRs and MSR hedges.
The VAR on MSRs and investments 46 per cent 54 per cent at 31 December MSR hedges at 31 December 2005 was 2004 : debt securities 33 per cent 29 per cent at US$3.9 million 2005 average: US$3.2 million: 2005 31 December 2004 and other including property minimum: US$2.4 million: 2005 maximum: 21 per cent 17 per cent at 31 December 2004.
See US$4.0 million, compared with US$3.7 million at Note 7 on the Financial Statements.
31 December 2004 2004 average: US$3.9 million: 2004 minimum: US$2.8 million: 2004 maximum: Net interest income US$4.6 million.
A principal part of HSBCs management of market Non-trading exposure also arises on nonrisk in non-trading portfolios is to monitor the cumulative perpetual preferred securities issued.
sensitivity of projected net interest income under These fixed-rate securities are eligible as tier 1 varying interest rate scenarios simulation capital and are managed as capital instruments.
HSBC aims, through its management of to the adoption of IFRSs these securities were market risk in non-trading portfolios, to mitigate the classified as a non-equity element of minority impact of prospective interest rate movements which interests but they are now classified as debt could reduce future net interest income, whilst securities issued and therefore included in nonbalancing the cost of such hedging activities on the trading market risk analysis.
The combination of a current net revenue stream.
fixed interest rate and perpetual term generated a For simulation modelling, businesses use a VAR of US$65.0 million at 31 December 2005 combination of scenarios relevant to local businesses 2005 average: US$70.3 million: 2005 minimum: and local markets as well as standard scenarios US$62.3 million: 2005 maximum: US$78.2 million, required to be used across HSBC.
The standard compared with US$72.5 million at 31 December scenarios are consolidated to illustrate the combined 2004 2004 average: US$75.6 million: 2004 pro forma impact on HSBC consolidated portfolio minimum: US$66.6 million: 2004 maximum: valuations and net interest income.
The table below sets out the impact on future net Market risk arises in HSBCs insurance interest income of a 25 basis points parallel fall or businesses within their portfolios of investments and rise in all yield curves worldwide at the beginning of policyholders liabilities.
The principal market risks each quarter during the 12 month period from 1 are interest-rate risk and equity risk, which primarily January 2006.
These scenarios differ from those arise when guaranteed investment return policies disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts 2004 have been issued.
The insurance businesses have a which assumed an immediate 100 basis points dedicated head office market risk function which parallel rise or fall in all yield curves on the first day oversees management of this risk.
The revised scenarios, A similar market risk also arises within HSBCs although still simplified, are considered more defined benefit pension schemes to the extent that relevant.
the obligations of the schemes are not fully matched Assuming no management actions, such a series by assets with determinable cash flows.
This risk of incremental parallel rises in all yield curves would principally derives from the pension schemes decrease planned net interest income for the year to holding equities against their future pension 31 December 2006 by US$525 million, while such a obligations.
The risk is that market movements in series of incremental parallel falls in all yield curves equity prices could result in assets which are would increase planned net interest income by insufficient over time to cover the level of projected US$474 million.
These figures incorporate the liabilities.
Management, together with the trustees impact of any option features in the underlying who act on behalf of the pension scheme exposures.
beneficiaries, assess the level of this risk using reports prepared by independent external actuaries.
Instead of assuming that all interest rates move together, HSBC groups its interest rate exposures The present value of HSBCs defined benefit into currency blocs whose interest rates are pension plans liabilities was US$27.7 billion at considered likely to move together.
The sensitivity of 31 December 2005, compared with US$26.5 billion projected net interest income, on this basis, is at 31 December 2004.
Assets of the defined benefit described as follows: 157 HSBC HOLDI NGS PLC Financial Review continued Rest of Hong Kong Rest of US dollar Americas dollar Asia Sterling Euro bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2006 projected net interest income 25 basis points shift in yield curves at the beginning of each quarter.
448 74 18 28 47 114 525 -25 basis points shift in yield curves at the beginning of each quarter.
402 72 20 39 51 112 474 Change in 2005 projected net interest income 25 basis points shift in yield curves at the beginning of each quarter.
500 81 2 18 62 160 497 -25 basis points shift in yield curves at the beginning of each quarter.
637 83 104 13 70 157 524 The interest rate sensitivities set out in the table Global Markets: the residual interest rate risk is above are illustrative only and are based on managed within Global Markets.
The figures represent the effect the Groups policy of transferring all interest of the pro forma movements in net interest income rate risk, other than structural risk, to Global based on the projected yield curve scenarios and the Markets to be managed within defined limits Groups current interest rate risk profile.
This effect, and with flexibility as to the instruments used.
however, does not incorporate actions that would be The major drivers of the changes shown in the taken by Global Markets or in the business units to projected effect of interest rate moves in the above mitigate the impact of this interest rate risk.
In table are set out below.
reality, Global Markets seeks proactively to change the interest rate risk profile to minimise losses and In the US dollar bloc, the rise in interest rates in optimise net revenues.
The projections above also 2005, coupled with an overall flattening of the assume that interest rates of all maturities move by yield curve, led the Group to reduce its the same amount and, therefore, do not reflect the sensitivity to falling rates, particularly with potential impact on net interest income of some rates respect to some retail products with embedded changing while others remain unchanged.
projections also make other simplifying assumptions, In Hong Kong, the rise in interest rates during including that all positions run to maturity.
the year improved the sensitivity to falling The Groups core exposure to changes in its net interest rates as there was more room to lower interest income arising from movements in interest deposit pricing in the event of falling interest rates falls into three areas: core deposit franchises, rates.
HSBC Finance and Global Markets.
Global Markets decreased its exposure to US Core deposit franchises: these are exposed to dollar, Hong Kong dollar, and euro assets, changes in the value of the deposits raised and contributing to the decreased sensitivity in these spreads against wholesale funds: in a low currencies to both rising and falling rates.
interest rate environment, the value of core It can be seen from the above that projecting the deposits increases as interest rates rise and movement in net interest income from prospective decreases as interest rates fall.
This risk is, changes in interest rates is a complex interaction of however, asymmetrical in a very low interest structural and managed exposures.
In a rising rate rate environment as there is limited room to environment, the most critical exposures are those lower deposit pricing in the event of interest rate managed within Global Markets.
Additionally, the Group considers a principal HSBC Finance provides an offset to the risk to future net interest income to be a general sensitivity effect of interest rate reductions on flattening of yield curves at a low level of interest the core deposit franchises.
This arises from rates, as this reduces the value of the deposit having a substantially fixed rate, real estate franchise and limits the opportunities within Global secured, lending portfolio funded to an extent Markets.
with interest rate sensitive short-term liabilities.
158 Following the adoption of IFRSs, HSBC due to parallel movements of plus or minus monitors the sensitivity of reported reserves to 100 basis points in all yield curves.
The table below interest rate movements on a monthly basis by describes the sensitivity to these movements at assessing the expected reduction in valuation of 31 December 2005 and the maximum and minimum available-for-sale portfolios and cash flow hedges month figures during the year then ended: At 31 December Maximum Minimum 2005 impact impact US$m US$m US$m 100 basis point parallel move all in yield curves........................................ 1,918 2,655 1,918 As a percentage of shareholders funds at 31 December 2005....................... 2.0% 2.8% 2.0% - 100 basis point parallel move all in yield curves......................................... 1,877 2,543 1,877 As a percentage of shareholders funds at 31 December 2005....................... 2.0% 2.7% 2.0% The sensitivities included in the table are structural foreign exchange exposures are managed illustrative only and are based on simplified with the primary objective of ensuring, where scenarios.
Moreover, the table shows only those practical, that HSBCs consolidated capital ratios, interest rate risk exposures arising in available-forand the capital ratios of individual banking sale portfolios and from cash flow hedges.
These subsidiaries, are protected from the effect of particular exposures form only a part of the changes in exchange rates.
This is usually achieved Groups overall interest rate exposures.
The by ensuring that, for each subsidiary bank, the ratio accounting treatment under IFRSs of the Groups of structural exposures in a given currency to riskremaining interest rate exposures, while weighted assets denominated in that currency is economically largely offsetting the exposures broadly equal to the capital ratio of the subsidiary shown in the above table, does not require in question.
revaluation movements to go to reserves.
Selective hedges were in place during 2005.
Hedging is undertaken using forward foreign Structural foreign exchange exposures exchange contracts which are accounted for under Structural foreign exchange exposures represent net IFRSs as hedges of a net investment in a foreign investments in subsidiaries, branches or associated operation, or by financing with borrowings in the undertakings, the functional currencies of which same currencies as the functional currencies are currencies other than the US dollar.
There was no ineffectiveness arising from these hedges in the year ended 31 December 2005.
Exchange differences on structural exposures are recorded in the consolidated statement of There was no material effect from exchange recognised income and expense.
The main differences on HSBCs capital ratios during the operating or functional currencies in which period.
HSBCs business is transacted are the US dollar, the Hong Kong dollar, sterling, the euro, the HSBC Holdings Audited IFRS 7 information Mexican peso, the Brazilian real and the Chinese As a financial services holding company, HSBC renminbi.
As the US dollar and currencies linked to Holdings has limited market risk activity.
Its it form the dominant currency bloc in which activities predominantly involve maintaining HSBCs operations transact business, HSBC sufficient capital resources to support the Groups Holdings prepares its consolidated financial diverse activities: allocating these capital resources statements in US dollars.
HSBCs consolidated across the Groups businesses: earning dividend balance sheet is, therefore, affected by exchange and interest income on its investments in the differences between the US dollar and all the nonGroups businesses: providing dividend payments US dollar functional currencies of underlying to HSBC Holdings equity shareholders and interest subsidiaries.
payments to providers of debt capital: and HSBC hedges structural foreign exchange maintaining a supply of short-term cash resources.
exposures only in limited circumstances.
HSBCs It does not take proprietary trading positions.
159 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued The objectives of HSBC Holdings market risk Total VAR arising within HSBC Holdings at management are to minimise income statement 31 December 2005 was as follows: volatility arising from short-term cash balances and Foreign Interest funding positions: to minimise the market risk exchange rates Total arising from long-term investments and long-term US$m US$m US$m liabilities: and to protect distributable reserves from At 31 December the adverse impact of market risk variables.
Minimum 2005.................. 22.0 29.6 42.6 HSBC Holdings is exposed to interest rate risk 2004.................. 20.6 22.6 40.3 on debt capital investments in, and loans to, Maximum subsidiary undertakings: on debt capital issues: and 2005.................. 26.1 45.9 56.6 on short-term cash resources.
2004.................. 24.1 47.2 68.4 Following the adoption of IFRSs, certain loans A principal tool in the management of market to subsidiary undertakings of a capital nature that risk is the projected sensitivity of HSBC Holdings are not denominated in the functional currency of net interest income to future changes in yield either the provider or the recipient are accounted curves.
Changes in the carrying Unaudited information amount of these assets due to exchange differences are taken directly to the income statement.
Prior to The table below sets out the effect on HSBC the adoption of IFRSs, such exchange differences Holdings future net interest income of an were taken directly to reserves.
These loans, and incremental 25 basis point parallel fall or rise in all the associated foreign exchange exposures, are yield curves worldwide at the beginning of each eliminated on a Group consolidated basis.
quarter during the 12 month period from 1 January 2006.
Revaluations due to foreign exchange rate movements of loans to subsidiary undertakings of a Assuming no management action, a series of capital nature, and which are denominated in the such rises would decrease HSBC Holdings functional currency of either the borrower or the planned net interest income for 2006 by recipient, are taken directly to reserves.
Equity US$7 million while a series of such falls would investments in subsidiary undertakings are increase planned net interest income by accounted for on a cost basis and are not revalued US$7 million.
These figures incorporate the impact following movements in exchange rates.
of any option features in the underlying exposures.
US dollar Sterling Euro Unaudited information bloc bloc bloc Total US$m US$m US$m US$m Change in 2006 projected net interest income 25 basis points shift in yield curves at the beginning of each quarter....... 18 5 6 7 25 basis points shift in yield curves at the beginning of each quarter....... 18 5 6 7 Change in 2005 projected net interest income 25 basis points shift in yield curves at the beginning of each quarter....... 5 6 4 5 25 basis points shift in yield curves at the beginning of each quarter....... 5 6 4 5 HSBC Holdings principal exposure to changes The interest rate sensitivities set out in the table in its net interest income from movements in interest above are illustrative only and are based on rates arises on short-term cash balances, floating rate simplified scenarios.
The figures represent the effect loans advanced to subsidiary undertakings and fixed of pro forma movements in net interest income based rate debt capital securities in issue which have been on the projected yield curve scenarios and HSBC swapped to floating rate.
Holdings current interest rate risk profile.
This 160 effect, however, does not incorporate actions that HSBC has codified its operational risk could be taken to mitigate the effect of this interest management process by issuing a high level rate risk.
standard, supplemented by more detailed formal guidance issued in January 2005.
This explains how HSBC Holdings interest rate risk has not HSBC manages operational risk by identifying, changed materially in the year.
assessing, monitoring, controlling and mitigating the risk, rectifying operational risk events, and Residual value risk management implementing any additional procedures required for Audited information compliance with local regulatory requirements.
The A significant part of a lessors leasing activities is its processes undertaken to manage operational risk are management of residual value risk.
This arises from determined by reference to the scale and nature of operating lease transactions to the extent that the each HSBC operation.
The HSBC standard covers values recovered from disposing of leased assets or the following: re-letting them at the end of the lease terms the operational risk management responsibility is residual values differ from those projected at the assigned to senior management within each inception of the leases.
The business regularly business operation: monitors residual value exposure by reviewing the recoverability of the residual value projected at lease information systems are used to record the inception.
This entails considering the re-lettability identification and assessment of operational and projected disposal proceeds of operating lease risks and to generate appropriate, regular assets at the end of their lease terms.
Provision is management reporting: made to the extent that the carrying values of leased assessments are undertaken of the operational assets are impaired through residual values not being risks facing each business and the risks inherent fully recoverable.
in its processes, activities and products.
Risk The net book value of equipment on operating assessment incorporates a regular review of leases includes projected residual values at the end identified risks to monitor significant changes: of current lease terms, to be recovered through operational risk loss data is collected and re-letting or disposal in the following periods: reported to senior management at the business 2005 2004 unit level.
Aggregate operational risk losses are US$m US$m recorded and details of incidents above a Within 1 year........................ 355 172 materiality threshold are reported to Group Between 1-2 years................ 484 Head Office.
A regular report on operational Between 2-5 years................ 465 1,042 losses is made to Group Audit Committee and More than 5 years................. 1,684 2,073 the Risk Management Meeting: and Total exposure...................... 2,504 3,771 risk mitigation, including insurance, is considered where this is cost-effective.
Operational risk management Unaudited information In each of HSBCs subsidiaries, local management is responsible for implementing HSBC Operational risk is the risk of loss arising from fraud, standards on operational risk throughout their unauthorised activities, error, omission, inefficiency, operations and, where deficiencies are evident, systems failure or external events.
It is inherent in rectifying them within a reasonable timeframe.
every business organisation and covers a wide Subsidiaries acquired by HSBC are required to spectrum of issues.
assess, plan and implement the standards HSBC manages this risk through a controlsrequirements within an agreed timescale.
based environment in which processes are HSBC maintains and tests contingency facilities documented, authorisation is independent and to support operations in the event of disasters.
transactions are reconciled and monitored.
This is Additional reviews and tests are conducted in the supported by an independent programme of periodic event that any HSBC office is affected by a business reviews undertaken by Internal Audit, and by disruption event, to incorporate lessons learned in monitoring external operational risk events, which the operational recovery from those circumstances.
ensure that HSBC stays in line with best practice and HSBC has requested all country managers to prepare takes account of lessons learned from publicised plans for the operation of their businesses, with operational failures within the financial services reduced staffing levels, should a flu pandemic occur.
161 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Reputational risk management protection, annuities, term assurance and critical Unaudited information illness covers.
The safeguarding of HSBCs reputation is of Non-life insurance contracts include motor, fire paramount importance to its continued prosperity and other damage, accident, repayment protection and is the responsibility of every member of staff.
and a limited amount of commercial and liability Reputational risks can arise from social, ethical or business.
environmental issues, or as a consequence of The principal insurance risk faced by HSBC is operational risk events.
As a banking group, HSBCs that the costs of claims combined with acquisition good reputation depends upon the way in which it and administration costs may exceed the aggregate conducts its business, but it can also be affected by amount of premiums received and investment the way in which clients, to whom it provides income.
HSBC manages its insurance risks through financial services, conduct themselves.
the application of formal underwriting, reinsurance Reputational risks are considered and assessed and claims procedures.
These procedures are by the Board, the Group Management Board, the designed also to ensure compliance with regulations.
Risk Management Meeting, subsidiary company The Groups overall approach to insurance risk boards, board committees and or senior management is to maintain a good diversification of insurance during the formulation of policy and the business by type and geography, and to focus on establishment of HSBC standards.
Standards on all risks that are straightforward to manage and major aspects of business are set for HSBC and for frequently are directly related to the underlying individual subsidiaries, businesses and functions.
banking activity for example, with credit life These policies, which are an integral part of the products.
The following tables provide an analysis internal control systems, are communicated through of the insurance risk exposures by geography and by manuals and statements of policy and are type of business.
These tables demonstrate the promulgated through internal communications and Groups diversification of risk and the strong training.
The policies set out operational procedures emphasis on personal lines.
Personal lines tend to be in all areas of reputational risk, including money higher volume and with lower individual value than laundering deterrence, environmental impact, anticommercial lines, which further diversifies the risk.
corruption measures and employee relations.
Separate tables are provided for life and non-life Management in all operating entities is required business, reflecting their very distinct risk to establish a strong internal control structure to characteristics.
Life business tends to be longer term minimise the risk of operational and financial failure, than non-life and also frequently involves an element and to ensure that a full appraisal of reputational of savings and investment in the premium.
For this implications is made before strategic decisions are reason, the life insurance risk table provides an taken.
The Group Internal Audit function monitors analysis of the insurance liabilities as the best compliance with policies and standards.
available overall measure of the insurance exposure.
By contrast for non-life business, the table uses Risk management of insurance written premium as representing the best available operations measure of risk exposure.
Forms part of the audited financial statements Both life and non-life business insurance risks are controlled through a combination of local and Insurance risk central procedures and policies.
These include a Within its service proposition, HSBC offers its centralised approach to the authorisation to write personal and commercial customers a wide range of certain classes of business, with restrictions applying insurance products, many of which complement particularly to commercial and liability non-life other bank and consumer finance products.
For life business in particular, use is also made of ALCOs in order to monitor the risk Both life and non-life insurance is underwritten.
Market risk limits are also applied Underwriting occurs in nine countries through 27 centrally as an additional control over the extent of licensed insurers, principally in the UK, Hong Kong, insurance risk that is retained.
Mexico, Brazil, the US and Argentina.
As indicated in the specific comments relating Life insurance contracts include participating to particular classes, use is also made of reinsurance business with discretionary participation features as a means of further mitigating exposure, in such as endowments and pensions, credit life particular to aggregations as a result of catastrophe business in respect of income and payment risk.
162 Analysis of insurance risk The insurance risk is illustrated by an analysis of business by type of contract and geographic location.
Analysis of life insurance risk policyholder liabilities Rest of HongAsiaNorth South Europe Kong Pacific America America Total US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m US$m Life non-linked Insurance contracts 1 with DPF.......................... 155 3,886 152 4,193 Credit life.............................. 156 196 352 Annuities............................... 202 22 1,651 515 2,390 Term assurance and other long-term contracts........... 1,063 68 82 51 170 1,434 Total life non-linked............... 1,576 3,954 256 1,898 685 8,369 Life linked.............................. 1,201 536 332 826 2,895 Investment contracts 1 with DPF.............................. 9 9 Life insurance policyholder liabilities................................ 2,777 4,490 597 1,898 1,511 11,273 1 Insurance contracts and investment contracts with discretionary participation features DPF give policyholders a contractual right to receive, as a supplement to their guaranteed benefits, additional benefits that are likely to be a significant portion of the total contractual benefits and whose amount or timing is contractually at the discretion of HSBC.
The additional benefits are contractually based on the performance of a specified pool of contracts or assets, or the profit of the company issuing the contracts.
The above table of life insurance policyholder The principal division of life business is liabilities provides an overall summary of the life between unit linked and non-linked.
There are a insurance activity across the Group.
For life number of major sub-categories of non-linked life insurance business, the insurance risk will vary assurance.
considerably depending on the type of business.
The Insurance contracts with discretionary principal risks are in relation to mortality, morbidity, participation features include with-profits business.
lapse and surrender, investment market and The largest portfolio is in Hong Kong.
This is a book expense levels.
As indicated above, the geographic of endowment life policies, with annual bonuses and product diversity of HSBCs life insurance awarded to policyholders.
Although prima facie this business provides an effective mitigation of exposure business entails significant market risk, this is to insurance risk.
This is in addition to the local managed in conjunction with other risks through the underwriting, claims handling and expense control investment policy and adjustment to bonus rates.
practice this means that the majority of the market In general terms, mortality and morbidity risks risk is borne by policyholders.
The main risk are mitigated through medical underwriting and the associated with this product is the value of assigned ability in a number of cases to amend the premium in assets falling below that required to support benefit the light of changes in experience.
HSBC manages this risk by conducting surrender risks are mitigated by the setting of regular actuarial investigations on the supportability appropriate surrender values.
Market risk is usually of the bonus rates.
mitigated through a combination of investment Credit life insurance business is written in policy to match liabilities and the risk being shared relation to the banking and finance products.
In the case of unit-linked insurance risk relates to mortality and morbidity risk business, market risk is generally borne by for the duration of the loans advanced.
In the case of life business with a experience is continuously monitored and premium discretionary participation feature, the risk is shared rates adjusted accordingly.
For much of this with policyholders through the management of business, the average term of the credit risk exposure bonuses.
is for two to three years, which limits the insurance risk exposure.
163 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Annuities are contracts providing income from The major component of the Term assurance capital investment paid in a stream of regular and other long-term contracts category is term payments for either a fixed period or during the assurance and critical illness policies written in the annuitants lifetime.
Deferred annuities are those UK.
The principal risks are in respect of mortality whose payments to the annuitant begin at a and morbidity, and are mitigated through a designated future date as opposed to immediate combination of underwriting practices, premium annuities where payments begin at once.
The adjustment in light of changes in experience and principal risks in respect of annuity business relate to reinsurance.
mortality and a market risk in relation to the need to For linked insurance business, market risk is match investments against the anticipated cash flow usually borne by policyholders.
The principal risk profile of the policies.
HSBC has a number of retained by HSBC relates to expenses, although annuity books, some of which have been in run-off mortality, disability and morbidity risks are also for several years.
The majority of the annuity book is associated with this product and are managed composed of contracts with a duration of no longer through the application of the techniques set out than five years.
Investments are managed to match above for non-linked lines of business.
the anticipated cash flow profile, and the mortality risk is regularly monitored.
HSBC has annuity business in the US, Mexico, Cayman Islands and Argentina.
Non-life insurance contracts include liability refuse renewal or to change the terms and conditions and property insurance.
However, only a small of the contract at renewal.
proportion of HSBCs non-life insurance portfolio is HSBC underwrites non-life insurance business liability insurance which is in general underwritten in Ireland, the UK, Hong Kong, Argentina, the US, as part of a product business proposal.
The key risks Mexico and Singapore.
associated with non-life business are underwriting risk and claims experience risk.
Underwriting risk is Accident and health insurance business is the risk that HSBC does not charge premiums underwritten in all major markets with the largest appropriate for the cover provided and claims portfolio being Hong Kong.
Potential accumulations experience risk is the risk that portfolio experience is of personal accident risks are mitigated by the worse than expected.
HSBC manages these risks purchase of catastrophe reinsurance.
through prudent pricing for example, imposing Motor insurance business covers vehicle restrictions and deductibles in the policy terms and damage and liability for personal injury.
It includes a conditions, product design, risk selection, claims large portfolio underwritten in Brazil for handling, investment strategy and reinsurance US$105 million, which was disposed of during policy.
All non-life insurance contracts are annually 2005.
Other significant portfolios are written in the renewable and the underwriters have the right to 164 UK, Mexico and Argentina.
Reinsurance protection Present value of in-force long-term insurance has been arranged where necessary to avoid business PVIF excessive exposure to larger losses, particularly The HSBC life insurance business is accounted for those relating to personal injury claims.
using the embedded value approach, which, inter Fire and other damage business is written in all alia, provides a comprehensive framework for the major markets, most significantly in Europe.
The evaluation of insurance and related risks.
The present predominant focus in most markets is insurance for value of the shareholders interest in the profits homes and contents while covers for selected expected to emerge from the book of in-force commercial customers are largely written in Asian policies at 31 December 2005 can be stress-tested to and South American markets.
All portfolios at risk assess the ability of the book of life business to from catastrophic losses are protected by reinsurance withstand adverse developments.
A key feature of in accordance with information obtained from life insurance business is the importance of professional risk-modelling organisations.
managing the assets, liabilities and risks in a coordinated fashion rather than individually.
This A very limited portfolio of liability business is reflects the greater interdependence of these three written in major markets.
elements for life insurance than is generally the case Following the disposal of the non-life insurance for non-life insurance.
portfolio in Brazil, credit non-life business now The following table shows the effect on the represents the largest single class and is concentrated PVIF as at 31 December 2005 of reasonably possible in the US and the UK.
This business is written in changes in the main economic assumptions across all relation to the banking and finance products.
assumptions They do not incorporate actions that could be taken The sensitivity of profit for the year to, and net by management to mitigate effects nor do they take assets at, 31 December 2005 to reasonably possible account of consequential changes in policyholder changes in conditions at 31 December 2005 across behaviour.
It is generally not insurance business, and life insurance in particular, possible to achieve a complete matching of asset and is the need actively to manage the assets in relation liability duration.
This is partly because with annual to the liabilities.
Of particular importance for a premium contracts there are uncertain future cash number of lines of business is the need to match the flows yet to be received from policyholders and expected pattern of cash flow, which in some cases partly because the duration of some liability cash such as annuities can run for many years.
The flows exceeds the duration of the longest available following table shows the overall disposition of dated fixed interest investments.
3 Other assets comprise solvency and unencumbered assets.
4 Excludes assets, liabilities and shareholders funds of associate insurance companies Erisa S. A. and Ping An Insurance.
Financial risks The majority of HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries are owned and primarily managed by HSBCs insurance businesses are exposed to a range local banking subsidiaries.
Their activities are of financial risks, including market risk, credit risk subject to a variety of locally applied controls and to and liquidity risk.
The nature and management of external regulatory monitoring.
Centralised these risks is described below.
insurance management, including risk and capital Underwriting subsidiaries incur financial risk, management, is relatively limited in scope, acting for example, when the proceeds from financial assets primarily as an additional level of control.
In many are not sufficient to fund the obligations arising from jurisdictions, local regulatory requirements prescribe insurance and investment contracts.
Other nonthe type, quality and concentration of assets that underwriting insurance-related activities undertaken HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries must by HSBC subsidiaries such as insurance broking: maintain in local currency to meet local insurance insurance management including captive liabilities.
Within each subsidiary, ALCOs are management : and insurance, pensions and annuities responsible for the management of financial risks administration and intermediation are exposed to within local requirements and ensure compliance financial risk but not to a significant extent.
with the control framework and risk appetite established centrally.
The insurance underwriting subsidiaries have developed their own risk management policies The following table analyses the assets held in appropriate for the business.
Where applicable they HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries at also comply with HSBCs banking risk management 31 December 2005 by type of liability against which procedures.
However, in some cases, such as the use the assets are held, and provides an overall of one day VAR measures, these are not appropriate framework for considering exposure to financial for insurance and, therefore, not applied.
2 Comprises life non-linked insurance contracts and non-linked long-term investment contracts.
4 Comprises solvency and unencumbered assets.
5 Excludes financial assets of insurance underwriting associates, Erisa, S. A. and Ping An Insurance.
Under linked insurance and investment the corresponding fixed income securities have contracts, premium income less charges levied is to be sold.
HSBC manages the HSBC manages the interest rate risk arising financial risk of this product by holding appropriate from its insurance underwriting subsidiaries by assets in funds or portfolios to which the liabilities establishing limits centrally.
These govern the are linked.
This generally transfers the financial risk sensitivity of the net present values of expected cash to the policyholder.
The assets held to support unitflows from subsidiaries assets and liabilities to a linked liabilities represent 35.9 per cent of the total one basis point parallel upward shift in the discount financial assets of HSBCs insurance underwriting curve used to calculate values.
Adherence to these subsidiaries at the reporting date.
limits is monitored by local ALCOs.
Market risk Interest rate risk is also assessed by measuring the impact of defined movements in interest yield Interest rate risk curves on the profits after tax and net assets of the HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries are insurance underwriting subsidiaries.
An immediate exposed to interest rate risk when there is a and permanent movement in interest yield curves as mismatch in terms of duration or yields between the at 31 December 2005 in all territories in which assets and liabilities.
Examples of interest rate risk HSBCs insurance subsidiaries operate would have exposure are as follows: the following impact on the profit for the year and net assets at that date: lower market interest rates result in lower yields Profit for on the assets supporting guaranteed investment the year Net assets returns payable to policyholders: and US$m US$m higher market interest rates result in a reduction 100 basis points shift in of the value of the fixed income securities yield curves.............................. 46 122 100 basis points shift in portfolio which may result in losses if, as a yield curves.............................. 63 181 result of an increase of the level of surrenders, 168 The interest rate sensitivities set out above are annuities in payment: illustrative only and employ simplified scenarios.
deferred annuities: these consist of two phases They are based on US$8,068 million of interestthe savings and investing phase, and the bearing securities held by insurance underwriting retirement income phase: subsidiaries at 31 December 2005 and US$3,350 million of insurance liabilities under annual return: the investment return credited to insurance contracts and long-term investment the policyholder every year referred to as a contracts issued.
The sensitivities do not incorporate hard guarantee, or the average annual actions that could be taken by management to investment return credited to the policyholder mitigate the effect of the interest rate movements, over the life of the policy to its maturity or nor do they take account of consequential changes in surrender referred to as a soft guarantee is policyholder behaviour.
guaranteed to be no lower than a specified rate: The majority of interest rate exposure arises capital: policyholders are guaranteed to receive within insurance underwriting subsidiaries in the back no less than the premiums paid less UK, the US and Hong Kong.
expenses, or a cash payment or series of cash payments whose amounts are at least equal to HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries are those defined within the policy: and also exposed to the risk that the yield on assets held may fall short of the return guaranteed on certain market performance: policyholders receive an contracts issued to policyholders.
This investment investment return which is guaranteed to be return guarantee risk is managed by matching assets within a prescribed range of average investment held to liability requirements.
In addition, a returns earned by predetermined market provision is established when analysis indicates that, participants on the specified product.
over the life of the contracts, the returns from the The table below shows, in respect of each designated assets may not be adequate to cover the category of guarantee, the total reserves established related liabilities.
for guaranteed products, the range of investment The guarantees offered to policyholders in returns implied by the guarantees, and the range of respect of certain insurance products are divided into current yields of the investment portfolios supporting broad categories as follows: the guarantees.
2 There is no specific investment return implied by market performance guarantees because the guarantees are expressed as lying within prescribed ranges of average market returns.
The Group manages the annuities, annual return dates of the bonds.
Future reinvestment yields may and capital guarantees by seeking to match the be less than the investment rates implied by the exposure predominantly with bonds which are guarantee.
producing a return at least equal to the investment A certain number of these products have been return implied by the guarantee.
Provision is made discontinued to new business: this includes the for any anticipated shortfall, generally calculated by deferred annuity portfolio in HSBC Finance, where recourse to stress testing of the likely outcomes.
the current portfolio yield is less than the guarantee and highlighted in the above table.
For this block of The main risk arising from these guarantees is business, a purchase accounting reserve was made at reinvestment risk, which arises primarily when the the time of the acquisition of HSBC Finance to duration of the policy extends beyond the maturity mitigate the impact of the disparity in yields.
In 169 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued addition, in the UK there is an annuity portfolio by currency and the total net short position that each where the risk is fully reinsured.
The risk is also monitored by tracking the effect of predetermined For market performance guarantee business in exchange differences on the total profit and net the table above, the Group seeks to match the assets of the insurance underwriting subsidiaries.
composition of the investment portfolio with the composition of the average investment portfolio of The following table illustrates the impact on the the other market participants.
These are published by aggregated profit for the year and net assets of a the regulator monthly.
Reserves have also been reasonably possible 10 per cent variance in the US established to cover any potential shortfall although, dollar exchange rate: since inception, they have never been called upon.
Profit for the Net Equity risk year assets US$m US$m HSBC manages the equity risk arising from its 10 per cent increase in holdings of equity securities centrally by setting US dollar exchange rate........... 55 limits on the maximum market value of equities that 10 per cent decrease in each insurance underwriting subsidiary may hold.
US dollar exchange rate............ 5 5 Equity risk is also monitored by estimating the effect of predetermined movements in equity prices on the These sensitivities to movements in the US profit and total net assets of the insurance dollar are for illustrative purposes only and employ underwriting subsidiaries.
simplified scenarios applied to local US dollar positions only.
They are based on US$1,444 million The following table illustrates the impact on the of liabilities under insurance contracts and longaggregated profit for the year and net assets of a term investment contracts and US$1,505 million of reasonably possible 10 per cent variance in equity assets denominated in US dollars.
They do not allow prices: for actions that could be taken by management to Profit for mitigate the effect of exchange differences, nor for the year Net assets any consequential changes in policyholder US$m US$m behaviour.
10 per cent increase in equity prices............................. 61 62 Credit risk 10 per cent decrease in equity prices.............................. 45 46 HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries are exposed to credit risk in respect of their investment These equity sensitivities are illustrative only portfolios and their reinsurance transactions.
They are based on Local management of HSBCs underwriting US$6,753 million of marketable equity securities insurance subsidiaries is responsible for the quality held by insurance underwriting subsidiaries at and performance of its investment portfolios.
31 December 2005, and US$6,137 million of Investment guidelines are set at Group level.
Local liabilities under insurance contracts and long-term ALCOs set investment parameters appropriate to the investment contracts issued.
They do not allow for local environment within the framework of the any management actions to mitigate the effects of Group guidelines and review investment the equity price decline, nor for any consequential performance and compliance with the guidelines.
changes, such as in policyholder behaviour, that Assessment of the creditworthiness of issuers and could accompany such a fall.
counterparties is based primarily upon internationally recognised credit ratings and other Foreign exchange risk publicly available information.
In addition, to reduce HSBCs insurance underwriting subsidiaries are the impact of individual entity or industry sector exposed to this risk when the assets supporting failures, centrally determined issuer and industry insurance liabilities are denominated in currencies sector concentration limits are complied with.
other than the currencies of the liabilities.
Investment credit exposures are aggregated and HSBC manages the foreign exchange risk reported to HSBCs Group Credit and Risk function arising from its insurance underwriting subsidiaries on a quarterly basis.
171 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Credit risk also arises when part of the insurance At 31 December 2005, the split of liabilities ceded to risk incurred by HSBC is assumed by reinsurers.
reinsurers and outstanding reinsurance recoveries, HSBCs Reinsurance Security Committee analysed by Standard and Poors reinsurance credit rating establishes the minimum security criteria for data or their equivalent, was as follows: acceptable reinsurance and monitors the purchase of reinsurance against these criteria.
Liquidity risk term, with the settlement of claims expected to occur within one year of the period of risk.
There is a It is an inherent characteristic of almost all insurance greater spread of anticipated duration for the life contracts that there is uncertainty over the amount business where, in a large proportion of cases, the and the timing of settlement of claims liabilities that liquidity risk is borne in conjunction with may arise, and this leads to liquidity risk.
As part of policyholders wholly in the case of unit-linked the management of this exposure, estimates are business.
To ensure adequate cash resources are prepared for most lines of insurance business of cash available to meet short-term requirements that can flows expected to arise from insurance funds at the arise as a consequence of large claims events, the balance sheet date.
The estimates frequently include local insurance operations may obtain intra-group future renewal premiums and new business cash borrowing facilities at short notice.
As indicated by the asset and liability table for insurance business, and the analysis of insurance risk The following table presents an analysis of the of the Group, a significant proportion of the Groups remaining contractual maturity of the long-term non-life insurance business is viewed as very short investment contract liabilities at 31 December 2005: Liabilities under investment contracts issued by 1 insurance underwriting subsidiaries Linked Non-linked investment investment contracts contracts designated designated at fair value at fair value Total US$m US$m US$m Remaining contractual maturity: due within 1 year................................................................................... 118 11 129 due between 1 and 5 years..................................................................... 1,043 185 1,228 due between 5 and 10 years................................................................... 683 683 due after 10 years.................................................................................. 2,431 2,431 2 undated................................................................................................. 2,881 3,093 5,974 7,156 3,289 10,445 1 Excludes investment contracts issued by insurance underwriting associates Erisa, S. A. and Ping An Insurance.
2 In most cases, policyholders have the option to terminate their contracts at any time and receive the surrender values of their policies.
These may be significantly lower than the amounts shown above.
172 Capital management and allocation capital may not exceed 50 per cent of tier 1 capital.
Forms part of the audited financial statements except where There are also limitations on the amount of stated collective impairment allowances which may be included as part of tier 2 capital.
From the total of Capital measurement and allocation tier 1 and tier 2 capital are deducted the carrying The Financial Services Authority FSA supervises amounts of unconsolidated investments, investments HSBC on a consolidated basis and, as such, receives in the capital of banks, and certain regulatory items.
information on the capital adequacy of, and sets Banking operations are categorised as either capital requirements for, HSBC as a whole.
trading book or banking book and risk-weighted Individual banking subsidiaries are directly regulated assets are determined accordingly.
Banking book by their local banking supervisors, who set and risk-weighted assets are measured by means of a monitor their capital adequacy requirements.
In most hierarchy of risk weightings classified according to jurisdictions, non-banking financial subsidiaries are the nature of each asset and counterparty, taking into also subject to the supervision and capital account any eligible collateral or guarantees.
requirements of local regulatory authorities.
Since Banking book off-balance sheet items giving rise to 1988, when the governors of the Group of Ten credit, foreign exchange or interest rate risk are central banks agreed to guidelines for the assigned weights appropriate to the category of the international convergence of capital measurement counterparty, taking into account any eligible and standards, the banking supervisors of HSBCs collateral or guarantees.
Trading book risk-weighted major banking subsidiaries have exercised capital assets are determined by taking into account marketadequacy supervision within a broadly similar related risks such as foreign exchange, interest rate framework.
and equity position risks, and counterparty risk.
In implementing the EUs Banking Consolidation Directive, the FSA requires each bank Effect of IFRSs and banking group to maintain an individually In October 2004, the FSA published a consultation prescribed ratio of total capital to risk-weighted paper CP04 17 Implications of a changing assets taking into account both balance sheet assets accounting framework.
This was followed in April and off-balance sheet transactions.
Under the EUs 2005 with a policy statement with the same title, Amending Directive to the Capital Adequacy PS05 5.
These papers set out the FSAs approach to Directive, the FSA allows banks to calculate capital assessing banks capital adequacy after requirements for market risk in the trading book implementation of IFRSs.
PS05 5 took effect on using VAR techniques.
HSBCs capital is divided into two tiers: Under the new policy, there have been changes Tier 1 capital comprises shareholders funds, to the measurement of banks capital adequacy, the innovative tier 1 securities and minority most significant of which for HSBC are set out interests in tier 1 capital, after adjusting for below.
items reflected in shareholders funds which are The capital treatment for collective impairment treated differently for the purposes of capital allowances is the same as previously applied to adequacy.
The book values of goodwill and general provisions, that is they are included in intangible assets are deducted in arriving at tier 2 capital.
This had a positive impact on tier 1 capital.
HSBCs total capital ratio as the amount of Tier 2 capital comprises qualifying subordinated collective impairment allowances exceeds the loan capital, collective impairment allowances amount of the previous general provisions.
previously, general provisions, minority and The effect of recognising defined benefit other interests in tier 2 capital and unrealised pension plan deficits on the balance sheet will gains arising on the fair valuation of equity be reversed for regulatory reporting.
However, instruments held as available-for-sale.
Tier 2 whereas previously banks deducted from capital capital also includes reserves arising from the prepayments to pension plans, they must now revaluation of properties.
deduct from capital their best estimate of the Various limits are applied to elements of the additional funding that they expect to pay into capital base.
The amount of innovative tier 1 the plans over the following five years to reduce securities cannot exceed 15 per cent of overall tier 1 the defined benefit liability.
This estimate is capital, qualifying tier 2 capital cannot exceed tier 1 arrived at in conjunction with the plans capital, and qualifying term subordinated loan actuaries and or trustees.
173 HSBC HOLDIN G S PL C Financial Review continued Under IFRSs, dividends are not recognised as a probability of default but also the quantification of liability on the balance sheet until they are exposure at default and loss given default.
This gives rise to an increase in Basel II also introduces capital requirements for shareholders funds at the balance sheet date operational risk and, again, three levels of compared with the previous accounting, which sophistication are proposed.
The capital required is reversed when the relevant dividend is under the basic indicator approach will be a simple subsequently declared.
Banks reflect the benefit percentage of gross revenues: under the standardised of this increase in their regulatory capital until approach it will be one of three different percentages the dividend declaration, in line with the of gross revenues applicable to each of eight accounting treatment.
business lines, and under advanced measurement Unrealised gains on available-for-sale equities approaches it will be an amount determined using held are included as part of tier 2 capital: banks own statistical analysis of operational risk previously these were not recognised.
The FSA plan to review certain elements of this The EU Capital Requirements Directive policy in mid-2007.
In addition, in January 2006, the CRD recast the Banking Consolidation Directive FSA published a consultation paper, CP06 1, which and the Capital Adequacy Directive and will be the set out proposed amendments to the handbook, on means by which Basel II will be implemented in the which comments are due in March 2006.
The CRD was approved by the European proposals are not expected to have a significant Parliament in September 2005 and the European impact for HSBC.
Parliaments amendments were subsequently endorsed by EU Finance Ministers on 12 October Future developments 2005.
The CRD is expected to be published in its final form in the spring of 2006.
It requires EU The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision the Member States to bring implementing provisions Basel Committee has published a new framework into force on 1 January 2007, although in the case of for calculating minimum capital requirements.
the provisions relating to the implementation of the Known as Basel II, it will replace the 1988 Basel internal ratings-based advanced approach to credit Capital Accord.
Basel II is structured around three risk and the advanced measurement approach to pillars: minimum capital requirements, supervisory operational risk, implementation may be delayed review process and market discipline.
The until 1 January 2008. supervisory objectives for Basel II are to promote safety and soundness in the financial system and In January 2005, the FSA published a maintain at least the current overall level of capital consultation paper, CP05 3 Strengthening capital in the system: enhance competitive equality: standards, setting out proposals for implementing constitute a more comprehensive approach to the recast EU Directives.
The FSA proposed that the addressing risks: and focus on internationally active new requirements should take effect from 1 January banks.
2007, except that firms may elect to continue applying the existing capital adequacy framework With respect to pillar one minimum capital until 1 January 2008.
A further FSA consultation requirements, Basel II provides three approaches, of paper, CP06 3 Strengthening Capital Standards 2, increasing sophistication, to the calculation of credit was published in February 2006 setting out the risk regulatory capital.
The most basic one, the FSAs latest proposals for implementing the CRD in standardised approach, requires banks to use external the UK, together with the draft FSA Handbook text.
credit ratings to determine the risk weightings applied to rated counterparties, and group other HSBC continues to participate actively in counterparties into broad categories and apply industry consultations surrounding the development standardised risk weightings to these categories.
In and implementation of Basel II and the re-cast EU the next level, the internal ratings-based foundation Directives, and fully supports the more risk-sensitive approach allows banks to calculate their credit risk regulatory capital framework proposed to replace the regulatory capital requirement on the basis of their original 1988 Basel Capital Accord.
The application internal assessment of the probability that a of Basel II across HSBCs geographically diverse counterparty will default, but with quantification of businesses, which operate in a large number of exposure and loss estimates being subject to standard different regulatory environments, represents a supervisory formulae.
Finally, the internal ratingssignificant logistical and technological challenge, based advanced approach will allow banks to use and an extensive programme of implementation their own internal assessment of not only the projects is currently in progress.
Basel II permits 174 local discretion in a number of areas for different components of its capital and, in HSBC determination by local regulators.
The extent to Holdings, between the composition of its capital and which requirements will diverge, coupled with how that of its investment in subsidiaries.
This is the FSA, HSBCs home regulator, and the local host achieved by each subsidiary managing its own regulators in the other countries in which HSBC capital within the context of an approved annual plan operates interact will be key factors in completing which determines the optimal amount and mix of implementation of Basel II.
In view of this ongoing capital required to support planned business growth uncertainty, it remains premature to establish with and meet Group and local regulatory capital precision the effect of Basel II on HSBCs capital requirements and, in the case of HSBC Finance, its ratios or how the competitive landscape will change.
Capital generated in excess of One example of regulatory uncertainty relates to the planned requirements is returned to HSBC Holdings, US, where banking supervisory authorities have yet normally by way of dividends, and represents a to produce draft rules termed Notice of Proposed source of strength for HSBC.
They are now expected to be HSBC Holdings is primarily a provider of published in the first half of 2006.
The US equity capital to its subsidiaries.
These investments authorities have decided to apply the advanced credit are substantially funded by HSBC Holdings own and operational risk methodologies of Basel II only equity issuance and profit retentions.
Major to the largest US banks and holding companies, subsidiaries usually raise their own non-equity tier 1 although other banks may decide to opt in.
HSBC capital and subordinated debt in accordance with North America Holdings Inc. HSBCs highest level HSBC guidelines regarding market and investor US bank holding company in the US, which holds all concentration, cost, market conditions, timing and HSBCs major US operating subsidiaries and HSBC the effect on the composition and maturity profile of Canada has been mandated to comply with these HSBCs capital.
The subordinated debt requirements rules.
For smaller US banks, the US banking of other HSBC companies are met internally.
authorities are considering applying an updated version of the existing Basel I rules dubbed HSBC recognises the impact on shareholder Basel Ia.
The Basel Ia rules may also be used in the returns of the level of equity capital employed within determination of Basel II capital floors during the HSBC and seeks to maintain a prudent balance transition period 2009-11. between the advantages and flexibility afforded by a strong capital position and the higher returns on Capital management equity possible with greater leverage.
In the current environment, HSBC uses a benchmark tier 1 capital It is HSBCs policy to maintain a strong capital base ratio of 8.25 per cent in considering its long-term to support the development of its business.
The above figures were computed in accordance were partly offset by reductions due to exchange with the EU Banking Consolidation Directive and differences of US$4.2 billion.
The comparative The increase of US$8 billion in tier 2 capital figures at 31 December 2004 have not been restated mainly reflects collective impairment allowances to reflect the implementation of IFRSs and PS05 5. becoming eligible for inclusion in capital in place of HSBC complied with the FSAs capital adequacy general provisions.
Total risk-weighted assets increased by Tier 1 capital increased by US$7.1 billion.
The increase mainly Retained profits contributed US$7.3 billion, shares reflects growth in the loan book and trading issued in lieu of dividends, together with preference positions.
At constant currency, risk-weighted asset shares issued, contributed US$3.2 billion and other growth was 13 per cent.
movements, including net other IFRS transitional adjustments, added US$0.8 billion.
These increases 176 Risk-weighted assets by principal subsidiary of risk-weighted assets by principal subsidiary.
The Unaudited information risk-weighted assets are calculated using FSA rules and exclude intra-HSBC items.
