Operating and Financial Review Results Contents Page This past year has The Group reported profit of 178.9 million Results 06 demonstrated the strength and before taxation, goodwill amortisation and Business drivers 07 resilience of our business in exceptional items: this represents a 5% Market position 07 increase over the prior year.
On a statutory the face of a very weak US T echnology 08 basis profit on ordinary activities before Geographic analysis 08 dollar and slower markets in taxation was 131.7 million for the year Business per for mance 10 ended 31 March 2005 the six months from May 2004.
We continue to Cost management 13 believe that profit before tax, goodwill Operating profit mar gins 14 Overall market volumes were amortisation and exceptional items better Joint ventures and associates 14 subdued by lower volatility and reflects the Groups underlying year-on-year Cash generation 14 per for mance.
This measure is reconciled to issuance compared to the Acquisitions 15 profit before tax on the face of the profit sustained growth that we have Exceptional items 16 and loss account.
Taxation 16 A weaker US dollar and slower markets in Earnings and earnings per share 16 In the second half of the year some specific areas corporate bonds and Dividend 17 US mortgages resulted in a 7.4 million Balance sheet and capital 17 and particularly since the 1% reduction in turnover for the financial Risk management 17 beginning of 2005, we have year ended 31 March 2005 compared to Foreign exchange 17 the prior year.
However, excluding the seen the retur n of stronger Treasury policy 18 impact of currency movements and growth in most markets.
Credit and interest rate risk 18 acquisitions, turnover increased by 4%.
With Against this demanding strong cost disciplines in place, costs rose International Financial by only 2% in the year and this enabled the Reporting Standards 19 background we achieved a Group to increase its pre-tax profit.
Five year comparison 20 most encouraging outcome and Corporate Social Responsibility 20 have delivered improved Compliance and regulation 21 operating profit and mar gins, The new financial year 21 assisted by reductions in our cost base.
06 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 The Group reported a strong financial In the more liquid and commoditised In the US Treasuries market in the three per for mance in the second half of the markets, electronic broking creates months to March 2005, according to the financial year with turnover, excluding the additional growth opportunities through: New Y ork Federal Reserve Board, volumes impact of currency movements and transacted by interdealer brokers grew by acquisitions, up 7% on the prior year period, n the ef ficiency of electronic broking 13%.
V olumes in many of the corporate bond increasing trading volumes and attracting and a 14% increase in profit before markets fell as a result of tighter spreads taxation, goodwill amortisation and business previously traded directly against government bonds and reduced between banks: exceptional items on the same basis.
In Europe in 2004, according to n increased market concentration and ISMA, Repo markets volumes transacted Business drivers higher barriers to entry resulting in fewer both voice and electronically by interdealer ICAP is a growth business in a growth players with lar ger market shares: and brokers grew by 27%.
Historically, underlying market n increased integration with the banks turnover growth has been between 3% and client trading systems and black box Market position 5% and we believe that the long-ter m trend automated trading systems.
ICAP estimates that turnover in the will remain at these levels.
combined voice and electronic global In the most recent survey of market interdealer broker market for OTC The growth drivers in our markets include: turnover by the Bank of International derivatives, fixed income securities, money Settlements, covering the period between market products, foreign exchange, ener gy, n market volatility including interest rate, 2001 and 2004, there was continued credit and equity derivatives increased in FX, credit and commodities: strong growth in interest rate derivatives, 2004 by approximately 4%, after adjusting n increased commitment of risk capital to products which make a significant for the impact of exchange rate movements the interest rate, ener gy and FX markets contribution to ICAPs profitability.
During and is worth approximately $5.1 billion at by the hedge funds and banks: the three-year period, interest rate swaps 2004 5 exchange rates.
On the same n growth in bond issuance, driven by volume traded increased on average by basis, included within this total, the national deficit funding or capital raising 26%per annum and in interest rate options estimated market for electronic broking by corporate and financial institutions: by 150% per annum.
Forward foreign grew by 14% to $730 million.
n market share changes from industry exchange grew more slowly at 14% per consolidation: annum but foreign exchange options ICAP continues to be the global leader of n development of new markets e. g. Korea, increased significantly more quickly the overall market with an estimated 28% China and Latin America: and at30%per annum.
share and we believe that through both n introduction of new products e. g. carbon or ganic growth and selective acquisition we emissions, coal and freight.
can take our share to exceed 35% over the next few years.
Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 07 Operating and Financial Review LOUISVILLE MEXICO CITY NEW YORK Using technology to increase trading Electronic broking, together with post trade The Americas efficiency feeds to provide  The Americas were the most profitable ICAP uses a number of dif ferent technology STP allows the trade to be confirmed, region in 2004 5 with turnover of 363.8 platforms to deliver electronic broking to the cleared where the market has clearing, million generating profit of 85.5 million dif ferent markets we serve.
We are settled, and all the relevant information of 2004 71.0 million and a mar gin of continuing to invest so that in the future the the trade fed through to the banks position 24.0%.
In addition to voice broking, majority of ICAPs services, apart from a few management systems automatically upon the electronic broking and infor mation sales very illiquid or structured products, are execution of the trade.
V oice-brokered trades were significant contributors to the available electronically as well as through are also confirmed electronically through the profitability of this business.
In US Treasury voice brokers.
T o reduce support costs we same process.
This streamlined process non-benchmark issues, our voice broking will migrate from some of our existing reduces costs significantly, but also enables business has enjoyed its best results platforms to newer, more ef ficient many more trades to be executed and forthe past five years, benefiting from technologies.
In addition, we are processed within a day, thereby increasing commingling with BrokerT ecs benchmark implementing a sophisticated capability to the velocity of trading in these markets.
We enjoy a majority share of the provide access across these platforms so non-benchmarks market and operate a that we can satisfy demands in the future For ICAP a fundamental business combined voice and electronic business from our customers for cross market trading.
requirement is the integration of our with 50% executed electronically.
There was networks and systems with those of our reduced activity in corporate bonds and The main benefits of fered by electronic customers systems, in order to facilitate mortgage backed securities which reduced broking are lower cost, speed and ease of .
Establishing overall profitability in securities broking.
However, the positive impact on these links can be dif ficult and slow, Increased activity in the ener gy markets bank costs is not limited to only the involving the banks in investing time and resulted in improved turnover and profit.
execution of trades, but more importantly to money to complete this integration.
Our business in Latin American products the potential cost savings in the middle and has expanded this year and we are working back of fice functions.
The majority of the Geographic analysis with our partners, the Mexican Bolsa, to costs and inef ficiencies in the OTC market ICAPs businesses are broadly distributed extend our activities further.
usually occur post trade, where transactions with 23 of fices worldwide: with Europe and need to be manually confir med and input the Americas the two lar gest regions.
into the banks systems for both settlement of the trade and position management.
Profit is defined as pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation, exceptional items, interest and share of operating profit of joint ventures and associates and is reconciled to statutory profit before interest and tax in the segmental analysis in Note 2 to the Financial Statements.
Operating profit mar gins are calculated by expressing profit as previously defined as a percentage of turnover.
08 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 BANGKOK HONG KONG JAKARTA KUALA LUMPUR With 2,900 staff, ICAP has a strong presence in MANAMA each of the three major financial markets: London, MANILA New Y ork and T okyo, together with a local MUMBAI presence in 20 other financial centres.
SEOUL SINGAPORE AMSTERDAM LONDON SYDNEY BERGEN MADRID TOKYO COPENHAGEN WARSAW WELLINGTON FRANKFURT JOHANNESBURG Europe Asia Pacific Financial highlights We have benefited from having all our We have made considerable progress in the n A fifth consecutive year of London-based businesses in one building Asia Pacific region during the past seven for the first time when we moved into years and profit grew in the year to mar gin improvement, with a Broadgate in May 2004.
The European 31 March 2005 to 7.9 million 21% Group operating profit markets had grown quickly in 2003 4 and a 2004 7.4 million on turnover of repeat of that growth was a tough act to 81.5 million.
However the past six months mar gin achieved 2004 follow.
Turnover in Europe increased slightly has been marked by a greater number of 20%.
to 348.7 million, generating profit of staff movements in our industry, largely n 75.9 million 2004 81.9 million driven by a competitor attempting to establish Electronic broking tur nover reflecting in part the increased costs of the itself in the region.
This has had both positive and profit increased by new building of 6.0 million.
The medium and negative ef fects on ICAP.
We have ter meuro interest rate markets slowed for strengthened the business with newly 35% and 409% respectively.
several months in 2003 4 but from mid recruited staff and, where we have lost staff, n Cost base increase December activity in the medium term we have made significant progress in markets returned.
The final quarter of the replacing them and integrating the new staff restricted to 2% at constant year saw healthy volume increases over the into our business.
exchange rates and same period in 2003 4 accompanied by a useful advance in market share in the Recently, Bruce Collins joined ICAP as Chief excluding impact of interdealer brokers market over the quarter Executive responsible for the Asia Pacific acquisitions.
compared with the same quarter in the region.
He was previously the Group Chief n previous year.
For much of the year our Executive Officer of Tullett Liberty, now a Growth in profit, adjusted operations in the credit markets for bonds part of Collins Stewart Tullett plc.
and derivatives were quieter as new issuance growing wholesale financial markets in the slowed and tight credit spreads discouraged region, including potential markets in China, trading.
In recent weeks credit spread represent a significant opportunity for ICAP volatility has increased and a return to tight and Bruce Collins brings a wealth of spreads in the short term seems unlikely.
experience to help us make the most of that opportunity.
Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 09 Business per formance The Groups results demonstrate very clearly We are constantly seeking new ICAP segments its Group turnover and that practice has followed theory, with the opportunities to extend electronic broking profit into five divisions: electronic broking, Groups electronic broking operations alongside our voice broking business: derivatives and money broking, securities increasing their market share in the year and broking, ener gy broking and information posting significant turnover, profit and n ICAP launched credit derivatives on the services.
BrokerT ec platform during November with a focus on single credits as well as Electronic broking ICAPs electronic broking footprint is much indices.
Upgraded functionality has There was a 35% increase in turnover in more extensive than any other broker and recently been added to the system and electronic broking to 83.8 million in currently includes active and of f-the-run US the 17 banks which have the latest 2004 5.
The operating profit mar gin Treasuries, Bills, Notes, Bonds, Strips, TIPS version deployed have reacted very improved to 29% from 8% in the previous and Basis trading as well as Agencies and positively.
We also plan to of fer single year, demonstrating the substantial Mortgages: European, UK, Australian, name credit derivatives together with operational leverage in these businesses.
Japanese and South African government corporate bonds on the same screens V olumes on ICAPs electronic broking bonds: US$ and euro repurchase agreements: for transaction: platfor ms reached record levels of Eurobonds and credit derivatives: EONIAS and n in September 2004 we launched in US$56trillion in the final quarter of our forward foreign exchange.
short dated interest rate swaps financial year to 31 March 2005, up 48% EONIAS and now have 21 banks on the same period in 2004.
In the key US Treasury market, electronic installed on our i-Swap platform with 18 volume increased by 59% over the previous more in the pipeline.
Our next move will The electronic broking model provides a year to reach US$12 trillion for the final be the extension of i-Swap euro maturity highly attractive financial leverage dynamic quarter.
We estimate that our combined out to 50 years.
We plan to do this in to the Group.
Although commission rates voice and electronic market share overall in autumn 2005 which involves building a per unit of sale are significantly lower under US Treasury products exceeded 60% for the link into the London Clearing Houses the electronic broking model compared to quarter, a substantial increase from 48% in Swapclear facility to ultimately of fer voice, this is more than of fset by the lower the same period in 2004.
ICAP is also Swapclear members the ability to novate electronic broking cost base.
In particular fir mly established as market leader in the electronically executed trades straight the lower electronic broking cost base has a European and US$ Repo markets where through from i-Swap to the London higher fixed costs component than voice, electronic broking volumes in the final Clearing House.
With this functionality thereby creating significant financial quarter grew significantly to reach for longer dated interest rate swaps, leverage opportunities.
US$21 trillion in Europe and US$22 trillion credit issues would be minimised and in North America.
could potentially release very rapid volume growth: 10 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 n the i-Forwards platform is now installed Securities broking and Sydney added to London.
ICAP now with 24 banks in Europe and three in the The overall ef fect of changes in market of fers its clients access to all electronic US with installations beginning in Asia in activity and the weaker US dollar was exchanges in the three time zones via a June this year.
The platform currently reduced turnover of 321.7 million, single platfor m. covers the main forward foreign generating a profit of 51.9 million 2004 exchange markets: euro, yen, sterling, 66.5 million.
Rising interest rates Energy broking Australian, New Zealand and Canadian depressed issuance in the corporate bond The electricity, gas and oil related products dollars and the Swiss franc: and and mortgage markets, but emer ging markets have been very active in the past n Credit Repo was launched in conjunction markets attracted increased activity.
Credit year with oil being the most visible, and the with the voice broking desk in London in default derivatives continued to grow and long-ter m growth potential remains April 2005 and this has seen a positive the introduction of trading in credit default attractive.
ICAP estimates that the global start, with good support from the banks.
indices spurred electronic broking in this interdealer broking market for ener gy market.
Issuance to fund rising deficits products grew by 22% in 2004 5.
The Derivatives and money broking fuelled volumes in the government bond market is currently fragmented and is ICAPs turnover in derivatives and money markets.
Average daily US Treasury volumes continuing to develop, which could lead to markets grew from 309.2 million to grew to $567 billion in the first quarter of opportunities for consolidation.
312.6 million, generating profit which 2005, 13% ahead of the previous quarter increased to 70.7 million 2004 68.5 and 18% above the same period in the ICAP Ener gys turnover rose to million.
Although medium ter m euro previous year.
50.9 million from 41.4 million in interest swap activity was lower, most other 2003 4.
Profit rose by 46% to interest rate derivatives markets were In the past year we have broadened ICAPs 7.6 million.
Turnover in the North active.
In particular, interest rate options in futures business and become clearing American electricity market grew both the Americas and in Europe enjoyed a members of Euronext, Lif fe, Eurex, Chicago significantly, where new clearing consistently busy year.
Given the turbulence Mercantile Exchange, Chicago Board of mechanisms have attracted new market in the foreign exchange markets, forward Trade and the International Petroleum entrants.
In Europe, there has been an foreign exchange revenues responded with Exchange.
An agency clearing agreement encouraging expansion of electronic broking another year of growth.
The non-deliverable allows ICAP to clear all other principal in ener gy products.
ICAP Ener gy was named forward FX market businesses benefited exchanges.
The global clearing platfor m is Broker of the Y ear by Ener gy RISK magazine from broad market coverage and volatility in based on the London hub allowing ICAP to in a poll of market participants.
of fer a highly competitive service.
The execution business has been similarly expanded and integrated with the establishment of new desks in New Y ork Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 11 Operating and Financial Review 12 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 Expenses Variable component of Classification as % of Group turnover broker remuneration % of Group turnover 2005 45 55 2004 44 56 Fixed Variable Year Year ended ended 31 March 31 March % 2005 2004 Broker remuneration 51 51 T&E 3 4 Telecoms 5 5 Other 4 5 Overheads 16 15 Operating profit 21 20 In January ICAP established a joint venture In January ICAP acquired the outstanding The profile of the Groups cost base is with J. E. Hyde to address the growing shares in GovPX, Inc. GovPX is a leading summarised in the table above.
Broker markets for Freight Forward and Shipping provider of US fixed income and derivative remuneration remains the lar gest derivatives.
This combines J. E. Hydes infor mation to in excess of 1,000 client component at an unchanged level of 51% of longstanding expertise in the shipping sites and over 8,000 subscribers.
The variable component of markets with ICAPs strengths in commodity infor mation is distributed under the GovPX, broker remuneration, which is linked to and commodity derivative broking.
In AgencyPX, RepoPX and SwapPX brands.
turnover and profit growth, is 55% of total addition ICAP Ener gy began broking a new GovPX is primarily distributed as an optional broker employment costs and this commodity, carbon emissions, under the service via the major market data vendors compares with 56% in the prior year.
European Union scheme which limits the which include Bloomber g, Reuters and carbon dioxide that companies in ener gy T elerate and delivery direct to client sites.
In overall ter ms, it is estimated that some intensive industries are allowed to emit.
In addition, GovPX of fers services to 50% of the Groups cost base is of a disseminate end of day and historical data.
Information services ICAP produces a wide array of prices and Cost management Recently there have been signs of increased infor mation covering most OTC financial Given the slower business activity levels in competitive pressures in the interdealer markets.
As markets move to electronic the first half of the financial year, special broker sector as evidenced by the attempts broking there is increased concentration of attention was focused on cost management by some of the markets participants in the market share and infor mation from these throughout all the Groups operations.
A Asia Pacific region to rationalise and rebuild markets becomes more valuable.
ICAP cost review exercise was undertaken in July their voice broking businesses.
This has distributes its infor mation mainly through 2004 with a tar get of eliminating at least potentially adverse implications for the professional data vendors including 7 million of costs in the 2004 5 financial Groups Asia Pacific employment costs ratio Reuters, Bloomber g, T elerate, Thomson and year.
This tar get was more than achieved and it is being monitored very closely.
and has enabled the Group to deliver a However, given that the regions employment relatively modest 2% increase in underlying costs represent only 5% of Group turnover There is significant competition between costs excluding broker bonus costs in this in itself should not have a material these data vendors.
As a result, the market 2004 5 compared to the prior year.
This impact on the Groups overall employment for financial infor mation continues to be was after absorbing a 6 million increase in costs turnover ratio.
tight, which reduces potential spending UK property costs following the move to available for the purchase of financial new premises at Broadgate.
The ef ficient and ef fective management of infor mation.
Turnover increased slightly to the Groups cost base remains a major 25.0 million in 2004 5 and profit was priority.
Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 13 Operating and Financial Review Y ear ended Y ear ended Operating profit margins 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 Activity Securities broking 16% 18% Operating profit margins % Derivatives and money broking 23% 22% Ener gy broking 15% 13% 2005 Electronic broking 29% 8% 21% Infor mation services 61% 65% 2004 Geographic location 20% 2003 Americas 24% 19% 17% Europe 22% 24% 2002 Asia Pacific 10% 9% 15% 2001 14% 1 2000 7% 1 Proforma 15 months, all others based on 12 months reported results.
Operating profit margins The infor mation services mar gin reduced 8.3 million to 5.0 million.
During the The Group increased its operating profit from 65% to 61% reflecting the acquisition financial year the Group acquired a mar gin to 21% in the financial year ended of GovPX in January, a lower mar gin 30%economic interest in Ryes Capital LLP, 31 March 2005 2004 20%.
GovPX has achieved a 39% a start-up business providing a risk fifth year in succession that this mar gin has mar gin since acquisition.
management platfor m and other services to increased and remains the industry leading hedge funds.
The Americas mar gin benefited from the Capital had yet to attract business on to its profit advances in electronic broking, while platfor m and a decision was taken on the The mar gin per for mance by business the Europe mar gin was held back by slower grounds of prudence to fully impair the segment is set out above.
activity levels in the corporate bond Groups remaining investment of business and increased UK property costs.
2.7 million representing 3.2 million of The highlight of the Groups mar gin initial investment less the Groups share of per for mance is undoubtedly the increase in The Asia Pacific mar gin, although showing a losses to date of 0.5 million.
the electronic broking mar gin from 8% in slight improvement on the prior year, 2003 4 to 29% in 2004 5.
With turnover continues to lag behind the Groups other Cash generation levels well in excess of the breakeven level, geographic segments and, with the currently The ef fective management of cash the favourable operational leverage highly competitive trading environment in resources remains a key management dynamics of the electronic broking model the region, it seems unlikely that objective.
Regular reviews of cash retained resulted in major profit and mar gin substantial mar gin improvement in the in operating subsidiaries are undertaken advances.
region will be achieved in the next financial and, where appropriate, surplus cash is year.
Capital The Groups securities broking mar gin expenditure is rigorously controlled and reduced from 18% to 16% reflecting the The Group continues to focus on operating monitored by the Groups capital dif ficult trading environment in the profit mar gin enhancement through a expenditure committee and also through the corporate bond area as a result of rising combination of its electronic broking annual budgeting and regular forecasting interest rates and tighter spreads.
The US initiatives, growth in market share and the cycles.
All acquisition opportunities are the mortgage business was also adversely application of strict cost controls.
subject of detailed due diligence and affected by higher interest rates resulting in financial evaluation, including the use of a reduced level of refinancings.
Joint ventures and associates discounted cash flow and return on The Groups share of operating profit investment criteria.
before goodwill amortisation of joint ventures and associates declined from 14 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 Y ear ended Y ear ended 31 March 2005 31 March 2004 Movement in net funds m m 1 Profit before tax 178.9 170.2 Joint ventures and associates 1.6 4.7 Depreciation 21.7 26.9 Operating profit cash conversion m 2 Net capital expenditure 26.3 28.0 2005 Exchange adjustments 4.7 21.7 169.3 Working capital and other 12.9 0.9 179.7 Tax 44.2 49.7 2004 110.9 93.9 160.3 181.8 Share buy back 17.3 3 2003 Acquisitions investments 27.3 13.0 113.5 4 Dividends 47.1 37.1 142.1 Exceptional items 4.8 1.2 2002 Change in net funds 14.4 42.6 80.1 82.7 1 Excluding goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
2 Y ear ended 31 March 2005 excludes 4.8 million of acquisitions of fixed asset investments mainly Group operating profit relating to futures exchange memberships included in acquisitions investments, 3.8 million for own shares acquired which is included in working capital and other and 1.1 million of receipts of share Cash inflow from operating activities FRS1 sale proceeds included in working capital and other.
3 Y ear ended 31 March 2005 includes 4.8 million of acquisitions of fixed asset investments mainly relating to futures exchange memberships to support the Groups futures initiatives.
4 Dividends include equity dividends of 45.0 million and 2.1 million of dividends paid to minority interests.
The Group is highly cash generative with its 31 March 2006 it is anticipated that capital the end of June 2005.
The entire debt operating cash generation ratio defined as expenditure will not exceed the Groups issue will qualify as Tier II Capital for cash inflow from operating activities before depreciation char ge.
This means that the operating exceptional items as per FRS1 Group, on completion of the transaction, over Group operating profit of 106% In July 2004, the Group bought back will have substantially increased its achieved in the financial year.
This is the 7,920,000 ICAP plc shares as part of an headroom over its current FSA consolidated fourth year this ratio has exceeded 100% opportunistic share buy-back at the time regulatory capital requirement in and this is highlighted in the chart above.
when the Groups share price had reduced anticipation of any potential increase in to below 220p.
This was not part of a regulatory capital requirement over the next The Groups FRS1 cash flow is set out on continuing for mal buy-back programme, but few years as a consequence of the page 46 of the Financial Statements.
it did result in a 17.3 million cash outflow introduction of Basle II.
The placement Consistent with previous years, cash flow is in the six months to 30 September 2004. includes US$193 million of fixed rate debt best understood by reference to the and a US$32 million floating rate movement in net funds defined as cash, Some 75% 80% of the Groups net funds component.
The fixed rate debt will be at a current asset investments less overdrafts are required for regulatory, commercial and 5.84% coupon with a 10 year maturity.
These can vary the fifth anniversary, the fixed debt will from time to time depending on regional reset to a floating rate with a 50 basis On this basis, net funds, as defined in mix, regulatory capital rule changes and point step up on the relevant floating rate.
note 31 to the Financial Statements, counterparty perception of the appropriate ICAP has an option to repay the fixed debt increased during the year by 14.4 million level of capital required to be retained in at five years, and the floating debt after two to 241.6 million 2004 227.2 million.
The movement in the net funds position is The implications of Basle II and how, if at Acquisitions summarised in the table above.
This table all, it will apply to interdealer brokers and The financial year ended 31 March 2005 demonstrates the continuing cash its impact on their regulatory capital was a relatively quiet one for new generative nature of the business.
requirements, are not yet clear and may not acquisition activity.
However, there was a be for a number of years.
As a 27.3 million cash outflow in the year in Net capital expenditure was higher than consequence of this, to optimise the respect of acquisitions.
This was made up depreciation reflecting the increase in flexibility of its capital structure for future as follows: 12.0 million deferred expenditure as a result of the move in the developments, the Group is in the process consideration payable for the acquisitions of UK to new premises at Broadgate, and the of completing a $225 million 10 year First Brokers and ICAP Ener gy, 5.2 million, investment in BrokerT ecs systems subordinated debt private placement.
It is 2.8 million net of cash acquired for the development.
In the financial year to anticipated that funding will take place at acquisition of 96% of GovPX the Group now Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 15 Operating and Financial Review Profit and loss tax charge and cash tax m 2005 47.1 44.2 2004 42.8 49.7 Profit and loss tax charge Cash tax owns 100%, an increase in the Groups The net tax char ge and the net cash tax for impacting deductibility of certain costs, existing shareholding in Exotix for the years to 31 March 2005 and 31 March such as finance costs, and by the rules 1.2 million and 6.5 million on a number 2004 are shown in the chart above.
relating to double taxation relief.
of other small acquisitions of non-majority holdings including 3.2 million in respect The chart highlights that in the financial The success of the Groups US operation of Ryes Capital.
Additionally, the Group year to 31 March 2005, the Groups cash results in further upward pressure on the spent 4.8 million on various memberships tax reduced by 5.5 million to Groups ef fective tax rate as the US is a of Futures exchanges to support the 44.2 million, and it is now 2.9 million relatively high tax jurisdiction.
lower than the Groups profit and loss tax the Groups budget for the financial year to char ge.
Over and above the net impact of 31 March 2006 anticipates a 35% ef fective Exceptional items increased deferred tax assets and tax rate.
Net exceptional costs before tax of increased provisions, the Groups cash tax 9.1 million were incurred in the financial rate benefited from a number of cashflow The Group takes a prudent approach to the year ended 31 March 2005.
Property and timing matters including a repayment in the management of its tax affairs and move related expenses in the UK amounted US for tax overpaid in previous years.
provisions are set to cover any tax to 4.1 million.
The major component of this exposures the Group may have.
cost was in respect of provisions for leases The Groups ef fective tax rate, which on surplus property.
The Group also incurred excludes goodwill amortisation and Earnings and earnings per share EPS a 5.0 million operating exceptional item, exceptional items, has reduced to 33% We continue to believe that the most which principally arose as a result of legal 2004 34%.
appropriate EPS measurement ratio for the and employee related matters in the Asia Group is adjusted EPS, which better reflects Pacific region.
The Group has recorded an 11.5 million the businesss underlying cash earnings.
tax deduction in respect of goodwill Adjusted EPS excludes goodwill Taxation amortisation in the US.
This is represented amortisation and exceptional items, but The overall objective of the Group tax by current tax of 5.2 million and deferred includes share capital which is contingently function is to plan and manage ef ficiently tax of 6.3 million, reflecting the 15-year issuable in respect of the acquisitions of the tax affairs of the Group within the tax amortisation period compared to First Brokers and ICAP Ener gy.
The various local tax jurisdictions of the world 10years for accounting purposes.
calculation of EPS is set out in note11 to so as to achieve the lowest cash tax cost the Financial Statements.
consistent with compliance with the local Generally the char ge for taxation is affected tax regulations.
by the varying tax rates in dif ferent Adjusted EPS increased by 6% to 19.5p.
jurisdictions applied to taxable profits and The Groups basic EPS decline from 15.1p the mix of those profits, by the rules to 14.1p reflects the after tax impact of 16 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 exceptional items.
would be issued, and these were valued at Foreign exchange the market price on 31 March 2004 of As a multinational business the Group Dividend 285p.
These shares were issued in July operates in many currencies and, Subject to shareholder approval, a 6.4p 2004 when the market price was 220.5p, consequently, its sterling reported results final dividend is proposed.
This compares giving a market value of 74.3 million.
are impacted by the ef fects of exchange with 5.7p in the prior year and would result rate movements.
The Group faces two main in a full-year dividend of 8.25p, which The Groups balance sheet remains lar gely risks associated with foreign exchange rate represents a 11% increase on the prior unleveraged as at 31 March 2005, with markets.
First, the translation of the results year.
This is the fifth consecutive year that only 0.6 million of bank overdrafts.
This and underlying net assets of its we have been able to increase the dividend position will change following the receipt of subsidiaries and second, the Group has and reflects the underlying earnings funds from the $225 million subordinated transactional foreign exchange exposures in per for mance in the year and the Groups debt private placement.
These are its UK business which has underlying US current financial position.
The full-year anticipated to be received at the end of dollar and euro revenue streams.
dividend remains more than twice covered June 2005. by the profit before tax, goodwill Currency movements had a net 7.8 million amortisation and exceptional items.
On a proforma basis as at 31 March 2005, adverse impact on the Groups operating assuming no other indebtedness, the private profit in the financial year to 31 March The board has decided that, in the nor mal placement would result in gross gearing 2005 when compared with the prior course of events, future interim dividends defined as debt divided by net assets less financial year.
During the financial year, the will be calculated at 30% of the previous goodwill of just under 50%.
On a net basis US dollar continued to depreciate years full-year dividend.
the Group remains net nil geared.
significantly in value against sterling.
The average US dollar sterling rate in the Balance sheet and capital Risk management financial year was $1.85 compared with Net assets reduced by 19.6 million during The identification, control and monitoring of $1.70 in the previous financial year.
With the year and, as at 31 March 2005, were risks facing the business remain a the Groups substantial US operations, in 459.3 million.
This reduction reflects the management priority and steps continue to ter ms of both profit and net assets, this Groups share buy-back and the reduction in be taken to improve further our risk has had a number of ramifications for the contingent share capital following the issue management procedures.
The risks financial year ended 31 March 2005.
The of BrokerT ec earnout shares.
The deferred monitored include credit, market, treasury, translation of the Groups US dollar profits contingent share capital consideration for operational and reputational risk.
Details of into sterling had a 6.5 million impact and BrokerT ec as at 1 April 2004 was our approach to risk management are the transactional exposure to the US dollar 96.1 million, and this assumed a provided in the Corporate Governance in the UK business had a 4.5 million maximum number of shares 33.7 million statement on pages 29 and 30. impact.
This has been mitigated by a Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 17 Operating and Financial Review 3.2 million increase in year-on-year its US dollar exposure for the year to debt issue under the $225 million hedging gains arising from the Groups 31 March 2007 hedged at $1.76.
The transactional hedging programme which US dollar funds received will be switched is in place to manage its transactional As at the date of this report the Group had into sterling, with the debt remaining in exposure to the US dollar in the 32% of its euro exposure for the year to US dollars in a UK sterling reporting UK business.
31 March 2006 hedged at a euro rate of company thereby creating a structural US }1.38 }1.45. dollar liability which, it is anticipated, will The Groups overall pre-tax profit prehedge some 64% of the Groups US dollar hedging sensitivities to movements in The Group does not hedge its translational net assets.
The impact of exchange rate exchange rates in respect of its profit and loss foreign exchange exposures.
movements on the translation of nontransactional and translational exposures The impact of foreign exchange movements sterling denominated net assets into are as follows: a 10 cent movement in on the translation of the Groups overseas sterling for accounting purposes is shown the US dollar equates to 8.0 million: a subsidiaries profits into sterling is as an unrealised exchange adjustment on 10 cent movement in the euro equates mitigated by the Groups policy of net investments in overseas undertakings to 6.0 million.
translating overseas profits at average in the consolidated statement of total exchange rates.
Where appropriate, recognised gains and losses shown on Treasury policy structural hedges via inter-company debt page 45 of the Financial Statements.
Mainly The Group policy, deter mined by the board are put in place to further mitigate as a consequence of the decline in the and implemented by the Treasury translational foreign exchange exposures.
US dollar against sterling from $1.84 at Committee, is to hedge its transactional The only major profit and loss translational 31 March 2004 to $1.89 at 31 March foreign exchange exposures by the use of foreign exchange exposure is to the US 2005, there is a 7.1 million exchange foreign exchange contracts and options.
The dollar, where a 10 cent movement would adjustment taken to reserves.
Groups major transactional exposures are have a 5.5 million impact on pre-tax profit.
to US dollar and euro inflows into the UK.
A Credit and interest rate risk 10 cent movement in the US dollar before The Groups only significant balance sheet We continue to ensure that strict hedging, at current exposure levels and translational foreign exchange exposure is investment criteria apply to the exchange rates, has a 2.5 million impact to the US dollar.
This exposure, after management of the Groups cash balances.
A 10 cent movement in structural hedging, is some $350 million Investments must be AA rated or better and the euro before hedging has a 6 million represented by US dollar net assets for a duration of no longer than two years.
As at the date of this report the excluding goodwill.
The Group had hedged Limits are also in place to restrict the Group has 76% of its US dollar exposure for 37% of this exposure at $1.80 through to amount of funds that can be invested in any the year to 31 March 2006 hedged at March 2005 using a cross currency swap.
Additionally the Group has 10% of This hedge will be replaced by the US dollar criteria is subject to regular review by the 18 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 Treasury Committee.
The overall Group 2005 are currently in the process of being Business combinations philosophy is one of capital preservation, restated in accordance with IFRS and will be The Group has taken the exemption not to liquidity management and then yield available, together with appropriate revisit the accounting for past business enhancement.
reconciliations back to UK GAAP, at the combinations.
As a result, the carrying Annual General Meeting on 13 July 2005. amount of goodwill recognised under UK The Groups investment income GAAP on past acquisitions will not be per for mance improved in the year as rising The Groups interim results for the six restated and goodwill that was written-of f to interest rates in the UK and US improved month period to 30 September 2005 will be reserves will no longer be recycled to the yields in the Groups underlying cash and presented in accordance with IFRS.
income statement in the event of disposal investment portfolio.
Net interest increased Consequently, the Annual Report for the of the acquired business.
Future goodwill to 4.6 million from 1.6 million in the year ended 31 March 2005 is the last to be will be carried in the currency of the previous year.
prepared on a UK GAAP basis.
The Group has an exposure to interest rate Although there remains a degree of Goodwill recognised on acquisitions will movements in a number of geographic uncertainty in the market in general as to continue to be measured using fair regions.
The main exposures are to US the impact of IFRS, it is important to stress valuation techniques, but more stringent interest rates where a 1% movement in from an ICAP perspective that the adoption rules will apply to the recognition of interest rates has a 1.0 million sensitivity of IFRS will have no impact on the separately identified intangible assets e. g. to the Groups pre-tax profit and loss underlying cash and economic per for mance customer lists, technology that would have account and to UK interest rates, where a of the business.
Further more, the Groups previously been subsumed within goodwill 1% movement impacts profits by pre-tax profit before goodwill amortisation under UK GAAP.
and exceptional items and adjusted EPS will be lar gely unchanged by IFRS.
Intangible assets will be amortised over a International Financial Reporting fixed period.
However, goodwill will no Standards IFRS The development of IFRS remains in its longer be amortised but will be subject to The Group held an IFRS briefing for analysts evolutionary phase, so inevitably an annual impair ment test with any on 8 March 2005.
The presentation is companies, auditors and investors alike, impair ment being char ged through the profit available on the Companys website, will go through a period of bedding down and loss account.
IFRS in ter ms of its interpretation and detailed disclosure.
In the meantime, the The Group remains on track with its IFRS Groups assessment of the main implementation.
The Groups Financial dif ferences between UK GAAP and IFRS that Statements for the year ended 31 March are relevant to ICAP, is provided below.
Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 19 Operating and Financial Review The financial information set out in the table below has been derived from the annual reports and accounts of ICAP plc for each of the past five years adjusted for subsequent changes in accounting policy and presentation.
For the years ended 31 March 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Five year comparison m m m m m Group turnover 794.0 801.4 664.3 527.9 472.6 Profit before tax, goodwill amortisation and exceptional items 178.9 170.2 123.7 89.1 75.6 Profit before tax 131.7 130.5 117.5 83.8 67.2 Dividends 50.8 44.9 30.323.8 19.9 Retained profit for the year 31.7 39.6 46.5 28.620.2 1 Shareholders funds 448.8 468.2252.6 186.5 159.6 pence pencepencepencepence 2 Dividend per ordinary 10p share 8.25 7.406.00 4.80 4.00 2 Earnings per 10p ordinary share adjusted 19.5 18.4 15.5 11.6 9.9 basic 14.1 15.1 15.4 10.6 8.1 1 Following adoption of UITF 38 Accounting for ESOP Trusts in the year ended 31 March 2004, the shareholders funds for earlier years have been restated accordingly.
2 Following the 5 for 1 share split in February 2004, the dividend and earnings per share for earlier years have been restated.
Share based payments Inevitably, the transition to IFRS will place a Under UK GAAP the Group measures the number of challenges to the corporate and cost of employee share schemes based on investment communities, and no doubt the intrinsic value of the awards.
Under there will be a number of matters which will IFRS, the cost must be based on the fair require to be refined over the next few value of the awards.
Due to the nature of years.
One particular example would appear our existing schemes, the relatively limited to be the inclusion of an after tax profit use of share options and the relevant number for associates within the overall transitional provisions, we do not expect Groups pre-tax profit figure.
there to be a significant impact estimated at 1.2 million on restating the Groups Corporate Social responsibility our 2005 results on to an IFRS basis.
The approach and philosophy Black Scholes model will be used for As an international business operating in measuring the fair value of awards.
23 countries with around 2900 staff worldwide, ICAP aims to conduct its Presentation business in a socially responsible manner.
The Group expects to be able to present its We aim to contribute to the communities in ICAP donated to the paediatric department of Galle IFRS profit and loss statement along similar which we operate and to respect the needs University in Sri Lanka as the original hospital was lines to the existing UK GAAP columnar of customers, shareholders, staff and severely damaged by the Tsunami.
One presentational issue which is suppliers.
Additional infor mation is given in likely to affect the Group is the requirement the Directors Report on pages 24 and 25. to gross up the balance sheet for all outstanding matched principal transactions.
In the past only transactions which have gone beyond their settlement date initially unsettled transactions have been grossed up on the balance sheet.
This will result in substantial increases in debtors and creditors on the face of the balance sheet.
However, it is important to emphasise this will have no overall net impact on the Denzel Washington visiting the ICAP of fices in New Groups balance sheet position, nor does it Jersey on Charity Day 2004 in support of the charity Boys and Girls Club of America.
change anything from a regulatory capital and an economic perspective.
20 ICAP plc Annual Report 2005 Compliance and regulation ICAP has a strong balance sheet to meet the commercial demands of customers and to comply with regulatory capital adequacy requirements.
The ICAP Group is regulated on a consolidated basis by the UK Financial Services Authority FSA with the Groups UK businesses being authorised by the FSA to carry on regulated activities in the UK.
In the US, the Groups activities are regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Group operates in other countries and its operations are subject to the relevant local regulatory requirements.
The new financial year The Group clearly demonstrated during the year the resilience of its profits and its mar gins, especially against the backdrop of quieter market activity levels in the summer of 2004 and the weaker US dollar.
The Group has set the following three key priorities for the new financial year: revenue growth, expansion of electronic broking and the maintenance of cost disciplines.
Jim Pettigrew Group Finance Director Annual Report 2005 ICAP plc 21
