04 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 REVIEW OF OPERATING PERFORMANCE BILL COLEY, CHIEF EXECUTIVE IMPROVEMENT THROUGH INVESTMENT OUR KEY IMPERATIVE IS TO ACHIEVE WORLD-CLASS NUCLEAR OPERATIONS We have reorganised the Company to focus on the system health of our stations, and created an asset improvement division with skills in asset prioritisation, engineering and project implementation.
As a result, we are optimising investment focused on maximising value but always keeping safety and environmental performance as our fundamental priority.
We now have systems and information technology tools in place to enable us to better manage the business risks associated with maximising the value we obtain for our product.
We are making greater use of financial products with the aim of achieving price stability over a longer horizon.
We have received support from the World Association of Nuclear Operators WANO and industry experts to assist in an asset OVERVIEW condition survey and to identify and implement the systems, With Restructuring behind us, the future at British Energy is one process and human performance changes consistent with other of challenges, a defined path for improvement and a talented team nuclear performance improvement programmes worldwide.
We are committed to being proactive in maintenance of our stations This has been a testing year, with output well below the level we through new station management structures, a new skills hiring have the potential to deliver.
Nuclear output was adversely affected programme and investing in training and leadership development by unplanned outages, the electricity market was volatile and we for our staff.
The organisational changes have been made.
The results reflect these events.
have a new management team and 415 new members of staff net increase of 181 with further new recruits expected in the coming What we must do to make British Energy successful is clear.
Training and cultural change is and will continue to be an We must:- ongoing activity.
With these changes in place, we are integrating the processes and lessons learned from PiP across the organisation achieve world-class nuclear operations: in the coming year and they will become part of business as usual.
improve our financial stability: and pursue life extensions for our stations.
We are already seeing signs of progress.
For example, our nonoutage defect backlog has reduced by 55%.
These are not insignificant undertakings but we are committed to securing them.
One of our main operational challenges is to reduce the level of unplanned losses.
To that end, we have recently completed an We have achieved a great deal in the year.
We completed our asset prioritisation process which will form the basis of the next Trading Development Programme and the first two phases of PiP.
