11 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW STEPHEN BILLINGHAM, FINANCE DIRECTOR INTRODUCTION British Energy Group plc BEG acquired British Energy Limited BE Ltd and its subsidiaries the Acquired Group on the Restructuring Effective Date RED which was 14 January 2005.
BEG was incorporated on 2 July 2004 and the results presented in the financial statements cover the period from 2 July 2004 to 31 March 2005.
Until RED, BEG did not trade and therefore the results are those of the Acquired Group from RED to 31 March 2005.
The consolidated results of BEG cannot be added to those of BE Ltd for a 12 month period as the results are not drawn up on a comparable basis.
To facilitate a degree of comparability an annual equivalent for the year ended 31 March 2005 has been derived drawing together turnover and certain cost information from BEG and BE Ltd adjusted appropriately.
This is set out in the section entitled Annual Equivalent on page 20.
All annual equivalent results are unaudited.
CHANGES TO THE PRESENTATION AND MEASUREMENT OF RESULTS The restructuring of the Groups debt and equity structure, and the changes to the terms of the key contractual relationships, which are more fully dealt with on pages 28 and 29 of this Report, result in significant differences in the basis of results presented for BEG when compared to the results of BE Ltd.
The changes with the most significant impact fall into the following principal areas: Implementation of a debt for equity swap.
Application of acquisition accounting method.
This has required use of Standard & Poors Corporate Value Consulting to assist in completing an exercise to fair value the various assets acquired as a result of implementation of the Restructuring.
Implementation of revised commercial terms for certain contracts with BNFL.
Changes to certain accounting policies to reflect the new financial structures and contracts.
The most significant changes being full adoption of FRS17 Retirement Benefits FRS17 for measurement and presentation of liabilities for defined benefit schemes, and accounting for the arrangements with the Nuclear Liabilities Fund.
REVISED NUCLEAR LIABILITIES FUNDING ARRANGEMENTS Under the new arrangements with the Secretary of State, the former Nuclear Decommissioning Fund was enlarged into and renamed the Nuclear Liabilities Fund NLF, which will fund, subject to certain exceptions, the Groups qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities and qualifying decommissioning costs.
In consideration for the assumption of these liabilities by the Secretary of State and the NLF, British Energy Holdings plc issued 275m in New Bonds to the NLF and undertook to effect further contributions as described in the section entitled Restructuring on pages 28 and 29, the most significant element being the Cash Sweep Payment.
The NLF has the right from time to time to convert all or part of the Cash Sweep Payment into convertible shares.
The Group will continue to recognise nuclear liabilities on its balance sheet pending their being discharged by payments received from the NLF.
The Government provides an indemnity to cover services for spent AGR fuel loaded pre-Restructuring.
A nuclear liabilities receivable is recognised in respect of this indemnity.
The Government also provides an indemnity to indemnify British Energy against any future shortfall on NLF funding of qualifying uncontracted nuclear liabilities including PWR back end fuel services and qualifying nuclear decommissioning costs.
A NLF receivable asset is recognised representing the aggregate value of the investments held by the NLF and the Government indemnity.
Both of the receivable amounts are stated in the balance sheet at current price levels, and each year the financing charges in the profit and loss account will include the revalorisation of these receivables required to match the revalorisation of the nuclear liabilities.
The annual Cash Sweep Payment can only be determined after the end of the financial year and is contingent as it is based on the cash generation in the individual financial year.
Therefore, it will only be recognised and provided for when it becomes determinable and will be recorded as an operating cost of the applicable financial year.
GROUP RESULTS In the following discussion the trading period or post-RED trading period refers to the period from RED to 31 March 2005.
The result of the post-RED trading period can be summarised as follows: BEG 2.5m ended 31 March 2005 m Group turnover 482 Operating profit before exceptional items 82 Exceptional items 19 Operating profit after exceptional items 63 Financing charges 9 Profit before tax 54 The discussion below focuses primarily on the results of continuing activities for the post-RED trading period before exceptional items.
12 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW STEPHEN BILLINGHAM, FINANCE DIRECTOR TURNOVER Group turnover from continuing activities comprised generation sales, direct supply sales and miscellaneous income.
BEG turnover for the post-RED trading period was 482m.
The analysis of turnover for the period ended 31 March 2005 is as follows: BEG 2.5m ended 31 March 2005 m Group turnover Continuing activities acquisition Wholesale generation sales 233 Direct supply sales net of energy supply costs 170 Turnover excluding energy supply costs and miscellaneous income 403 Energy supply costs recharged to customers 73 Miscellaneous income 6 Turnover 482 Output can be analysed as follows: BEG 2.5m ended 31 March 2005 TWh Nuclear 14.3 Eggborough 2.5 Total 16.8 Output was 16.8 TWh and comprised output of 14.3 TWh from nuclear operations and 2.5 TWh from Eggborough in the post-RED trading period.
The realised price which is calculated by dividing turnover, net of energy supply costs, miscellaneous and exceptional income, by total output for the post-RED trading period was 24.0 MWh.
A discussion on the movement of prices and the Companys strategy for trading is contained in the Power and Energy Trading section on pages 9 and 10.
OPERATING COSTS The BEG operating costs for continuing activities excluding exceptional items were 400m in the post-RED trading period.
Total operating unit costs excluding revalorisation which is calculated by dividing the total operating costs, before exceptional items and energy supply costs, by total output, was 19.5 MWh for the post-RED trading period.
The component elements of the operating costs are discussed below.
BEG 2.5m ended 31 March 2005 m Continuing activities excluding exceptional items: Fuel costs 127 Materials and services 82 Staff costs 63 Depreciation charges 41 Goodwill amortisation 6 Other operating expense 8 Energy supply costs 73 Cash sweep payment Total operating costs excluding exceptional items 400 Exceptional operating costs staff costs 19 Total operating costs including exceptional items 419 13 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 Fuel costs in total amounted to 127m for the post-RED trading period for BEG.
Nuclear fuel costs were 71m and coal costs were 56m.
Coal costs include costs of 10m attributable to carbon costs as well as other Eggborough fuel costs.
The financial statements for the post-RED trading period have been prepared on the basis of the revised BNFL contracts in respect of back end fuel costs which became effective on completion of the Restructuring.
Materials and services costs comprise the operating expenses of the power stations and support functions excluding fuel costs, staff costs and depreciation.
The BEG costs during the post-RED trading period were 82m.
In addition, there was capital investment expenditure in the post-RED trading period of 35m which was capitalised.
Staff costs totalled 63m including pension costs under FRS17 of 9m for the post-RED trading period.
Depreciation and amortisation charges were 47m for the post-RED trading period.
This comprised depreciation of 41m and goodwill amortisation of 6m.
Depreciation charges in the post-RED trading period reflect the result of the significant increase in the value of opening fixed assets as a result of the fair value exercise.
Energy supply costs mainly comprise the costs incurred for the use of the distribution and transmission systems and are fully recovered through turnover.
The Group is required to purchase ROCs under the Renewables Obligation.
Total energy supply costs in the post-RED trading period were 73m.
Cash sweep payment There was no Cash Sweep Payment due in respect of the post-RED trading period.
For further details see note 1 xi of the financial statements.
Exceptional items In the post-RED trading period there was an exceptional charge in relation to severance costs of 19m.
Operating profit The Group operating profit before exceptional items was 82m for the post-RED trading period.
FINANCING CHARGES, NET INTEREST AND REVALORISATION The total BEG financing charges for the post-RED trading period were 9m made up of total revalorisation of 5m, net interest expense of 5m, and a 1m net credit to financing charges for the pension liability.
The total financing charges are analysed below: BEG 2.5m ended 31 March 2005 m Revalorisation of nuclear liabilities 50 Revalorisation of nuclear liabilities receivable and NLF receivable 50 Revalorisation of fixed decommissioning obligation 3 Revalorisation of contracts provision 2 Total revalorisation 5 Net interest expense 5 Net credit to finance charge for pension liability 1 Total financing charges 9 Revalorisation of nuclear liabilities arises because nuclear liabilities are stated in the balance sheet at current price levels, discounted at 3% per annum real from the eventual payment dates.
The revalorisation charge is the adjustment that results from restating these liabilities to take into account the effect of inflation in the period and to remove the effect of the discount for the period.
A revalorisation credit arises in respect of movements in the value of the nuclear liabilities and NLF receivable to take account of the underlying movement in nuclear liabilities, see note 1 xviii to the financial statements.
Revalorisation charges arise in respect of the fixed decommissioning obligation and the contracts provision to reflect the unwind of discount for the period.
The net BEG revalorisation charge for the post-RED trading period was 5m.
The weighted average of RPI and RPIX used to revalorise the Groups nuclear liabilities in the post-RED trading period was 0.5%.
14 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW STEPHEN BILLINGHAM, FINANCE DIRECTOR TAXATION There was a 19m taxation charge on ordinary activities for the post-RED trading period.
There is no current tax charge for the period as any taxable profits are sheltered by tax losses brought forward.
The tax charge for the period is comprised entirely of deferred tax.
A deferred tax asset of 450m was recognised at 31 March 2005.
See note 22 to the financial statements for further details.
EARNINGS PER SHARE The earnings per share in the post-RED trading period was 6.2p and 6.0p on a fully diluted basis.
The Cash Sweep conversion right is not considered to be economically dilutive and therefore has been excluded from the diluted earnings per share calculation.
At 31 March 2005, the Cash Sweep percentage was 64.99%, which if fully converted would equate to the issue of 1,042 million further shares.
For further discussion of the effect of the Cash Sweep arrangements on earnings per share see note 9 to the financial statements.
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group supports primarily scientific and engineering research activities directed toward securing further improvements in the reliability, performance and safety of the generating business and related activities.
For the post-RED trading period, expenditure on research and development was 3m which is included within materials and services costs.
REVIEW OF FIXED ASSETS FAIR VALUES As a result of the Restructuring the Group conducted an exercise to attribute a fair value to all assets including the fixed assets of the Acquired Group.
The Company engaged Standard & Poors Corporate Value Consulting, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc, to assess the fair value of the assets acquired as part of the Restructuring.
The fair value of total assets was estimated by assessing the cash flows of the Acquired Group, discounted using a weighted average cost of capital.
The derived value was then allocated across the individual categories of assets acquired including fixed assets.
The cash flow projections were derived using a combination of short-term market estimates of future electricity prices and the Companys view of longer term prices.
The Companys long-term views of prices were benchmarked against independent estimates.
In deriving the cash flows the Company used output projections prepared and independently reviewed as part of the Companys listing process.
The valuation of fixed assets assumes that in an arms length transaction, a willing buyer would have anticipated confirmation of an accounting life extension for Dungeness B of five years on the basis of the accumulated information available to the Company at RED.
A decision on the Dungeness B accounting life extension will be announced in the autumn.
The net book value of fixed assets at 31 March 2005 was 1,678m.
Full detail is included in notes 10, 11 and 12 to the financial statements.
NET ASSETS Group net assets including the retirement benefits liability were 1,615m at 31 March 2005.
CAPITAL EXPENDITURE In the post-RED trading period fixed assets additions of 35m were capitalised.
This includes additions to strategic spares and statutory and planned outage costs reflecting the revised accounting policies adopted by BEG.
These accounting policies are set out further in the financial statements on pages 51 to 55.
Following the completion of the Restructuring and the fair value exercise, the Directors have concluded that it is now possible to capitalise fixed assets additions to the extent that it is possible to demonstrate that the capital investment expenditure enhanced the value of the fixed assets.
CURRENT ASSETS Total current assets were 5,596m at 31 March 2005.
The largest components of this were the receivable after more than one year in respect of the NLF receivable of 1,863m and nuclear liabilities receivable of 2,131m, as well as 456m in cash and liquid funds.
Total stocks were 331m, comprising nuclear fuel stocks of 267m, coal stocks of 14m and other stocks of 50m.
Total debtors due within one year were 469m.
CURRENT LIABILITIES Creditors due within one year excluding borrowings were 559m, largely relating to trade creditors and accruals of 292m and the current portion of nuclear and NLF liabilities of 201m.
15 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 PROVISIONS Provisions at 31 March 2005 of 2,150m comprised accrued nuclear liabilities of 1,863m, a mark to market contract provision of 250m and other provisions of 37m.
PENSIONS The financial statements have been prepared on the basis of fully implementing FRS17 in respect of the defined benefit pensions schemes.
The FRS17 valuation is based on a valuation of assets and liabilities at a particular point in time and does not necessarily take account of the long-term nature of pension schemes.
Movements in equity markets and bond yields can create considerable volatility in the FRS17 valuation at different points in time.
The net pension deficit for the pension schemes under FRS17 reflected on the balance sheet as at 31 March 2005 was 348m 244m net of the related deferred tax asset.
The Trustees of the pension schemes follow an investment policy whereby a high proportion of the pension schemes assets is invested in equities.
One consequence of this investment policy, and the methodology and assumptions used for determining the schemes liabilities under FRS17, is that the difference between the market value of the pension schemes assets and its FRS17 liabilities i. e. its FRS17 surplus or deficit is expected to be volatile.
Indeed, the amount of any surplus or deficit could change significantly over periods as short as a day in the event of significant market movements.
The results reported should not, therefore, be taken as an indication of the pension schemes financial position in accordance with FRS17 on any date other than 31 March 2005.
The funding of the pension schemes is based on the results of three-yearly valuations by independent actuaries rather than on the results of the FRS17 valuation.
The latest valuation was carried out as at 31 March 2004 and the actuarial deficit at that date was 385m.
The Group will make additional employer contributions of 19.0m, 19.5m and 20.0m in the years ending 31 March 2006, 2007 and 2008 respectively.
Those additional contributions will rise to 50.3m for the year ending 31 March 2009 and remain at that level until the year ending 31 March 2017.
The requirement for additional contributions will be reviewed as part of the next three-yearly valuation on 31 March 2007.
TOTAL RECOGNISED GAINS AND LOSSES In addition to the profit after tax of 35m in the post-RED trading period, total recognised gains and losses included an actuarial gain of 81m and a deferred tax credit of 24m relating to the Groups pension schemes.
The actuarial gain of 81m mainly arises as a result of the revised financial and demographic assumptions adopted as at 31 March 2005 compared to RED.
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES RECEIVABLES FINANCING FACILITY AGREEMENT On 25 August 2004 our subsidiary British Energy Generation Limited entered into a receivables financing facility agreement with Barclays Bank PLC.
This contains detailed covenants for the benefit of the facility provider, which mirror those under the New Bonds.
In addition to these, the agreement also contains a financial interest coverage covenant assessed on a consolidated group-wide basis and covenants relating to the conduct of the electricity supply business customary for a receivables facility.
On 1 April 2005 this facility was transferred to BEDL at the same time as the direct supply business was transferred from British Energy Generation Limited to BEDL.
At 31 March 2005 and RED, the facility was undrawn.
CASH FLOW A reconciliation of profit after tax and exceptional items to earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation EBITDA is shown in the following table.
EBITDA is a measure used internally by the Group.
The EBITDA calculations are shown for the total results and also to exclude exceptional items for the continuing business.
The EBITDA calculation for the continuing activities is further reconciled to the operating cash flow from continuing activities and then to the increase in cash and liquid funds.
16 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW STEPHEN BILLINGHAM, FINANCE DIRECTOR EBITDA is defined by the Company as operating income before interest expense, income taxes, depreciation and amortisation.
The Company has included information concerning EBITDA because it believes that it is used by certain investors as one measure of the Companys financial performance.
EBITDA is not a measure of financial performance under United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles and is not necessarily comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies.
EBITDA should not be construed as an alternative to operating income or to cash flows from operating activities as determined in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Principles as a measure of liquidity.
BEG 2.5m ended 31 March 2005 m Profit after tax and exceptional items 35 Net interest expense 5 Total revalorisation 5 Net credit to financing charges for pension liability 1 Tax 19 Goodwill amortisation 6 Depreciation charges 41 EBITDA 110 Exceptional charges 19 EBITDA continuing activities before exceptional items 129 Regular contributions to NLF 5 Movement in other provisions 19 Exceptional operating cash costs 15 Working capital movements Operating cash flow from continuing activities 128 Capital expenditure less receipts from disposals 28 Taxation paid received Net acquisition disposal of investments Net interest paid 9 Repayment of borrowings 28 Share issue expenses 10 Increase in cash and liquid funds 53 Note: In addition 5m of fixed asset investments were reclassified as cash at RED.
The operating cash flow from continuing activities was 128m in the post-RED trading period.
When adjusted for the capital expenditure, the taxation paid or received, the net receipts from acquisition disposal of investments, the net interest paid and repayment of borrowings, the movement in cash and liquid funds was an increase of 53m in the post-RED trading period.
CAPITAL RESOURCES At 31 March 2005, total debt of 676m comprised: The Amended Credit Agreement, a long-term project finance loan, of 145m secured on the assets of Eggborough Power Limited EPL, a subsidiary company that operates the Eggborough coal-fired power station.
The loan bears interest at a rate of 7.0%.
An aggregate principal amount of 531m Sterling denominated guaranteed bonds due between 2005 and 2022.
The bonds bear interest at a rate of 7.0%.
The long-term project finance loan is secured by a mortgage of shares in EPL, an assignment of the EPL Share Purchase Agreement and Tax Deed of Covenant and a debenture comprising fixed and floating charges over EPL assets.
17 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FUTURE LIQUIDITY AND COLLATERAL At 31 March 2005 the Group had cash and liquid resources, including amounts posted as collateral, amounting to 456m, of which 216m was deposited as collateral in support of trading activities.
The Groups main source of liquidity is its operating businesses.
Cash generation by the operating businesses is dependent upon the reliability of the Companys power stations in producing electricity, the realised selling price for electricity, operational risk and capital investment expenditure and maintenance requirements.
Discussions were held with Fitch Ratings Fitch, Moodys Investor Services Moodys and Standard & Poors Rating Services S&P together the Rating Agencies with regard to obtaining credit ratings for the 550m of New Bonds issued to certain of our creditors and to the NLF upon completion of the Restructuring.
Upon Restructuring, the Rating Agencies issued new ratings for the New Bonds as follows: Rating Moodys Ba3 S&P BB Fitch BB These ratings do not apply to the additional 150m of bond-equivalent payments that were issued to our subsidiary, EPL, at the time of the Restructuring or the Amended Credit Agreement.
We maintain a close dialogue with the Rating Agencies, including twice-yearly meetings and attendance at investor presentations.
Sub-investment grade credit rating has meant that the Group continues to provide significant levels of collateral to counterparties in order to cover their trading exposures, to maintain trading arrangements, thereby substantially reducing the levels of cash resources available to the Group.
The Groups strategy for securing part of its income through fixed price contracts means that in a volatile and rising electricity market the collateral requirements are also volatile.
The Groups ability to secure longer term certainty on its income is limited by the amount of collateral and headroom available to cover collateral volatility.
The Group mitigates a certain amount of this risk by selling electricity through a number of routes to market including through its direct supply business large industrial and commercial customers which does not require collateral and also through greater use of financial products which provide electricity price protection but require less collateral.
The Groups future liquidity will also be impacted by the additional employer pension contributions set out on page 15 of the Financial Review.
As set out in the Restructuring section on page 29 the Group has agreed to make certain payments to the NLF including the Cash Sweep Payment.
The Cash Sweep Payment will restrict future liquidity.
RELATED PARTIES On 24 September 2004, the Office of National Statistics ONS announced its provisional classification decision that, for the purposes of production of the United Kingdom National Accounts by it the National Accounts British Energy had been classified as being in the public sector.
The ONS is responsible for producing the National Accounts to describe activities in the national economy, including transactions taking place between sectors of the economy and compiles them in accordance with International Accounting Standards.
In assessing the status of British Energy as a public sector body, the ONS stated that it took into account amongst other things the powers conferred on the Government as a result of the Restructuring.
The Company is required under the terms of its arrangements with Government and the NLF to provide certain information.
The Company is also required under the terms of the Nuclear Liabilities Agreements, amongst other things, to provide the Secretary of State with all the information he would reasonably need to monitor the financial health of the Group including monthly cash flow information covering the period 18 months ahead and to only adopt trading policies which are prudent in light of the Groups ongoing financial resources and obligations and to comply with such trading policies.
As a result of these requirements, the Company has agreed to provide the Secretary of State and DTI with, amongst other things, periodic reports on its business performance and strategic business plans and for there to be regular meetings and communication between the Secretary of State and senior executives and the Board on a range of topics.
Over time, the frequency and content of reporting may be reviewed.
The National Audit Office NAO has independently concluded, on the basis of the circumstances extant as at 21 September 2004, that British Energy should be accounted for following the Restructuring Effective Date as a quasi-subsidiary of the DTI.
The Company is a public limited company owned by our shareholders and operates within an extensive contractual framework established as part of the Restructuring.
The most significant contract, in terms of the limitations it places on our business, is the Contribution Agreement between the Secretary of State and the Company.
Within this contractual framework the Company is managed independently by the Board which continues to direct the finances and operating policies of the Group and is subject to the normal private sector disciplines, fiduciary duties and Companies Act requirements.
We therefore consider that no party is a controlling party under the terms of FRS8, Related Party Disclosures FRS8.
18 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW STEPHEN BILLINGHAM, FINANCE DIRECTOR In the light of the level and type of interaction we have with the Government we have concluded that for the purposes of FRS8 the Government constitutes a related party.
See note 36 to the financial statements for further details.
POST BALANCE SHEET EVENTS To meet the commitments made as part of the Restructuring the Group transferred its Direct Supply Business from its subsidiary British Energy Generation Limited to a new subsidiary BEDL on 1 April 2005.
On 1 July 2005, British Energy Generation UK Limited transferred most of its trade and assets to British Energy Generation Limited again as a commitment made as part of the Restructuring.
CONTINGENT LIABILITIES On 12 February 2004, the Company received a notice of warranty claims from the consortium which purchased the Groups 82.4% interest in Bruce Power alleging breach of certain warranties and representations relating to tax and to the condition of certain plant at the Bruce power station.
The claim relating to the condition of the plant is based upon alleged erosion of some of the steam generator support plates, through which boiler tubes pass, which it is alleged resulted in an extended outage of one unit at the plant to carry out repair works and loss of net revenues and costs of approximately C$64.5m.
The consortium also claims that the alleged erosion may reduce the operating life of the unit and or result in further repairs involving further losses.
The Company has rejected the claim and expects to defend it if it is pursued further.
In accordance with applicable accounting standards, no provision has been made in the financial statements at 31 March 2005.
The principal tax claim relates to the treatment of expenditure at the Bruce plant during the period of the Groups ownership that is currently being considered by the Canadian tax authorities.
The treatment proposed by the Company could result in a rebate of a material amount of tax to the Group that has not been recognised in the financial statements of the period.
The consortium claims that allowance of the expenditure for that period would cause it to lose future deductions.
On the basis of advice received, the Group is confident that the amount of the claim should not, in any event, materially exceed the amount of the rebate, and that the claim should have no material cash flow impact on the Group.
Under the Bruce Power sale and purchase agreement with the consortium, C$20m is retained in trust to meet any representation and warranty claims, and this may be retained pending agreement or determination of the claims.
Further contingent liabilities of the Group are described in note 33 to the financial statements for the period.
DIVIDEND POLICY The Board intends to distribute to shareholders as much of the Groups available cash flow as prudently possible, but not until the operational requirements of the business permit.
In addition, under the terms of the Restructuring, there are certain restrictions on the Boards ability to pay dividends, including: The requirement to fund a cash reserve out of the Groups post-debt service cash flow in order to support the Groups collateral and liquidity requirements post-Restructuring.
The initial target amount for the cash reserve is 490m plus the amount by which cash employed as collateral exceeds 200m Target Amount.
There will be no distributions to shareholders until such times as the cash reserve is at the required level.
As a result of the requirements to fund the cash reserve, the Board is not proposing a dividend in respect of the financial period ended 31 March 2005 and does not expect to propose a dividend before the financial year ending 31 March 2007.
The terms of the Nuclear Liabilities Agreements entered into as part of the Restructuring also require that once the cash reserve is funded to the Target Amount, British Energy must make Cash Sweep Payments to the NLF.
The NLF Cash Sweep Payment was initially defined as 65% of the movement in cash, cash equivalents and other liquid assets during the year after adjusting for, among other things, certain payments made to the NLF or dividends paid in the year.
The requirement to make the NLF Cash Sweep Payment greatly reduces the amount of cash available for distribution to shareholders.
The terms of the New Bonds issued as part of the Restructuring contain certain covenants, including a restriction that allows British Energy to pay a dividend only if no event of default has occurred.
The requirement for BEG to have distributable reserves.
FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT OVERVIEW The main financial risks faced are trading risks in respect of both price and volume output on the sale of electricity.
There is also an exposure to risks associated with fluctuations in the equity markets through the pension schemes.
Policies have been instituted for managing each of these risks, which have been approved by the Board of Directors.
Each of these risks is discussed in more detail below.
The Power and Energy Trading Division manage electricity trading risks.
The Power and Energy Trading Division operate within policies and procedures that are approved by the Board and monitored by the Trading Risk Sub-Committee who report to the Trading Review Committee a sub-committee of the Board.
19 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 Non-trading risks i. e. cash resources, debt finance and financial risks are managed by the central treasury function the Treasury Department.
The Treasury Department operates within policies and procedures approved by the Board.
The Treasury Department uses appropriate and available instruments, within specified limits, to manage financial risk but is not permitted to take speculative, open positions.
Both the Treasury Department and the Power and Energy Trading Division are subject to regular scrutiny from the Internal Audit Department.
INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT The market value of debt varies with fluctuations in prevailing interest rates in the United Kingdom.
The Groups borrowings are all at fixed rate but its cash deposits earn interest at variable rates.
The Groups policy is to minimise exposure to interest rate risk and to seek to invest its surplus cash to achieve this purpose to the extent it is possible.
At 31 March 2005 the Company had no interest-related derivatives.
Eggborough-related derivative agreements were cancelled at RED as part of the Restructuring.
The total of investments in liquid funds and cash at bank amounted to 456m at 31 March 2005 and 398m at RED, and in each case had maturity dates due within one year.
Cash not immediately required for business purposes is invested in fixed-rate term deposits and money market funds.
At 31 March 2005 the term deposits and money market funds not used to fund collateral were due to mature or were available within one month and earned interest at an average rate of 4.77% RED 4.67%.
Term deposits, money market funds and bank balances at 31 March 2005 include 216m RED 286m of cash that had been deposited in collateral bank accounts and earned interest at an average rate of 4.02% RED 4.08%.
Availability of this cash was, therefore, restricted over the periods of the collateralised positions.
As the deposit terms were short-term, the carrying values at 31 March 2005 and RED approximated to the fair market value.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE RISK MANAGEMENT The Groups policy is to hedge future foreign exchange risks to the extent that such facilities are available to the Group.
There are potential future foreign currency receivables in respect of amounts outstanding from the sale of Bruce Power.
When these cash flows become more certain in the future the Group will evaluate currency hedging opportunities, balancing the cost and availability of entering into such transactions against the underlying currency risk.
At 31 March 2005 and RED there were no foreign exchange contracts in place.
ELECTRICITY TRADING RISK MANAGEMENT Electricity trading activities relate principally to supporting the generation business.
The trading operations, therefore, act principally as wholesale marketers rather than as pure financial traders, with the principal objective of increasing the return on assets while hedging the market risk associated with the output of the power stations.
Under BETTA, which took effect from 1 April 2005, any mismatch between actual metered generation or demand and the notified contract position is settled through the balancing mechanism at generally unfavourable prices.
The Company aims to sell all planned nuclear output forward and to minimise exposure to the balancing mechanism.
The risks in the wholesale market are managed through a contracting strategy that builds a portfolio of forward contracts of different lengths.
Whilst operating primarily as a flexible mid-merit plant, Eggborough provides a flexible generation capability that fulfils three purposes designed to enhance profitability.
Firstly, it provides a means for compensating for unplanned lost output from the Companys nuclear units at short notice: secondly it provides the capability to adjust in a cost effective manner the Companys total generation to meet the requirements of both wholesale and direct supply business customers: and thirdly, it provides a capability that can be offered at short notice to the system operator via the balancing mechanism.
The Companys policy is to manage credit exposure to trading and financial counterparties within clearly defined limits.
A sub-committee of the Board strictly monitors electricity trading activities which are controlled through delegated authorities and procedures, and which include specific criteria for the management of counterparty credit exposures.
EQUITY RISK MANAGEMENT The Group is exposed to equity risk through the Groups pension schemes.
The investment strategy of the pension schemes is currently under review with the Trustees of the pension schemes.
The existing policy is, subject to certain criteria being met, to rebalance the investment portfolio towards investments, including index-linked bonds and corporate bonds, which more closely match the pension schemes liabilities.
Following completion of the Restructuring, the Groups liabilities in respect of the decommissioning of its stations are now governed by the terms of certain of the Restructuring agreements with Government relating to the establishment and operation of the NLF.
As a consequence, the Groups level of obligation for decommissioning liabilities is pre-determined, and is not subject to fluctuations in the values of assets held by the NLF.
20 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW STEPHEN BILLINGHAM, FINANCE DIRECTOR The Group reported a net deficit of 244m net of deferred tax of 104m on its employee pension schemes, on an FRS17 basis, in its financial statements at 31 March 2005.
At that date the pension schemes assets were valued at 1,970m, of which 1,629m was held in equities and bonds.
The level of employer contributions to the Group pension schemes was formally confirmed following the triennial actuarial valuation with an effective date of 31 March 2004.
The Group contributes 22.4% of pensionable salaries to the BEGG pension scheme and 19.7% to the BECG pension scheme with effect from 1 April 2005.
Contributing members contribute 5% and 6% to the respective plans.
Details of the additional employer contributions are set out on page 15. INTERNATIONAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS The project undertaken to review the impact of International Accounting Standards and International Financial Reporting Standards is continuing.
This will identify and implement the changes required in the Groups accounting policies, information systems, management processes and financial reporting activities.
International Accounting Standards are required to be used in preparing the consolidated financial statements from 1 April 2005 onwards.
It is the intention to report the implications of first time adoption in late summer 2005.
ANNUAL EQUIVALENT As noted on page 11, the consolidated results of BEG cannot be added to those of BE Ltd to present results for a 12 month period as the results are not drawn up on a comparable basis.
To assist readers the table below summarises the performance for the pre-RED and postRED trading periods discussed above and describes the significant adjustments required to reverse the impact of changes in accounting policies and the impact of the fair value exercise.
These results are not the same as typical proforma results, are unaudited and not consistent with any GAAP.
Following the acquisition of BE Ltd as part of the Restructuring BEG reviewed the accounting policies adopted by BE Ltd and revised certain policies where BEG considered it more appropriate with the transition to IFRS in mind.
The key changes in accounting policies are to capitalise fixed front and all back end nuclear fuel costs into stock, to capitalise and subsequently amortise statutory outage costs, reclassify strategic spares as fixed assets, fully adopt FRS17 and discontinue the application of SSAP24 Accounting for Pension Costs SSAP24 in relation to pension costs and cease to discount deferred tax.
The impact of these changes, as relevant, is incorporated in the table below to present the results of the post-RED trading period using the same accounting policies as the pre-RED trading period.
As a consequence of acquisition accounting, all assets of the Acquired Group were restated at fair value at RED under FRS7 Fair Values in Acquisition Accounting FRS7.
The fair value adjustments set out in note 12 to the financial statements partially unwind in the post-RED trading period.
The fair value adjustment unwind occurring within the post-RED trading period has been reversed to calculate annual equivalents.
Principal adjustments Adjusted Adjusted BEG Reversal of BEG BE Ltd BE Ltd 2.5m ended changes in Reversal of 2.5m ended 9.5m ended 12m year ended 31 March accounting fair value 31 March 14 January annual 31 March 2005 policies adjustments 2005 2005 equivalent 2004 m m m m m m m Wholesale generation sales 233 233 458 691 703 Direct supply 170 170 511 681 522 Miscellaneous income 6 6 24 30 31 Energy supply costs 73 73 229 302 260 Turnover 482 482 1,222 1,704 1,516 Operating costs before exceptional items Fuel costs nuclear 71 7 64 252 316 318 Fuel costs coal 56 56 91 147 95 Materials and services 82 8 23 113 429 542 512 Staff costs 63 63 240 303 224 Depreciation charge 41 12 14 15 59 74 50 Amortisation charge 6 6 Other operating expense 8 8 Energy supply costs 73 73 229 302 260 Total operating costs before exceptional items 400 11 5 384 1,300 1,684 1,459 Exceptional operating items 19 19 60 79 283 Group operating profit loss 63 11 5 79 138 59 340 EBITDA continuing activities 129 1 15 113 19 94 107 Adjusted for 5m one-time charge related to AmerGen.
21 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 TURNOVER Annual equivalent turnover was 1,704m, an increase of 188m compared to the prior year.
The increase in turnover is attributable to increased prices and growth in the energy supply costs recovered from customers offset by reduced output.
Increased decreased turnover: m owing to decreased output 88 owing to increased electricity prices 235 owing to increased energy supply costs 42 due to a decrease in miscellaneous income 1 188 Annual equivalent realised price which is calculated by dividing turnover, net of energy supply costs, miscellaneous and exceptional income, by total output was 20.4 MWh compared to 16.9 MWh in the prior year.
BEG BE Ltd BE Ltd 2.5m ended 9.5m ended Year ended Year ended 31 March 14 January 31 March 31 March 2005 2005 2005 2004 Output: TWhTWh TWhTWh Nuclear 14.3 45.5 59.8 65.0 Eggborough 2.5 5.1 7.6 7.6 Total 16.8 50.6 67.4 72.6 Output in the year ended 31 March 2005 was 59.8 TWh from nuclear operations compared to 65.0 TWh in the prior year.
Output from Eggborough was constant at 7.6 TWh in both years.
During the year, four outages were completed and the Sizewell B outage commenced shortly before the year end resulting in a total loss of output of 2.9 TWh.
Refuelling resulted in a further loss of 3.0 TWh and the unplanned outages at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool resulted in a loss of 7.4 TWh.
There were further unplanned outages resulting in a loss of 9.9 TWh of which some 6.5 TWh was due to outages of 14 days or less.
OPERATING COSTS Annual equivalent operating costs of continuing activities excluding exceptional items and energy supply costs were 1,382m compared to 1,199m in the prior year.
Annual equivalent operating unit cost excluding revalorisation was 20.5 MWh compared to 16.5 MWh in the prior year.
The cost base used for the annual equivalent unit costs calculation includes all adjustments noted in the summary above and described in further detail below.
FUEL COSTS Total annual equivalent fuel costs amounted to 463m compared with 413m in the prior year.
Annual equivalent nuclear fuel costs were 316m compared to 318m for the prior year, and annual equivalent coal costs were 147m compared to 95m for the prior year.
The decrease in the nuclear fuel costs of 2m was due to reduced output that resulted in reduced costs of 25m which was offset by other cost increases of 23m.
The cost increase is comprised primarily of the effect of inflation, the absence of electricity price related rebate associated with the front end nuclear fuel costs of 3m, and non-recurrence of annual credits arising from revisions to the back end nuclear fuel costs associated with the final core provision for unburnt fuel at shutdown included in the prior year of 12m.
The 52m increase in coal costs relates to increased coal prices and the inclusion of ETS costs of 11m.
Coal costs also include the cost of other Eggborough fuel including biomass.
22 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW STEPHEN BILLINGHAM, FINANCE DIRECTOR In calculating the annual equivalent nuclear fuel costs adjustments of 7m were made to reverse changes in accounting policy.
The nuclear fuel costs for the pre-RED trading period were prepared on the basis of the historic BNFL contracts and for the post-RED trading period on the basis of the revised BNFL contracts.
MATERIALS AND SERVICES Materials and services costs comprise the operating expenses of the power stations and support functions excluding fuel costs, staff costs and depreciation.
The annual equivalent costs were 542m compared to 512m in the prior year with the increase of 30m being due primarily to the work undertaken in the year to address the various issues that emerged at the nuclear power stations.
Included in annual equivalent materials and services is expenditure of a capital nature of 93m for the year compared to 90m in the prior year.
Pre-RED expenditure of a capital nature was expensed as operating costs because it was not possible to demonstrate that this expenditure enhanced the value of the Group after taking account of the fixed asset impairment reviews carried out in the years ended 31 March 2003 and 2004.
In calculating the annual equivalent material and services costs, the BEG result has been adjusted to expense capex of 23m and to expense outage costs of 8m reflecting the change in accounting policy to capitalise and subsequently amortise costs associated with statutory outages.
STAFF COSTS Annual equivalent staff costs were 303m compared to 224m for the prior year with the increase being primarily due to pension changes following the revised assumptions being used under SSAP24 and FRS17 in the annual equivalent numbers.
Total annual equivalent pension costs for the year were 52m compared to nil.
The balance of the increased cost of 27m relates to salary inflation additional to staff levels and additional overtime as a result of the extended outages at Heysham 1 and Hartlepool.
The staff costs for the pre-RED trading period were prepared on the basis of SSAP24 pension costs and for the post-RED trading period FRS17 pension costs.
No adjustment has been made in deriving the annual equivalent staff costs.
DEPRECIATION Annual equivalent depreciation charges were 74m compared to 50m in the prior year.
This reflects the increase of 295m in the carrying value of fixed assets as a result of the impairment review in the prior year.
The 12m adjustment in respect of accounting policies reverses the depreciation associated with capitalised outage costs.
The 14m adjustment reverses the additional depreciation as a result of the increase in the fair value of fixed assets of 817m.
In calculating the annual equivalent depreciation it was assumed that the Restructuring had not occurred and all capex was written off in the year.
AMORTISATION There was no annual equivalent amortisation as the goodwill arises as a result of the Restructuring.
The amortisation in the period of 6m is fully reversed.
OTHER OPERATING EXPENSE Other operating expense reflects the unwind of the out of the money contracts recorded at RED.
As the liability was recognised as a result of the fair value exercise, the charge in the period of 8m has been fully reversed.
ENERGY SUPPLY COSTS Energy supply costs mainly comprise the costs incurred for the use of the distribution and transmission systems and are fully recovered through turnover.
This year energy supply costs also include costs related to meeting the cost of compliance with the Renewables Obligation, which are also recovered through turnover.
The Group is required to comply with the Renewables Obligation as part of the regulations governing climate change.
Annual equivalent total energy supply costs were 302m compared with the 260m in the prior year, an increase of 42m.
This increase reflects the inclusion of ROCs, compliance costs and growth in the direct supply business.
23 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 CASH Cash and liquid funds at 31 March 2005 were 456m compared to 398m at RED, 573m at 31 March 2004 and 333m at 31 March 2003.
The movement in cash and liquid funds is analysed as follows: BEG BE Ltd BE Ltd 2.5m ended 9.5m ended year ended 31 March 14 January 31 March 2005 2005 2004 m m m Profit loss after tax and exceptional items 35 360 234 Net interest expense including exceptional items 560 59 Total revalorisation including exceptional items 5 155 117 Net credit to finance charge for pension liability 1 Tax including exceptional items 19 3 2 Goodwill amortisation 6 Depreciation charges 41 59 50 Exceptional depreciation charges credits due to impairment review head office disposal 3 295 EBITDA 110 80 163 Gain on sale of businesses 1 47 AmerGen profit 21 Net exceptional charges other than depreciation, interest, tax and revalorisation 19 57 12 EBITDA continuing activities 129 24 107 Nuclear liabilities charged to operating costs n a 104 130 Nuclear liabilities discharged n a 122 59 Regular contributions to decommissioning fund 5 15 19 Movement in other provisions 19 12 3 Exceptional operating cash costs 15 29 25 Working capital movements 45 25 Operating cash flow from continuing activities 128 119 156 Capital expenditure less receipts from disposals 28 Taxation paid 12 Disposal of investments 4 171 Net interest paid 9 60 75 Repayment of borrowings 28 Share issue expenses 10 Increase decrease in cash and liquid funds 53 175 240 Opening cash and cash equivalents 398 573 333 Movement in period 53 175 240 Cash reclassfied from fixed asset investments at RED 5 Closing cash and liquid funds 456 398 573 Unadjusted The movement in total cash and liquid funds in the post-RED trading period of 58m includes 53m of cash and liquid funds generated in the post-RED trading period and 5m of cash reclassified at RED from fixed asset investments.
INVESTMENT EXPENDITURE Investment expenditure comprises investment in major plant projects, repairs and strategic spares across the whole Group which includes incremental PiP annual expenditure costs.
In the year ended 31 March 2005, investment expenditure was 162m compared to 128m in the prior year.
This reflects the additional investment made over the last year, including the cast iron replacement programme.
24 BRITISH ENERGY GROUP PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS FOR THE PERIOD ENDED 31 MARCH 2005 FINANCIAL REVIEW STEPHEN BILLINGHAM, FINANCE DIRECTOR AUDITORS REMUNERATION An analysis of the auditors remuneration for the period ended 31 March 2005 is provided below: BEG BE Ltd 2.5m 9.5m BE Ltd ended ended 12m year ended 31 March 14 January annual 31 March 2005 2005 equivalent 2004 000 000 000 000 Audit services Statutory 328 1,247 1,575 510 Audit related regulatory reporting 1,157 745 1,902 258 Further assurance services Creditors long form report 951 951 2,017 Reporting accountant listing 2,320 2,320 1,208 Review of accounting for Restructuring 1,977 1,977 1,114 Taxation Tax services 24 281 305 510 Other Other non-audit services 235 344 579 80 Total 1,744 7,865 9,609 5,697 The fees associated with the audit for the period ended 31 March 2005 have been allocated between the pre-RED and post-RED trading periods on a time apportionment basis.
Fees associated with the auditors review of compliance with s404 of the US SarbanesOxley Act of 2002 have been allocated in full to the post-RED trading period.
SUBSEQUENT REPORTING The next set of results that the Group will present will be for the quarter ended 30 June 2005.
These results will be drawn up under IFRS and will not be comparable to the annual equivalents discussed above.
