qxd 31 3 06 2:49 am Page 8 Operating and financial review Operating review continued Market presence to build on 8 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp007-017.
qxd 31 3 06 2:49 am Page 9 Developing products and administration intermediaries experience of selling them, we becoming unprofitable.
Legal & General platforms which allow us to sell to believe we are well positioned to continue to continues to ex its business model to individuals, companies, pension funds build market share in our core businesses.
improve our overall profitability in this and other institutions.
market, and these challenges are reected Industry Issues Building a reputation for products that in our financial results for the year.
Legal & Generals core businesses focus offer value for money to the customer.
Legislation, coming into force on on the UK long term savings, investment Being exible in our approach to 6 April 2006, which will simplify and insurance markets, where we see distribution, and offering our products considerably the tax treatment of further opportunities for growth in sales and through a wide range of channels: contributions to, and benets from, nonprofitability.
This industry has faced significant independent financial advisers, selling state pension schemes.
This will affect the challenges in recent years, including: direct to the customer over the internet and pension, protection and annuity products The severe equity bear market seen in telephone, through partnerships with banks sold by Legal & General.
This should lead the early years of the new century.
This and building societies and other Business to greater clarity and exibility in the undermined not only the balance sheets Partner and intermediary relationships.
pensions market in the longer term, but of companies worldwide, but also the Continually improving our customers has required significant systems confidence of the retail investor in equity overall experience of Legal & General.
We believe that one of the best Depolarisation of the UK advisory market, Ongoing debate around and reform of the advertisements for our business comes which is changing the distribution of state and private pension provision.
This from the satisfaction of existing customers, products fundamentally.
Until last year, includes the introduction of Stakeholder intermediaries and Business all financial advisers were strictly divided pensions and the recent recommendations Partners.
In order to achieve this, between those which were independent of Lord Turners Pension Commission.
we aim to be efficient, to make our and those which were tied to a single We welcome this debate.
However, we administration effective and to execute life company.
Those restrictions have been recognise that individuals decisions over our business with the aim of improving removed, opening up the distribution pension savings are complicated by the overall experience of dealing with market into one that should provide much continuing changes to the framework.
The Through our strength, scale and exibility, Numerous changes in approach to implementation of price controls by by working hard to maximise both our accounting and reporting standards for customers positive experiences of buying the Government has resulted in some companies selling long term insurance Legal & General products and our segments of the pensions market business.
These have come from the 2 1 1 Fig 4.
EPS Based on Operating Profit After Tax Fig 3.
Modified Statutory Solvency basis 2001-2003, International Financial Reporting Standards basis 2004-2005 International Financial Reporting Standards basis 2004-2005 2.
EPS Earnings Per Share customers and growing In the UK, Legal & General has over five million customers.
In addition, the Group has over half a million customers overseas.
qxd 31 3 06 2:49 am Page 10 Operating and financial review Financial Services Authority, from the Within our spread of products, we believe Operating review continued UK and International Accounting that we have particular competitive Standards Boards and the European Chief strengths in the underwriting of annuities Financial Ofcers Forum.
In these markets it is clear changes do not impact the underlying to us that scale, in terms of both sales and profitability of the Company, they do the overall portfolio of business, provides provide a challenge to the industrys an excellent insight into the risks which we systems, actuarial and finance functions.
are pricing, and hence offers competitive Issues over the last 15-20 years which advantage.
We are also a leading provider have been detrimental to the image of of investment bonds, where our strengths the industry in the eyes of the public, in investment management and our value including pensions mis-selling and for money reputation have supported endowment mortgages.
In such a dynamic industry, the companies Legal & General Assurance Society which will prosper, in our view, are those Limited, the Groups principal operating which remain nancially strong and company, is rated by Standard & Poors operationally exible enough to address AA very strong for financial strength, developing issues with confidence.
We a rating shared by only one other life continue to believe that this degree of insurance company in Europe.
Moodys change and challenge offers Legal & General and A. M. Best rate our financial strength an attractive opportunity to build its as Aa1 and A respectively.
In distributing our products, we franchise further.
Through maintaining the operate through a wide range of channels.
strength of our business, being actively For those customers who are happy to deal engaged in resolving developing issues and with us directly, and where the requirement by exibly managing our product and for advice is limited, this can be achieved distribution offerings, we believe we are over the telephone or the internet.
However, excellently positioned to outperform the for sales of more complex products, where broader industry.
professional advice is required, we work Legal & General is, like all financial with a range of intermediaries: services companies, exposed to risks from Independent financial advisers IFAs, outside its own business, in particular who offer advice to customers in selecting economic and investment market shocks.
products from across the entire industry.
Exposure to these risks is a necessary part Multi-tied advisers advisers are now of our business.
We continue to manage permitted to offer advice between the the business to be robust and exible.
products of a limited panel of providers.
UK Long Term Insurance, Savings We actively compete to attain positions and Investment on such panels, subject to an overriding Legal & General has one of the leading requirement that such relationships must positions in this industry in terms of new be profitable for us.
We estimate that for 2005 Banks and building societies.
These our overall share of industry new business distribution relationships fall within the was in excess of 10%.
Life and Pensions IFRS Operating profit have been particularly successful in this 2004 specialist area in developing strong 2005 Restated relationships in recent years.
m m As part of this broad range of distribution UK operating profit: channels, we have strong relationships With-profits business 66 67 with leading IFA rms such as Sesame, Distribution from non profit business 312 287 Bankall, Tenet and many others.
We are Subordinated debt interest 37 37 also pleased to have been chosen as a 415 391 Business Partner by Barclays Bank, Alliance & Leicester, Bradford & Bingley USA 52 58 and Northern Rock among others.
We Netherlands 18 28 believe this reects well on our credentials France 4 as a leading Business Partner in the product Operating profit 489 477 manufacturing industry.
UK New Business Split APE Unit Trusts ISAs Pensions Bonds Protection Bulk Annuities Individual Annuities 10 Legal & General Annual Report and Accounts 2005 10569 pp007-017.
qxd 31 3 06 2:49 am Page 11 We also sell products specially designed efficiency, service and administration is The Mortgage Club markets mortgages to for the corporate market, often distributed central to our success.
IFAs and directly authorised mortgage rms Legal & General is now the leading thereby forming an important relationship through specialist independent financial investor of UK pension fund assets, accounting with the large providers of mortgages who advisers or consultancies.
These group for 131bn as at December 2005.
This is 64% benefit from the business passed to them.
schemes help clients either to provide of our overall business by assets and 78% by Due to the scale of the overall mortgage adequate protection for all their employees, profitability.
This scale and success has been business, mortgage lenders are often willing or to manage the asset and liability issues driven by our market leading expertise in the to consider participating in services and within their existing group pension schemes.
development and management of indexproduct developments in order to enhance The expertise and systems which support tracking funds investment funds which aim further the mortgage customers experience.
our reputation in these highly specialised to track the changes in value of an underlying Through these mortgage sales and markets are, in our view, a result of our broad index of investments for example the the sales of mortgage-related life insurance, long term active commitment to them.
Many large pension Legal & General is currently involved in one We believe such strengths and schemes have in recent years opted for all, or in nine mortgage transactions in the UK.
experience in so many products and part of their equity investments to be indexed distribution channels, equip Legal & General Overseas rather than pursuing outperformance by with industry and market insight which The UK remains the focus of our corporate investing in more complex and often more allows us to deliver profitable growth strategy at present.
We do, however, have expensive funds.
three important overseas life and pensions Although tracking funds remain the businesses, in the USA, the Netherlands largest part of our overall portfolio 67% Investment Management and France.
of total funds under management we have Legal & General Investment Management Each of these has an established been developing other parts of our business holds 204bn of funds on behalf of position in selected lines of business, further and have been pleased with the Legal & General policyholders, retail providing profitability while not focusing recent successes in winning mandates investors, pension funds, charities and solely on achieving a dominant overall to run active bond portfolios.
share of their respective markets.
We believe that there remains great The scale, quality and reputation In the Netherlands 4% of EEV scope for solid, long term growth in our of our investment management operations operating profit we sell a range of investment management operations.
We provide considerable competitive advantages individual savings and protection products.
expect to be a continuing beneciary of to our other key businesses.
Most of the This business was last year voted Best Life the increasing number of pension funds products we sell across the Group rely in Insurer in the Netherlands for the fifth year who are making additional contributions large part on the performance of a portfolio in a row.
We continue of underlying investments in order to deliver In France 3% of EEV operating profit to expand our expertise further into active good returns to policyholders and profits we have achieved success in single premium bonds and equities.
So the ownership and investments and group protection.
The long term demand for pension control of a large, efficient, respected and In the USA 2% of EEV operating savings is expected to continue to grow highly successful investment management profit our strategy has been to focus on as the population ages.
Recent statutory and operation remains a critical success factor the provision of protection contracts to the legislative changes should also, in our view, for all of our businesses.
increase public awareness of the need to The expansion in our business has save further.
Summary been driven by Legal & General Investment Legal & General has seen massive growth UK Other Managements enviable record of winning in its business over the last decade 20% In addition to life insurance and investment new pension funds at a rate of over 1bn growth p. a. compound from 1995 to 2005 business, Legal & General also writes per month on average since 1998, and a as a result of continued expansion in the general insurance business, predominantly total of 117bn over the last 10 years.
It is industry 9% growth p. a. compound and household buildings and contents insurance testament, we believe, to our strengths that our success in building market share in this written through brokers.
the majority of new monies received in 2005 period increasing from approximately 4% Legal & General has a significant came from existing clients.
Long term presence in the UK mortgage market, Legal & General develops and growth will, in our view, be supported as both through Legal & General Partnership 1 distributes a range of unit trust, ISA and the population continues to age and to Services Limited LGPSL, an organisation of 2 OEIC contracts, with over 10bn under prosper and increasingly recognises its need 100 mortgage advisory businesses and 1,700 management for our external clients at the to protect its own financial security.
Having individual mortgage advisers, and through end of 2005.
According to the Investment the wider marketing activities of the Mortgage achieved scale in our major product lines, Management Association, we are in the top Club.
The advisers within LGPSL are tied to however, there is little pressure, in our view, five managers of retail unitised investments to pursue growth for growths sake.
We will Legal & General for any life insurance sales in the UK.
This is a market where we continue to build our business in favour of made alongside a mortgage.
This provides believe our focus on value for money, us with a valuable source of business.
profitability, not at its expense.
EPS Based on Operating Profit After Tax Fig 7.
EPS Earnings Per Share www.
