OPERA TING & FINANCIAL REVIEW Issuer Services world.
By providing these efficient, transparent and well-regulated markets we attract companies A strong year for new issues on the from all over the world to London and support Main Market and a record year for them before, during and following admission.
AIM: more international companies joining our markets than ever before: At 31 March 2005 there were 2,916 companies the launch of services to support on our markets, up eight per cent on the previous years number of 2,693.
companies were listed on the Main Market and 1,127 were quoted on AIM.
The combined market capitalisation of our markets was REVENUE 3.5 trillion, up seven per cent on the previous year.
In a notable year for new issues, 514 companies joined our markets, 366 of them IPOs, raising a total of 8.8 billion.
35m One of the most successful aspects of -9% this performance was the increasing Air China lands in London internationalisation of our markets.
During the Air China is the countrys main international carrier year, 13 international companies joined the Main with ambitions to become one of the worlds leading Issuer Services is the division responsible Market and 74 joined AIM, a combined increase airlines.
On 15 December 2004 Air China raised for managing both of these primary markets.
This growth further 558 million through a dual listing on the Hong Kong The main sources of revenue for this division emphasises both the Exchanges leading position Stock Exchange and the Main Market of the are admission, further issue and annual fees.
in European equity markets IPOs on our London Stock Exchange.
The issue was 83 times oversubscribed by retail investors 37 times by Following settlement with the Ofce of Fair markets accounted for 80 per cent of all those institutions.
For Mr Li Jiaxiang, Chairman of Air China, Trading OFT in November 2003, the Exchange in Western Europe as well as our position as London was a natural choice, helped by the fact that reduced annual fees for Main Market issuers the worlds most international exchange.
a single prospectus could be used for both listings.
and admission and annual fees for AIM issuers, with effect from 1 April 2004.
In the first full year The concentration of capital and expertise in Mr Shixiang Wang, Vice Chairman of Air China, opened the markets, accompanied by Mr Zha Peixin, of this new price regime, the strong performance London and our experience of running dynamic Chinese Ambassador to London and Clara Furse.
of our markets has partly offset the revenue and well regulated public markets, has enabled us impact of the fee reductions.
to launch the IR Solutions business.
This offers a range of services for companies in the UK and The London Stock Exchange is unique among internationally to maximise the effectiveness major world exchanges in offering issuers of their financial communications.
We have a choice of successful primary markets.
also developed a training and consultancy The Main Market offers a high-prole listing offering, which draws upon our capital markets that helps larger, more established companies expertise and the strength of the London Stock gain access to the deep pools of institutional Exchange brand.
investment capital that are managed in London.
AIM, our market for smaller, growing companies is the most successful market of its type in the 09 LONDON ST OCK EXCHANGE ANNUAL REPOR T 2005
