Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 21 Financial Review Financial Review This Review summarises the financial Diluted underlying earnings per share has performance of the Groups businesses grown by 28% over the last year and by during the year and assesses that 42% compound per annum over the last performance against our financial objectives.
Underlying earnings represent It includes a detailed analysis of the results, net management fee income from Asset expenses and margins for the Groups two Management plus Brokerage net income.
businesses, together with a commentary This measure excludes the net performance on the balance sheet and cash flows.
The fee income from Asset Management, way in which the Group manages, monitors Sugar Australia, goodwill amortisation and and quantifies the risks inherent in its exceptional items a full reconciliation of businesses is set out in the Risk and risk underlying earnings and underlying earnings management section in the second half of per share to their corresponding statutory this Review.
figures is shown in note 13 to the Accounts.
Underlying earnings per share are lower Peter Clarke As anticipated in the 2004 Annual Report, than total earnings per share but we target Finance Director, Man Group plc the Group has changed its presentation the former measure when reviewing results currency from sterling to US dollars with because it does not include performance effect from 1 April 2004, to reflect the fact fee income which, although valuable to that the majority of the Groups revenue shareholders, introduces volatility when streams, assets and liabilities is looking at year-on-year comparisons.
Long-term it is appropriate for the Group to be judged on growth in diluted earnings One of the key areas of focus in the year has per share on total operations, including been preparation for the Groups conversion performance fees the statutory measure.
to International Financial Reporting Standards This measure has grown by 27% compound IFRS.
The Group will be implementing IFRS per annum over the last five years, although for the financial year ending 31 March 2006 because of the decrease in performance and work to meet the requirements of IFRS is fees earned, it has grown to a lesser extent progressing to plan.
Our aim is to ensure that in the year, up 8% on last year.
communication of the impact on the Group of IFRS is timely, clear and effective.
To achieve Diluted earnings per share cents this, it is intended to separate developments EPS on total operations in the business, including the results for the Underlying EPS year and financial position at the year-end, 71 from the effect of changes in accounting as 2001 45 a result of adopting IFRS.
Accordingly, it is 81 2002 planned to release summary IFRS financial 65 information for the financial year ended 117 2003 31 March 2005 with reconciliations to the 94 previously published UK GAAP figures on 168 2004 141 5 July 2005.
A qualitative update on the likely 182 impact of IFRS is contained in this Review.
As well as seeking growth that is profitable Achievement of financial objectives and sustainable, our second financial The Board believes that long-term objective is to target an efficient capital shareholder value will be achieved through structure so as to maintain high levels of continued delivery of significant growth in post-tax return on equity whilst retaining underlying earnings per share and the a strong Group balance sheet.
maintenance of high levels of post-tax return on equity.
For this reason these two The Groups post-tax return on equity for measures continue to be the basis for the the year was 26.8%.
This compares to Groups financial objectives and are also the 32.5% last year.
The decrease results from performance criteria used for the Groups a combination of a materially higher level of long-term incentive schemes.
The Group has net assets this year, reflecting a high level achieved these objectives in the current of retained earnings, and a modest increase year, as it has in each year since they were in total post-tax profits, with increased set in March 2000. management fee income largely offset by a decrease in net performance fee income.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 22 Financial Review Post-tax return on equity % use an amount of up to the Groups postGroups regulatory capital position tax performance fee income in the repurchase Unaudited Audited 2001 32.1 of its own shares where to do so is earnings 31 March 31 March 2002 30.7 2005 2004 enhancing to shareholders.
This share 2003 26.9 $m $m repurchasing will take place in the market 2004 32.5 Share capital and reserves 2,140 1,794 on a continuing basis from year-to-year rather 2005 26.8 Less goodwill and other deductions 940 1,066 than being confined within the accounting 0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 Available Tier 1 Group capital 1,200 728 periods during which performance fees are Tier 2 capital subordinated debt 160 160 earned.
During the year 3,346,831 ordinary Own funds 1,360 888 Capital and capital management shares were repurchased at an average Tier 3 capital Approach cost of 12.76 per share more details are interim trading book profits 60 58 The Groups capital management given in the Directors Report on page 49.
Group Financial Resources 1,420 946 framework is intended to ensure that it This repurchasing activity was earnings Less Financial Resources maintains sufficient capital to: enhancing, resulting in a 0.2% accretion to Requirement including liquidity adjustments : both diluted underlying earnings per share Asset Management 400 339 Meet regulatory requirements at all times.
and diluted earnings per share on total Brokerage 470 368 Support business growth and the Groups operations in 2005.
Group Financial Resources distribution policies.
Requirement 870 707 Achieve an appropriate credit rating WACC for the Group.
The Groups estimated weighted average Net excess of Group capital 550 239 Enable the Group to access sufficient post-tax cost of capital WACC is 8.0%.
Excludes retained profits for the second half of the financial year as these were unaudited as at 31 March committed funding to meet stressed This figure is based on a cost of equity of liquidity requirements.
8.5% using CAPM and assuming a beta of Absorb unexpected losses that might 0.86 source: Bloomberg and a post-tax In the above table, the Group Financial arise from the current and projected risk cost of debt of 5.0%.
With a post-tax return Resources Requirement represents the profile of the business, including credit, on equity of 26.8% for the year, the Groups minimum amount of Financial Resources market, operational and business risks.
shareholders are seeing a return of over regulatory capital that the Group must hold three times the Groups cost of capital.
on a consolidated basis in order to meet the This framework is supplemented by a risk Over the last five years returns have varied capital adequacy requirements of the FSA.
assessment which quantifies the capital between three and five times the Groups This capital is intended to be available to requirements of the Groups business WACC, with the level of performance fee absorb unexpected losses and is calculated activities.
The Groups risk appetite includes income in the year being the main cause in accordance with standard regulatory targets designed to maintain an appropriate for variation.
formulae that relate primarily to credit and surplus over the minimum perceived as market risk.
The increase in 2005 in the necessary to meet the above objectives.
Regulatory capital available Tier 1 capital of $470 million The Group is subject to minimum capital relates almost entirely to the increase in Given the Groups objective of maintaining requirements set by various regulators of the Groups retained earnings.
a high post-tax return on equity, it is not the its worldwide businesses.
The Financial Groups policy to hold excess capital for Services Authority FSA supervises the The increase in the Brokerage financial protracted periods.
Accordingly, the Group Group on a consolidated basis and the resources requirement largely relates to a manages its capital structure over time to Group submits returns to the FSA on its change in the basis of calculation of the target a prudent balance between equity and capital adequacy.
Various subsidiaries within credit risk requirement by the regulators in various forms of debt capital available in the each of Brokerage and Asset Management the US: the requirement was based on capital markets.
are directly regulated by the FSA or 4% of segregated customer balances supervisors in other countries, which in 2004 but is now based on 8% of Distribution policy set and monitor their capital adequacy.
The Groups policy is to grow the level of dividend in US dollar terms, whilst The FSA has divided its definition of capital As from 1 April 2005, the Groups regulatory maintaining cover of at least two times into categories, or tiers, reflecting different capital position will be based on IFRS figures, underlying earnings.
The total dividend for degrees of permanence of the capital, its but these will be subject to adjustments as the year has grown by 30% from last year ability to absorb losses, where it ranks in set out by the FSA in Policy Statement 05 5. in US dollar terms.
This years dividend is the event of winding up and whether there An assessment of the impact of converting covered 2.7 times by both underlying are any fixed costs, i. e. obligations to pay to IFRS is discussed in this Review.
The main earnings and total earnings.
The Group interest or dividends.
regulatory capital implication for the Group declares its dividends in US dollars but will of converting to IFRS is the reclassification continue to pay the dividends in sterling, The Group currently has core Tier 1 capital, of unamortised sales commissions from except where private overseas shareholders represented by fully paid up share capital, prepayments to intangible assets.
Adjusting have elected to receive dividends via the reserves excluding revaluation reserves and for IFRS, and including the retained earnings Transcontinental Automated Payments audited retained earnings, less intangible assets for the second half of the financial year Service TAPS.
and other less significant deductions: Lower effective from 26 May 2005 the date Tier 2 capital, represented by its subordinated of the auditors report, the Groups The Group also earns substantial performance debt: and Tier 3 capital, represented by regulatory capital headroom has decreased fees in addition to underlying earnings, and post-tax profit in Brokerage relating to the from $550 million to be in the region of it remains the Boards long-term strategy to second half of the financial year.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 23 Financial Review The Group is also required to maintain Pre-tax profits $ million on the nature or focus of the Groups adequate resources to ensure that there operations.
For information purposes the Underlying PBT is no significant risk that it cannot meet results relating to Sugar Australia are given PBT on total operations PBT before goodwill amortisation and exceptionals its liabilities as they fall due i. e. to address in note 8 to the Accounts.
While additional amounts of 148 regulatory capital are required in respect of Profit and loss account 2001 234 263 less liquid assets, holding capital does not The table below provides a split of the 223 form the principal element of the Groups Groups profit and loss account between 2002 277 approach to liquidity risk management.
305 Rather this is based on the Groups ability 355 to access committed financing facilities, 459 Asset Management 2003 538 as detailed in the Available liquidity section operating income, costs and margins 579 of the Risk and risk management part Man Investments earns both management 2004 715 of this Review.
Management 821 fee income consists of management fees 759 2005 784 Economic capital and brokerage fees, and also includes, to 880 The Group currently uses a risk-adjusted a lesser extent, other types of fee, such as: 02 100 00300400500600700800900 capital methodology to allocate capital risk transfer fees on guaranteed products : across its business activities.
The model liquidity or cash management fees: valuation quantifies credit, market and operating The Groups profit before tax, goodwill fees: consultancy fees: and registrar fees.
risks within each business unit and assigns amortisation and exceptional items by These fees are typically based on a capital accordingly.
In addition, capital is business segment is set out in the table percentage of funds under management.
allocated to a limited number of other below: Gross management fee income has factors, principally goodwill, as well as an increased by 29% over last year, reflecting 2005 2004 allocation to reflect the need to maintain the growth in funds under management.
$m $m certain minimum levels of capital for regulatory Asset Management net purposes where applicable.
These methods management fee income 614 459 Performance fees principally reflect incentive have been applied in disclosing the segmental Asset Management net fees earned on funds under management, performance fee income 119 236 net assets in note 2 c to the Accounts.
and are usually based on a percentage of Brokerage 145 120 incremental fund performance in excess Sugar Australia 2 6 The process by which the Group makes of the previous performance peak for 880 821 its internal assessment of its capital the relevant product.
Performance fees requirements is being strengthened by an are charged to align the interests of the economic capital model that has been under Sugar Australia reflects the contribution from managers with investors and ensure focus development during the year.
Economic a former minority interest in an independently on absolute performance.
Measurement capital is calculated to a confidence level managed, unincorporated joint venture sugar dates for calculating performance fees consistent with the Groups minimum target refinery.
This was a residual investment from vary, but AHL funds are typically measured credit rating for credit, market, operational the Groups historical physical trading monthly some weekly whilst RMF and and business risks, and takes account of activities, which it sold on 5 August 2004 to Glenwood funds tend to have annual the diversification benefits within and CSR Limited, thus completing the Groups measurement dates, usually 31 December.
between risk categories and the divisions.
strategy of exiting all its agricultural products Performance fee income will typically While this model is still subject to refinement, businesses.
The results of Sugar Australia exhibit volatility, reflecting underlying fund the preliminary results show an economic are not disclosed as discontinued on performance and timing, and this can be capital requirement that is lower than the the face of the profit and loss account pronounced when comparing one accounting regulatory capital requirement.
The Group as the sale does not have a material effect period with another.
As the Group continues intends to use this enhanced economic capital model framework for risk assessment, Asset Management Brokerage Sugar Australia Group Total Year to 31 March 2005 $m $m $m $m capital allocation and risk disclosure purposes Fees and commissions receivable 1,236 1,101 2,337 during the current year and also as the Fees and commissions payable 218 726 944 basis for the Pillar 2 FSA internal adequacy Net trading interest income 15 109 124 assessment for regulatory purposes.
Other operating income 49 49 Net operating income 1,082 484 1,566 Summary of results Operating expenses 384 383 767 Profit before tax on total operations was Operating profit 698 101 799 up 10% to $784 million.
Excluding goodwill Associates and JVs 35 2 37 amortisation and exceptional items, pre-tax Net interest income expense 44 44 profits increased 7% in the year to $880 Profit before tax, goodwill and exceptionals 733 145 2 880 million.
Underlying pre-tax profit increased Goodwill amortisation 79 12 91 31% in the year to $759 million.
The Exceptional items 5 5 principal reason for the small increase in Profit before tax on total operations 649 133 2 784 profit on total operations but the significant Taxation 176 growth in underlying profits is the decrease Minority interests in performance fees earned in the year.
Profit for the financial year 608 Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 24 Financial Review to diversify the range of managers and The ratio of net management fee income Brokerage operating income, costs increase the proportion of lower volatility to funds under management is lower for and margins products, in particular for the institutional institutional products than for private investor.
In Brokerage, commissions receivable arise investor, performance fee income should In 2005, this margin was 2.1% and 0.7% from those businesses where Man Financial become less variable year-on-year.
for private investor and institutional products acts as intermediary and also from those Performance fees also include net gains on respectively.
The main reason for this is that businesses where it acts as a matched seeding investments in some of our funds the Group only receives a fund of funds principal broker, such as foreign exchange, and gains on redemption-bridging activities.
management fee for institutional assets, securities, metals and energy trading.
whereas for private investor products the Net trading interest income is earned on Fees and commissions payable in Group additionally receives underlying segregated customer balances that are Asset Management largely relate to sales manager fees.
Although distribution fees held off balance sheet in accordance with commissions paid to intermediaries, which payable, if any, are lower for institutional UK accounting practice.
Total operating are based on the amount of their sales products, the impact of this is not sufficient to income, including net trading interest of Mans products.
In addition, a small offset the lower headline fee income.
The ratio income, has increased 10% reflecting the percentage of total commissions is paid of operating expenses to management fee continued recruitment of producer teams, to certain employees, the amount being income is similar for institutional and private growth in market share and the benefits dependent on the level of sales achieved by investor products.
The mix of the Groups of active markets.
Sales commissions are FUM between institutional and private paid upfront when a fund product is first investor therefore has a significant impact on Commissions payable relate to fees charged launched and or are paid annually as trail management fees as a percentage of total by the exchanges, fees paid to other commission.
Prior to 2003, the management brokers, rebates to introductory brokers capitalised and amortised to the profit and fee FUM ratio had been falling slightly.
This and commissions paid to internal producer loss account on a straight line basis over the was not because of any reduction in the teams.
There is no fixed element of these shorter of five years and the period during profitability of the Groups core private commissions: they are all based on sales which fees are payable by the investor for investor products, but rather a result of an volumes or profit contributions.
Trail commission is increasing level of institutional assets as charged to the profit and loss account as a percentage of the total.
In 2003, the Operating expenses in Brokerage have incurred.
The sales commission profit and acquisition of RMF had a significant effect on increased 6% from $361 million in the prior loss account charge in 2005 was split the ratio since it manages almost exclusively year to $383 million in 2005, reflecting 37%:63% between the annual amortisation institutional money.
From 2004 onwards the Man Financials ability to grow its revenues of upfront commission and trail commission ratio has increased as institutional fee margins without having to expand significantly its paid in the year.
have increased and private investor assets support and administrative functions.
Of the have increased as a percentage of the total $383 million operating expenses in 2005, Operating expenses in Asset Management from 52% to 59% over the last two years.
$42 million relates to variable employee increased 7% from $358 million in the prior compensation.
Of this amount, The performance fee FUM ratio reflects the $148 million 39% are variable overheads, underlying performance of the Groups The table below shows an analysis of the relating to employee discretionary bonus products during each accounting period.
profit and operating expenses margins payments, which are broadly unchanged Performance fees from institutional fund in Brokerage.
The increase in operating products tend to be lower as these products expenses in the year is largely from the target lower returns and lower volatility.
2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 investment in infrastructure to support the Net operating growth of the business.
Operating expenses 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 income plus net interest are 35% of net operating income.
This Net management income $m 528 481 335 244 212 fee income $m 614 459 280 169 104 operating margin is consistent with the Operating Management average over the last five years.
expenses $m 383 361 260 189 168 fees FUM 1.5% 1.4% 1.3% 1.9% 2.0% Net profit $m 145 120 75 55 44 Net performance The table in the next column shows an fee income $m : Operating analysis of net management fee income expenses First half of year 29 55 54 48 1 income 72.5% 75.1% 77.6% 77.5% 79.2% and net performance fee income over Second half of year 90 181 124 31 111 the last five years and the margin ratio, Net profit Full year 119 236 178 79 112 income 27.5% 24.9% 22.4% 22.5% 20.8% as a percentage of average funds under Performance management FUM in each year.
Net fees FUM 0.3% 0.7% 0.9% 0.9% 2.2% management fee income includes the Other profit and loss amounts fee income described above less all sales In the profit and loss account table above, Net interest income of $44 million arises commissions payable, finance costs and all Associates and JVs is the contribution from on non-segregated cash balances and overheads not allocated to performance financial interests in Affiliated Managers and investments in Brokerage and margins on fees.
Net performance fee income includes includes established managers, such as loans to funds in Asset Management, offset the fee income detailed above less those BlueCrest and new managers.
BlueCrest by interest expense on borrowings to finance overheads allocated to performance fees, contributed $12 million to net management acquisitions and working capital requirements.
which almost entirely relate to employee fee income and $14 million to net Goodwill amortisation principally relates performance compensation.
performance fee income in the year.
to the RMF acquisition made in 2003 Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 25 Financial Review Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 26 Financial Review $47 million and also to the Glenwood, Balance sheet for the adoption of UITF 38 Accounting for Man Investments Australia and BlueCrest The Groups balance sheet remains ESOP trusts and UITF 17 revised 2003 acquisitions in Asset Management, and the strong.
At 31 March 2005, shareholders Employee share schemes.
These Accounts GNI acquisition in Brokerage.
The exceptional equity was up 18% at $2,424 million.
At incorporate the principles of Financial item relates to the loss on sale of an interest 31 March 2005 the Group had a net cash Reporting Standard FRS 18 Accounting in a private equity business, which was sold position of $903 million 2004: net cash Policies, which seeks to ensure that the in the second half of the financial year.
most appropriate accounting policies are adopted by the Board for the purpose of The tax charge for the year amounts to The growth in the futures and stock lending giving a true and fair view of the Groups $176 million 2004: $162 million.
The effective businesses in Brokerage has had the effect results and financial position.
rate on profit before tax, goodwill amortisation of increasing both current assets and shortand exceptional items was 20.5% 2004: term creditors by $0.5 billion.
In addition, In accordance with UITF 38, own shares 20.5%.
The majority of the Groups profit there has been a net $60 million increase in held in ESOP trusts have been reclassified is earned in Switzerland and the UK and unamortised sales commissions in Asset from fixed asset investments to a deduction the current effective tax rate is consistent Management, reflecting the strong level of from shareholders funds.
Also, gains and with this profit mix.
The effective tax rate sales in the year.
The high level of sales in losses on the sale of own shares are no on total profit before tax of 22.5% 2004: the year has also resulted in loans to funds longer recognised in the profit and loss 22.7% reflects the non-deductible nature increasing slightly by $151 million to $505 account.
In accordance with UITF 17 of the majority of the goodwill amortisation million at the year-end.
The programme to revised 2003, the basis for calculating the charged in the year.
externalise loans to funds is discussed in profit and loss account charge in relation to the External financing initiatives section in employee share schemes has changed.
The Full details of earnings per share and the the Risk and risk management part of this effect of these changes, including details of weighted average number of shares are Review.
the associated prior year adjustments, is given in note 13 to the Accounts.
given in note 25 to the Accounts.
During the year the Group extended its debt Cash flow maturity profile and further diversified its International Financial Reporting Net Group cash inflow for the year was sources of funding through issuing $300 Standards $408 million, driven off strong cash million of senior debt to the US private As outlined in previous Annual and Interim generation from net operating profits.
placement market, with maturities ranging Reports, the Group will be implementing from five to 10 years.
Further details are given International Financial Reporting Standards $m in the Available liquidity section in the Risk IFRS for the financial year ending 31 March and risk management section of this Review.
A detailed qualitative review of the Operating profit pre amortisation and depreciation 877 Investments in associates decreased as a impact of IFRS on the Group was given in Increase in working capital 191 result of the Group selling Sugar Australia, the Financial Review in the 2004 Annual Taxation paid 143 its sugar refining business.
An update of this qualitative review Dividends paid 177 was partly offset by an increase in the is given below, including an assessment of Disposals 20 Groups share of the retained earnings of the impact of new and revised IFRSs issued Net capital expenditure and financial investment 45 its other associates, in particular BlueCrest.
by the International Accounting Standards Other 67 Board, and the developments in interpretation Cash inflow for the year 408 Returns to shareholders of those standards.
These are subject There was a small increase in working Total shareholder return is measured as to ongoing amendment by the IASB, capital in Asset Management from the the change in the value of a share plus the subsequent endorsement by the European increase in loans to funds of $151 million, value of the dividends paid, assuming Commission and further developments in and the net increase of $60 million in that the dividends are reinvested in the their interpretation, with the result that sales commissions paid as a result of Companys shares on the day on which further changes in accounting may arise.
the high level of sales in the year, net they were paid.
On this basis, the Group Having taken into account the best practice of a decrease of $90 million in proprietary returned -20% during the year, compared to guidance provided by CESR Committee investments in fund products.
There was the FTSE 100 return of 16% and a return of European Securities Regulators in a small increase in working capital of -1% from our industry sector Speciality December 2003 and in August 2004 from requirements in Brokerage.
Over the last five years The Hundred Group of Finance Directors, the Groups return to shareholders has the Board considers that the clearest and Net capital expenditure and financial averaged 23% compound per annum, most effective way to communicate the investment comprises investments of compared to the FTSE 100 average return quantified impact of IFRS is to issue a press $17 million, principally relating to long-term of -3% compound per annum and the release, accompanied by a presentation, a investments in the funds, and $28 million Speciality and Other Finance sector average few weeks after the preliminary announcement expenditure on tangible fixed assets, return of -0.5% compound per annum.
of the UK GAAP year-end results.
This mainly office refurbishment and IT systems.
press release will give summary financial Accounting standards and information for the financial year ended In the above table Other largely relates to developments 31 March 2005 with reconciliations to the net interest receivable of $50 million and The Board and the Audit and Risk previously published UK GAAP figures and dividends receivable from associates and Committee regularly review and update is planned to be issued on 5 July 2005. joint ventures of $19 million.
where appropriate the Groups accounting This will enable users of the Groups policies and disclosures.
There have been Accounts to distinguish the financial impact no significant changes from last year, except of developments in the business from the Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 27 Financial Review effect of changes in accounting caused by into a floating rate.
Hedge accounting is the estimated average remaining working the conversion to IFRS.
effectively applied to these swaps under lives of the employees concerned.
UK GAAP: under IFRS, hedge accounting The Groups conversion project, which cannot be applied and these swaps are fair Goodwill amortisation started in January 2003, has progressed valued through the income statement.
UK GAAP requires goodwill to be amortised significantly during the last year with the over its estimated useful life, which the main focus being on the identification and Hedge accounting Group has typically estimated to be between resolution of significant changes in accounting The Group currently applies hedge accounting three and 15 years.
Under IFRS, goodwill is treatment, data requirements and system in a limited number of instances.
The main considered to have an indefinite life and is gaps.
In addition, the project has included application of hedge accounting is to hedge therefore not amortised, but is subject to an the provision of IFRS training and awareness future sterling and Swiss franc overhead annual impairment test.
The value of goodwill sessions for the finance functions worldwide payments.
The other application is the is therefore frozen as at the transition date and for other senior management whose use of interest rate swaps to hedge fixed and amortisation reported under UK GAAP departments will be affected by the change interest rates to floating rates on US for the financial year ended 31 March 2005 to IFRS.
Set out below is an update of the private placement debt.
will be reversed as an IFRS adjustment.
qualitative review of the significant impacts that was included in the 2004 Annual Report.
Under UK GAAP, fair value movements on Dividends hedging derivatives are deferred off balance Under UK GAAP normal practice is to Exchangeable bonds sheet and recognised in the same period in account for dividends proposed relating to any The present UK GAAP approach is to treat which gains or losses on the hedged item given accounting period in that period.
Under the exchangeable bonds as debt instruments, are recognised.
Under IAS 39, for cash IFRS, a dividend is not recognised as a liability without anticipating exchange.
Under IFRS, flow hedges, such as the hedge of non-US until the dividend is declared and approved if the exchangeable bonds are compound dollar overheads, the effective portion of required, which is usually after the accounting financial instruments as defined by IAS 32. changes in the fair value of derivatives that period to which it relates.
Accordingly, there As such, the debt and conversion option are designated and qualify as cash flow will be an IFRS adjustment to the 31 March components have to be separately classified hedges are recognised in equity.
Gains 2004 balance sheet as the final dividend and measured.
As at 12 November 2002, and losses relating to any ineffective portion for the financial year ended 31 March 2004 the date of issue, the fair value of the are recognised immediately in the income is not recognised until the first half of the exchangeable bonds in US dollar terms statement.
Fair value gains and losses following financial year.
The balance sheets was $735 million, the debt component accumulated in equity are recycled in the for 30 September 2004 and 31 March 2005 being $598 million with the remaining $137 income statement in the periods when the will contain a similar adjustment for the interim million allocated to the conversion option.
hedged item will affect profit or loss for and final dividends respectively.
The fair value of the debt component was instance when the forecast payment that is determined on the issue date using a hedged takes place.
Under IAS 39, for fair Grossing-up of Man Financials assets market interest rate for an equivalent nonvalue hedges, such as the hedging of and liabilities exchangeable bond.
This amount is interest rates, changes in the fair value of In the UK GAAP Accounts, where the recorded as a liability on an amortised cost derivatives that are designated and qualify Group acts as an intermediary and assumes basis until extinguished on conversion or as fair value hedges are recorded in the minimal risk, the Groups policy is for assets maturity of the bonds.
The finance cost income statement, together with any and liabilities to be netted on the balance charged to the income statement includes changes in the fair value of the hedged sheet.
Under IFRS, netting is only permitted the discount which does not exist under asset or liability that are attributable to where there is the ability and the intention to UK GAAP, interest coupon and issue costs.
This is often not the case for Man The remainder of the proceeds received on Financial, hence certain assets and liabilities issue was allocated to the conversion option.
Pensions on the Groups balance sheet are required From 5 November 2004, when the cash Under UK GAAP, the Group accounts for to be grossed-up.
settlement alternative option that existed on pensions in accordance with SSAP 24, which issue was revoked, the conversion option spreads the costs of providing benefits over Reclassification of various assets was recognised as an equity instrument the estimated average remaining service lives as intangibles as part of shareholders equity and not of the employees.
IAS 19 requires separate IAS 38 revises the UK GAAP definition of an subsequently remeasured.
Before this date, recognition of the operating and financing intangible asset with the result that a wider the conversion option was classified as a costs of defined benefit pension schemes range of assets meets the definition.
derivative within liabilities and fair valued in the income statement.
The Group intends through the income statement.
As a result of to apply the IFRS 1 exemption to recognise Sales commissions are paid when a fund movements in Man Group plcs share price all cumulative actuarial gains and losses in product is first launched.
Under both UK during the period between 12 November relation to employee defined benefit schemes GAAP and IFRS these upfront commissions 2002 and 5 November 2004, under IFRS the at the date of transition, 1 April 2004.
The are capitalised on the balance sheet and fair value gains and losses on the conversion standard permits a number of options for amortised over five years.
Under UK GAAP option posted to the income statement will the recognition of actuarial gains and losses these sales commissions are classified as be significant in the comparative year to going forward.
The Groups policy will be prepayments, within debtors: under IFRS 31 March 2005. to apply the corridor approach requiring they are classified as intangible assets.
actuarial gains and losses in excess of 10% This has a significant impact on the Groups The Group has entered into interest rate of the greater of the schemes assets and regulatory capital headroom see section swap agreements to hedge the fixed defined benefit obligations to be recognised on Regulatory capital but has no impact interest rate on the exchangeable bonds in the income statement, but spread over on the income statement or on net assets.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 28 Financial Review Computer software is included within Share-based payments: The current tangible fixed assets under UK GAAP.
treatment under UK GAAP is to charge Under IFRS, only computer software which the intrinsic value of share awards grants is integral to another fixed asset is included as at the date of award grant to the in tangible fixed assets.
All other computer income statement.
Where shares or software is classified as an intangible asset.
options are granted at no cost to the employee such as the Groups CoExchange shares market seats and investment scheme and long-term long-term investments in funds incentive plan the income statement is Under UK GAAP, Man Financials exchange charged with an amount equal to the shares and market seats, and investments market price on the date of award grant, in the funds held by Man Investments for spread over the performance period.
the long-term, are classified as fixed asset For share options granted at market investments and held at cost less any price, there is no charge to the income impairment.
Under the IFRS definition of statement.
In accordance with IFRS 2, a financial asset they are classified as for those equity-settled share awards available for sale assets and fair valued, with grants made after 7 November 2002, gains and losses being posted to equity and which covers the majority of unvested recycled through the income statement on awards grants, the charge to the income disposal of the asset.
statement represents the fair value at the date of award grant.
The Group has used Fund entities appropriate present economic valuation Under IFRS, the Group is required to models and methodologies for calculating re-assess the accounting treatment of the fair value of each share award option, the fund entities of which the Group is the including using a binomial option pricing investment manager.
Under UK GAAP these model for valuing executive share options.
fund entities are not consolidated in the Although the calculation is different, the Group's Accounts.
To the extent that it is resultant charge is not materially different deemed that any of the fund entities are from that under UK GAAP.
required to be consolidated in accordance Effective interest method: IAS 39 with IAS 27, the impact on the Group's net requires receivables and certain financial assets or underlying earnings per share is liabilities to be measured at amortised believed to be immaterial.
cost using the effective interest method.
Largely as a result of discounting certain Trail commissions long-term receivables and payables, the Trail commissions are paid to intermediaries application of the effective interest method as long as an investor maintains an will result in a small net change to the investment.
Under UK GAAP, trail finance charge.
commissions are charged to net operating Taxation: The scope of IAS 12 Income income as incurred.
The Group is considering taxes is wider than the corresponding UK the appropriate treatment of these contracts GAAP standards, and requires deferred under IFRS, in particular whether the net tax to be provided on all temporary present value of this future obligation should differences rather than just timing be recognised as a financial liability, together differences as under UK GAAP.
The main with a matching financial asset at the time additional provisions for deferred tax the obligation arises.
assets liabilities, required by IFRS, relate to the provision of deferred tax in respect Functional currency of the Groups liabilities under its defined included in the interest and taxation lines The functional currency of each Group pension schemes arrangements and on on the income statement.
IFRS requires entity has been reviewed.
Under IFRS, the other employee benefits such as share the profit loss from associates and joint functional currency of certain entities has award option schemes.
Also deferred tax ventures to be shown as a single figure, changed to US dollars to reflect the is required to be provided on unrealised representing the net profit loss attributable functional currency of its parent.
fair value gains losses relating to hedging to the Group.
This leads to a instruments and available for sale assets.
reclassification adjustment removing the Other changes Share of results of associates joint share of the associates joint ventures There are a number of other less ventures: Under UK GAAP, the Groups interest and tax from those lines in the significant adjustments and reclassifications, share of operating profit loss from income statement and including them in which include: associates and joint ventures is shown the share of operating profit loss from the before interest and tax these being associates and joint ventures line.
Man Group plc Annual Report 2005 29 Financial Review
