Operating and financial review Operating and financial review 06 This section of the Annual Report and Accounts sets out Schroders operating and financial review as follows: External environment 6 Schroders 7 Beliefs, business model and strategy 10 Key business drivers 11 Financial position 15 We have considered the guidance provided by the Accounting Standards Board in compiling this operating and financial review.
While this guidance is not mandatory, we have sought to apply current best practice in corporate disclosure in order to enhance information for our stakeholders, without prejudicing the confidential nature of commercially sensitive information.
External environment Global industry trends The asset management industry continues to go through a period hedge fund management techniques, using derivatives and of substantial change, driven by developments in capital market leverage to tailor specific risk reward products, are moving more conditions, client preferences, regulation and industry economics: into the asset management mainstream: liability-matching, structured solutions provided by investment clearer differentiation between the roles of asset class banks, with significant derivative components, represent real performance beta and active value added alpha is competition to traditional asset managers in some areas: increasing the polarisation between passive and active economies of scale continue to favour the larger, diversified asset managers, with demand for the latter tending to focus on higher management groups, particularly in the mutual fund area.
At the risk reward strategies than hitherto: same time, low barriers to entry encourage new entrants at the benign economic conditions and a low return interest rate single product, boutique end of the market: and environment are pushing unconstrained investors to allocate the regulatory capital implications of the imminent roll-out of Basel away from bonds towards equities.
More transparency in II and the European Capital Requirements Directives are changing reporting is driving long term pension funds in the opposite the outlook for hybrid asset management banking groups.
direction, as company sponsors seek to reduce volatility by matching assets more closely to the liabilities that they back: These developments present both opportunities and challenges for Schroders.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review 07 Investment environment 80% of gross profit and 77% of costs, is Asset Management.
2005 was a strong year for equity markets across the world, Success in this, our core business, involves accessing clients, driven by buoyant consumer demand, growing corporate profit identifying their needs, devising investment solutions and delivering and low interest and inflation rates.
Bond markets were resilient, them over time as products which meet performance objectives.
particularly at the long end, while low volatility depressed returns in To achieve this, the Asset Management business is organised into some hedge fund strategies.
three divisions: We expect global economic activity to moderate in 2006, led by a Distribution deals mainly with the client-facing aspects of the slowdown in US consumer spending under pressure from a process, choosing and operating the right channels to access combination of higher interest rates and a cooling housing market.
clients, identifying their needs, participating in the design of While we do not expect the high returns from equity and bond products that meet those needs and the value propositions that markets seen in 2005 to be repeated, we believe that in aggregate underlie them, delivering them to clients and servicing them when the environment should remain relatively benign.
in place: Investment comprises all our portfolio management, research While a slowing US economy will have some impact on the rest of and dealing functions covering a wide range of asset classes the world, we believe other economies will stay generally strong, within equities, fixed income and alternatives.
It also participates with Asia in particular maintaining the growth levels experienced in product design, concentrating particularly on the risk reward during 2005.
The UK may be an exception, with sub-trend growth features of the value proposition: it then takes on the as consumer demand fades.
Across the world, however, growing responsibility for delivering the investment performance required capital spending by companies should help to offset weaker to support each product and ensuring that performance is consumer indices.
Many companies have a build-up of cash on their reliable and sustainable over time: and balance sheets, which should see them increasing investment in Infrastructure provides and maintains the physical and virtual their businesses as well as buying back shares.
This also suggests platforms necessary to support Investment and Distribution in that the high levels of merger and acquisition activity we saw last delivering all aspects of the client proposition, while overseeing year will continue a trend which has supported equity markets.
quality assurance and the control environment around the whole package.
While Asset Management is the primary focus of its In aggregate, we expect global company profit growth to slow, activities, Infrastructure also provides support to the other parts but to stay in line with positive, albeit more moderate, economic of the Group.
Despite our expectation of a domestic economic slowdown in the US, we see particular strength in the US equities Of the other segments, Private Banking is responsible for our market.
It now offers attractive investment opportunities, having services to high net worth individuals and certain smaller underperformed in the face of rising interest rates other higherinstitutions: Asset management, as distinct from banking, is the risk markets in last years equity rally, and has many defensive main service that Private Banking offers to its clients and for this characteristics in a slowing global environment.
reason it has previously been included as a distribution channel within the Asset Management segment.
Nonetheless, its balance Schroders sheet size dictates its disclosure this year, for the first time, as a Overview separate segment, in accordance with International Financial Schroders is a global provider of asset management services for Reporting Standards IFRS.
Private Banking maintains its own institutional, retail and private clients across most of the major asset dedicated distribution, investment and infrastructure resources, as classes.
Our operations have a broad geographical span covering well as drawing on those available from the wider Group.
all the main financial centres of the world, with 33 offices grouped under four regional management structures covering the UK, Private Equity comprises the Groups investments and carry Americas, continental Europe and Asia Pacific.
The management of rights in private equity, venture and buyout funds and related international assets is concentrated in London and Singapore, a vehicles, arising principally from its historic relationship with various further ten offices are primarily responsible for managing domestic former Schroder Ventures entities including Permira.
Over recent assets, with the remainder acting as sales offices.
years the Groups investment activities in this segment have reduced, as we have concentrated on realising returns from the Organisation existing portfolio and adding to it only in areas such as funds of Schroders results this year are divided between four business funds, where our main interest has been in receiving a share of segments: within these by far the largest segment, accounting for fund management fees rather than making investment gains.
Operating and financial review 08 Funds under management By channel By client domicile By asset class Retail 30% 29% UK 43% 46% Equities 69% 69% Institutional 64% 65% Continental Europe 23% 22% Fixed Income 22% 22% Private Banking 6% 6% Asia Pacific 22% 21% Alternative Investments 9% 9% Americas 12% 11% The Group Net Income Costs segment consists of income on by risk profile: we cater for clients with both relative and the Groups liquid and seed capital less Group costs and absolute return requirements and strategies ranging from core provisions those costs not directly attributable to the other to high alpha.
Our range of risk profiles has tended to avoid the segments and the results of the leasing business and other extremes at both the low and high ends: as active fund residual assets.
managers, we have little low value-added passive business, while our development of high-risk, single strategy hedge fund Business profile products has been limited to date.
Schroders has a highly diversified business profile.
Operational data by geography: together with its traditionally strong market The charts and tables in this operating and financial review illustrate: position in the UK, the Group's focus on the rapidly growing savings markets of Asia and continental Europe has ensured that year end funds under management FUM split by channel, the client and revenue base is well diversified and is not client domicile, and asset class: dependent on any single market.
gross profit, split by channel and client domicile: by channel: we address the needs of a full spectrum of clients geographical deployment of employees at year-end: including institutional, retail and high net worth individuals, accessed both directly and through intermediaries.
FUM flows: and by asset class: we are active in all the major asset classes income and cost metrics for the Group and Asset Management.
including equities, fixed income and alternatives.
Figures shown are for 2005 and 2004 comparatives, where relevant, are shown in brackets.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review 09 Asset Management and Private Banking gross profit Employees By channel By client domicile By geographical deployment Retail 47% 43% UK 39% 43% UK 55% 54% Institutional 41% 44% Continental Europe 31% 27% Continental Europe 16% 16% Private Banking 12% 13% Asia Pacific 23% 22% Asia Pacific 21% 22% Americas 7% 8% Americas 8% 8% Funds under management Income and cost metrics for the Group and Asset Management Private Total Institutional Retail Banking bn bn bn bn 2005 2004 Group cost:income ratio 66% 66% 31 December 2004 105.6 69.1 30.2 6.3 Group return on average capital pre-tax 20% 20% Group return on average capital post-tax 16% 16% Gross sales 31.5 9.1 20.3 2.1 Asset Management cost: gross profit 69% 74% Gross redemptions 36.5 14.7 20.3 1.5 Asset Management gross profit on average funds under management 51bp 46bp Net asset gains losses 5.0 5.6 0.0 0.6 Asset Management costs on average funds under management 35bp 34bp Market movement 21.9 15.2 5.8 0.9 Asset Management costs on 31 December 2005 122.5 78.7 36.0 7.8 closing funds under management 33bp 31bp Average capital 2005: 1,230.8 million, 2004: 1,069.4 million.
Included within 2005 is an increase of 47.8 million related to the implementation of IAS 32 and 39 on 1 January 2005.
Operating and financial review 10 Flexibility: With a business model predicated on growth, it is Beliefs, business model and strategy sensible to have a proportion of the cost base fixed and volume Beliefs insensitive, in order to be able to capitalise on economies of scale.
Our objective is to be a pre-eminent provider of active asset This operational gearing works in reverse in the event of declining management services to institutional and individual investors turnover, whether driven by reductions in market levels or lost worldwide and in doing so to reward our shareholders by growing business.
Flexibility in other parts of the cost base is particularly returns on a sustainable basis over the long term.
In tackling this important in such circumstances.
For the last three years, total objective, we start from a number of beliefs: compensation costs have been budgeted as a fixed but reducing percentage of operating revenues.
Explicitly linking compensation we believe that Schroders core business, asset management, costs to revenues goes some way to offset the operational has exciting growth prospects driven by secular trends in gearing implicit in fixed costs elsewhere in the business: and demographics, savings requirements, and market economics: we believe in active asset management.
Markets and indices are Financial strength: There may be years in which the benefits of inherently inefficient, their inefficiencies can be exposed by diversification and cost cutting, whether formulaic or discretionary, research and analysis and exploited on a systematic basis: are inadequate to deal with market or corporate shocks.
In such we believe in the benefits of an exclusive focus on asset circumstances, the Group must be able to fall back on the management, avoiding conflicts of interest: strength of its capital base and its conservative financial structure to ensure that it can continue to invest to meet the challenges of we believe in a globally integrated approach to the management the future.
The strength of the Groups finances was a key factor of the business, leveraging our skills and brand strength across a that sustained the business through the difficult times of 2002 wide variety of markets and asset classes, gaining business and the first half of 2003 and maintaining a healthy balance efficiencies and economies of scale: and sheet remains a component of the business model today.
we believe we must excel in both investment and client service and recognise the primacy of both.
Strategy To meet our objective of being a pre-eminent provider of active Business model asset management services to institutional and individual investors Our talent pool, brand strength, geographic reach and capability worldwide, we need a highly competitive product range in equities, across a broad range of asset classes enable us to develop our fixed income and alternative investments, with an investment business across a wide variety of asset management activities solutions capability within our institutional business.
Our overall around the world.
We seek to combine this breadth of activity with strategic priorities are: the ability to cope with the periodic downturns that affect the asset management sector.
This resilience is based on three components to achieve market leadership for our institutional business in its of our business model: chosen asset classes in the UK, US and Japan, serving a diverse range of clients which include defined benefit and Diversification: Diversification by asset class, client segment defined contribution pension plans, insurance companies, banks, and geography is designed to ensure that temporary foundations, charities and endowments, governments and weaknesses in individual products or services do not have a supra-nationals: disproportionate effect on the health of the overall Group.
In any to extend our international mutual funds business, leveraging our active asset management business, not all strategies will be existing strategic position through increased distribution into successful in delivering value to clients all of the time and some continental Europe, Asia Pacific and Latin America.
In the UK we products will go through periods of underperformance, which seek to be within the top five mutual funds businesses in our may be accompanied by weak sales or client redemptions.
major products, while we are looking to use our successful Other products, like balanced fund management in the UK European and Asian distribution models to expand into the US institutional market, may simply go out of fashion for a period.
market over the next few years: Diversification is a key risk mitigator in such circumstances.
Even in the event of a decline of earnings from an entire asset class, to distinguish our Asset Management revenue sources between such as equities after a major market correction, relatively less high alpha products and lower risk, process-driven offerings correlated earnings from managing fixed income and alternatives and to develop our investment capability and structure to reflect will go some way to dilute the impact: this model: Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review 11 to develop our Private Banking business to be an integral and to 21.9 billion.
While fund flows and asset allocation shifts in multiprofitable part of the Groups portfolio, including identifying further asset portfolios make it difficult to be precise, we estimate that operational efficiencies: equities as an asset class accounted for approximately 76% of gross profit in 2005 2004: 75%.
A decline of 1% across all equity to balance our earnings base between asset classes sufficiently markets would have had an estimated annualised gross profit to ensure that the Group is profitable through the economic cycle: impact of around 4.4 million on the basis of our business as at the to optimise our operating costs with focused cost and efficiency end of 2005 end 2004: 3.4 million.
programs, both through enhancing straight through processing capability in the asset management value chain and more Generating superior investment performance, supported by a generally within our administrative and infrastructure functions, well defined investment process, is the key driver behind client targeting a cost:income ratio at or below industry standard for retention and new business flows.
We measure overall investment our business: and performance by tracking the percentage of institutional and retail to consider acquisition strategies where such additions provide assets which are above benchmark and peer group respectively us with an accelerated means of achieving our business over a three year period.
At 31 December 2005: 61% of objectives and where we can reap clear strategic and or institutional assets were above benchmark and 65% of retail synergistic benefits.
assets were above peer group, a modest reduction on the position in the previous year 2004: 67% and 70% respectively.
Internally, Key business drivers we follow these measures by product over a variety of time horizons ranging from one month to five years.
Revenues Gross profit from asset management activities equate broadly to Product availability comprises three components: FUM times fee rates.
The effects of the principal factors that influence these two parameters are illustrated in the chart below.
capability: can we manage the product?
Paradoxically, all of the drivers identified in blue affect both aspects of business mix FUM and fee rates, making it difficult to discuss design: do we produce the product in the form that the market either in isolation.
capacity: can we take on any more assets in the product without damaging performance?
Asset Class Performance It is not easy to put generalised metrics around these issues.
We Client Asset Allocation monitor actively gaps in our product range and have a process in place to develop and launch new ones, as well as retire older ones that are no longer in demand.
We also have a policy of diversifying our products in the larger asset classes to mitigate capacity Funds Under Investment Fee Rates Management Performance constraints.
Distribution skills is shorthand for the value added by sales and marketing, which control not only which products are sold Product Availability to which sections of the client base, but also how scarce Distribution Skills resources in product and service are allocated across markets and asset classes.
The key metrics that we look at relate to average revenues per unit of FUM gross profit margins, diversification of the revenue base Asset class performance and client asset allocation are driven between channels and gross sales and net sales.
In 2005, gross by the external environment of economic performance and client profit margin in Asset Management rose to 51 basis points, up demand.
For budgetary purposes, we assume modest and gradual from 46 basis points in 2004.
The split by channel showed a growth in markets from one year to the next, recognising that the further shift towards Retail, with Retail gross profits accounting for outturn is rarely as smooth in practice.
Growth in funds under 53% of the total compared to 49% in 2004: Institutional reduced management as a result of market movements in 2005 amounted by 4% to 47%.
Operating and financial review 12 Gross sales reached record levels in 2005, totalling 31.5 billion Compensation costs were 41.1% as a percentage of total Group 2004: 25.9 billion.
Net sales in Institutional registered an outflow of income in 2004, rising to 42.1% in 2005.
5.6 billion, an improvement of 2.8 billion compared to the previous year 2004: 8.4 billion outflow.
Retail net flows were flat over the Capital year 2004: 5.9 billion inflow, depressed by the soft closure of Schroders has a substantial pool of capital to support its business, certain funds and changes in key fund managers.
Private Banking derived from retained earnings and the proceeds from the sale of achieved a net inflow of 0.6 billion 2004: 0.7 billion inflow.
its investment banking business in 2000.
Costs Equity shareholders funds at 31 December 2005 were 1.34 billion.
Management of costs and operational efficiency are key drivers for 2005 2004 all participants within the asset management industry.
At mn mn Schroders we manage costs in the context of progress towards Regulatory 230.0 209.4 achieving our target cost:income ratio of 65% for the Group as a Other operating 208.2 116.9 whole.
In doing so, we target compensation and nonGoodwill 24.6 24.5 compensation costs separately.
462.8 350.8 Liquid funds 411.9 369.2 Non-compensation costs Investment in infrastructure is Third party hedge funds 134.3 122.7 important to maintain competitive advantage, but spending in this Other Schroders funds 165.9 103.3 area must reflect market conditions and what the Group can Private Equity 160.9 164.4 afford.
We put a strong control framework around projects to Leasing 7.0 8.8 ensure they are cost efficient and managed appropriately to time 880.0 768.4 and budget.
In addition, Schroders has a proactive procurement Total 1,342.8 1,119.2 programme which seeks to ensure best pricing is obtained, using preferred supplier arrangements and constant reappraisal against First call on the capital pool goes to meeting the regulatory and external benchmarks.
working capital requirements of our existing businesses and 463 million was allocated to this at the end of 2005 2004: 351 In the long term, we target a Group non-compensation million.
The balance is available as investment capital to meet the cost:income ratio in the range of 20-25%, in order to strike a good following strategic priorities: balance between current cost control and continuous reinvestment to meet the challenges of the future.
In 2004 the ratio was 24.7%, first, to assist existing products and businesses and to decreasing to 23.7% in 2005. accelerate their development: Compensation costs In managing staff costs, Schroders seeks next, to support the organic development of new businesses to achieve an appropriate balance between absolute cost control which fit with the existing asset management franchise: and and providing appropriate incentives to reward and retain the last, to respond to inorganic investment and growth highest quality, motivated staff.
opportunities, such as acquisitions that will accelerate the development of our business, as they arise.
In the context of an overall cost:income ratio target of 65%, allowing 20-25% for non-compensation costs leaves 40%-45% of revenues available in the long term to meet compensation costs.
Schroders has moved towards this target from much higher levels over a number of years.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review 13 Within these parameters, capital has been deployed to support Risk framework existing products and businesses via short term seed capital Risk management is embedded in our corporate culture, the way investments, mainly in our mutual fund range, as well as longer we operate and the way we manage all aspects of our business.
term investments in our hedge, property and private equity funds.
It is the role and responsibility of management to ensure that We have also invested during the year to set up our new joint proper controls are in place to maintain high quality standards in venture in China with Bank of Communications.
Since the year every aspect of our business.
The business receives support in end, the Group has announced an agreement to acquire the performance of its responsibilities from central advisory and NewFinance Capital, a London-based manager of funds of independent review functions.
Risk in Schroders is managed by...
The remainder of our capital is invested in money market products... identification, evaluation,... using tools, systems,... and tested through and a portfolio of third party hedge funds, so as to optimise the monitoring and policies and specialist advice Independent review return on investments, while minimising the risk of capital losses management... provided centrally... and advice.... within business areas.. and maintaining a high level of liquidity.
The strategy focuses on generating pre-tax profit, minimising currency risk and not Insurance increasing the Groups operational gearing to equity markets.
Group Compliance Information assurance Line management Advisory Monitoring While there is no explicit target for returns on investment capital, Group Market & Systems risk credit risk Schroders aim for non-private equity investment capital is to Audit achieve a return above LIBOR.
During 2005 the Group achieved Investment Local risk management risk resource Internal External returns of 7.1% 2004: 5.6%, helped by good returns on seed Operational risk Audit Audit capital, compared to a sterling one-month LIBOR rate of 4.7% 2004: 4.5%.
The Private Equity portfolio mainly consists of legacy investments in Permira and other former Schroder Ventures funds, together Within our risk management framework we monitor performance with our 6% shareholding in SVG Capital plc.
At present the against 20 or more risk categories through the year.
In common strategy is to run down the legacy investments as we receive with previous years, three of our top risk categories for 2005 were: realisations.
SVG Capital performed very strongly in 2005 and our investment increased in value by 9.7 million.
Under IFRS, key people and skills availability: this appreciation is reflected in shareholders funds and will not investment performance: and pass through the profit and loss account until the underlying systems and infrastructure projects.
Recruiting, developing and retaining key talent is the core focus of Given the uneven nature of Private Equity distributions, we do not our human resources and compensation processes see People set targets for annual returns on Private Equity.
Based on the existing on page 14. portfolio, we expect returns to decline over time, as our investment exposure drops and funds within the portfolio mature.
Risk management around investment performance focuses on ensuring that sufficient but not excessive risk is taken in client portfolios and is supported by sophisticated tools and processes.
Systems and infrastructure project risks are covered by a comprehensive approval and monitoring system see Systems and infrastructure on page 14.
Operating and financial review 14 People Systems and infrastructure Our people are our most important asset.
We have great talent at The project, commenced in 2000, to outsource much of every level of Schroders and it is a priority for us to manage our Schroders' London back office to JP Morgan strongly influenced people effectively and develop our talent to help deliver our full priorities in our systems architecture over its five-year life.
We aim to make Schroders a place where talented significant feature of the outsourced environment was to have professionals can develop their skills and experience throughout a been the decommissioning of a number of legacy systems.
When the project was terminated in the middle of 2005, we implemented a comprehensive re-planning exercise for our We recruit and retain outstanding people, and we invest in their application strategy and enterprise architecture.
We place emphasis on the accountability of individuals and our recruitment, appraisal and The new target operating model involves the renewal of a number training policies are designed to find, develop and retain people of core components of our systems infrastructure as well as who work with drive and determination to achieve the best results investment in automation and structural work to support future for our clients.
A key component is the requirement to replace our legacy portfolio accounting system over the next two years, We recognise the importance of our employees and our aim is to but other initiatives include enhancing performance measurement be an employer of choice wherever we operate.
This means that and attribution: exiting UK custody: automating reconciliation we work to ensure employee policies and practices reflect best processes: streamlining the flow of data between systems: and practice within each of the countries in which we operate.
In 2004 we introduced a global employee opinion survey.
As a In parallel with the systems renewal processes under way, we are result of the feedback we received in 2004 and 2005, we are evolving our investment toolset.
The latest release of our equity continuing a number of initiatives to: research platform has industry-leading capabilities and our fixed income analytics system has recently been substantially upgraded.
improve communication globally and locally to ensure that We continue to support a best-of-breed approach, incorporating employee views are represented in the discussion of key issues established third party applications in most areas, but recognise the for Schroders: need to champion bespoke solutions and innovation to support the investment process.
We plan to continue the global roll-out of key IT enhance career development and training opportunities across applications and to increase the involvement of all regions in our the Group: and data infrastructure.
make the basis for reward decisions more open and transparent.
We have established a set of standards and guidelines to be More information on our strategy for our people can be found in followed for all projects under the ownership of a new Group the Corporate Responsibility Report at www.
In addition, we use a central Project Approval Committee PAC to assess all proposed projects and maintain a control framework for project spend, delivery and timing.
Once approved, the PAC monitors project progress as well as adherence to the Schroders project standards.
Schroders' IT infrastructure in London is managed on behalf of the Group by CSC Computer Sciences Limited.
This relationship has been in place since 2001 and has recently been renewed.
While Schroders does not believe in outsourcing key components of asset management, client servicing or business support, we continue to view outsourcing as an appropriate option in areas which are not part of our core competencies.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review 15 Overall Asset Management gross profit margins improved from 46 Financial position basis points to 51 basis points, while the ratio of Asset Management Group financial performance costs to gross profit fell from 74% to 69% over the year, reflecting The results in 2005 show a year of continuing improvement in the positive impact of rising markets, change in business mix and profitability.
Group profit before tax of 250.7 million compares with the continuing focus on cost management.
a profit of 211.6 million in 2004, an increase of 18% year on year.
At the same time, the share of profit before tax generated by the Private Banking Gross profit in Private Banking increased by Asset Management and Private Banking businesses increased to 14% to 72.1 million from 63.3 million.
The gain on a 80% from 59% in 2004. discontinued outsourcing contract contributed 0.3 million 2004: nil, while administrative and depreciation costs were 66.1 million Total revenues were 808.0 million 2004: 679.1 million, while 2004: 59.8 million.
Operating profit for the year was gross profit was 677.0 million 2004: 591.2 million, principally 6.3 million 2004: 3.5 million and funds under management due to higher market levels, the continuing shift in the business increased to 7.8 billion 2004: 6.3 billion.
mix towards Retail and Private Banking and higher margins on the book of Institutional business.
The gain on a discontinued Private Equity The Groups Private Equity profit before tax was outsourcing contract contributed 20.4 million 2004: nil, while 40.3 million in 2005 2004: 83.8 million as a result of realised administrative, depreciation and amortisation costs were 484.3 gains and carried interest participations.
This represented a million 2004: 408.6 million and included a 9.2 million provision reduction in profit from 2004 of 43.5 million, although profit in for vacant space costs in the year 2004: 2.7 million.
The 2004 benefited from a gain before minority interests of 47.8 increase in administrative costs was principally due to increased million relating to the disposal of a private equity investment by variable compensation linked to higher revenues and profitability Internet Finance Partners and a mark-to-market gain of 6.3 and a modest increase in staff during the year.
Operating profit for million on the Groups holding in SVG Capital plc.
With the the year was 213.1 million 2004: 182.6 million.
application of IAS 39 from 2005 onwards, gains and losses on this investment are now taken to reserves and then recycled through The Groups profit attributable to shareholders after tax and the income statement on disposal.
minority interests was 191.3 million 2004: 155.7 million.
Basic and diluted earnings per share were 65.7 pence and 65.1 Group Net Income Costs Group Net Income Costs pence respectively 2004: 53.5 pence and 53.1 pence respectively.
comprises income on the Groups investment capital excluding Private Equity less Group costs and provisions and includes Asset Management Total revenues in Asset Management costs not directly attributable to the other segments as well as the increased by 28% to 667.8 million from 520.8 million, results of the leasing business.
Gains within the segment generating a gross profit of 539.0 million 2004: 434.6 million.
increased to 10.2 million 2004: 3.4 million, as improved The gain on a discontinued outsourcing contract contributed returns from the Groups seed capital and other Schroders funds 20.1 million 2004: nil, while administrative, depreciation and outweighed increased costs.
Cost increases largely arose from amortisation costs were 374.0 million 2004: 319.9 million.
provisioning for surplus office space and an increase in Operating profit for the year was 185.1 million 2004: 114.7 compensation costs within the segment.
Net interest receivable generated 9.0 million 2004: 6.0 million.
In addition, Asset Managements share of operating losses in associates and joint ventures was 0.2 million 2004: profit of 0.2 million.
In 2005 these principally consisted of losses from the Groups joint venture in China with the Bank of Communications.
Operating and financial review 16 Accounting policies Treasury policies and objectives The consolidated financial information has been prepared for the The Groups treasury function has two main purposes: i to manage first time in accordance with policies consistent with IFRS, which the Groups short term liquidity requirements and ii to manage the comprise standards and interpretations approved by either the Groups investment capital and currency exposure in accordance International Accounting Standards Board or the International with policies laid down by the Groups Capital Committee.
The Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee or their Group is operating in compliance with these policies.
predecessors, which had been approved by the European Commission as at 31 December 2005.
Property costs The Group manages property costs and space requirements on a Taxation country-by-country basis.
Each country undertakes a periodic The effective tax rate for the Group is 23% 2004: 19%.
This is review of space requirements based upon current projections of lower than the current UK corporate tax rate of 30% because of staffing requirements, to identify any need to provide for surplus the level of profit arising in low or nil tax jurisdictions, which more space under IAS 37. than offsets the impact of profit arising in higher tax jurisdictions and a reduction in deferred tax recognition relating to US losses.
The latest review undertaken in the UK identified additional surplus Potential deferred tax assets not recognised in relation to space based on current staffing projections and accordingly a loss-making businesses, primarily in the US, now stand at charge of 9.2 million was taken in the year.
space provision increased to 16.0 million at 31 December 2005.
The Groups deferred tax assets have increased to 54.9 million Cash flows 2004: 54.1 million primarily owing to the impact of an increased A significant proportion of the cash flows reflected in the financial non-voting share price on the Equity Compensation Plan and statements relate to the Private Banking businesses.
Stripping options awards giving rise to UK deferred tax assets.
these out leaves three significant non-operating items: i cash inflows from the repayment of loans by associates 30.3 million : Credit rating ii cash inflows during the year relating to net interest received The Groups credit ratings are shown in the table below: 15.7 million : and iii cash outflows during the year relating to payment of dividends 59.5 million.
Short Long term term Dividends Fitch IBCA F1 A Dividends declared and paid during 2005, being the final dividend for 2004 and the interim dividend for 2005, came to 20.5 pence Standard & Poors A1 A per share or 59.5 million, which was covered 3.2 times by the Groups profit attributable to equity holders of the parent.
Fitch IBCA reaffirmed their rating on 23 December 2005, whilst Standard & Poors reaffirmed their rating on 5 July 2005.
Both The Directors recommend a final dividend of 14.5 pence per share agencies maintain a stable outlook for the Group.
Annual Report & Accounts 2005 Operating and financial review 17 Corporate actions There were no significant corporate actions in 2005.
On 21 February 2006 we announced that we had signed an agreement to acquire NewFinance Capital, a London-based manager of funds of hedge funds.
Pensions The Group operates a number of pension schemes around the world.
Where these schemes are defined benefit schemes, valuations are performed regularly by qualified actuaries.
The principal Group scheme is in the UK and had 419 active members at 31 December 2005 2004: 515 active members.
Pensions have been accounted for in accordance with IAS 19 with a net cost of 6.4 million 2004: 5.2 million relating to the Groups UK defined benefit scheme.
Under IAS 19 the market value of the assets of the scheme is 480.5 million and the surplus on the scheme is 8.8 million.
In April 2005, the Group made a special payment of 30.3 million to the UK defined benefit scheme, to extinguish the deficit at 31 December 2004 as calculated under FRS 17.
Further disclosures in relation to retirement benefits are contained in Note 4 to the financial accounts.
Currency exposure Allowing for the effect of foreign exchange hedges, approximately 93% of the Groups capital is invested in four currencies: Sterling, US dollars, Euros and Swiss francs 2004: 94%.
77% of the Groups capital is in Sterling 2004: 81%.
Jonathan Asquith Chief Financial Officer 6 March 2006
