Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations the international political and economic climate, armed Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May conflicts, terrorist attacks and threats thereof, availability Affect Future Results of air service, other world events and adverse publicity, Some of the statements contained in this 2005 Annual and their impact on the demand for cruises: Report are forward-looking statements that involve risks, accidents and other incidents affecting the health, safety, uncertainties and assumptions with respect to us, including security and vacation satisfaction of passengers, including some statements concerning future results, outlook, plans, machinery and equipment failures, which could cause goals and other events which have not yet occurred.
These the alteration of itineraries or cancellation of a cruise or a statements are intended to qualify for the safe harbors from series of cruises and the impact of the spread of contaliability provided by Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 gious diseases: and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
You changing consumer preferences, which may, among other can find many, but not all, of these statements by looking for things, adversely impact the demand for cruises: words like will, may, believes, expects, anticipates, forecast, future, intends, plans, and estimates and our ability to implement our shipbuilding programs and for similar expressions.
brand strategies and to continue to expand our business Because forward-looking statements involve risks and worldwide: uncertainties, there are many factors that could cause our our ability to attract and retain qualified shipboard crew actual results, performance or achievements to differ mateand maintain good relations with employee unions: rially from those expressed or implied in this 2005 Annual our ability to obtain financing on terms that are favorable Report.
Forward-looking statements include those statements or consistent with our expectations: which may impact the forecasting of our earnings per share, the impact of changes in financing and operating costs, net revenue yields, booking levels, pricing, occupancy, operatincluding changes in foreign currency exchange rates and ing, financing and or tax costs, fuel costs, costs per available interest rates and fuel, food, payroll, insurance and seculower berth day ALBD, estimates of ship depreciable lives rity costs: and residual values, outlook or business prospects.
These factors include, but are not limited to, the following: the impact of pending or threatened litigation: risks associated with the DLC structure, including the changes in the environmental, health, safety, security, tax uncertainty of its tax status: and other regulatory regimes under which we operate: general economic and business conditions, which may continued availability of attractive port destinations: impact levels of disposable income of consumers and net our ability to successfully implement cost reduction plans: revenue yields for our cruise brands: continuing financial viability of our travel agent distribution conditions in the cruise and land-based vacation industries, system and air service providers: and including competition from other cruise ship operators and unusual weather patterns or natural disasters, such as providers of other vacation alternatives and increases in hurricanes and earthquakes.
capacity offered by cruise ship and land-based vacation Forward-looking statements should not be relied upon as alternatives: a prediction of actual results.
Subject to any continuing oblirisks associated with operating internationally: gations under applicable law or any relevant listing rules, we the implementation of U. S. regulations requiring U. S. citiexpressly disclaim any obligation to disseminate, after the zens to obtain passports for travel to or from additional date of this 2005 Annual Report, any updates or revisions to foreign destinations: any such forward-looking statements to reflect any change in expectations or events, conditions or circumstances on which any such statements are based.
32 Carnival Corporation & plc entering service, is expected to be 5.1%, 7.5%, 8.4% and Executive Overview 6.5% for fiscal 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009, respectively, In 2003, the demand for travel was challenged by, among based on ships currently on order and net of the expected other things, an unstable geopolitical environment, a weaker sale of the Pacific Sky by P&O Cruises Australia in May 2006. economy, the emergence of Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome SARS in Asia and the threat and eventual outOutlook for Fiscal 2006 2006 break of war in Iraq.
These events had a negative effect on As of December 16, 2005 we said that we expected our the publics willingness to travel, and consequently, negatively 2006 full year earnings per share will be between $3.00 to impacted our net revenue yields see Key Performance $3.10.
We also said that we expected our first quarter 2006 Indicators below.
earnings per share to be in the range of $0.34 to $0.36.
Our Since the beginning of 2004 and continuing through 2005, guidance was based on the then current forward fuel price the effects of those factors on the cruise industry were curve for all of 2006 of $322 per metric ton and $312 per reduced, and we experienced a substantial improvement in metric ton for the first quarter 2006.
In addition, this guidance our net revenue yields.
The improvement in net revenue yields was also based on currency exchange rates of $1.17 to the was primarily the result of higher passenger ticket prices, euro and $1.73 to sterling.
onboard revenues and occupancy and, to a lesser extent, a Our 2006 outlook includes the impact of two accounting weaker U. S. dollar relative to the euro and sterling.
Commencing with the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we in 2005 pricing was achieved despite an 8.5% increase in will begin to recognize compensation costs in our statement cruise capacity relating to the introduction of three new ships of operations in an amount equal to the fair value of sharein fiscal 2005.
In addition, from 2003 through 2005, the cruise based payments granted to employees and directors pursuant industry was impacted by substantial increases in fuel prices.
123 R. The increase in our share-based compenHowever, the 2005 increased net revenue yields more than sation expense in 2006 is expected to be approximately $55 compensated for the increase in fuel costs.
It is possible that million compared to our reported fiscal 2005 stock-based fuel prices may continue to increase in 2006 and future years.
Also commencing with As discussed below, our 2006 earnings guidance is impacted the first quarter of fiscal 2006, we will change the period over by an expectation of higher fuel costs.
which we amortize our deferred dry-dock costs to the length Throughout this period we generated significant cash flows of time between dry-docks, generally two to three years, and remained in a strong financial position, which is a high instead of amortizing them generally over one to two years.
priority and we believe provides us with a competitive advanThis change in estimate reflects the lengthening of the time tage in the capital intensive cruise industry.
However, our between dry-docks, resulting from regulatory changes and operations are subject to many risks, as briefly noted above technological enhancements to our ships.
In 2006, this change and under the caption Cautionary Note Concerning Factors is expected to reduce dry-dock amortization by approximately That May Affect Future Results, which could adversely $40 million compared to normal levels of dry-dock amortization.
Since the date of our December earnings release, the cruise During calendar 2005, we ordered six additional ships for our industry has begun a period of heavy bookings generally North American and European brands, which are expected to referred to as wave season.
Bookings and pricing for our be delivered between 2007 and 2009.
As of January 30, 2006, brands since the start of wave season are up slightly comwe had signed agreements with two shipyards providing for pared to the corresponding period last year.
the construction of 16 additional cruise ships see Note 7 in Since our December guidance, the February 7, 2006 forward the accompanying financial statements.
These new ships are prices for fuel for the full year 2006 and first quarter 2006 expected to continue to help us maintain our leadership posihave increased from $322 per ton and $312 per ton to $334 tion within the cruise industry.
The year-over-year percentage per ton and $321 per ton, respectively.
If actual fuel prices for increases in our ALBD capacity, resulting from new ships the full year 2006 and first quarter 2006 ultimately equal the Carnival Corporation & plc 33 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued more recent forward prices, our diluted earnings per share U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar strengthwould be reduced by $0.04 and $0.01 for the full year 2006 ens against these foreign currencies.
Accordingly, we also and first quarter 2006, respectively.
monitor our two non-GAAP financial measures assuming the Partially offsetting the impact of fuel prices, the U. S. dollar current period currency exchange rates have remained conhas weakened relative to both the euro and sterling, to curstant with the prior years comparable period rates, or on a rency exchange rates of $1.20 to the euro and $1.75 to sterling.
constant dollar basis, in order to remove the impact of Assuming the exchange rates remain at the current levels, our changes in exchange rates on our non-U.
diluted earnings per share would increase by approximately We believe that this is a useful measure indicating the actual $0.01 for the year 2006 and would be unchanged for the 2006 growth of our operations in a fluctuating exchange rate envifirst quarter.
On a constant dollar basis, net cruise revenues and net cruise costs would be $8.63 billion and $5.15 billion for Key Performance Indicators and fiscal 2005, respectively.
In addition to our two non-GAAP Pro Forma Information financial measures discussed above, our non-U.
S. cruise operations depreciation and net interest expense were We use net cruise revenues per ALBD net revenue impacted by the changes in exchange rates for fiscal 2005 yields and net cruise costs per ALBD as significant noncompared to 2004.
GAAP financial measures of our cruise segment financial Our 2003 reported results only included the results of performance.
We believe that net revenue yields are comP&O Princess since April 17, 2003.
Consequently, for the year monly used in the cruise industry to measure a companys ended November 30, 2004, we believe that the most meancruise segment revenue performance.
This measure is also ingful comparison of our annual operating income and revenue used for revenue management purposes.
In calculating net and cost metrics is to the comparable pro forma results and revenue yields, we use net cruise revenues rather than metrics in 2003, which reflect the operations of both Carnival gross cruise revenues.
We believe that net cruise revenues Corporation and P&O Princess as if the companies had been is a more meaningful measure in determining revenue yield consolidated throughout 2003.
Accordingly, we have disclosed than gross cruise revenues because it reflects the cruise pro forma information for the year ended November 30, 2003, revenues earned by us net of our most significant variable as well as the required reported information, in the discussion costs, which are travel agent commissions, cost of air of our results of operations.
transportation and certain other variable direct costs associThe 2003 pro forma information was computed by adding ated with onboard revenues.
Substantially all of our remaining the results of P&O Princess annual operations, and acquicruise costs are largely fixed once our ship capacity levels sition adjustments of $16 million of depreciation expense have been determined.
and $3 million of interest expense and excluding $51 million Net cruise costs per ALBD is the most significant measure of nonrecurring DLC transaction costs, to the 2003 we use to monitor our ability to control our cruise segment Carnival Corporation reported results for the year ended costs rather than gross cruise costs per ALBD.
In calculating November 30, 2003. net cruise costs, we exclude the same variable costs that are included in the calculation of net cruise revenues.
This is done Critical Accounting Estimates to avoid duplicating these variable costs in these two nonGAAP financial measures.
Our critical accounting estimates are those which we In addition, because a significant portion of our operations believe require our most significant judgments about the utilize the euro or sterling to measure their results and finaneffect of matters that are inherently uncertain.
A discussion cial condition, the translation of those operations to our U. S. of our critical accounting estimates, the underlying judgments dollar reporting currency results in increases in reported and uncertainties used to make them and the likelihood that U. S. dollar revenues and expenses if the U. S. dollar weakens materially different estimates would be reported under differagainst these foreign currencies, and decreases in reported ent conditions or using different assumptions is as follows: 34 Carnival Corporation & plc Ship Accounting decrease in depreciation expense, as less costs would have Our most significant assets are our ships and ships under been initially capitalized to our ships.
Our fiscal 2005 ship construction, which represent 85% of our total assets.
We depreciation expense would have increased by approximately make several critical accounting estimates dealing with our $23 million for every year we reduced our estimated average ship accounting.
First, we compute our ships depreciation 30 year ship useful life.
In addition, if our ships were estimated expense, which represented 11% of our cruise operating to have no residual value, our fiscal 2005 depreciation expenses in fiscal 2005, which requires us to estimate the expense would have increased by approximately $120 million.
average useful life of each of our ships, as well as their residWe believe that the estimates we made for ship accountual values.
Secondly, we account for ship improvement costs ing purposes are reasonable and our methods are consistently by capitalizing those costs, that we believe will add value applied and, accordingly, result in depreciation expense that to our ships and depreciate those improvements over their is based on a rational and systematic method to equitably estimated useful lives, while expensing repairs and mainteallocate the costs of our ships to the periods during which finance costs as they are incurred.
Finally, when we record the services are obtained from their use.
In addition, we believe retirement of a ship component that is included within the that the estimates we made are reasonable and our methods ships cost basis, we estimate its net book value to determine consistently applied 1 in determining the average useful life the amount of ship component retired.
and average residual values of our ships: 2 in determining We determine the average useful life of our ships and which ship improvement costs add value to our ships: and their residual values based primarily on our estimates of the 3 in determining the net book value of ship component weighted-average useful lives and residual values of the ships assets being replaced or refurbished.
Finally, we believe our major component systems, such as cabins, main diesels, main critical ship accounting estimates are generally comparable electric, superstructure and hull.
In addition, we consider, with those of other major cruise companies.
among other things, long-term vacation market conditions Asset Impairment and competition and historical useful lives of similarly-built The impairment reviews of our ship, trademark assets and ships.
We have estimated our new ships average useful lives of our goodwill, which has been allocated to our cruise line at 30 years and their average residual values at 15% of our reporting units, require us to make significant estimates to original ship cost.
determine the fair values of these assets or reporting units.
Given the very large and complex nature of our ships, ship The determination of fair value includes numerous unceraccounting estimates require considerable judgment and are tainties, unless a viable actively traded market exists for the inherently uncertain.
We do not have cost segregation studies asset or for a comparable reporting unit, which is usually not performed to specifically componentize our ship systems.
the case for cruise ships, cruise lines and trademarks.
For In addition, since we do not separately componentize our example, in determining fair values of ships and cruise lines ships, we do not identify and track depreciation of specific utilizing discounted forecasted cash flows, significant judgcomponent systems.
Therefore, we have to estimate the net ments are made concerning, among other things, future net book value of components that are replaced or refurbished, revenue yields, net cruise costs per ALBD, interest and disbased primarily upon their replacement or refurbishment cost count rates, cruise itineraries, ship additions and retirements, and the age of the ship.
technological changes, consumer demand, governmental If materially different conditions existed, or if we materially regulations and the effects of competition.
In addition, third changed our assumptions of ship lives and residual values, our party appraisers are sometimes used to determine fair values depreciation expense or loss on replacement or refurbishment and some of their valuation methodologies are also subject of ship assets and net book value of our ships would be mateto similar types of uncertainties.
Also, the determination of rially different.
In addition, if we change our assumptions in fair values of reporting units using a price earnings multiple making our determinations as to whether improvements to a approach also requires significant judgments, such as detership add value, the amounts we expense each year as repair mining reasonably comparable multiples.
Finally, determining and maintenance costs could increase, partially offset by a Carnival Corporation & plc 35 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued trademark fair values also requires significant judgments in Results of Operations determining both the estimated trademark cash flows, and We earn our cruise revenues primarily from the following: the appropriate royalty rates to be applied to those cash flows sales of passenger cruise tickets and, in some cases, the to determine their fair value.
We believe that we have made sale of air and other transportation to and from our ships.
reasonable estimates and judgments in determining whether The cruise ticket price includes accommodations, most our ships, goodwill and trademarks have been impaired.
meals, some non-alcoholic beverages, entertainment and However, if there is a material change in the assumptions many onboard activities, and used in our determination of fair value or if there is a material change in the conditions or circumstances influencing fair the sale of goods and or services primarily on board our value, we could be required to recognize a material impairships, which include bar and some beverage sales, casino ment charge.
gaming, shore excursions, gift shop and spa sales, photo and art sales, and preand post cruise land packages.
Contingencies These goods and services are either provided directly by We periodically assess the potential liabilities related to us or by independent concessionaires, from which we any lawsuits or claims brought against us, as well as for other receive a percentage of their revenues.
known unasserted claims, including environmental, legal, We incur cruise operating costs and expenses for the passenger and crew, and tax matters.
While it is typically very following: difficult to determine the timing and ultimate outcome of these matters, we use our best judgment to determine if it is probathe costs of passenger cruise tickets, which represent ble that we will incur an expense related to the settlement or costs that vary directly with passenger cruise ticket revefinal adjudication of such matters and whether a reasonable nues, and include travel agent commissions, air and other estimation of such probable loss, if any, can be made.
In travel related costs, assessing probable losses, we make estimates of the amount onboard and other cruise costs, which represent costs of insurance recoveries, if any.
We accrue a liability when we that vary directly with onboard and other revenues, and believe a loss is probable and the amount of the loss can be include the costs of liquor and some beverages, costs reasonably estimated, in accordance with the provisions of of tangible goods sold by us from our gift, photo and art SFAS No.
5, Accounting for Contingencies, as amended.
auction activities, preand post cruise land packages and Such accruals are typically based on developments to date, credit card fees.
Concession revenues do not have any managements estimates of the outcomes of these matters, significant amount of costs associated with them, as the our experience in contesting, litigating and settling other simicosts and services incurred for these activities are prolar matters, historical claims experience and actuarially detervided by our concessionaires, mined assumptions of liabilities, and any related insurance payroll and related costs, which represent costs for all our coverage.
See Note 8 in the accompanying financial statements shipboard personnel, including deck and engine officers for additional information concerning our contingencies.
and crew and hotel and administrative employees, Given the inherent uncertainty related to the eventual outfood costs, which include both our passenger and crew come of these matters and potential insurance recoveries, it food costs, is possible that all or some of these matters may be resolved fuel costs, which include fuel delivery costs, and for amounts materially different from any provisions or disclosures that we may have made with respect to their resolution.
other ship operating costs, which include repairs and In addition, as new information becomes available, we may maintenance, port charges, insurance, entertainment and need to reassess the amount of probable liability that needs all other shipboard operating costs and expenses.
to be accrued related to our contingencies.
All such revisions For segment information related to our revenues, in our estimates could materially impact our results of operaexpenses, operating income and other financial information tions and financial position.
see Note 12 in the accompanying financial statements.
Net cruise Revenues costs per ALBD as measured on a constant dollar basis comNet cruise revenues increased $1.17 billion, or 15.6%, to pared to 2004 increased 4.3% in 2005 and were flat excluding $8.66 billion in 2005 from $7.50 billion in 2004.
The 8.5% fuel costs and the MNOPF contribution, compared to 2004. increase in ALBDs between 2005 and 2004 accounted for Gross cruise costs increased $765 million, or 11.8%, in 2005 $638 million of the increase, and the remaining $528 million to $7.24 billion from $6.48 billion in 2004, which was a lower was from increased net revenue yields, which increased 6.5% percentage increase than net cruise costs primarily because in 2005 compared to 2004 gross revenue yields increased by of the lower proportion of passengers who purchased air 4.9%.
Net revenue yields increased in 2005 primarily from transportation from us in 2005. higher cruise ticket prices, a 1.1% increase in occupancy, Other non-cruise operating expense increased $57 million, higher onboard revenues and the weaker U. S. dollar relative to or 18.5%, to $365 million in 2005 from $308 million in 2004 the euro and sterling.
Net revenue yields as measured on a primarily due to the increase in the number of cruise tours sold.
constant dollar basis increased 6.1% in 2005.
Gross cruise Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $90 revenues increased $1.31 billion, or 13.9%, in 2005 to $10.74 million, or 11.1%, to $902 million in 2005 from $812 million in billion from $9.43 billion in 2004 for largely the same reasons 2004 largely due to the 8.5% increase in ALBDs through the as net cruise revenues.
addition of new ships and ship improvement expenditures.
Onboard and other revenues included concession revenues Nonoperating Expense Income of $289 million in 2005 and $261 million in 2004.
Onboard Net interest expense, excluding capitalized interest, and other revenues increased in 2005 compared to 2004, increased $31 million in 2005 to $323 million in 2005 from primarily because of the 8.5% increase in ALBDs and increased $292 million in 2004.
This increase was primarily due to a passenger spending on our ships.
$36 million increase in interest expense from higher average Other non-cruise revenues increased $69 million, or 17.3%, borrowing rates and a weaker U. S. dollar, partially offset by to $467 million in 2005 from $398 million in 2004 primarily a $5 million increase in interest income due to higher average due to the increase in the number of cruise tours sold.
Costs and Expenses Other expense in 2005 included a $22 million expense for Net cruise costs increased $623 million, or 13.7%, to $5.17 the write-down of a non-cruise investment, partially offset by billion in 2005 from $4.55 billion in 2004.
The 8.5% increase $7 million income from the settlement of litigation associated in ALBDs between 2004 and 2005 accounted for $387 million with the DLC transaction.
of the increase, and the remaining $236 million was from Income Taxes increased net cruise costs per ALBD, which increased 4.8% Income tax expense increased by $26 million from 2004 to in 2005 compared to 2004 gross cruise costs per ALBD $73 million in 2005 from $47 million in 2004 primarily because increased 3.0%.
Net cruise costs per ALBD increased primarwe recorded approximately $18 million for U. S. income taxes ily due to a $66 increase in fuel cost per metric ton, or 34.0%, related to the charter of three ships to the Military Sealift to $260 per metric ton in 2005, higher dry-dock amortization Carnival Corporation & plc 39 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued Command MSC in connection with the Hurricane Katrina Onboard and other revenues included concession revenues relief efforts.
Commencing in September 2005, these three of $261 million in 2004, $201 million in pro forma 2003 and ships were chartered for six months, and pursuant to our $192 million in reported 2003, which increased in 2004 comagreement with the MSC, the net earnings from the charter pared to both pro forma 2003 and reported 2003 primarily will be equal to the amount of net earnings we would have because of the increases in ALBDs and increased passenger earned on these ships if we had not entered into this charter.
Other non-cruise revenues increased $48 million, or 13.7%, Fiscal 2004 2004 Compared to to $398 million in 2004 from $350 million in pro forma 2003 Pro Forma 2003 pro forma 2003 and an increase of $53 million, or 15.4% from $345 million in Reported Results 2003 reported 2003 reported 2003 primarily due to the increase in the number of cruise tours sold, as well as price increases.
Revenues Net cruise revenues increased $1.67 billion, or 29%, to Costs and Expenses $7.50 billion in 2004 from $5.83 billion in pro forma 2003.
Net cruise costs increased $777 million, or 21%, to $4.55 The 17.2% increase in ALBDs between pro forma 2003 billion in 2004 from $3.77 billion in pro forma 2003.
The and 2004 accounted for $1.0 billion of the increase, and the 17.2% increase in ALBDs between pro forma 2003 and 2004 remaining $670 million was from increased net revenue yields, accounted for $650 million of the increase, and the remaining which increased 9.8% in 2004 compared to pro forma 2003 $127 million was from increased net cruise costs per ALBD, gross revenue yields increased by 9.7%.
Net revenue yields which increased 2.9% in 2004 compared to pro forma 2003 increased in 2004 primarily from higher cruise ticket prices, a gross cruise costs per ALBD increased 4.8%.
Net cruise 1.9% increase in occupancy, higher onboard revenues and the costs per ALBD increased primarily due to a $15 increase in weaker U. S. dollar relative to the euro and sterling.
Net revefuel cost per metric ton, or 8.4%, to $194 per metric ton in nue yields as measured on a constant dollar basis increased 2004 and the weaker U. S. dollar relative to the euro and the 6.6% in 2004.
Gross cruise revenues increased $2.10 billion, sterling in 2004.
Net cruise costs per ALBD as measured on or 29%, in 2004 to $9.43 billion from $7.33 billion in pro forma a constant dollar basis compared to pro forma 2003 declined 2003 primarily for the same reasons as net cruise revenues.
The decrease in constant dollar net cruise Net cruise revenues increased $2.29 billion, or 44%, to costs was primarily the result of the economies of scale asso- $7.50 billion in 2004 from $5.21 billion in reported 2003.
The ciated with the pro forma 17.2% ALBD increase and synergy 32.1% increase in ALBDs between reported 2003 and 2004, savings from the integration efforts following the DLC transwhich included P&O Princess for a full year in 2004, but only action.
Gross cruise costs increased $1.20 billion, or 23%, since April 17, 2003 during 2003, accounted for $1.67 billion in 2004 to $6.48 billion from $5.23 billion in pro forma 2003 of the increase, and the remaining $615 million was from primarily for the same reasons as net cruise costs.
increased net revenue yields, which increased 8.9% in 2004 Net cruise costs increased $1.28 billion, or 39%, to $4.55 compared to 2003 gross revenue yields increased by 10.5%.
billion in 2004 from $3.27 billion in reported 2003.
The 32.1% Net revenue yields increased primarily for the same reasons increase in ALBDs between reported 2003 and 2004 accounted as noted above.
Gross cruise revenues increased $2.97 billion, for $1.05 billion of the increase, and the remaining $230 milor 46%, in 2004 to $9.43 billion from $6.46 billion for primarlion was from increased net cruise costs per ALBD, which ily the same reasons as net cruise revenues.
increased 5.2% in 2004 compared to reported 2003 gross 40 Carnival Corporation & plc cruise costs per ALBD increased 8.5%.
Net cruise costs per Liquidity and Capital Resources ALBD increased primarily for the same reasons as noted above.
Sources and Uses of Cash Gross cruise costs increased $1.96 billion, or 43%, in 2004 to Our business provided $3.41 billion of net cash from opera- $6.48 billion from $4.52 billion in reported 2003 primarily for tions during fiscal 2005, an increase of $194 million, or 6.0%, the same reasons as net cruise costs and a higher proportion compared to fiscal 2004.
We continue to generate substantial of P&O Princess brands customers who purchased air from us.
cash from operations and remain in a strong financial position, Other non-cruise operating expense increased $24 million, thus providing us with substantial financial flexibility in meetor 8.5%, to $308 million in 2004 from $284 million in pro ing operating, investing and financing needs.
forma 2003 an increase of $32 million, or 11.6%, from $276 During fiscal 2005, our net expenditures for capital projects million in reported 2003 primarily due to the increased volume were $1.98 billion, of which $1.47 billion was spent for our of cruise tours sold in 2004. ongoing new shipbuilding program, including the final delivery Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $159 payments for the Carnival Valor, Carnival Liberty and P&O million, or 24.3%, to $812 million in 2004 from $653 million in Cruises Arcadia.
The remaining capital expenditures consisted pro forma 2003 largely due to the pro forma 17.2% expansion primarily of $324 million for ship improvements and refurbishof the combined fleet and ship improvement expenditures, ments, and $179 million for Alaska tour assets, cruise port as well as the impact of a weaker U. S. dollar.
Depreciation facility developments and information technology assets.
and amortization increased by $227 million, or 38.8%, to During fiscal 2004, our net expenditures for capital projects $812 million in 2004 from $585 million in reported 2003. were $3.59 billion primarily because we took delivery of This increase was primarily due to the same factors as noted seven new ships.
above and the result of the consolidation of P&O Princess.
During fiscal 2005, we borrowed $1.15 billion, of which Nonoperating Expense Income a portion was used to pay a part of the Arcadia and Carnival Net interest expense, excluding capitalized interest, Liberty purchase prices and to refinance debt as noted below.
increased to $292 million in 2004 from $217 million in reported During fiscal 2005, we made $609 million of debt repayments, 2003, or $75 million, which increase consisted primarily of a which included the final payment on our capitalized lease $102 million increase in interest expense from our higher level obligations of $110 million, $100 million repayment of our of average borrowings and a weaker U. S. dollar, partially off- 7.05% fixed rate notes and $253 million in repayments of set by a $27 million decrease in interest expense due to lower Costa indebtedness.
In addition, we refinanced $487 million average borrowing rates.
The higher average debt balances of euro debt in 2005 to reduce our future borrowing rate.
were primarily a result of our consolidation of the former P&O We also paid cash dividends of $566 million and purchased Princess debt and new ship deliveries.
$386 million of treasury stock during 2005.
Income Taxes Income tax expense increased $18 million from reported 2003 to $47 million in 2004 primarily because of the increase in Costas Italian taxable income and other taxes relating to our operations.
Fixed-rate interest payments represent cash outflows for fixed interest payments, including interest swapped from a variable-rate to a fixed-rate, but does not include interest payments on variablerate debt or interest swapped from a fixed-rate to a variable-rate.
Ship construction contracts entered into after November 30, 2005 aggregated $2.26 billion.
b Represents legally-binding commitments to purchase inventory and other goods and services made in the normal course of business to meet operational requirements.
Many of our contracts contain clauses that allow us to terminate the contract with notice, and with or without a termination penalty.
Termination penalties are generally an amount less than the original obligation.
Historically, we have not had any significant defaults of our contractual obligations or incurred significant penalties for termination of our contractual obligations.
c Represents cash outflows for certain of our long-term liabilities that could be reasonably estimated.
The primary outflows are for estimates of our employee benefit plan obligations, crew and passenger claims, certain deferred income taxes and other long-term liabilities.
Other long-term liabilities, such as deferred income, derivative contracts payable, which convert fixed rate debt to variable rate debt, fair value of hedged commitments and certain deferred income taxes, have been excluded from the table as they do not require cash settlement in the future or the timing of the cash outflow cannot be reasonably estimated.
d Foreign currency payments are based on the November 30, 2005 exchange rates.
During 2004, the Boards of Directors authorized the to fund most of our expected capital projects, debt service repurchase of up to an aggregate of $1 billion of Carnival requirements, dividend payments, working capital and other Corporation common stock and or Carnival plc ordinary shares firm commitments.
In addition, based on our future forecasted commencing in 2005, subject to certain repurchase restricoperating results and cash flows for fiscal 2006, we expect tions on Carnival plc shares.
From December 1, 2004 through to be in compliance with our debt covenants during 2006.
February 6, 2006, we had repurchased 8.0 million shares for However, our forecasted cash flow from future operations, $386 million.
as well as our credit ratings, may be adversely affected by At November 30, 2005, as adjusted for $916 million of various factors, including, but not limited to, those factors additional committed ship financing facilities entered into in noted under Cautionary Note Concerning Factors That May January 2006, we had liquidity of $4.67 billion, which conAffect Future Results.
To the extent that we are required, or sisted of $1.19 billion of cash, cash equivalents and short-term choose, to fund future cash requirements, including our future investments, $1.83 billion available for borrowing under our shipbuilding commitments, from sources other than as disrevolving credit facility, and $1.65 billion under committed cussed above, we believe that we will be able to secure such ship financing facilities.
Our revolving credit facility matures financing from banks or through the offering of debt and or in 2010.
A key to our access to liquidity is the maintenance equity securities in the public or private markets.
No assurof our strong credit ratings.
ance can be given that our future operating cash flow will be Based primarily on our historical results, current financial sufficient to fund future obligations or that we will be able to condition and future forecasts, we believe that our existing obtain additional financing, if necessary.
liquidity and cash flow from future operations will be sufficient 42 Carnival Corporation & plc by fluctuations in the value of the functional currency as comOff-Balance Sheet Arrangements pared to the currency in which the shipbuilding contract is We are not a party to any off-balance sheet arrangements, denominated.
We generally use foreign currency swaps including guarantee contracts, retained or contingent interests, to manage foreign currency exchange rate risk from ship certain derivative instruments and variable interest entities, construction contracts see Notes 2, 7 and 11 in the accomthat either have, or are reasonably likely to have, a current or panying financial statements.
Accordingly, increases and future material effect on our financial statements.
decreases in the fair value of these foreign currency swaps offset changes in the fair value of the foreign currency denomForeign Currency Exchange Rate Risks inated ship construction commitments, thus resulting in the In 2003, we broadened our global presence through elimination of such risk.
Carnival plcs foreign operations, in addition to the foreign Specifically, we have foreign currency swaps for three of currency denominated operations of our Costa subsidiary.
our euro denominated shipbuilding contracts.
At November 30, Specifically, our expanded international business operations 2005, the fair value of these foreign currency swaps was a through P&O Cruises, Ocean Village and Swan Hellenic in the net unrealized gain of $29 million which is recorded, along UK and AIDA in Germany subject us to an increasing level of with an offsetting $29 million fair value liability related to our foreign currency exchange risk related to the sterling and euro shipbuilding firm commitments, on our accompanying 2005 because these operations have either the sterling or the euro balance sheet.
Based upon a 10% strengthening or weakenas their functional currency.
Accordingly, exchange rate fluctuing of the U. S. dollar and sterling compared to the euro as of ations of the sterling and the euro against the dollar will affect November 30, 2005, assuming no changes in comparative our reported financial results since the reporting currency for interest rates, the estimated fair value of these foreign currency our consolidated financial statements is the U. S. dollar and swaps would decrease or increase by $120 million, which the functional currency for our international operations is would be offset by a decrease or increase of $120 million in generally the local currency.
Any weakening of the U. S. dollar the U. S. dollar value of the related foreign currency ship conagainst these local functional currencies has the financial struction commitments resulting in no net dollar impact to us.
statement effect of increasing the U. S. dollar values reported However, at November 30, 2005, as adjusted for our for cruise revenues and cruise expenses in our consolidated December 2005 ship orders, we have two euro denominated financial statements.
Strengthening of the U. S. dollar has the shipbuilding contracts aggregating 1.05 billion in euros assigned opposite effect.
to Carnival Cruise Lines, a U. S. dollar functional currency operWe seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in foreign ation, for which we have not entered into any foreign currency currency exchange rates through our normal operating and swaps.
Therefore, the U. S. dollar cost of these ships will financing activities, including netting certain exposures to increase or decrease based upon changes in the exchange take advantage of any natural offsets and, when considered rate until the payments are made under the shipbuilding conappropriate, through the use of derivative financial instrutracts or we enter into a foreign currency swap.
The financial impacts of these hedging instruments commitments effectively act as an economic hedge against are generally offset by corresponding changes in the undera portion of our net investment in euro-denominated cruise lying exposures being hedged.
Our policy is to not use any operations.
Accordingly, any increase or decrease in our ship financial instruments for trading or other speculative purposes.
costs resulting from changes in the exchange rate will be One of our primary foreign currency exchange rate risks offset by a corresponding change in the net assets of our is related to our outstanding commitments under ship coneuro-denominated cruise operations.
Based upon a 10% struction contracts denominated in a currency other than the hypothetical increase or decrease in the November 30, 2005 functional currency of the cruise brand that is expected to be U. S. dollar to euro foreign currency exchange rate, the cost operating the ship.
These currency commitments are affected of these ships would increase or decrease by $124 million.
Carnival Corporation & plc 43 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations continued Decisions regarding whether or not to hedge a given ship floating rate and fixed rate debt based on our view of interest commitment are made on a case-by-case basis, taking into rate movements through the use of interest rate swaps.
At consideration the amount and duration of the exposure, marNovember 30, 2005, 75% of the interest cost on our longket volatility, and economic trends.
term debt was effectively fixed and 25% was variable, includThe cost of shipbuilding orders that we may place in the ing the effect of our interest rate swaps.
future for our cruise lines who generate their cash flows Specifically, we have interest rate swaps at November 30, in a currency that is different than the shipyards operating 2005, which effectively changed $926 million of fixed rate currency, generally the euro, is expected to be affected by debt to libor-based floating rate debt.
In addition, we have foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations.
Given the decline interest rate swaps at November 30, 2005, which effectively in the U. S. dollar relative to the euro over the past several changed $961 million and $286 of euribor and GBP libor floatyears, the U. S. dollar cost to order new cruise ships at current ing rate debt, respectively, to fixed rate debt.
The fair value of exchange rates has increased significantly.
If the U. S. dollar our long-term debt and interest rate swaps at November 30, remains at current levels or declines further, this may affect 2005 was $7.70 billion.
Based upon a hypothetical 10% our ability to order future new cruise ships for U. S. dollar funcdecrease or increase in the November 30, 2005 market intertional currency brands.
est rates, the fair value of our long-term debt and interest rate Finally, we consider our investments in foreign subsidiaries swaps would increase or decrease by approximately $85 milto be denominated in relatively stable currencies and of a lion and interest expense on our variable rate debt, including long-term nature.
In addition to the strategy discussed above, the effect of our interest rate swaps, would increase or we also partially address these exposures by denominating a decrease by approximately $7 million.
portion of our debt, or entering into foreign currency swaps, In addition, based upon a hypothetical 10% decrease or in our subsidiaries functional currencies generally euros or increase in Carnival Corporations November 30, 2005 comsterling.
Specifically, we have debt of $1.68 billion in euros mon stock price, the fair value of our convertible notes would and $657 million in sterling and have $1.11 billion of foreign increase or decrease by approximately $197 million.
currency swaps, whereby we have converted $237 million of These hypothetical amounts are determined by considering U. S. dollar debt into sterling debt, $736 million of U. S. dollar the impact of the hypothetical interest rates and common debt into euro debt and $138 million of euro debt into sterling stock price on our existing long-term debt and interest rate debt, thus partially offsetting this foreign currency exchange swaps.
This analysis does not consider the effects of the rate risk.
At November 30, 2005, the fair value of these forchanges in the level of overall economic activity that could eign currency swaps was a net unrealized loss of $58 million, exist in such environments or any relationships which may which is recorded in AOCI and offsets a portion of the gains exist between interest rate and stock price movements.
recorded in AOCI upon translating these foreign subsidiaries Furthermore, since substantially all of our fixed rate long-term net assets into U. S. dollars.
Based upon a 10% hypothetical debt cannot currently be called or prepaid and $1.25 billion increase or decrease in the November 30, 2005 foreign curof our variable rate long-term debt is subject to interest rate rency exchange rate, we estimate that these contracts fair swaps which effectively fix the interest rate, it is unlikely we values would increase or decrease by $111 million, which would be able to take any significant steps in the short-term would be offset by a decrease or increase of $111 million in to mitigate our exposure in the unlikely event of a significant the U. S. dollar value of our net investments.
decrease in market interest rates.
Interest Rate Risks Bunker Fuel Price Risks We seek to minimize the impact of fluctuations in interest We have typically not used financial instruments to hedge rates through our long-term investment and debt portfolio our exposure to the bunker fuel price market risk.
We estimate strategies, which include entering into a substantial amount that our fiscal 2006 fuel cost would increase or decrease by of fixed rate debt instruments.
We continuously evaluate our approximately $2.9 million for each $1 per metric ton increase debt portfolio, and make periodic adjustments to the mix of or decrease in our average bunker fuel price.
