Financial review Basis of accounting The net reduction in GPI, including other minor factors, These are the first results reported by the group in full was 2.6 million.
However, lower property expenditure compliance with International Financial Reporting meant that, at the net property income level, the decline Standards IFRS, adoption of which became compulsory was only 1.4 million to 46.6 million, compared with for companies listed on a regulated market with effect the restated 48.0 million of 2004.
This was a result of from 1st January 2005.
However, the changed format lettings achieved in 2004 and 2005 which, in addition of these accounts and the new denitions for key gures, to generating GPI, also had the effect of reducing the such as profits and net assets, should be no surprise.
These fell 0.6 million year on year.
The 2005 interim results, published last September, were Additionally, due to the timing of scheme completions in prepared on this basis and, at that time, a full explanation 2005, there was less vacant space to let and transaction of the differences between the IFRS gures and those costs, mainly legal and letting fees, were consequently prepared under the previous accounting rules UKGAAP reduced by 0.2 million.
As a foretaste of these accounts, the 2004 Report and Accounts also showed the 2004 results Administrative expenses rose 1.7 million, entirely due on both an IFRS and UKGAAP basis.
For completeness, to increased employment costs.
While all categories the IFRS gures for 2004 are again reconciled back to of these costs rose, the two largest increases, both of those reported last year under UKGAAP and these 0.7 million, related to incentive schemes run by the can be found on pages 63 to 68 of these accounts.
The long-term incentive plan, which has an The accounting policies, revised in accordance with in-built three-year cycle, was only introduced two years IFRS, are set out in note 1. ago.
Therefore, 2005 bore the cost of two years worth of share allocations compared with one year in 2004.
Results commentary A further rise in the charge for this scheme will occur profit before tax in 2006, after which the annual cost should stabilise.
As in previous years, profit before tax has been adjusted Additionally, the strong rise in the companys share price to show a gure which better reects the underlying during the year has required further national insurance business trend.
This adjusted profit of 16.7 million provisions to be made in respect of share-based was lower than the IFRS restated gure for 2004 of remuneration.
The key inuences on the adjusted profit are discussed below.
The group also operates a benchmarked bonus scheme for staff and directors, the level of awards from which can Year on year, gross property income GPI fell from a only be determined after the group has announced its restated 52.1 million to 49.5 million.
As in prior years, results.
This led to an over accrual in 2003 which lowered the level of this important gure is, rstly, the result of the 2004 charge by 0.2 million and an under accrual of a balance between growth from lettings and rent reviews, 0.2 million in 2004 which has been charged in 2005 and income forgone from properties under refurbishment while the 2005 provision has been increased.
In a market that is currently favourable, and is expected to be so for the immediate future, the Finally, net finance costs were down 1.6 million due board has pressed on with a number of value adding mainly to borrowings repaid by disposal proceeds.
schemes, for which planning consent had been achieved.
Consequently, income was 3.2 million lower in 2005 The net effect of these movements accounts for the compared with 2004.
This reduction was exceeded 1.6 million reduction in adjusted profit before tax.
marginally by income from lettings and rent reviews, To arrive at the profit before tax of 150.4 million, reported at 3.2 million and 0.3 million respectively.
A second in the group income statement, two other gures need balance that affects GPI is that between acquisitions to be considered.
The largest item in the income and disposals of properties.
It is not surprising that, statement is the 124.1 million surplus on revaluation in a year in which property values have risen strongly, of the groups properties.
This is 77.7 million up on income from properties sold of 5.2 million exceeded last year and a discussion of this can be found in the that acquired of 2.8 million.
Under UKGAAP, this gure would have 20 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 Rosebery Avenue Clerkenwell, EC1 2 3,100 m Completion: December 2007 Financial review been shown as a reserve movement.
It is not a realised from the disposal of investment properties 97.8 million profit and is not taken into account when setting the exceeded acquisitions 40.3 million and capital dividend.
The second item is the profit on disposal of expenditure 26.7 million by 30.8 million.
This was 9.6 million in 2005, the reverse was true in that disposals only part nanced compared with 24.9 million in 2004, which included investment outows.
Cash generated from the underlying the insurance receipt of 18.5 million in respect of a business before tax was 14.7 million.
After payment of re damaged building.
The scale of the above gures, tax and distributions to shareholders, this was reduced together with the movement in the fair value of interest to 3.7 million, an insignicant amount when set against rate derivatives, which in these accounts was not a factor capital expenditure demands.
This demonstrates the year on year, shows how volatile profit before tax may be importance of maintaining committed bank facilities.
under IFRS and why the group continues to report an adjusted profit before tax to best reect underlying trends.
Financing Sources of finance Tax expense In addition to its share capital, the group is nanced Full details of the 33.7 million tax expense can be found by a series of bi-lateral, medium-term, revolving credit in the tax note.
The largest item is the 29.1 million facilities from a number of banks with whom the group deferred tax charge.
The cash ow shows that the actual has long-term relationships.
Outside of its existing tax paid in the year was only 4.2 million.
lenders, close relationships are maintained with a second tier of banks to satisfy future debt requirements.
Sources Dividend of finance, which would provide an alternative to bank The dividend is now reported on a paid and not payable debt, are also reviewed and considered.
While the group basis as previously under UKGAAP.
It is also no longer expects to borrow competitively in line with its credit shown in the group income statement as a distribution standing, the margin is only one negotiable element of the years earnings but as a deduction from reserves.
in a nancing arrangement and other items, such as Details of the dividend can be found in notes 12 and 27 covenants and exibility, are equally important.
The group to the financial statements.
continues to borrow on a secured basis with only loan to value and interest to rent covenants.
There are no Net assets corporate covenants given to support its borrowing.
Net assets rose 110.7 million to 606.2 million at 31st December 2005, mainly due to the surplus arising from During the year, the bank facility that was due to expire the year end property revaluation noted above.
in April 2006 was renegotiated on improved terms.
Amongst other matters which were reviewed, the term As with UKGAAP, an adjusted net asset value per share of the loan was extended for seven years, such that the is reported.
This gure rose to 1,335p per share in 2005, loan now matures in 2013.
There is now no loan due for an increase of 24.3% from last years restated 1,074p.
At the year end, total group The basis of the adjustment is shown in note 28. bank facilities were 430 million, of which 264 million had been drawn down.
Therefore, the group has sufficient Total return facilities to fund its next two years capital expenditure, The growth in net asset value is reected in the total estimated to be about 70 million, while allowing it to move return for the year of 25.5% 2004: 17.2%.
quickly when prospective acquisitions are identied.
The group also has a 35 million listed debenture which is due Cash ow for repayment in 2019.
The group had a cash inow for the year, after the payment of dividends, of 34.5 million, compared with an outow in 2004 of 17.9 million.
In a year when value adding acquisitions were difficult to secure, and demand for property from all sectors of the market was high, advantage was taken of the latter, such that proceeds 22 Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 Financial review Debt and gearing Outlook With a cash inow of 34.5 million, net debt fell year on In considering the current financial year 2006, the year from 341.5 million to 303.9 million.
In addition to movement in net property income will continue to be the debenture and bank loans, these gures include the a balance between the letting of completed schemes leasehold liabilities that are treated as debt under IFRS.
and voids caused by the groups refurbishment and In terms of managing the groups debt liabilities, these redevelopment programme.
The groups major expense are irrelevant and considered a property matter as they is employment costs.
Salaries will rise as the group needs are derived from ground rent payable.
to attract and retain the best staff to grow its business, while incentive payments are dependent on the groups The decrease in debt levels and the growth in property relative performance against its peers and various values had reduced balance sheet gearing to 50% from indices.
Details of these can be found in the remuneration 69% at the December 2004 year end.
Any change in interest rates will have and loss gearing for the year was effectively unchanged only a modest impact on profits due to the groups from 2004 at 1.84.
This demonstrates why it is the hedging policy.
In terms of net asset growth, although more important gure for the board to manage when rental levels are moving upwards, the factor which will it is reviewing the groups risk prole, particularly in determine the years outturn is likely to be the direction respect of the ongoing refurbishment and redevelopment which property yields take during the year.
programme and the average lease length prole.
As stated at the beginning, these are the first full set Liability risk management of financial statements to be prepared under IFRS.
The group uses derivatives to protect itself from adverse Accounts already published under this basis have been interest rate movements.
Board policy is that sufficient found useful by some, but they have not been met with hedging should be entered into such that the total of xed universal acclaim.
Certainly, most commentators in the rate debt, and that xed using derivative instruments, is real estate sector are adjusting both profits and net within a range of 40% to 75% of total debt.
The actual assets to provide something they nd more useful and, percentage is dependent on the perceived risk to the consequently, these financial statements show these group.
At the year end, 67% of debt was covered, which gures for those who wish to use them.
This may indicate gave a weighted average cost of debt of 6.4%.
that, despite all the work that went in to producing IFRS, the right answer may not have been found yet.
Under IFRS, the difference between the year end valuations of the interest rate derivatives is included in However, it is early days with IFRS.
It will take time the group income statement as part of the interest before users of the financial statements become familiar charge and the valuation itself shown in the balance with the new format and denitions, although the sheet.
Although the interim results showed a charge of length and complexity will deter some.
Further immediate 1.4 million in respect of this, the valuation had fallen changes to the standards, or technicians reading into back to its 31st December 2004 gure of 3.1 million them unintended consequences, should be avoided.
At both December 2004 and Compliance with IFRS has been costly and time 2005 this is equivalent to 4p per share after tax.
The fair consuming for companies and a period of reection value of the debenture continues to be shown in a note would be beneficial, not least because any more changes to the financial statements as the company is carrying to denitions of key gures would strain credibility as to it at amortised cost in accordance with its accounting which are the correct or true and fair ones.
policies, and has no obligation or present intention to redeem the debenture other than at normal maturity.
On behalf of the board The fair value adjustment gure for the debenture shown with other details in note 23 was a negative 14.1 million J. D. Burns compared with a negative 11.7 million at the 2004 21st March 2006 year end.
This is equivalent to 18p per share after tax 2004: 15p per share.
Derwent Valley Holdings plc Report & Accounts 2005 23
