INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF COMPUTACENTER PLC We have audited the Parent Company financial statements of Basis of audit opinion Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2005, which We conducted our audit in accordance with International comprise the Balance Sheet and the related notes 1 to 12.
These Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing Parent Company financial statements have been prepared under Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, the accounting policies set out therein.
We have also audited the of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the Parent information in the Directors Remuneration Report that is described Company financial statements and the part of the Directors as having been audited.
Remuneration Report to be audited.
It also includes an assessment of the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors in We have reported separately on the Group financial statements of the preparation of the Parent Company financial statements, and of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2005. whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Companys circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act 1985.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might state to information and explanations which we considered necessary in the Companys members those matters we are required to state order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
To the assurance that the Parent Company financial statements and the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or assume part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited are free responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the from material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the report, or for the opinions we have formed.
overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors Remuneration Report to be audited.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Parent Company Opinion financial statements in accordance with applicable United Kingdom In our opinion: law and Accounting Standards United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice as set out in the Statement of the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair Directors Responsibilities.
view, in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice, of the state of the Companys affairs as Our responsibility is to audit the Parent Company financial at 31 December 2005: and statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the to be audited in accordance with relevant legal and regulatory Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been requirements and International Standards on Auditing UK properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985. and Ireland.
We report to you our opinion as to whether the Parent Company financial statements give a true and fair view and whether the Parent Company financial statements and the part of the Directors Remuneration Report to be audited have been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Act 1985.
We also report to Ernst & Young LLP you if, in our opinion, the Directors Report is not consistent with Registered auditor the Parent Company financial statements, if the Company has Luton not kept proper accounting records, if we have not received all 13 March 2006 the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We read other information contained in the Annual Report and consider whether it is consistent with the audited Parent Company financial statements.
The other information comprises only Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Finance Directors Review, Corporate Governance Statement, Directors Report and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Parent Company financial statements.
Our responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
72 COMPUTACENTER PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005
