INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF COMPUTACENTER PLC We have audited the Group financial statements of We read other information contained in the Annual Report and Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2005, consider whether it is consistent with the audited Group which comprise the Consolidated Income Statement, the financial statements.
The other information comprises only the Consolidated Balance Sheet, the Consolidated Cash Flow Chairmans Statement, Chief Executives Review, Finance Statement, the Consolidated Statement of Changes Equity and Directors Review, Corporate Governance Statement, Directors the related notes 1 to 30.
These Group financial statements Report and the unaudited part of the Directors Remuneration have been prepared under the accounting policies set Report.
We consider the implications for our report if we out therein.
become aware of any apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with the Group financial statements.
Our We have reported separately on the Parent Company financial responsibilities do not extend to any other information.
statements of Computacenter plc for the year ended 31 December 2005 and on the information in the Directors Basis of audit opinion Remuneration Report that is described as having been audited.
We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland issued by the Auditing This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a Practices Board.
An audit includes examination, on a test basis, body, in accordance with Section 235 of the Companies Act of evidence relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we might Group financial statements.
It also includes an assessment of state to the Companys members those matters we are required the significant estimates and judgments made by the Directors to state to them in an auditors report and for no other purpose.
in the preparation of the Group financial statements, and of To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not accept or whether the accounting policies are appropriate to the Groups assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and circumstances, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
the Companys members as a body, for our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we have formed.
We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all the information and explanations which we considered necessary in Respective responsibilities of Directors and auditors order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report assurance that the Group financial statements are free from and the Group financial statements in accordance with material misstatement, whether caused by fraud or other applicable United Kingdom law and International Financial irregularity or error.
In forming our opinion we also evaluated the Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European overall adequacy of the presentation of information in the Group Union as set out in the Statement of Directors Responsibilities.
Our responsibility is to audit the Group financial statements in Opinion accordance with relevant legal and regulatory requirements In our opinion the Group financial statements: and International Standards on Auditing UK and Ireland.
give a true and fair view, in accordance with IFRS as adopted We report to you our opinion as to whether the Group financial by the European Union, of the state of the Groups affairs as statements give a true and fair view and whether the Group at 31 December 2005 and of its profit for the year then financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance ended: and with the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS have been properly prepared in accordance with the Regulation.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Companies Act 1985 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
Directors Report is not consistent with the Group financial statements, if we have not received all the information and explanations we require for our audit, or if information specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and other transactions is not disclosed.
We review whether the Corporate Governance Statement Ernst & Young LLP reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of Registered auditor the 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Luton Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if 13 March 2006 it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance procedures or its risk and control procedures.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2005 COMPUTACENTER PLC 37
