Waste disposal Objective: Target: Safety, Health and To minimise the quantities of waste disposed All manufacturing sites to halve the amount of waste to landfill.
kg tonne manufactured disposed to landfill in 2003 by 2009. the Environment SHE The initial objective to reduce the amount of waste disposal to landfill by 20% between 2000 and 2003 was achieved with a reduction of 67.1%.
In 2004 this was rebased on 2003 and restated to halve the amount of waste per tonne disposed to landfill in the five years to 2009.
The waste data relates to waste generated Indicators of SHE performance continued by the manufacturing operations.
One off disposals of waste not directly associated with the manufacturing process, for example, construction excavations or contaminated land remediation, are excluded.
SHE management In 2005 there was an increase in the amount of waste per tonne sent to landfill by the Group overall.
However, Objective: Target: over 80% of waste disposal to landfill occurs at our USA manufacturing site where the amount requiring To continually improve the effectiveness All manufacturing sites to be certified disposal increased as a result of a substantial increase in business there.
However, globally the current of our SHE management systems.
to OHSAS 18001 by 2009. performance still represents an overall decrease of 10% since 2003 when the target was rebased.
All of the sites audited in 2005 showed both improvement in the effectiveness of their SHE management systems and continuing convergence of these systems towards OHSAS 18001 requirements.
Waste water discharges Objective: Target: To reduce the environmental impact the All manufacturing sites to achieve greater Energy consumption Group has on controlled waters.
than 95% compliance with their effluent Objective: Target: discharge consents in every year and for year To continually improve the energy efficiency To improve energy efficiency GJ tonne at all on year continuous improvement towards of our manufacturing processes.
manufacturing sites by 2% each year until 2010.
Our initial target of 18% improvement in energy used per tonne of manufactured product between 2000 The target to improve the level of compliance with our effluent discharge consents to at least and 2010 was achieved in 2003 with an overall reduction of 23.9%.
In 2005 this reduction was further 95% was achieved for all current sites in 2003.
There have been successive improvements since, improved to 38%.
with 97.3% compliance being achieved in 2005.
Energy savings are also reflected in compliance with UK Climate Change Agreements and the EU Emissions Trading Scheme.
Additionally, Croda is undertaking a Carbon Management Programme study in conjunction with the Carbon Trust.
The study examines exciting opportunities regarding bio fuels, SHE initiatives 2005 boiler and combined heat and power options and potential improvements to energy intensive processes common to Crodas global manufacturing operations.
The study will also consider the potential Accidents and enforcement action opportunities within the Kyoto Protocols Joint Implementation and Clean Development Mechanisms.
There was a reduction in the reportable accident rate in the Group of 59% in 2005.
This performance represents an overall reduction of 74% since 2000.
The Group received one enforcement notice in 2005.
Our manufacturing site in the USA was issued with a Notice of Violation for the accidental release to Air emissions of Volatile Organic Compounds VOCs air of a controlled chemical.
There were no prosecutions in 2005.
Objective: Target: To minimise the mass of VOCs released All manufacturing sites to reduce VOC emissions Soil and groundwater investigations to air from our processes.
kg tonne manufactured by 40% by 2009.
The Group believes it has already identified its major liabilities with regard to historical contamination of the ground and groundwater.
To date, remedial strategies are being developed for the cost effective The initial objective to reduce the amount of VOCs released by 20% between 2000 and 2003 was control of this contamination at several sites.
Detailed risk assessments by our environmental consultants achieved with a reduction of 25.8%.
In 2004 this was rebased on 2003 data and restated to reduce of the potential threat to human health and controlled waters have not resulted in any immediate action the amount of VOCs released per tonne by 40% in the five years to 2009.
In 2005 the amount of VOCs being required.
released per tonne reduced by 42% against the 2003 baseline.
Leading indicators of safety performance The Group recognises that whilst accident rate is a useful indicator of performance, it is also important Consumption of mains water to monitor those events which might lead to accidents so that action can be taken to reduce their Objective: Target: frequency.
It is therefore developing a set of leading indicators associated with the safety of its To reduce the Group requirements All manufacturing sites to reduce the use of mains processes in accordance with evolving regulatory guidance.
water by 25% per tonne manufactured by 2009.
Sustainable Development This was a new target in 2004 when the consumption of mains water per tonne was reduced by The Group has demonstrated its commitment to Sustainable Development by formally endorsing 25.3%.
The withdrawal from the manufacture of gelatin is estimated to have contributed 9 percentage the principles developed in cooperation with stakeholders and member companies of the Chemical points to this improvement.
There was a further reduction in consumption of 6% in 2005.
This endorsement is the start of a process through which the Company aims to become more sustainable.
The Company has also renewed its commitment to continuous improvement in safety, health and environmental performance by endorsing the Responsible Care Global Charter agreed amongst the members of the International Council of Chemical Associations.
16 Safety, Health and the Environment Safety, Health and the Environment 17 Mike Buzzacott BA, FCCA David Dunn CA Michael Ward FCA, MBA, MCT Independent non-executive director, Senior Independent non-executive Independent non-executive director, aged 58. director, aged 61. aged 49.
Before retiring in 2004 he had spent over Has held a number of senior financial and Following an early career in senior financial 34 years with BP starting in the finance general management positions with UK roles, was appointed Group Managing function.
Has held a number of senior plcs.
Joined Scapa Group plc in 1987 Director of Lloyds Chemists plc in 1996. international roles including Regional where he served as Finance Director, Chief Upon the acquisition by Gehe AG in 1997 Finance and Control Director - Asia, Executive and non-executive Chairman became Chief Executive Officer of the Chief Executive Polymers and Olefins prior to his retirement in 2002.
Non-executive newly formed AAH Lloyds Group and was Division and finally Group Vice President director of FirstGroup PLC and SMG PLC appointed to the Gehe AG Management Petrochemicals.
Appointed a non-executive and non-executive Chairman of Brammer Board in 1998, as the European retail director of Rexam PLC in 2000 and acts PLC.
Joined the Croda Board in 2000. director.
Joined Apax Partners Ltd in as an advisor to the Ineos Group.
Joined Appointed Senior Independent Director January 2004.
Appointed to the Croda the Croda Board in August 2004. and chairman of the remuneration Board in 2001 and chairman of the audit Board of directors committee at the beginning of 2002. committee at the beginning of 2002.
Martin Flower BA Mike Humphrey Barbara Richmond BSc, FCA Member of audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
Group Finance Director, President Active Ingredients and Formerly held various senior executive Joined Croda in 1969 as a management Industrial Chemicals, aged 45. positions over 36 years with Coats plc, trainee.
Managing Director Croda culminating in a period as Chairman before Singapore 1988, Croda Application Joined Croda as Group Finance Director his retirement in 2004.
He is a non-executive Chemicals 1990 and Croda Chemicals in February 1997 from Whessoe Plc, director of The Morgan Crucible Company 1991.
Was appointed to the Croda Board in where she was Group Finance Director Plc and is Deputy Chairman and Senior 1995 and became Group Chief Executive 1994-1997 and Group Financial Controller Independent Director of Severn Trent Plc.
Appointed President Was appointed to the Croda Board in May nomination committee.
Active Ingredients and Industrial Chemicals 2005 and took over from Antony Beevor September 2002.
A non-executive as Chairman at the end of September 2005. director of Carclo Plc and Scarborough Chairman of the nomination committee.
18 Board of directors Board of directors 19 Directorsreport The directors present their annual report and audited financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2005.
Employment policies The report should be read in conjunction with the information set out on pages 2 to 19 and pages 23 to 36.
In all Crodas operations around the world relations with employees are based on respect for the dignity and rights of the individual.
The Company upholds the principles of socially responsible business practices.
In particular, in all countries in Activities of the Company and subsidiaries which the Company operates, the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work 1998 is met.
Namely the Croda International Plc is a holding company operating from its headquarters at Cowick Hall, Snaith, Goole, Company does not participate in any form of child labour or forced compulsory labour, it maintains freedom of association East Yorkshire, which provides central direction for a speciality chemical group with operations in the main market and the right to collective bargaining and promotes policies and practices designed to eliminate discrimination in respect areas of the world.
Further details are given in the operating review on pages 4 to 9. of employment and occupation.
Policies on corporate ethics and whistle blowing are in force throughout the Group.
Review of business activities Group employment policies embrace local, national and international best practice worldwide.
In this way we ensure that A review of the activities of the two business sectors comprising the Group is given on pages 4 to 9.
An analysis all employees work in an environment which encourages fairness of treatment, respect for the individual and flexibility of revenue and profits is shown in note 1 on page 48.
This report should be read in conjunction with the Chairmans of approach.
The Group welcomes all employees solely on the basis of job suitability so that recruitment and career statement and the operating and financial reviews, which include information about Group businesses, the financial management are free from discrimination.
Diversity is encouraged and the benefits of different perspectives enhance performance during the year and likely developments.
The Company takes a positive approach to disability, considering all applications from disabled people fairly and in the context of job suitability.
Adaptations to the working environment are made where appropriate and the Results and dividends disabled are integrated into all areas of working life, both formal and social.
Those who suffer illness or injury that has The results for the year are set out on page 38. a permanent impact on their physical or mental ability are supported and every effort is made to continue employment through use of flexible working arrangements, training etc.
All employees have equal access, based on ability and The directors recommend a final dividend of 9.0p per share 2004: 8.4p.
If approved by shareholders, dividends for motivation, to training, career development and promotion.
the year will amount to 13.35p per share 2004: 12.5p per share.
Details of dividends are shown in note 9 on page 53.
Employees receive training and development to ensure that personal growth and business objectives are achieved Acquisitions and disposals successfully.
Our leadership development programme has continued to bring together senior managers around the No acquisitions or disposals were made by the Group during the year.
globe who work together on personal and business performance enhancement issues.
Furthermore, we aim to nurture and challenge so that the talents, skills and knowledge of all our employees are used positively to mutual benefit.
This On 23 January 2006 contracts were exchanged with Shell U. K. Ltd for the sale of the metal treatments business of relies on open and comprehensive communication activities.
All divisions provide appropriate forums for two-way Croda Application Chemicals Limited.
Completion is expected by 31 March 2006 for an initial consideration of 1.5m, communication to keep everyone informed, to consult and to seek contribution.
Formal consultation committees operate together with the value of stocks and debtors at completion, and deferred consideration of 0.8m payable twelve in all UK divisions and in particular provide valuable dialogue on pension provision.
Employee participation has been months after completion, conditional on achievement of targeted margin.
further enhanced by the introduction in the UK of a formal scheme to enable employees to submit ideas that reduce costs, improve efficiency or customer service or increase market opportunity.
Harnessing the experience and knowledge Directors of our employees through listening to their ideas and putting them into practice is fundamental in developing our The present directors of the Company are shown on pages 18 and 19.
Martin Flower retires under Article 84 and will business.
A corporate intranet has been established and is available to all our employees throughout the world.
The be proposed for election at the Annual General Meeting AGM.
No directors will retire by rotation as all the remaining Company magazine, Croda Way, distributed worldwide, brings together news of the Croda family - both personal and directors have been re-elected within the last two years.
Barbara Richmond has resigned as a director of the Company with corporate.
It provides an insight into the lives of the people working for the Group as well as reporting on Company effect from 31 March 2006.
Details of the directors service contracts are given in the directors remuneration report on activities around the world and commenting on full and half year results.
Our reward and benefit packages are designed to recognise the contribution of employees, whilst fitting local market Apart from the share option schemes, long-term incentive schemes and service contracts no director had any beneficial conditions and complying with our fair treatment policies.
The Company operates a Save As You Earn share scheme in the interest in any contract to which the Company or a subsidiary was a party during the year.
UK and a similar scheme is available overseas.
The Company also offers a Share Incentive Plan in the UK and all employees who have completed 12 months service are eligible to join the plan.
A statement indicating the beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the directors in the share capital, including share options, of the Company is shown in the directors remuneration report on page 28.
The Companys register of Purchase of own shares directors interests, which is open to inspection at the registered office, contains full details of directors shareholdings At the 2004 AGM, the members renewed the Companys authority to purchase up to 10% of its ordinary shares.
to this authority during the year the Company purchased an aggregate of 6,137,305 ordinary shares of 10p each, having a nominal value of 613,730 representing 4.5% of the Companys issued share capital as at 1 January 2005 for an aggregate Community affairs consideration of 24.5m at an average cost of 398p per share.
The Company considers that these purchases are beneficial We have continued to support community projects both with donations and with practical help and advice.
Many of to members as they give the Company more flexibility in the control of its cost of capital.
As a result of these purchases, our employees also devote much of their own time to working with local community groups and to fundraising projects the number of shares in respect of which the Company is now authorised to make market purchases has been reduced for deserving causes.
to 5,504,295 ordinary shares of 10p each representing approximately 4.04% of the present issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Our work with schools, colleges and other educational establishments is ongoing.
Students learn how our products are used and gain direct experience of product formulation and plant processes.
The Group provides placements for university The current authority given by members at the last AGM for the Company to purchase its own shares expires on 26 April students and post-graduates.
Work experience opportunities are provided regularly for students from local schools.
The Company will be seeking to renew its authority to purchase its own shares.
Shares will be purchased only if contacts not only assist young people as they make career choices but also provide valuable learning opportunities for our the Board believes that such purchases will improve earnings per share and be in the best interests of the shareholders employees through developing their mentoring and interpersonal skills.
It is the Companys intention that any shares purchased will be held as treasury shares.
In the UK the 1% Club enables employees to take 1% of their working time as paid leave to do voluntary community work.
During 2005, employees gave time to such diverse projects as redecoration of a hostel for children with learning difficulties, helping produce a newsletter for the Hull Parkinsons Support Group, music coaching for 8-16 year olds, wildflower verge management in a nature reserve and recruitment for a bereavement counselling volunteer service.
20 Directors report Directors report 21 Directorsreport Directors remuneration report Supplier payment policy The directors present their remuneration report which covers the remuneration of both executive and non-executive Group policy concerning the payment of suppliers is that each operating unit agrees terms of payment at the beginning directors and certain senior executives.
The first section of the report contains unaudited information and the second of business or makes the supplier aware of the standard payment terms, and pays in accordance with those terms or other section audited information.
The report has been approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by the chairman of the legal obligations.
At 31 December 2005 the Group had an average of 36 days 2004: 36 days purchases outstanding in remuneration committee.
The report will be subject to approval by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM trade creditors.
The Companys trade creditors are not material.
Charitable and political donations Unaudited information Charitable donations made by the Group in the year amounted to 33,000 2004: 35,000.
No donation was made The role of the remuneration committee for political purposes 2004: Nil.
The committee reviews and approves the annual salaries, bonus arrangements, service agreements and other employment conditions of the executive directors and other members of the senior executive management team designated by the Annual General Meeting Board and approves the awards of long-term incentives.
It also approves the design of, and determines targets for, any The AGM will be held at Carlton Towers, Carlton, Goole, East Yorkshire DN14 9LZ on Wednesday, 26 April 2006 at 12 noon.
performance related bonus pay schemes operated by the Group, approves the total annual payments made under such The notice of meeting and explanation of the business to be considered at the AGM are contained in a separate document schemes and reviews the design of all share incentive plans for approval by the Board and shareholders.
The full terms of issued to shareholders with this annual report.
reference of the committee are published on the Companys website.
Independent auditors Membership and operation Our auditors,  LLP, have indicated their willingness to continue in office and, on the recommendation The committee is chaired by David Dunn and all the members are non-executive directors.
David Dunn, Michael Ward and of the audit committee, resolutions regarding their reappointment and remuneration will be submitted to the AGM.
Mike Buzzacott were members throughout the year.
None of the committee members has any day to day involvement in the running of the Company, nor do they have any business or other relationship that could affect, or appear to affect, Substantial shareholders the exercise of their independent judgement.
At 19 February 2006 the Company had been notified of the following substantial interests in its ordinary share capital, excluding shares held in treasury.
The committee met seven times during the year and at each meeting all the members were present except on one occasion when Michael Ward was absent.
Other directors and employees of the Company who attended some, or all, of the meetings during the year and provided advice and services to the committee were Mike Humphrey Group Chief Shares % Executive, Antony Beevor former Chairman, Martin Flower Group Chairman, Pamela Broughton Group Personnel Manager and Roy Ainger former Company Secretary.
All were appointed by the Company and have the appropriate Fidelity International Ltd 10,237,413 7.99 qualifications and experience to advise the committee on aspects of the Groups policies and practices.
Lansdowne Partners Ltd Partnership 4,468,002 3.49 In addition, the committee appointed and sought advice from Watson Wyatt in relation to the impact of the revised pensions Legal & General Investment Management 5,284,732 4.12 regime and New Bridge Street Consultants NBSC on a number of matters including the level of salaries, bonuses and long-term incentive awards and forms of alternative pension provision.
Representatives from NBSC attended a committee meeting during the year and their advice was reviewed and assessed by the committee.
By order of the Board Policy on directors and senior executives remuneration The key objectives of Crodas executive remuneration policy are: Louise Scott Secretary to ensure that individual rewards and incentives are comparable with those provided by similar companies having regard 22 February 2006 to the Groups revenue, business sector and market worth and the need for skills to manage international businesses to enable the Group to attract and retain high calibre people to give full consideration to the relevant principles on directors remuneration set out in the 2003 FRC Combined Code to ensure a balance between fixed and performance related remuneration, the latter being related to objective measurement of the financial performance of the Company.
The committee believes that the interests of shareholders and directors are more closely aligned to cash profitability and the control of working capital of the Group, rather than being based on performance relative to peer groups where external factors beyond the control of the directors can have a disproportionate influence on bonus payment, both favourable and adverse.
Following the introduction of new employee incentive plans in 2005, the committee undertook a review of the total remuneration packages of the executive directors and members of the executive committee.
This considered the impact of the new bonus and long-term incentive arrangements and changes in pensions legislation.
Base salaries and bonus levels were reviewed by reference to a benchmarking exercise carried out by NBSC on behalf of the committee.
Salaries and bonuses for executive directors were found to be in line with market practice.
In order to encourage senior executives to build up a significant shareholding in the Company it was agreed that participants in the long-term incentive schemes would be expected to retain a proportion of the shares resulting from the exercise of options or vesting of share awards.
A proposal to offer salary supplements on a cost neutral basis to the Company to executives choosing to withdraw from membership of the Groups pension schemes as a result of legislative changes was approved.
22 Directors report Directors remuneration report 23
