OPERATING AND THE PURPOSE OF THIS REVIEW IS TO FINANCIAL REVIEW FINANCIAL AND OUTLINE KEY ASPECTS OF THE GROUPS TREASURY REVIEW PERFORMANCE OVER THE LAST YEAR AND OF ITS FINANCIAL POSITION.
Peter Williams Accounts Finance Director There have been no changes this year to the basis on which the Accounts have been prepared, which for the last time is under U. K. accounting standards.
From the financial year to 1st October, 2006, the Group will be required to prepare its Accounts in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
IFRS A project has been undertaken to restate our numbers for the year ended 2nd October, 2005 as comparative information for the IFRS-compliant 2006 Accounts.
A reconciliation of the adjustments required to convert these 2005 figures from U. K. accounting standards is set out in an appendix on pages 87 to 90 of this Annual Report.
These adjustments, which are still subject to audit, are mainly in respect of employment benefits pensions, share-based payments, goodwill, dividends and deferred tax.
DMGT will be taking advantage of all of the transitional arrangements available under IFRS 1, First-time adoption of IFRS, and, in particular, will not be adopting IAS 39, Financial instruments: recognition and measurement, early: this will be applied from 2005 06.
Overall we expect the impact of IFRS will be to reduce our 2005 profit before tax by 17 million 7% to 236 million.
Net assets in DMGTs opening balance sheet at 4th October, 2004 are expected to be reduced by 223 million mainly due to the impact of IAS 19, Employee Benefits, principally pensions.
There will be no impact on cash flows, although the presentation of the Cash Flow Statement will change: nor should there be any impact on historic net debt.
We expect to publish audited summary IFRS primary statements for the year ended 2nd October, 2005 as part of our Interim Report in May 2006.
Whilst IFRS will alter the format Key figures of those statements, we will continue to present adjusted numbers in addition to statutory figures because we believe the alternative measures give a more comparable indication of the Groups underlying business performance.
2% Turnover The Groups turnover in the year of 2,138 million was 1% higher than the previous year.
For our newspaper divisions, we report each year to the Sunday nearest 30th September: Underlying turnover this means that we have included fifty two weeks trading in the current years results, as grew by 2%.
against fifty three weeks in 2004.
There was turnover growth from nearly all of our divisions, with the principal exception of broadcasting.
Taking out the effect of this extra week last year and excluding the impact of acquisitions 5% and disposals, we estimate underlying turnover growth was 2%.
The analysis of turnover by activity, illustrated in graph 1, shows that there has been Operating profit little overall change in the shape of the Group in terms of revenues.
Operating Profit The Groups operating profit amounted to 297 million, an increase of 5% on the equivalent figure for last year.
This figure is stated before charging 14 million of exceptional operating 9% costs as a consequence of reorganisation and redundancy programmes at Associated, Northcliffe and Teletext.
The major costs arose at Northcliffe as a result of its cost reduction Earnings per share programme.
The charge for amortisation of intangible assets fell by 6 million to 81 million and an impairment charge was made of 6 million.
After deducting these charges, grew by 9%.
the Groups statutory operating profit rose by 14% to 207 million.
The analysis of operating profit by activity is shown in graph 3.
This shows excellent growth from our business-to-business information division and from Euromoney Institutional Investor, increases at our national and regional newspaper divisions and a fall in central costs.
These increases totalling 33 million were offset partly by a fall of 18 million from the broadcasting division and a small reduction at exhibitions which experienced a low year in its cycle.
Within broadcasting, Teletexts profits fell sharply as a consequence of structural changes in its market, whilst as expected DMG Radio in Australia made a small loss, following the sale of its regional business in September Adjusted before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 2004 and the launch of new stations during the year.
17 Daily Mail and General Trust plc Profit before Tax Coast of Australia.
These profits were offset OPERATING AND The Groups share of net adjusted by losses on the sale of DMG Broadcastings FINANCIAL REVIEW operating profits of its joint ventures and Performance Channel, Euromoneys FINANCIAL AND associates fell by 1.8 million.
The fall was Business Traveller and one of dmg world TREASURY REVIEW due to the change in status of our U. K. medias French antique shows.
A review of CONTINUED radio investment in May.
Whereas DMGT the Groups unlisted investments led to a had a 29.9% stake in GWR Group plc and write-down of 2.5 million.
treated it as an associate, the merger with Capital Radio plc reduced our stake The statutory profit before tax of 163 to 14.3%.
Since then, we have taken in million was 31% higher than last years dividends received and not our share of figure.
Excluding amortisation and their profits.
Nearly all of the Groups impairment and exceptional items, the other interests including GLM, the North adjusted profit before tax figure was American gift exhibition organiser in which 253 million, up 8% on last year.
the Group increased its stake from 25% to 40% in January, showed improved results.
Taxation The tax charge of 53 million represents Income from fixed asset investments fell 32.5% of profit before tax and 21.2% of by 0.8 million to 2.6 million due mainly profit before amortisation and impairment.
to a lower distribution from the Press The underlying tax on adjusted profits Association, offset by a first dividend from before significant non-recurring or prior GCap Media plc.
The fall in net interest year items, amounted to 57 million and payable and similar charges of 8.2 million the resulting rate is 24.1%, down from was due mainly to swap premia on overseas 26.6% last year due to a higher proportion financing arrangements and to lower of profits coming from the United States, average net debt.
where the Group pays little tax because it has carried forward losses.
This is well At the profit before interest level, below the U. K. corporate tax rate, where continued growth by the Groups newer the Group currently makes most of its businesses means that 44% of this years profit.
The Groups effective tax rate in the profit has been generated by its nonU.
K. is higher than this due to expenditure newspaper operations including the disallowed for tax purposes.
digital operations of the newspaper divisions, up from 41% last year.
Cash Flow and Net Debt Net debt at the end of the financial year Profits on sale of fixed assets arose mainly was 766 million, a decrease of 13 from the sale of shares in Reuters Group million over last year.
Profits on disposal of businesses arose due to strong trading cash flows which, mainly from the sale of the Groups stake with the proceeds of disposals, exceeded in California Market Center, and of Hot 91, the outflow from capital expenditure, its radio station operating on the Sunshine acquisitions, taxation, interest and dividends.
Graph 4 summarises the Groups sources and use of funds during the year.
The net cash inflow from trading was 359 million, which represented 95% of operating profit Graph 1 Turnover by activity million before depreciation and amortisation and impairment.
In general, the Groups profits are converted rapidly into cash.
1000 National newspapers and related activities 800 Regional newspapers Capital expenditure of 95 million was and related activities lower than last years level, reflecting the 600 Business-to-business completion of the 2001 04 press expansion information and careers programme in November 2004.
Acquisitions 400 Euromoney Institutional and investments cost 138 million, the Investor largest item being the purchase of Lewtan.
Exhibitions and related 200 activities Disposal proceeds amounted to 38 million.
Broadcasting 0 Graph 2 Turnover by geographic area million 2000 U. K. Rest of Europe North America 1500 Rest of the world 1000 500 0 Adjusted before exceptional items and amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 18 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 The Groups interest cover, calculated as the Overview ratio of adjusted profits before interest and The Group has adequate committed depreciation EBITDA to net interest payable, debt finance to meet current trading was 7.4 times this year, an improvement on requirements.
Foreign exchange risk is 2004 see Graph 5 and above the Groups not a large issue for the Group as the current target of six times.
The Groups ratio majority of its businesses are domestic.
of year-end net debt to EBITDA was 2.0 In principle the underlying currency of times.
The Groups Standard & Poors credit net debt is in proportion to the EBITDA rating remains at BBB.
The Group has a prudent level of fixed interest rate debt to reduce At the year end, the Group had 657 million the impact of interest rate fluctuations.
of Bonds due for repayment in 2013, 2018 and 2021.
In October 2004 it signed a Liquidity Risk 300 million of new five-year committed It is the Groups policy to have sufficient banking facilities and in September it surplus borrowing headroom such that its repaid the outstanding 88 million on its development is not constrained.
Consequently, the Group is funded by a mixture of equity, debt and has sufficient committed debt facilities to retained profits.
Debt consists mainly of meet its foreseeable requirements.
It had committed bank facilities and bonds.
surplus committed facilities of 107 million The bank facilities provide the Group with at the year end.
flexibility for operational requirements and acquisitions.
Uncommitted and overdraft Treasury Policies facilities are also utilised.
The bonds The following paragraphs are a summary currently in issue consist of three sterling of the Groups treasury policies.
Maturities of debt are information is given in Note 26 to the maximised and spread in order to avoid Accounts.
DMGT aims to have sufficient the requirement for significant repayments liquidity to meet both operational and capital at any point in time, as shown in Graph 6. cash flows and to impose the minimum Surplus funds are generally used to pay cash constraints on the management down debt: when they do arise, they are and operation of the Group.
Financial generally deposited in money market instruments, including derivatives, are accounts with banks that provide bilateral used by the Group in order to manage credit lines.
the principal financial risks that arise in the course of business.
These risks are liquidity Covenants on debt instruments are kept or funding risk, foreign exchange risk, to a minimum, even if this results in interest rate risk and counterparty risk.
Apart from The instruments are used within the lease finance, external finance is unsecured parameters set by the Finance Committee and is usually an obligation of the central of the Board, and are not traded for a profit.
holding companies rather than of trading subsidiaries.
This gives management maximum flexibility to run the business without the distraction of meeting shortterm financing requirements.
b Foreign Exchange Risk i Transaction Risk Graph 3 Operating profit by activity million Most of the Groups businesses do not transact cross-border: hence multicurrency transaction risk is not substantial.
120 National newspapers and related activities The main exception is Euromoney which 100 Regional newspapers has net receipts in US dollars and net 80 and related activities payments in sterling.
Euromoney has a Business-to-business 60 series of US dollar forward sale contracts information and careers in place up to 18 months forward to meet its 40 Euromoney Institutional sterling outgoings.
Other than Euromoney Investor 20 there were no significant foreign currency Exhibitions and related 0 activities contracts in existence that hedge revenues Broadcasting or costs.
20 Unallocated central costs Graph 4 Cash flows by activity million Operating activities 359.4m Inflows 381.6m Disposals 22.2m Capital expenditure 94.5m Outflows 368.2m Acquisitions and investments 122.3m Taxation 35.6m Interest and dividends 94.2m Other non-cash items 10.5m Adjusted before exceptional items and Other financing 11.1m amortisation and impairment of intangible assets 19 Daily Mail and General Trust plc 0 100 200 300 400 500 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 The sterling value of capital expenditure d Interest Rate Risk OPERATING AND in foreign currency is fixed using forward The Group aims to have approximately FINANCIAL REVIEW currency purchases.
Tax on non-trading 70% of forecast net debt to 80% of target FINANCIAL AND exchange rate movements is hedged.
net debt as fixed interest rate liabilities.
It TREASURY REVIEW aims to achieve this ratio over the medium CONTINUED ii Translation Exposure term and it is applied to each of the Borrowings are principally incurred in Groups main currencies.
The predictability sterling, with lesser amounts in US dollars of interest costs is deemed to be more and Australian dollars.
Generally, the important than the possible opportunity proportion of foreign currency debt after cost foregone of achieving lower interest allowing for any hedging instrument to rates.
Borrowings are made in either fixed total net debt is kept approximately equal to or floating rates.
Interest rate swaps, cross the proportion of foreign EBITDA, compared currency swaps, caps and collars are used to total Group EBITDA.
This is expected to to help attain the Groups target level of continue.
A large proportion of US dollar fixed interest rate debt.
The maturity dates and Australian dollar liabilities are created are spread in order to avoid interest rate through the use of foreign exchange basis risk and also to negate short-term derivatives.
At the year end, fixed interest rate debt represented iii Netting approximately 90% of total net debt.
The Group may offset currency risks on trading, capital expenditure, tax and e Counterparty Risk borrowings and only hedge the net The Group has a deposit limit for banks exposure.
with long-term credit ratings of AA or better, and a lower limit for single A rated c Debt Levels banks.
Institutions below this rating are The Group currently aims to have a 6:1 not usually used for deposits.
The Group ratio of EBITDA to net interest costs and is also exposed to credit related losses on seeks to ensure that the ratio of net debt financial instruments used for hedging to EBITDA does not normally exceed 2.5:1. purposes.
The Group does not expect any It is believed that this achieves close to the counterparties to be unable to meet their optimum level of gearing for the Group, obligations.
Counterparties and their but leaves it with sufficient headroom credit ratings are regularly reviewed by should it desire to increase its debt levels Group Treasury.
without reducing the Groups quoted debt below investment grade.
As such the ratio Going Concern will not be met consistently, but will define The Directors have continued to adopt the the medium-term target level of net debt.
going concern basis for the preparation of the accounts.
This has been done since, after considering relevant information, they have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Peter Williams Finance Director Graph 5 Ratio of earnings before interest, tax and depreciation and amortisation to net payable interest.
