Financial review Dividend Treasury policy The Board has proposed a final dividend of 8.25 Kesa Group treasury manages liquidity and pence per share, making a total dividend for the exposure to funding, interest rate and foreign year of 11.0 pence per share.
The dividend is exchange rate risks.
The Group treasury uses a covered 2.2 times by earnings before exceptional combination of derivative and conventional financial costs and goodwill amortisation 2.0 times after instruments to manage these underlying financial exceptional costs and goodwill amortisation.
Treasury operations are conducted final dividend will be paid on 15 July to shareholders within a framework of Board-approved policies registered at the close of business on 17 June, and guidelines, which are recommended and subject to the approval of shareholders at the monitored by the Treasury Committee.
These Earnings per share Companys Annual General Meeting.
This is to guidelines include bank exposure limits and hedge Basic earnings per share was 22.0 pence be held on Wednesday 25 May 2004 at 11am.
cover levels for each of the key areas of treasury compared to 21.4 pence in 2003 04.
The Board and Treasury Committee receive earnings per share before operating and Exceptional charges monthly reports of the activities of Group treasury.
non-operating exceptional items and goodwill Operating exceptional costs totalled 4.8 million amortisation was 23.3 pence compared to being the charge for the Demerger Award Plan The main elements of treasury activity are 21.1 pence in 2003 04 as the commitment for 2003 04: 3.4 million.
outlined below: shares awarded under the Demerger Award Plan will not be fulfilled by issuing new shares.
Non-operating exceptional charges of 0.9 million Currency 2003 04: 2.7 million relate to the losses on The Group publishes its financial statements the disposal of fixed assets.
in sterling and conducts business in several foreign currencies.
As a result, it is subject to Cashflow and net debt foreign currency exchange risk due to exchange At the year end the Group had net debt of movements affecting the Groups sterling 209.7 million, a reduction of 62.3 million.
transaction costs and the translation of the results Strong cash generation was seen with a cash and underlying net assets of its foreign subsidiaries.
inflow from operating activities of 267.9 million.
The Group hedges up to 55 per cent of its On demerger a u1.0 billion syndicated exposure to fluctuations on the translation into multicurrency term and revolving credit facility sterling of its foreign currency net assets by was entered into for the refinancing of existing holding net borrowings in foreign currencies, indebtedness to members of the Kingfisher Group, primarily the euro.
Exchange differences arising the payment of costs and expenses incurred in on the retranslation of foreign currency net connection with the demerger and for general borrowings are recognised in the statement of corporate purposes and working capital total recognised gains and losses to match requirements of the Kesa Group.
The facility exchange differences on foreign currency equity agreement consists of a five-year term facility investments, in accordance with SSAP 20. of u750.0 million and a five-year committed multicurrency revolving facility for u250.0 million.
The Group adopts a strictly centralised approach to foreign exchange risk management.
The net interest charge amounted to 13.0 million.
No foreign exchange transaction may be Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 17 Financial review undertaken without the permission of Group Taxation FRS 17 treasury, which is responsible for all hedging The tax charge of 35.6 per cent on pre-tax In the UK, a formal actuarial valuation of the transactions.
Any foreign exchange transaction profits reflects the estimated rate for the year.
Comet Pension Scheme was carried out by an must be demonstrably linked to an underlying independent professionally qualified actuary at exposure and the hedge must be continually Pensions 1 April 2004.
The results of that valuation showed monitored through the life of the transaction to In the UK, the Group provides two pension a deficit of 37.8 million when the relevant ensure it remains effective and appropriate.
arrangements, the Comet Pension Scheme and assets and liabilities of Kingfisher Pension the Comet Stakeholder Pension Plan.
Both Scheme were transferred to the Comet Pension The treasury policy requires that at least 75 per schemes were established on 1 April 2004 to Scheme equating to a funding level of 77 per cent of transactional foreign exchange risk must replace the existing Kingfisher arrangements cent on an on-going basis.
This valuation was be hedged, up to 13 months forward, using that were previously available to UK-based subsequently updated by the scheme actuary forward foreign exchange contracts.
The Comet Pension Scheme, to 31 January 2005 following receipt on loss on the hedge is recognised at the same a final salary arrangement, was then closed December 2004 by the scheme trustees of a time as the underlying transaction.
to new entrants, with a few limited exceptions.
bulk transfer in respect of past service benefits All other employees were offered access to the from the Kingfisher Pension Scheme.
The net Interest Comet Stakeholder Pension Plan, a defined pension deficit at 31 January 2005 was The Group has an exposure to interest rate risk contribution pension scheme.
56.4 million, compared with a net pension on our primary credit facility and manages this deficit of 44.0 million as at January 2004. exposure using interest rate swaps.
The treasury In France the main pension benefits are provided policy requires that at least 50 per cent, but no through the state system.
The Group is also Following the publication of the valuation results, more than 100 per cent of net debt in the legally required to pay lump sums retirement the Group has chosen to introduce certain Group must be fixed.
The current profile of fixedindemnities to employees when they retire from changes to the Comet Pension Scheme.
to floating-rate borrowings are approximately service.
In addition, the Group also provides Although the benefit structure has been retained 71 per cent fixed and 29 per cent floating.
a supplementary funded, defined benefit plan almost in its entirety, member contributions will The percentage of fixed-rate borrowings will Supplementary Pension Plan for its top be increased with effect from 1 April 2005. increase over the next four years due to the executives.
The retirement indemnities and The Group has also agreed with the scheme amortisation of the underlying floating-rate credit Supplementary Pension Plan are funded through trustees a funding plan that is specifically facility but will remain within the treasury policy.
insurance policies and direct payments to the designed to remove the deficit position within retiring employees.
Therefore, with effect from Credit risk 2005 06, the Group will contribute an additional Several major financial institutions are Pension accounting 6.1 million per annum above the ordinary future counterparties to the interest rate swaps, foreign The Accounting Standards Board announced contribution rate over the next ten years.
This exchange contracts and deposits transacted a deferral of full mandatory adoption of FRS 17. additional Company contribution, when coupled by the Group.
These transactions are only Therefore, the transitional disclosure requirements with the scheme trustees agreed investment entered into with counterparties with a longof FRS 17 have been followed in the Group strategy, is anticipated to restore the Comet term credit rating of A or better.
The treasury accounts and pension costs have been accounted Scheme to full funding, calculated on an ondepartment monitors its credit exposure to its for under SSAP 24. going basis, by 2015 16. counterparties on a monthly basis, together with their credit ratings.
SSAP 24 For France the Group determines payments after taking actuarial advice.
The pension cost charged to the profit and loss account totalled 2.1 million.
18 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 For France, the valuation of the defined benefit For Kesa Electricals plc, the IFRS conversion schemes at 31 January 2005, as measured in project commenced in 2004 and is being accordance with FRS 17, was a net pension deficit overseen by a formal Steering Committee of 17.8 million, compared with a net pension containing, amongst its members, the Groups deficit of 12.0 million as at 31 January 2004.
In the UK, the pension cost for the Group for The Steering Committee is also managing the the Comet Pension Scheme charged in the other change aspects of this project for profit and loss account is 8.2 million.
This is example, business systems changes, training based on the formal actuarial valuation described programmes for all personnel concerned and above, adjusted to reflect market movements other communication issues.
Work on the since the date of this valuation, and in accordance overall project is proceeding according to plan.
The pension cost for the scheme The Groups auditors have been kept informed is 2.2 million higher than the contributions paid of, and consulted on, the development of the into the scheme by the Group during the year.
IFRS project and the preparation of the new As a result, the provision on the balance sheet Group accounting policies.
has increased to 6.6 million from 4.4 million at 31 January 2004.
Going concern After making enquiries the Directors confirm that The total pension charge in the profit and loss they are satisfied that the Group has adequate account includes 0.7 million for the UK defined resources to continue in operational existence contribution scheme, the Comet Stakeholder for the foreseeable future.
therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
IFRS Under European Union legislation, all listed companies will be required to report under International Reporting Standards IFRS for accounting periods commencing on or after Martin Reavley Finance Director 1 January 2005.
The first Annual report and accounts for Kesa Electricals plc prepared under IFRS will be for the year ended 31 January 2006.
At that time comparative information will be restated on the same basis.
Interim results for the year to 31 July 2005 will also be prepared on an IFRS basis.
In early 2004 the International Accounting Standards Board completed its work on developing and improving those standards which would be mandatory for the first year of adoption of IFRS by listed companies.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2004 05 19
