06 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review The Gas Businesses The Gas Businesses We are confident we can build on our strengths and continue to deliver improved services for our customers and value to our shareholders.
The strategy of East Surrey Holdings plc Phoenix Natural Gas Regulatory Environment is to develop a regulated, multi-utility Our gas interests are primarily focused As at the year end we believed that infrastructure business.
Our main on Phoenix, which holds a monopoly certainty had been achieved in respect activities are: licence for the distribution of natural gas of Phoenixs regulatory environment.
At in the Greater Belfast area.
Phoenix is a the end of August 2004, we announced The transportation and supply of gas significant business in Northern Ireland a landmark agreement with the Northern in the Belfast area through Phoenix with over 200 staff employed directly and Ireland Agency for Energy Regulation Natural Gas a further 3,000 employed in the local gas NIAER, giving a Regulated Asset Value A local gas transportation business industry.
Its declared aim is to make RAV for Phoenix in excess of 300.0m.
specialising in infill projects through natural gas the fuel of choice for all We acquired Phoenix at a cost of E. S. Pipelines energy consumers in Northern Ireland.
The agreement with NIAER The supply of water through our was to be encapsulated in a new licence operating company, Sutton and East Market Overview that split the business into two regulated Surrey Water Competitive Environment activities.
These three companies all capitalise on Phoenix was established in 1996 to The first is Transmission, bringing gas our skills in developing and operating introduce natural gas to the industrial, from Larne to Belfast, which will have a utility networks, managing complex commercial and domestic markets of the RAV of 82.2 million and be allowed a regulatory environments and overseeing Greater Belfast area.
Since then, the pre-tax return of 7.5% pa.
This asset sizeable investment programmes.
Our company has secured over 82,000 assumes an initial licence period of twenty primary business goal is to deliver high customers and is currently growing at a years commencing 1 October 2004. levels of service to our customers and rate close to 20 per cent per year.
steady returns to our shareholders.
The second, Distribution, will have a With a monopoly distribution licence until RAV of 224.5 million and be allowed a 2032, Phoenix has 100 per cent market pre-tax return of 8.5% pa until 2016. share in its licence area and is well placed Thereafter, the rate of return will be to grow in the future as customers turn subject to regulatory review.
This asset away from traditional fuels such as oil assumes a forty-year licence period.
and coal in favour of a cleaner alternative.
Phoenix is currently converting new However, following Terra Firmas offer customers at the rate of close to 300 per NIAER indicated it was not bound by week and by the end of 2005, around this agreement.
This is a matter for 35 per cent of properties passed in the considerable concern.
Our view was licensed area will be burning natural gas.
that the previous licence was unsuitable for optimising the development of gas in the licensed area.
We were very pleased that we had achieved that objective East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 07 Phil Holder Chief Executive which we believed to be in the interests operates on a no profit no loss basis and Risk management processes of our customers in that it provided an any shortfalls in returns are rolled up in In support of the fundamental business opportunity to optimise prices and create the RAV of the distribution business.
goal of running a successful Natural the right environment to deliver the Gas business, the Phoenix Board and Nevertheless, in such an unpredictable growth in connections that we expect.
Management Team are fully committed environment, we are always aware of the to achieving high standards of A recent development is that we have to need to protect shareholders from the performance in safeguarding the health split Gas Distribution from Gas Supply.
risk of high input prices while also and safety of employees, and minimising This will mean that Phoenix will have to offering our customers as much price both the risk to the public and the split its distribution business into these stability as possible.
impact on the environment of the components.
We do not foresee any Strategy companys activities.
problems with this process as the business is already regulated on this basis Goals and Objectives Phoenix has in place a detailed The companys prime objective is to Environmental Policy and an excellent Raw material prices increase the number of customer health, safety and environmental record The price of gas in world markets has connections in line with regulatory is seen as a positive business investment.
fluctuated considerably over the year expectations.
At the heart of this strategy Indeed, the Phoenix pipeline network is and at the time of writing is at a high is the 2,600km pipeline network, which now considered a benchmark for best level.
However, thanks to an agreement now passes more than 77 per cent of practice in such development work, and re-negotiated with British Gas Trading Belfasts 300,000 properties and the lessons learnt in Northern Ireland are during the year, Phoenix is insulated to continues to expand each year.
influencing natural gas development some degree until October 2005, when Additional new business will also be around the world.
we will move to buying gas at open provided by the 35,000 new properties market prices.
which are expected to be built in the To reflect the new gas costs and the area by 2016. regulatory settlement, Phoenix increased Customers who until now have had no its prices by 11.3% from 1st October alternative to coal or oil are seeing the 2004, a figure which compares very benefits of natural gas and it shows in favourably with its main competitor, oil, the companys impressive sales figures.
the price of which has also increased Over the past year, connections have substantially in the last 12 months.
risen by 13,000 to 82,000 and Phoenix Volatile gas costs can have a short-term has ambitious targets to convert a impact on profitability.
However, the further 40,000 properties over the next underlying value of the business remains three years, the equivalent of one unaffected because, under the Agreement connection every eight minutes of each with NIAER, the gas supply business working day.
08 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Operating and Financial Review The Gas Businesses The opportunity for progress that the Gas Businesses represent is reflected in Phoenixs declared aim to make natural gas the fuel of choice for all energy consumers in Northern Ireland.
Value Creating Activities Since natural gas was introduced to 10.4 million 5.0 million.
Gross Belfast, harmful chemical emissions margins were maintained at 48% and Customers have been drastically reduced and over operating cash flow, before working With much of the infrastructure already in 265,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide have capital and capital expenditure increased place, the focus remains on marketing been removed from the atmosphere to 18.7m.
and signing up new customers.
In each and every year equivalent to taking addition to selling the established benefits We remain confident that Phoenix will 80,000 cars off the road.
This figure of natural gas a versatile, cleaner fuel contribute significantly to the Groups will keep growing as each household that does not need to be stored, energy earnings potential in the longer term and contributes to a healthier environment efficiency advice and special services for remain very excited about its prospects.
older and disabled customers Phoenix Capital expenditure uses its marketing material to emphasise As an established business with a longDuring the year we have invested the environmental benefits.
term future in Northern Ireland, the 14.6 million extending the network.
company has also forged close links Phoenix also recognises that sustained The network is now developed to such with schools through a lively programme growth depends on customer an extent that the majority of the of educational events including satisfaction and to this end, the company expenditure is to connect customers to competitions, awards and safety is committed to delivering high quality the system that is already there.
The basis most of the expenditure is driven by upon which Phoenix is measured is the Financial Performance demand and immediately generates companys service standards, which are revenue.
Economic fully endorsed by Ofreg and the General This is the first full financial year in As custodians of the largest civil Consumer Council for Northern Ireland.
which we have consolidated the results engineering project in the province, These targets have all been met and of Phoenix, continuing the excellent Phoenix works closely with its indeed exceeded for the year.
All operational construction partner McNicholas Environmental policies targets have been met, and the number Construction Services to manage its Phoenix considers corporate social of customers grew by an impressive capital expenditure programme to the responsibility an integral part of its 13,000 to 82,000 in the period.
Turnover highest standards of quality and safety, business and recognises the importance increased from 43.9 million in 2003 04 minimising the impact on the and benefits of giving something back to to 58.2 million.
This growth is a environment wherever possible.
Its current nominated combination of increased customers the Unlike other areas of the UK, the charity partner is the Northern Ireland biggest impact, the 11.3% price rise in infrastructure assets are relatively new Chest, Heart and Stroke Association October and postalisation income of and as such very reliable.
The greatest a natural partner given that NICHSA 4.9 million.
risk to our system is third party campaigns for cleaner air and natural As a result of increased turnover interference damage to underground gas delivers it.
operating profits increased by 108% to mains and to counter this, we have p therm East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 09 82,000 58 Forward Gas Prices - Gas Years 2003-2006 69,500 53 Gas Year October 2004 55,500 48 Gas Year October 2005 39,500 43 24,000 38 33 28 23 18 Oct Feb Jun Sep Jan May Aug Dec Apr March March March March March 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2002 2003 2004 2005 Customers connected Gas prices The number of customers on the Phoenix distribution Gas costs have shown significant increases in the network has now reached 82,000.
Over the last four last year.
Phoenix is moving to market prices in years this is a compound annual growth rate of 36%.
Forward Gas Prices - Gas Years 2003-2006 Gas Year October 2004 Gas Year October 2005 Delivering On our potential 10 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 13.9m 12.4m 30.5m 7.3m 22.4m 5.4m 4.1m 18.8m 17.8m 4.0m 16.3m 3.8m 3.8m 0.3m 0.6m 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Phoenix EBITDA Phoenix operating cash flow Phoenix capital expenditure Phoenixs EBITDA has shown a consistently very Operating cash flow at Phoenix has also shown a very Capital expenditure at Phoenix is now stabilising at strong positive trend over the last five years.
positive trend reflecting the improved operating results.
The main distribution network This reflects the success connecting customers was completed several years ago and new investment and in 2005 the impact of postalisation.
is driven by revenue generating connections.
Delivering Investment East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 11 Operating and Financial Review The Gas Businesses Our management has a strong track record of managing regulated infrastructure businesses.
These skills deliver synergy to each utility operation.
launched the very successful Dial before E. S. Pipelines you Dig initiative which has significantly Established in 2000, E. S. Pipelines is reduced the number of incidents of an Independent Gas Transporter with a accidental damage.
licence to build and operate gas networks transporting gas for shipping companies.
Risk Profile The company specialises in bringing gas Buying gas on the open market is a connections to existing domestic specialised activity and in order to communities and commercial premises minimise the cost and manage risk, we not connected to the national network, employ a professional gas buyer and rather than to new housing estates.
consultants to develop strategies to reduce our exposure in what can be a Market Overview volatile and constantly fluctuating E. S. Pipelines operates in a market market.
place with four other major competitors, We also have the benefit of a long term although in its very specialised sector, it contract for a substantial amount of our is the market leader.
During the year, the company progressed Overall the risks of fluctuating gas costs one of its biggest domestic infill projects is covered by our agreement with the yet to build a pipeline network linking Regulator to operate the supply business up 1400 homes in the Berkshire village on a break-even basis.
of Mortimer and has an ambitious programme for 2005 6.
One of the most significant of these new projects is a gas network extension to 750 properties in Hallglen, Falkirk, some of which are owned by the Local Authority.
Through using the successful model of increased transportation charges, E. S. Pipelines is able to offer everyone a more affordable connection whether their property is publicly or privately owned.
The company is jointly pursuing projects with Transco Affordable Warmth to lay pipelines to communities in Milford 12 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Operating and Financial Review The Gas Businesses We are among the best performing companies in the industry, leading the way in distributing high quality utilities to our customers and backing it up with exemplary levels of service.
Haven, Abergwynfi near Neath, Port installers, enabling it to offer customers Financial Performance Talbot, the Wynter Estate near Weston a complete one stop shop for their ESP has grown turnover significantly in Super Mare and, another major project, energy requirements.
In May 2005 we announced that we had This increase includes a full year Our aim is to support the business with formed a JV Company with Terra Firma contribution from the United Utilities an investment of 9.5 million over the to acquire British Gas Connections acquisition made in October 2003.
In addition, E. S. Pipelines Limited.
for total consideration of 90.0 result of the underlying growth in the is continuing to develop profitable million.
ESP has a contract to manage connections, ESP is now making partnerships with central heating the business on behalf of the Joint operating profits of 0.3 million installers to grow the network further.
BGC has 139,000 connections operating losses of 0.1million.
During with an order book of 37,000 connections.
the year it invested 2.5 million in new Strategy This JV significantly strengthens ESP networks bring total investments to Goals and Objectives operations and is in accordance with our 12.6 million.
E. S. Pipelines strategy is to provide an strategy for this business.
economic method for existing properties, Risk management industrial, commercial or domestic, E. S. Pipelines works closely with its to be connected to the national gas construction partners to ensure high infrastructure while making a reasonable standards of workmanship using only return on its investments.
approved materials, so that it complies Within this, the companys prime with its licence and Safety Case.
The objective is to invest in projects that offer a company has an excellent health, safety higher than average return and these are and environmental record.
Naturally, assessed on a project-by-project basis.
dealing with the commercial sector This objective also extends to acquisitions carries a certain amount of risk should a as was the case in 2003, when we bought partner or major commercial customer United Utilities gas transportation go into liquidation.
However, we manage businesses and through it gained 10,000 this by assessing the financial position revenue-earning connections these are and adjusting the project returns expected to increase to 12,000 by 2006. accordingly.
Each network ESP operates is new and, by definition, there are no E. S. Pipelines focuses on building close problems with ageing infrastructure relationships with its main customers, assets.
who are energy consultants, businesses, local authorities and gas shippers.
It also forges partnerships with central heating East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 13 28 Monthly average 200 mm Long term monthly average 100 mm Long term average 90 OFWAT target 180 Previous year rainfall 04 05 27 80 160 Current year rainfall 03 04 26 140 70 02 03 Economic level 120 60 25 50 100 24 40 80 23 60 30 20 40 22 10 20 21 0 0 Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2004 2005 Leakage results Monthly rainfall Burst mains Sutton and East Surrey Water has maintained its Rainfall in the Sutton and East Surrey area has been Burst mains usually result from ground movement leakage levels below Ofwats target for the past five consistently, and significantly below average for the last especially during very dry periods.
This is clearly shown years.
This has been achieved despite all the variations six months.
This is particularly important because the in the late summer of 2003 04 when the weather was in rainfall and temperature during that time.
Sutton and winter period is when water resources are recharged.
In 2004 05 the rate of bursts has East Surrey Water has one of the lowest leakage rates fallen to more typical levels and also remains below the in the industry.
Delivering Consistently MI Day 14 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Capex allowed by CC Actual capex Opex allowed by CC Actual Opex 22.0 m 21.5 21.0 20.5 20.0 19.5 19.0 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 Sutton and East Surrey Water - capital expenditure Sutton & East Surrey Water plc Capital expenditure varies from year to year as projects Operating costs 2001 - 2005 start and complete during the period.
During this This graph shows that Sutton and East Surrey Water quinquenium Sutton and East Surrey Water has met has outperformed the level of operating costs the capital expenditure target set by the Competition determined by the Competition Commission in all years Commission and subsequently adjusted by Ofwat.
In 2005 operating costs returned to below the levels set by the Competition Commission as further efficiencies were achieved.
1m 17.7m 16.0m 18.0m 21.3m 18.4m 22.7m 20.1m East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 15 Operating and Financial Review The Water Businesses Our environmental track record is strong - indeed, we remain one of the most successful companies in minimising water loss from the network.
Sutton and East Surrey Water not anticipate this change having any deliver the levels of service required and Sutton and East Surrey Water is a significant impact on our business.
the returns expected by our investors.
During the year, Regulatory Environment Strategy we delivered water to 642,000 people in Ofwat has now published the Regulated 252,000 homes and 19,000 commercial Goals and Objectives Asset Values RAV for the period 2005- properties.
Our licence area extends The companys prime objectives are to 2010.
During this period our RAV across the London Boroughs of provide customers with the highest levels increases, in real terms, from 135.0 Croydon, Merton and Sutton, East of service and excellent quality water, million to 143.2m, which reflects the Surrey and parts of Kent and Sussex.
and to make a reasonable return for investment in new assets that forms shareholders.
We continue to be among the best part of the price determination performing companies in the water All these objectives have been achieved In common with other utilities, Sutton industry, leading the way in distributing this year.
and East Surrey Water operates in an high quality water to our customers and exacting and rigorous regulatory Our focus on service standards has been backing it up with exemplary levels of environment, which involves compliance commended by Ofwat, who recently service.
Our environmental track record with strict pricing, quality and ruled that Sutton and East Surrey Water is also strong indeed, we remain one of environmental controls.
Within this was above average in all categories of the most successful companies in framework, a key task is to manage our service indicators and one of only three minimising water loss from the network.
regulatory affairs in a way that ensures companies in the UK to have all its water Market Overview that we can balance the investment zones complying with key water needed to provide consistently high parameters.
Competitive Environment levels of customer service with We have 100% market share in our As regards ongoing investment, reasonable returns to our shareholders.
Business expansion more than 10 million is being spent comes mainly from new developments The management of regulation is an upgrading, modernising and installing and grows by approximately 1,500 to ongoing process, which presents new equipment at our two largest 2000 connections per year less than constant challenges.
treatment works, securing the water 1%.
Consumption per capita is also supply for 350,000 people.
This work In the last year, Ofwat has published its gradually increasing year on year.
is in addition to our ongoing mains price review for the period 2005-6 to replacement and refurbishment In summer 2005, the Government 2009-10.
While we have reservations programme in which we have invested is reducing the threshold at which about some aspects of the determination 41.0 million since 2000. commercial consumers can go to the notably the effect of climate change, open market for their water supply.
All which puts additional stress on the but four of our commercial customers infrastructure and the lack of investment are well below this threshold so we do maintaining our systems we have accepted the review and will work to 16 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Operating and Financial Review The Water Businesses We are committed to operating our business in a socially responsible and ethical manner.
Risk management processes visited our treatment works or listened to Sutton and East Surrey Water plc has an educational talk.
well tested systems that extract, treat Environmental and deliver wholesome water to its We take very seriously our guardianship customers.
The quality of water is now of the water environment.
Where we subject to even more rigorous testing need to develop new resources, we do and review due to the Water Supply so with real care to protect rivers and the Water Quality Regulations 2000, which wider environment.
In addition, we strive came into effect this year.
We confidently to minimise losses from our system expect it to exceed the standards required through leakage and for the last few when it is assessed for the first 12 months years have led the industry in leak of full implementation at the end of June.
We continue to meet tough A commitment to ongoing investment in annual leakage targets set by the technology at our treatment works Regulator.
ensures that the quality of our water will remain among the best in the country.
Nevertheless, our ability to meet all our customers demands depends on the Value Creating Activities level of rainfall, particularly in the winter Customers months.
Unfortunately, the winter of Although the company has a monopoly 2004 5 was unusually dry, and by Spring in its licence area, we are far from this year the aquifers had received only complacent about our customer 82% of average rainfall during the crucial relationships and pursue an active Autumn to early Spring recharge period.
communications and public relations In accordance with our drought programme.
This includes a twice-yearly management plan, this has resulted in magazine, Pipelines and our popular our having to impose a hand-held Water Tasting Challenge roadshow, sprinkler ban from 22 April only the which invites members of the public to second time in ten years that we have tell the difference between our water and had to do so.
Financial Performance In addition, our education programme Turnover in the period increased to 38.6 provides us with an important million 38.0 million.
Measured water opportunity to inform a new generation volumes were affected by the relatively of water consumers, and last year a total cool summer, compared to the very hot of 8,500 pupils from 95 different schools summer of the preceding year.
Operating East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 17 14.9p 35.2m 108.9m 14.3p 13.9p 13.5p 13.2p 25.2m 73.1m 20.8m 19.0m 55.5m 17.0m 53.3m 44.6m 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 East Surrey Holdings - Turnover East Surrey Holdings - EBITDA Dividends per share Turnover for the Group has shown significant growth in EBITDA has also shown significant growth following the Dividends have grown in accordance with the dividend the last year following the acquisition of Phoenix in acquisition of Phoenix in December 2003. policy of growing dividends in line with inflation.
In 2005 December 2003. dividends are increasing by 4.1%, which is above the rate of inflation and recognises the contribution of Phoenix to the Groups results.
profits increased by 1.2 million to 12.0 Non-regulated businesses million because of reduced infrastructure Our established non-regulated costs, following completion of the fivebusinesses have also made good year capital programme, reduced costs progress during the period.
Advanced associated with preparing the business Minerals, our aggregates and specialist plans for submission to Ofwat and minerals company, has diversified into continued pressure to reduce allied activities.
its sales by 55% to 3.1 million by increasing its range of products and Our capital expenditure programme finding new ways to market them.
22.7 million in the period is split Allmat East Surrey Ltd. our building between the refurbishment and updating materials distributor, also continues to of our treatment works, and the ongoing improves profits through better gross upgrading and replacement of our mains margins.
Sutton and East Surrey Water network.
Notable projects include the Services, which provides plumbing and 10 million upgrading of the Elmer insurance services, again increased its Treatment Works at Leatherhead and our turnover in its plumbing business and five-year programme to renovate mains recently opened a new bathroom centre which came to an end in March.
to capitalise on this success.
All works are undertaken by third party Phil Holder contractors, on either a fixed price or Managing Director open book contract, and managed by our engineering team.
18 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Operating and Financial Review Environment and Social Policies and Performance The core activities of the East Surrey Holdings businesses gas and water utilities rely on the environment in that both gas and water are natural resources.
It is therefore in our long-term interest to protect the environment and wherever possible enhance it.
Overview Environment Sutton and East Surrey Water is East Surrey Holdings recognises that As both the water and gas businesses recognised as one of the leaders in managing environmental and social rely on the environment for the core the UK in managing leakage from the issues as part of day-to-day operations product that we provide to customers, system.
This ensures that high quality is critical.
We manage these issues from we take our guardianship of the treated water is not wasted and also the a legislative, reputational and cost environment seriously.
In our water associated energy and chemicals used perspective to continuously improve our business, we take water from the in treatment are not wasted.
We also environmental and social performance environment, treat it to an exceptionally promote the efficient use of water to as part of our comprehensive risk high quality and supply it to our our customers through metering of management process.
Although we customers and communities.
Effective water and also through educational have managed environmental and social management of the water and the information.
The outcome being that health, safety, human resources and associated environmental issues through over the last thirty years approximately local communities issues for a long this process is key.
the same amount of water is being time, such issues are becoming more taken from the environment and Much of the water we take to treat is important for our stakeholders.
Therefore provided to customers despite an from reservoirs that are on land that we have, this year, for the first time increase in the numbers of customers we own.
As part of the duty to taken the opportunity to describe our we supply by over 10%.
manage these assets in line with the policies and performance within this Conservation, Access and Recreation Phoenix Natural Gas takes the same Annual Report.
CAR requirements, we ensure that approach to environmental issues and The core activities of the East Surrey such landholdings are maximised for risk management for the benefit of the Holdings businesses gas and water nature conservation, access for the business.
The Company, through its utilities rely on the environment in public and for recreational purposes environmental policy, management that both gas and water are natural such as sailing and fishing, for the system and clear governance process resources.
It is therefore in our long-term local communities.
Our Bough Beech to ensure delivery, enables continual interest to protect the environment and Reservoir is an excellent of example of environmental performance improvement.
maximising an asset for water provision The clearest environmental benefit from Furthermore, the provision of water and for the benefit of the environment with the business is in the provision of gas gas to our customers and communities the site being a nature reserve with which is a cleaner fuel to use with the is a service that is fundamental to their extensive wildlife, having a visitor centre equivalent of over 265,000 tonnes of quality of life and we therefore have a which is used by thousands of people carbon dioxide being removed from the clear social role to play.
Our other social each year and being used for sailing air each year.
role is as a responsible employer and and fishing.
Environmental objectives and targets are ensuring the health and safety of our In the treatment process of the water, set for each year on the significant employees and ensuring the same we aim to optimise the use of energy issues such as the number of approach is taken by our contractors.
and chemicals in the treatment process.
customers converting to gas as a East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 19 cleaner fuel: the use of no-dig In Sutton and East Surrey Water for programmes with key elements being techniques when putting the gas example, quarterly Safety Committees skills training and development acting distribution pipes in the ground which are held, with weekly and monthly as a bridge for employment in the minimises disruption to the local reviews meetings being conducted sector: contributing to the eradication community but also significantly across the operational parts of the of fuel poverty, working in partnership minimising the volume of waste to business.
Similar safety arrangements with schools, colleges.
The outcomes landfill : and reducing the amount of and reviews are conducted with Sutton of the programme are better customer travel during business.
and East Surreys contractors to ensure satisfaction, over 25 people taken back that the companys philosophy and into employment through the upskilling The objectives and targets are part of culture is part of the way they do schemes plus significant sums of Phoenixs management system that is business for us.
one of the few utility companies that has certification to the international Similar arrangements are in place at East Surrey Holdings is committed to environmental management standard Phoenix Natural Gas with clear roles and delivering and continuously improving its ISO14001.
responsibilities in place to ensure the environmental and social performance welfare of employees and contractors as the Company recognises that such Social is safeguarded.
In October 2004 for an approach builds long term employee, The health and safety of employees example, an external audit was customer, community and shareholder and contractors, being a good employer conducted by the British Safety Council value.
and working closely with our local of Phoenixs activities and the business communities are the principal social was awarded an excellent 4 out of 5 aspects and issues that East Surrey stars and an improvement plan using the Holdings believe are critical to the findings of the audit is being implemented success of the business.
to aim for the top award of 5 stars.
In Sutton and East Surrey Water and Working with our customers and local Phoenix Natural Gas business, health communities is essential to maintain the and safety is paramount and is managed long term sustainable stability of our through our comprehensive policies, businesses and such an approach has management systems and procedures, been part of the operations of the training and reviews carried out.
Phoenix Considerable investment in health and Natural Gas from 1996 has had a clear safety has occurred in all businesses community engagement programme such that no major reportable accidents Learning, getting Involved, Forging have occurred in the last 5 years and relationships and Engaging LIFE.
The the number of three days injuries has LIFE programme is recognised as one of remained at a consistently low level.
the leading community social inclusion 20 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 Operating and Financial Review Financial Review Operating profit for the period was 21.7 million, an increase of 46 per cent on the previous year.
Group Trading Performance Indifferent weather last summer resulted remaining bond proceeds and some of In the 12 months to March 31, 2005, in a modest increase 0.6 million in our surplus cash in their cash portfolio.
group turnover was 108.9 million, up revenue for Sutton and East Surrey Water.
Tax 35.8 million on last year 73.1 million However, operating profits increased by Due to high levels of capital expenditure including share of joint-venture.
This a greater margin due to a combination of and our purchase of Phoenix and Sutton produced an operating profit before tax factors, among them reduced infrastructure and East Surrey Water, our tax charge of 21.7 million, an increase of 46 per costs and lower costs relating to the this year is 11%, which is lower than the cent on last year 14.9 million including price review.
Overall profits increased by standard rate of 30%.
We have concluded share of joint-venture.
These results 1.2 million to 12.0 million.
discussions with the Inland Revenue include a full year contribution from Pension contributions have also had an regarding several years tax computations.
Phoenix for the first time.
impact on East Surrey Waters profits.
This has resulted in a beneficial prior year Turnover at Phoenix increased by 33% Since the 2002 Actuarial review of our tax adjustment of 4.5 million.
This impressive growth final salary pension scheme, there has Dividends was achieved by an increase in been a significant movement in asset Dividends to preference shareholders connections, gas consumption and, values as a result of market conditions.
during the year amounted to 1.0 million selling prices.
There was also a 4.9 In 2003, we decided to review funding of 1.0 million.
Proposed dividends to million contribution resulting from the the scheme and, as a result, increased ordinary shareholders will increase in line introduction of postalisation in October our contributions to 17.6% of pensionable with our policy to 10.0p per share 9.55p 2004.
This also increases transportation pay.
We will continue to monitor the per share at a total cost to the Group of costs so that the net increase in margin situation with a view to keeping our 8.5 million 8.1 million.
The past twelve funding rates at sensible levels.
months have seen big fluctuations in Cash Flow Finance Costs commodity gas prices, leading to BGT The Group's operating cash flow was There was a substantial increase in proposing a price increase under the 36.5 million 26.7 million as a result finance costs to 9.7million 6.1 million.
re-opener clause in our gas supply of improved profitability.
During the year, This largely results from the full impact of contract.
We disputed this and the Group invested 37.4 million financing the acquisition of Phoenix, successfully negotiated a fair price, 30.7 million in fixed assets to meet which increased our interest costs by which has insulated Phoenix to some regulatory requirements and grow the 4.6 million.
degree during the period and will gas networks.
This was largely financed continue to do so until October 2005.
Indexation of the capital on the Sutton through operating cash and further Overall Phoenix increased operating and East Surrey water bond, treated as draw-downs on our banking facilities profits to 10.4 million from 5.0 million interest, amounted to 3.2 million 3.2 of 10.4 million.
annualised as a result of higher turnover million and interest of 3.1 million 3.0 Financial Position and good cost control.
Scottish Widows Investment The Group therefore remains in a strong Partnership continue to manage the position, with overall cash of 68.4 East Surrey Holdings plc Annual Report 2005 21 Nick Fisher Finance Director million 77.6 million of which 26.8 Infrastructure Renewals accounting will utilised.
This facility, and the acquisition million 33.4 million remains in Sutton no longer be allowed under IFRS, and facility from Barclays Bank of 93.0 and East Surrey Water.
This is largely we are working to establish the most million, currently incurs interest rate bond proceeds which are ring fenced in appropriate way to handle this transition.
The accordance with bond covenants, and decision was made to fix interest cost We are currently making good progress are necessary to fulfil its capital so interest rate swap agreements with our IFRS conversion project and expenditure programme.
were contracted, fixing interest rates at anticipate providing a report to around 6.5%.
Standards In 2003 04, we agreed a further Liquidity Risk International Financial Reporting medium-term asset finance loan facility The Board ensures that liquidity is Standards will be mandatory for all UK for E. S. Pipelines on a variable interest available through overdraft facilities, listed companies for accounting periods rate basis, the margin being 1.25%.
At which are reviewed each year and beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
31 March 2005, the outstanding balance repayable on demand.
The latest review Our first annual statements prepared on was 7.7 million, which includes the set these facilities for Sutton and east this basis will be for the year ended purchase of the United Utilities networks Surrey Water at 2.0 million, which were March 2006. businesses.
unutilised at the year end.
Any overdraft Financial performance measured under facilities used are charged at 1% above Trading Risk IFRS will differ from that measured under base rate.
Although we have a gas supply contract current accounting standards.
The main with British Gas Trading, from October Sutton and East Surrey Water still had areas where there are likely to be we will have to buy some gas on the cash, held in specified accounts, of material differences are: open market.
The procurement of these 16.5 million 23.2 million from the additional supplies is carried out by Pension fund deficits and surpluses bond issued in 2001.
These funds will be specialists within Phoenix Natural Gas in will be included in our accounts rather drawn down annually.
The 100 million accordance with policies authorised by than disclosed by way of a note index-linked bond issue, which is credit the Board.
rated as AAA, provides the Group with a Deferred tax liabilities will no longer be fixed rate of interest of 2.874%.
Nick Fisher discounted Finance Director.
The Group has a 32.0 million revolving Proposed dividends will not be credit facility with Barclays Bank to considered to be a liability until it is finance further investment and working approved by shareholders.
Details of capital requirements at Phoenix.
The these dividends will still be in a note.
facility is available to December 2007 Financial assets and liabilities will have and is expected to be drawn down to be disclosed at their fair values during that period.
At the end of March unless effectively hedged.
2004, 10.0 million of the facility was
