Operating and Financial Review Ian Mason Richard Butler Jeff Hewitt Group Chief Executive Chief Process officer Deputy Chairman and Group Finance Director catalogue, e-Commerce, CD-ROM and trade Description and history counters.
It also offers several channels Electrocomponents plc is a high service via which customers can place orders industrial distributor operating in 26 including e-Commerce, telephone, fax and countries and selling to most of the at trade counters.
remaining countries of the world.
The Group The Group started as Radiospares in offers a wide range of products representing London in 1937 selling spare parts for radios.
a one-stop shop for customers who are Throughout the 1950s the product range typically R&D or maintenance engineers in was widened to include more electrical and business.
The products are of good quality electronic products.
In 1967 Radiospares and all are generally held in stock.
There is was oated on the London Stock Exchange then a highly efficient delivery process to as Electrocomponents plc.
Throughout the ensure that the products are despatched the Operating and Financial Review Contents 1990s the Group expanded into other same day that the order is received and 6 Description and history markets, widened the range of product delivered to the customer soon after.
6 Group structure and developments technologies offered and increased the This product and service offer is relevant 7 Markets and competition number of services offered to its customers.
to a wide range of customers from both Almost all of the Groups expansion has been 8 Strengths and resources manufacturing and service sectors.
Customers organic with the notable exception of Allied, know that Electrocomponents will be able to 9 Strategy which was acquired in July 1999. supply all of the products that they need at 9 Operating performance short notice.
Therefore, they rely on the Group 13 Financial review and capital structure Group structure and developments for low value, unplanned requirements.
The 14 e-Commerce As the Group expanded internationally using average order value is generally less than the UK business model in the 1990s, the new 100 but the number of customer contacts 14 Enterprise Business System projects businesses grew autonomously and so the is very large and their demands are diverse.
To ensure more This means that the Group manages tens of 16 Risks coherence and control, the matrix thousands of orders per day.
17 Corporate and Social Responsibility organisation was implemented in 1996 and The Group offers its products using the Group Processes were developed to 19 International Financial Reporting Standards several different media including paper BUILDING SERVICE STRENGTHS 6 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review broad product offer.
By contrast there are Our strategic PROCESS AND MATRIX ORGANISATION several hundred electrical wholesalers, development hundreds more industrial wholesalers and Processes 1996-2000 also retailers.
Customers will select which of GEOGRAPHIC ENTERPRISE these alternatives offer the service that they EXPANSION BUSINESS SYSTEMS need at an acceptable value.
Customer 1-26 countries new infrastructure research in the UK and Continental Europe 1990s integrated system GROUP MARKETING new capabilities has confirmed that the primary alternative to STRATEGY 2000- RS for the customer is a local wholesaler.
The alignment and sharing wholesaler will typically have a smaller range sales and marketing investment and lower product availability, but typically 2000- has lower costs and lower prices than the high service providers.
The wholesaler usually has established long term relationships with their local customers.
When the wholesaler fails to provide a product, the customer will turn to support the individual businesses.
The effective way than was possible with ageing RS.
In electronic and electromechanical Processes allow the businesses to all benefit legacy systems.
products RS is more often the supplier of choice from the same expertise in product selection This template was designed with a SAPgiven our strengths and the limited presence and purchase, catalogue development and centred enterprise management structure of wholesalers in these product areas.
production, information systems and supply for Europe with a similar but more limited The wide range of customers served by chain support giving cost and other benets.
framework given the smaller businesses RS in the UK means that RS is affected by The second step from 2000 onwards for Asia based on JD Edwards now trends in the wider economy.
Over many was to align the selling and marketing Peoplesoft.
The EBS Europe applications years, there has been a decline in UK activities of each business more closely.
This include stock management, customer manufacturing, offset by the growth of the reduced the divergence of the businesses relationship management and warehouse service sector and this has been mirrored in and allowed them a better sharing of management together with core financial the sales mix of RS UK.
A typical situation for successes and experiences.
This has been and logistics functions.
The Asia EBS has RS has been the loss of a long standing, loyal, combined with increased investment in been implemented successfully in South manufacturing customer who has purchased selling and marketing across the businesses.
Asia, Australasia and Hong Kong whilst in regularly, sometimes daily.
The customers in Finally the Group has embarked on Europe, France was the first implementation the manufacturing and service sectors have a project to implement new enterprise with the UK next.
The progress and financial similar needs and a large part of the product business systems.
The existing legacy impact of this project are discussed in detail range is equally relevant to both sectors.
systems were largely installed in the early later in this review.
However, a new customer takes time to 1990s and just as the operating procedures become as loyal and to order as frequently developed in different ways, so did the Markets and competition as the established customer who may have systems.
Similarly, the systems used in the The high service distribution model is in lost their job.
Therefore, although customer UK were developed for the UK business and very differing stages of development in the numbers may not change signicantly, the were not designed for the UK functioning as markets in which the Group operates.
The UK average number of orders placed by the hub of an international group.
A market is relatively developed and customer customers will fall and so sales decline template for the new Enterprise Business needs are met through several competing until the order frequency is rebuilt.
System EBS was created from the best distribution channels with differing service Continental Europe represents an practices across the Group that would allow levels.
There is only one competitor to RS opportunity for significant growth as our the Group to operate in a more integrated and offering a similar high service across a sales would have to increase sevenfold to MAKING CUSTOMER CHOICE EASY: CATALOGUES E-COMMERCE TRADE COUNTERS CD ROMS Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 7 reach the same level relative to the regional In Asia, our markets continue to develop but service, but are perceived to be less Gross Domestic Product as achieved by these are very much less developed than in expensive.
RS has its strongest presence RS in the UK.
Our actual sales growth in Europe.
In China there is very rapid market with electronics engineers who buy recent years has been hampered by similar change driven by both high industrial growth electronic and related products.
forces to those experienced in the UK, and significant changes in regulation and Supplier relationships notably the general decline of manufacturing.
therefore the way that business should be Our relationships with our suppliers are Whilst catalogue distribution is already carried out.
We place great importance on a key strength in allowing us to maintain well adopted in the electronic sector, working with the authorities to ensure not the high standards of product availability electrical and industrial products are only compliance, but also the development and supply for our customers.
Through our traditionally served by wholesalers and of practices that benefit the local economy.
Product Management process we purchase more specialised distributors who operate This has placed the Group in good stead and over 350,000 products from around 2,400 in specic countries.
supports the building of a robust and secure major suppliers throughout the world.
Our In North America there is a distinct split business.
The advantage of our position is Supply Chain process is then responsible between the distribution of electronic and made manifest by the way that our importing for ensuring that stock is in the right place electrical products and industrial products.
and order despatch procedures have been at the right time to satisfy customer demand Allied operates primarily within the simplied compared to many companies.
and has built up considerable know how electronic electrical market where there There are few companies competing with to achieve high service levels.
are four national catalogue distribution our type of product and service offer.
The Our reach to R&D and maintenance companies, of which Allied is the third largest.
launch and roll out of our Same Day Offer engineers is very valuable to suppliers However, Allied also competes with about a will make it even more difficult for new as otherwise the small order requirements thousand smaller, local or narrow distributors.
of such customers are difficult and costly Again the basis of competition is service where the extensive local sales branch Strengths and resources to satisfy.
network of Allied, supported by a large Brands We agree integrated media and product offer and good logistics, are The Group has several major brands marketing campaigns with suppliers important advantages.
The most significant brand to support agreed sales and customer Before we rolled out the RS model to is RS which is used all over the world development activities proactively Japan in 1999, the concept of small-order except for North America Allied and exchanging information to ensure that we high-service distribution did not exist in that France Radiospares where there are meeting our customers expectations.
There were isolated high service are restrictions on our use of the brand Customer relationships suppliers although these were generally name RS.
All of these brands are long The breadth of our service and product offer only supplying product made within their standing and market leading so brand means that we supply to a wide range of groups.
More often, manufacturers wishing recognition and brand loyalty in our customers from all areas of industry and to supply to customers ordering small customer base is high.
Our businesses distribute around quantities of product had to use the multiThe Group carries out market research 1.4 million catalogues and have around 1.3m layered wholesaler network.
The business regularly, but in the past year we have e-Commerce registrations.
Of these, around model offered by RS short-circuited much more intensively surveyed our European 200,000 customers buy from the Group of this layered distribution network, but customers.
The results provide a consistent in any one month and around 1.2m in any required a highly reliable service from the picture of how customers view the RS brand one year.
In this context a customer is an launch of the business.
So far the Group and gives clear conrmation of its strengths.
individual end user, typically a maintenance remains the only significant business able Our scores on service, speed of delivery, or R&D engineer.
to provide this service offer which has product availability and never letting achieved considerable customer acceptance the customer down are market leading.
The average order value is consistent and success.
Competitors are rated less highly on across the RS businesses at around 80 to RS service is Allieds Customer rewarded by high First programme customer loyalty has helped drive and trust its growth 8 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review 100 although the range of order values employees in a business are employed in Operating performance is large.
In Allied the average order value is either selling and marketing generally more Group higher.
The average order frequency of our than a half or operations around a third.
2005 2004 as restated customers rises as the customer becomes The skills of our employees are critical Sales 773.9m 759.3m more established and increasing frequency to the service offer, for example the ability to Operating profit 105.3m 108.5m is a major goal of our selling and marketing quickly and accurately pick product in the Operating profit 95.9m 98.3m activities.
A customer will start off, perhaps warehouse.
Operational key performance Interest 0.9m 1.4m only buying from RS once or twice per year.
measures are used widely to monitor and profit before tax 104.4m 107.
1m Over time this increases and there are many compare performances in such areas, profit before tax 95.0m 96.9m customers now who order regularly and often whilst training provision is intensive.
For them, the Group is an important A significant proportion of the employees Earnings per share 14.9p 15.2p business partner, able to support their are long serving, for example, in our UK Dividend per share 18.4p 18.2p irregularly purchased or urgent product business the average length of service needs quickly and reliably.
In the electronics is about 8.5 years.
Key statistics and electromechanical areas we are a lead 2005 2004 supplier to our customers needs for low Strategy as restated volume requirements.
As described in the Chief Executives Gross margin % 53.2% 53.8% Customer relationships are strengthened Review, our strategy is becoming more Operating return by our service innovations.
For instance, the on sales % 13.6% 14.3% focused on meeting the needs of particular e-Commerce PurchasingManager product Effective tax rate % 29.0% 28.9% customer groups.
Most importantly, this allows many end users within a customer PBT on net assets % 31.6% 31.1% will be reected by extensively developing organisation to order and transact business Before goodwill amortisation our Electronic and Electromechanical offer in a controlled manner.
The consequence is the EEM offer to meet the needs of R&D At reported exchange rates, Group sales that the end users are able to benefit from and maintenance engineers globally.
Operating the service provided by the Group whilst the This greater focus on our strengths will profit, before goodwill amortisation, fell by 2.9% buyers are able to see who has ordered to 105.3m whilst profit before taxation and also result in reducing complexity and what and how much it has cost and also goodwill amortisation PBT&G fell by 2.5% to hence cost.
A detailed action plan is to reduce their transaction expense.
Earnings per share, before goodwill being implemented.
PurchasingManager is free to the customer amortisation fell by 2.9% to 17.0p and after The second focus area is in meeting in return for our wider access to the end goodwill amortisation, fell by 2.0% to 14.9p.
the convenience and urgency needs of users in the customers organisation.
Changes in exchange rates, particularly a broader range of industrial customers, but the US dollar, had an impact on the Groups Employees with a market approach and resources that reported sales and profits.
At constant The skill and dedication of our employees are more specically reect these needs.
exchange rates, the sales growth would have major strengths.
We employ around 5,000 Greater speed of response to customer been 4.0%: operating profit decline 1.7% and employees worldwide: about 1,700 in the needs, more exibility and lower costs are all PBT&G decline 1.2%.
Exchange rate changes UK operating company, 1,200 in Continental requirements of this strategy evolution.
The reduced the sales increase by 15.1m and Europe, 500 in North America, 100 in Japan, EBS systems project reviewed below provides increased the operating profit decline by 600 in the Rest of the World and around the critical underpinning to these capabilities.
The number of trading days also 900 in the Processes.
The number of people The Board believes that there will be a had an impact on sales growth: at constant employed in the Processes is currently higher significant improvement in the Groups exchange rates and adjusted for trading than normal due to the systems projects.
financial results over the medium term as days, the sales growth was 4.5%.
When these projects have been completed, a result of this strategy, cost reductions Trading conditions worsened in the the number of employees will fall.
second half of the year with sales growth ADDED VALUE SERVICES: INCREASING CHOICE AND LOWERING TRANSACTION COSTS FOR CUSTOMERS Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 9 falling from 5.8% in the first half to 3.3% in the 17.0p, down 2.9% on last year.
territories for longest and gained local second half.
The operating profit increase of In accordance with FRS 10, the goodwill experience, the sales performance is better.
15.5% in the first half reversed to a decline of that arose on the acquisition of Allied of Our promotional activities continued and the 13.5% in the second half, an overall decline of 214.8m at acquisition exchange rates Britains Hero at Work 2004 campaign, part 1.7% for the year.
is being written off over 20 years.
Taken of the Do Great Things advertising initiative, The gross margin for the year was 53.2%, together with the amortisation of goodwill achieved good increases in brand awareness.
0.6 percentage points below last year.
This was on another small historical acquisition, the These activities helped maintain customer due partly to the changing mix of businesses total goodwill amortisation for the year was numbers during the year.
and partly to gross margin changes within the 9.4m last year 10.2m.
A redesigned catalogue was launched individual companies.
Allieds sales grew faster profit before tax after goodwill amortisation in October which was well received by than the rest of the Group, but at a lower was 95.0m and the effective tax rate on this customers, although it remains too early margin around 38% which accounts for profit was 31.9% to give profit for the year of to judge overall reaction.
Over two million a third of the gross margin reduction.
Gross 64.7m and earnings per share after goodwill additional product data attributes have been margin increased in some businesses, notably amortisation was 14.9p, down 2.0% on last year.
included in the new catalogue and products in Continental Europe, but declined in others, have been presented in ranges to increase UK particularly in the UK.
comparability and hence ease the purchase 2005 2004 Investment in selling and marketing was decisions of customers.
In addition, the Sales by destination 345.2m 348.2m increased in most businesses and was 7.4m number of volumes was reduced from seven Adjusted sales growth 0.3% 0.8% higher than last year.
The increase was mainly to five.
The Spring edition of the catalogue Sales by origin 358.8m 361.0m in sales forces, the catalogue and direct has been rescheduled from March to April so Adjusted sales growth 0.6% 0.9% marketing.
In addition, the redesign of the that the life of each catalogue issue remains catalogue cost 1.6m.
This rephasing also impacted Contribution 107.
8m The EBS projects had a significant impact March sales and year end stock levels.
Contribution % 30.0% 32.6% on costs and profits.
The profit impact increased Our network of 15 trade counters 3.1m from 6.1m to 9.2m, as detailed below.
RS UK sales by origin grew by 0.6% to continued to perform strongly and had Process costs were 79.5m 10.3% 358.8m.
Trading conditions declined as double-digit sales growth during the year.
of sales, compared to 77.6m last year the year progressed: growth of 2.3% in the Trade counters continued to build enhanced 10.2% of sales.
first half reversed to a decline of 1.0% in the services such as Managed Stock Pension costs increased by 2.6m during second half.
February and March were poor Replenishment where RS manages the the year entirely in the UK schemes of which trading months and the business exited the customers stock at their sites supported 1.0m was in Processes and 1.6m was in year declining at 4.5% year on year.
This was by stock replenished from a local trade the UK business.
mainly due to the Easter holidays occurring in counter with the number of MSR agreements Operating margins declined from March this year compared with April last year.
growing by 18% over last year.
14.3% last year to 13.6% as a result of The manufacturing sector remained An indication of the success of our the above factors.
weak during the year and employment in it approach to the market was RS winning the The interest charge of 0.9m was 0.5m continued to decline.
Though more sales and Distributor of the Year at the European lower than last year as the Groups Sterling marketing effort was directed to the service Electronic Industry Awards.
This was deposits were higher than last year giving and public sectors, our sales mix by sector awarded for our success in identifying interest rate benets.
The tax rate of 29%, was unchanged on last year.
demand for new products and our ability to based on profit before tax and goodwill, was We have again increased our investment promote specic suppliers and technologies.
in sales and marketing activities to increase e-Commerce continues to perform profit before tax and goodwill amortisation our coverage of customers.
We believe the strongly and sales through this channel was 104.4m, down 1.2% on last year.
Earnings larger sales force is having a positive effect: increased by 28.7% in the year.
At the year per share before goodwill amortisation was where sales engineers have been in end sales via e-Commerce were 26% of sales, DISTRIBUTOR OF ENHANCING SERVICES THE YEAR 2004 THROUGH OUR TRADE An indication of the success of our COUNTER NETWORKS approach to the market was the Group winning this award at the 2004 European Electronic Industry Awards 10 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review up from 20% at the end of last year.
Wider use Sales in France declined slightly in the year.
The profit contribution increased 12.1% to of e-Commerce will lead to some cost Sales were impacted in the first half by 56.0m and margin increased from 21.2% to savings, as its proportion of the business residual problems following the implementation 23.0%, reecting higher overall gross margins.
Order taking and customer of EBS in June 2003, but over the year these North America enquiries are two areas of opportunity.
issues were resolved and customer service 2005 2004 Exports from the UK to third party levels improved sufciently to support a return Sales 112.8m 102.8m distributors and direct to overseas to sales growth in the second half.
Customer Adjusted sales growth 19.4% 9.7% customers showed strong growth during numbers remained steady.
Sales and Contribution 15.8m 13.3m the year, particularly in the Middle East.
marketing efforts were intensied in the Contribution % 14.0% 12.9% second half to capitalise on the improving Gross margin declined on last year and customer sentiment.
Our e-Commerce the rate of decline was higher as the year Allieds sales in North America grew by 19.4% activities progressed well, particularly through progressed.
The reasons for the decline were to 112.8m during the year, although the further e-Procurement agreements and our selective price adjustments to improve value reported growth in Sterling was 9.7%, reecting PurchasingManager application.
perceptions, higher discounts to larger the sharp weakening of the US Dollar.
Sales Sales in Germany grew in the year though customers, product mix selling more high growth slowed in the second half to 15.7% at a lower rate in the second half.
e-Commerce ticket price items and increased cost prices against more challenging comparatives.
The and targeted customers with good growth particularly from suppliers suffering from exit rate of 13% was lower due to particularly potential drove the growth.
The e-Procurement commodity price increases.
Actions are being strong sales in March last year.
and particularly PurchasingManager taken to mitigate these supplier pressures.
Allieds largely electronic and applications have both shown high growth in The profit contribution fell 10.3m from electromechanical product range was further the number of installations and in the sales 117.8m last year to 107.5m and the margin expanded in the catalogue launched in mix.
During the year, the cut-off time for orders from 32.6% to 30.0%.
The lower gross margin, October 2004 with around 25,000 new received was extended to 10 p. m. for next day higher selling and marketing costs, increased additions to give a net increase of 15,000 delivery, which illustrates the benefit of the costs of EBS implementation and higher products.
The Customer First initiative Bad Hersfeld warehouse location being close launched last year continued to be rolled out contributions to the dened benefit pension to the main carrier hubs.
successfully across the sales branches scheme were all factors.
Notwithstanding the In Italy, sales grew at a higher rate than whilst the deployment of more external profit reduction, the UK business continues in Germany, but the pattern was similar.
Allied continues to be highly profitable and cash generative.
Customer numbers continued to increase in to invest in improving service with the recent Rest of Europe both Germany and Italy.
implementation of the Manugistics demand 2005 2004 The smaller European operations had forecasting system used elsewhere in the Sales 243.5m 241.1m a good year.
Austria, Benelux and Spain all Group, whilst the customer quotations Adjusted sales growth 2.5% 1.4% achieved double digit sales growth.
In Austria, system has also been upgraded.
Contribution 56.0m 51.0m a key driver of the growth was a significant e-Commerce remains underdeveloped Contribution % 23.0% 21.2% increase in customer service, through in Allied.
Work on improving the website is improving product availability.
This was continuing and it will be available during Rest of Europe sales grew by 2.5% to achieved by accessing the larger stockholding 2005 06.
Better search functionality was 243.5m, though the reported growth in in Germany via overnight delivery service introduced during the past year.
A system Sterling was 1.0% reecting the weaker Euro.
directly from the Bad Hersfeld warehouse.
to improve the processing of customer Trading conditions worsened during the e-Commerce continued to be successful quotations is also being introduced.
second half of the year, but overall growth across the region, achieving 22% of sales Gross margin remained stable at rates remained steady.
The March exit sales up from 15% last year.
growth rate fell to 0.3%, primarily due to the accounted for 24% of sales up from The profit contribution increased 29.7% change in the timing of Easter.
to 15.8m and the margin increased from EBS TO BE IMPLEMENTED IN FRANCE in the UK and Group Process hub in the coming year our customer service levels improved and sales grew in the second half Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 11 12.9% last year to 14.0%.
Trading conditions varied across the provide consistently high service levels progressed during the year, with margins of region with China particularly strong.
Sales in China, including Hong Kong, 13.3% in the first half and 14.7% in the second.
Process costs during the year were grew by 17.5% whilst growth reached 25.7% 79.5m, up 2.4% from last year and Japan in mainland China and exited the year at amounting to 10.3% of sales.
The same day offer SDO launched in for the costs of EBS net of legacy savings, the Sales 17.
0m 14.4m Shanghai was extended into Beijing during the catalogue transformation project and Adjusted sales growth 24.0% 28.4% second half.
SDO is based on holding stock for increased pension contributions, Process Contribution 1.5m 0.0m sale in the Shanghai area to allow despatch costs were 8.9% of sales last year 9.5%.
Contribution % 8.8% N A on the day the order is received, so providing Information systems Our high transaction more immediate customer delivery.
Its Sales grew by 24.0% to 17.0m with volumes need to be processed accurately implementation has required the agreement continued growth in both customer numbers and consistently to achieve our high level of of customs and VAT authorities to ensure that and the frequency with which customers total customer service.
Robust information the stock can be replenished and despatched purchase.
The reported growth in Sterling systems are therefore vital to the success of quickly.
New arrangements with local bankers was 18.1%.
Growth of 19.4% in the second the business and are a key resource in the also ensure that payments made by half was lower than the 29.7% achieved in the customers can be cleared exibly.
They are an area of significant cost first half of the year, whilst the exit rate of relationships and permissions are privileges and investment.
Information Systems, 15.9% in March was impacted by the lack and together mean that we have a leading including the costs of the EBS projects, of a March catalogue and lower year end service position that is difficult for others to accounted for just under half of total Process purchasing by customers.
The high growth in China and Hong costs.
A detailed review of the EBS projects is e-Commerce became the most important Kong was complemented by good growth in given below.
the other businesses in Asia and Australasia.
way to market in Japan by reaching 50% Supply Chain Our Supply Chain ensures that The implementation of EBS in Asia of sales in March up from 43% last year.
there is stock available to meet orders as continues to progress: Hong Kong went live Sales through our PurchasingManager and they are received.
Whilst customer service is in May 2005 and will be followed next year e-Procurement applications both grew well.
our priority, efficient stock management is by Shanghai.
Catalogue frequency has been reduced also critical.
e-Commerce grew to 17% of sales in Asia to once a year from twice a year supported Many of the key performance measures in March up from 11% last year.
Growth was by interim new product updates, following used by the Group are customer service particularly good in Australasia and Singapore.
the positive experiences in France and Italy.
based and these have improved particularly The profit contribution of 4.0m was The number of products has been increased in the UK, France and Germany over the past the same as last year and the margin fell from 47,000 to 52,000 in the year.
profits grew in year reecting the investment in stock.
profitability continued to improve during all businesses, except South Africa, where Stock increased during the year by the year to give a profit contribution of exchange rate uctuations resulted in lower 13.6m, resulting in a lower turn from 1.5m against break-even last year.
sales and a lower contribution margin.
The increase in stock to Rest of the World improve customer service was one factor, Processes 2005 2004 but the planned rescheduling of the UK 2004 catalogue launch to April 2005 means that Sales 41.8m 40.0m 2005 as restated new product stock was on hand at the year Adjusted sales growth 9.1% 2.8% Total cost 79.5m 77.
These two factors accounted for around Contribution 4.0m 4.0m Cost as a % of sales 10.3% 10.2% 8m of stock increase.
Contribution % 9.6% 10.0% The Processes support our operating In the US and Japan, stock levels have been Sales in Rest of World grew by 9.1% to 41.8m, companies by ensuring that they have the kept in line with the growth of sales and this although the reported growth in Sterling was products, infrastructure and expertise to represents around 4m of the stock increase.
WEBSITE MORE THAN IMPROVEMENTS have been made and 4,000 there are more to come customer organisations use PurchasingManager to monitor and control their purchases 12 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Further investment was made in an making their products compliant at different Group Facilities Group Facilities manages the increased number of products stocked in rates and to differing degrees: for example, development and effectiveness of the Shanghai, supporting the SDO project and its some suppliers plan to change their product warehouses and ofce buildings used by the expansion into Beijing.
This represents numbers and others do not.
No significant investments took place around 1m of the stock increase.
actively managing its existing stock to during the year, although we continue to minimise the time taken to sell out of nonmaintain and upgrade our current properties.
Product Management The Group offers around compliant products as this will help limit the The continued growth of Allied implies that 350,000 distinct products to its worldwide need for additional RoHS-related stock and or additional warehouse capacity will be needed customer base.
Recently, considerable effort stock disposals.
As soon as the compliant in due course.
has been put into ensuring the coherence of products are made available by suppliers, our product ranges.
they are being introduced into the RS range.
Financial review and Many more joint promotions with Programmes are in place to educate and capital structure suppliers have been implemented, as suppliers inform customers, e. g. through customer Cash ow and balance sheet recognise that we can be an important part seminars and support for the Government 2005 2004 of their sales and marketing effort.
education programme in the UK, as well as Inc dec in stocks 13.6m 1.0m In light of new and more complex product the internet trading channel and technical Dec inc in debtors 6.2m 8.4m regulations being introduced around the world, support function.
Dec inc in creditors 2.8m 10.9m suppliers are much more aware of the damage Working capital 10.2m 3.5m that can be done to their brands unless tight Media Publishing The Media Publishing regulatory controls are maintained.
We invest Process manages and delivers all the Operating cash ow 117.
4m 134.8m considerable time and resources in making major media for the Group: whether they Capital expenditure net 23.8m 19.2m sure that we understand all of the compliance be catalogues, specialogues, CD-ROMs Free cash ow 61.1m 83.0m requirements in the markets we serve, so or websites.
Net debt 55.4m 34.5m that we can support both customers and During the year, we have invested in suppliers securely.
a new catalogue publishing and content Key working capital statistics A particularly important development system.
This was first used in the production 2005 2004 for everyone in the electronics industry is the of the October 2004 catalogue in the UK and Stock turn 2.5x 2.7x Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive cash costs were over 3m, of which around Trade debtor days 50.9 52.8 RoHS, which will take effect in July 2006. half has been expensed.
The system allows Trade creditor days 43.5 43.9 Whilst this is a European Union Directive, it the presentation of products in ranges rather is becoming a defacto world standard, being than in the modular format previously used.
Operating cash ow was 117.4m, down followed in Japan and certain states of the US, Our research shows that this makes products from 134.8m last year.
Cash conversion and so is affecting all our businesses.
A team easier to nd and compare.
The information remained high at 111.5% of operating profit was formed during 2003, which has worked held on the products is also more extensive.
before goodwill amortisation last year with industry experts, suppliers and As well as the additional information provided 124.2%.
The increased working capital customers to develop our approach to all the on products, the new system enables us to outow was the main reason for the decline.
show links to complementary products, to Working capital outows amounted to A major programme was initiated to encourage pull-through sales.
10.2m, compared to an inow of 3.5m last contact all suppliers of affected RoHS The next step is to structure the year.
This was mainly due to higher stock and components and information and changes e-Commerce product database information the timing of pension payments.
The extra are now being received at an accelerating into the same range-based format.
stock was built to support sales and customer rate.
This is used to update our compliance When the effectiveness of the catalogue services as described above.
The cash records and the information is then made change is fully established, the intention is outow from creditors was 2.8m, mainly available to customers via the RS websites to roll out the new catalogue format into due to payment of additional prior year and technical support teams.
Trade creditor days High growth rates from new SAME DAY OFFER and existing customers in in Shanghai and Beijing sets new service standards JAPAN Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 were similar to last year at 43.5 43.9 last Borrowing requirements through the year PurchasingManager continues to be year.
Debtors decreased by 6.2m and so are signicantly determined by dividend and particularly successful and is now used by trade debtor days were 50.9 compared with tax payments.
The peak borrowing last year more than 4,000 customer accounts in 12 52.8 last year: Easter had a beneficial impact was 98.6m.
countries last year, 800 accounts in 10 on debtors at the end of March, but will The Groups two main sources of debt countries.
Revenues through this channel reverse in the coming year.
are a bilateral facility for $100m maturing in are now close to that of the e-Procurement Free cash ow fell by 26.4% to 61.1m February 2008 and a syndicated facility for stream, reecting the ease of using $75m and 110m from eight banks maturing again reecting the working capital outow PurchasingManager whilst also demonstrating in February 2010.
These facilities were put but also higher capital expenditure.
Net the challenge that customers have of using into place in February 2005 to replace, at capital expenditure was 23.8m, up from integrated e-procurement systems.
a lower margin, all the previous facilities.
19.2m last year, when a property was sold Internet functionality has continued to for its net book value of 3.1m.
Of this capital improve during the year with new parcel Financial returns tracking and easier order input facilities.
expenditure, 13.0m was on EBS projects, profit before tax and goodwill on net assets New marketing approaches such as up from 10.2m last year.
Gross capital was 31.6%, up from 31.1% last year.
These search engine promotion and bulk e-mail expenditure as a multiple of depreciation was returns remain signicantly higher than broadcasting are becoming an important part 1.1x, slightly above the 1.0x last year.
Interest the Groups cost of capital.
of our activities, and are used to increase and tax payments amounted to 32.5m, marketing pressure and awareness.
which were similar to last year.
EBS had a e-Commerce much larger impact on cash ow in the year e-Commerce will be a critical part of our Enterprise Business than in previous years, as described below.
e-Commerce has been an System projects The cash outow on dividends was area of rapid growth since 1998 when the Objectives and progress 80.0m, up 6.1% from 75.4m last year.
first website was launched rswww.
com in The Enterprise Business System projects are Exchange rate movements increased net the UK.
e-Commerce sales were 20% of total complex multi-year change management debt by 2.0m to give an overall increase sales for the year, up from 15% last year, and projects, the objective of which is to improve in net debt of 20.9m to 55.4m.
exited the year at 22%, up from 17% last year: signicantly our service to customers, Gearing increased to 16.8% from 10.0% e-Commerce sales of 155.9m were 38% increase the effectiveness and efficiency of last year but interest cover before goodwill higher than last year.
our businesses operations and to make our Our e-Commerce activities are based amortisation increased to 117x from 77x last systems infrastructure more robust and on a common platform.
It comprises three year due to the fall in interest charge this year.
This will result from implementing channels: the internet website, which supports Exchange rate changes had less overall more standardised and integrated systems sales via 70 websites in 17 languages, impact on the balance sheet than last year: and data structures across the businesses.
exchange rate translation increased net The projects are a critical enabler of the Sales through websites still make up assets by 1.6m compared to a reduction of evolving Group strategy and are a key means the majority of e-Commerce sales.
of achieving greater exibility and lower costs.
e-Procurement and PurchasingManager Capital structure The next implementation of the European both enable customers to monitor and Net debt of 55.4m at the year end was made template is in the UK, including the central control purchases more carefully and up of gross debt of 120.2m denominated logistics and Process activities.
The plan is functions such as online order approval help 62.3m in US Dollars, 33.6m in Yen and for the UK go-live to take place towards the to lower the customers transaction costs.
24.3m in other currencies and financial PurchasingManager is our customised front end of 2005 06, but at this stage it is not assets of 64.8m denominated 17.5m in end to the website, which is provided free to possible to be absolutely precise on timing.
Euro, 44.6m in Sterling and 2.7m in other our customers.
e-Procurement utilises the The implementation will take place when the currencies.
These dispositions are based on customers own e-procurement system, system and the business are ready and the interest rate differentials and tax efficiency.
which can punch out to the RS website.
quality standard applied to the go-live FURTHER IMPROVEMENTS IN OUR CUSTOMER SERVICE LEVELS 14 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review decision will be very high.
Contingency plans value of capitalised costs is reviewed for go-live.
The working capital outow on are also being developed and tested in detail.
support stock is now expected to be around Additional stock will be carried to support The expensed project costs relate to 11m.
This will be run down in 2006 07. customer service for a period before and training and business change, together with Capital expenditure is expected to be after the UK go-live whilst there is also any inefficiencies in otherwise capitalisable higher in 2005 06 than previously planned, additional capital investment in systems costs.
In effect, these are the costs of due to greater consultancy resource required capacity and infrastructure in the coming preparing the system for the business and in the build and testing phases and also due year to ensure robust system performance.
are included in Process costs.
The expensed to more investment in equipment capacity.
After the UK, the next roll out will be project costs increase sharply as the projects Also, third party hosting will be introduced for in Germany, where some long lead-time move into their later phases.
the major hardware components of EBS and preparation has been done, Italy and then Costs that are incurred by the business other major Group systems to increase the smaller businesses.
The roll out should to cover the costs of training such as taking security and resilience.
be completed over the next four years, on additional sales staff to ensure that The incidence of costs, stock build and by 2008 09. training does not impact current customer capital expenditure in the coming year are A similar but smaller EBS project is under service and change management are expected to be concentrated in the first half way in Asia, with implementations completed expensed and shown as local costs.
which will signicantly depress the overall in Singapore, Malaysia, the Philippines, The EBS applications require free cash ow of the Group in this period.
Australia and most recently May 2005 in maintenance and support, including help In 2006 07, the operating profit impact Hong Kong.
The next roll out will be in Shanghai.
These costs are expensed as is likely to be similar to 2005 06, with the In due course there will be a systems part of Process costs, but are offset by reduction in local and expensed project investment required in Allied, though on a savings of such costs on the legacy systems.
costs being offset by higher annualised much smaller scale than EBS in Europe.
In the current year, EBS has impacted depreciation.
The cash outow is expected profit by about 9.2m and cash ow by Costs and cash ows to be much lower than in 2005 06, due to 16.6m both net of displaced legacy costs The EBS projects have had a substantial lower costs, the release of the safety stock of 4.9m, which are a substantial increase impact on the financial performance of the and lower capital expenditure.
on last year, where the impacts on profit and Group in terms of profit and cash ow over the The implementations in Germany, Italy cash ow were 6.1m and 12.4m past five years.
This impact is expected to and elsewhere in Europe will be roll outs of respectively.
Over the last five years, the peak in 2005 06 with the UK implementation.
the existing template with limited modication cash outow on the project of about 71.6m The capital items of the projects include and so project costs and the cash ow has largely been on capital expenditure, the hardware and software licenses.
The impact reduce shortly after 2006 07. which amounted to 63.2m.
capitalised costs also include the costs of Given the current assumptions, the The costs to complete the EBS projects designing, building and testing the applications overall cash costs capital and expense of require many assumptions on the success whether by third party consultants or through the EBS projects are expected to be around in meeting milestones and hence the internal labour.
Depreciation of the capitalised 110m-120m through to 2008 09 from amounts reects specified rates for the implementation timing.
Based on current 2000 01, before interest and tax and before different components depending on their plans, the UK and central logistics any benets other than legacy cost savings.
The range of the lives is two implementation is expected to drive a large Of this, around 90% relates to Europe, the rest years to eight years and the initiation of increase in costs and cash outow in to Asia.
The operating profit impact is around depreciation is when the asset first comes 2005 06, approximately doubling the 80m over the eight years of the project.
Hence, given the magnitude of the profit and cash ow impacts from 2004 05.
UK and central logistics go-live, there will be The local costs and Process costs will both Benets a substantial increase in annual depreciation increase sharply given the intensied The major benets of the EBS projects are the at this go-live.
Depreciation is included in training schedule, whilst the depreciation qualitative ones that derive from having more Process costs.
The net book value or carrying impact will reect the detailed timing of standardised and integrated operating Cum 2003 m 2003 04 m 2004 05 m Cum 2005 m The financial impact Local costs 0.3 1.1 1.7 3.1 before interest and tax Process costs of EBS through Project costs 4.4 2.0 1.8 8.2 System support 1.1 3.3 5.0 9.4 to 31 March 2005 is: Depreciation 1.7 3.9 5.6 11.2 Displaced legacy costs 3.2 4.2 4.9 12.3 profit and loss account impact 4.3 6.1 9.2 19.6 Add back depreciation 1.7 3.9 5.6 11.2 Capital expenditure 40.0 10.2 13.0 63.2 Cash ow impact before interest and tax 42.6 12.4 16.6 71.6 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 systems, procedures and data structures.
From 1 April 2005, employee contributions to pricing and discounting policies are The realisation of further competitive the scheme have also increased.
The UK developing to reect such trends, which advantage through enhanced customer dened contribution scheme incurred a charge implies continued pressure on gross margin service and capability is key.
of 0.4m, an increase of 0.2m over last year.
and the need for tight cost management.
Specic measurable benets will only The statutory minimum funding position The weak sales in the UK and Continental become visible after the UK and common of the UK dened benefit scheme remains Europe in recent years could indicate that the logistics go-live and stabilisation and a relatively strong with a Minimum Funding market potential available to us might be change of this magnitude will require some Ratio of 135%-140% as at 31 March 2005 last smaller than previously anticipated.
As these settling in during 2006 07.
regions account for about 80% of the Groups are expected to improve signicantly as stock FRS 17 was due to replace SSAP 24 in sales then trends in these markets have a can be managed with a regional database as 2005 but has not been implemented due to significant impact.
In large part the weak sales against the current country level information.
the deferral by the Accounting Standards reect our exposure to the manufacturing Operating structures with improved Board.
The Group will move to IAS 19 next sector and we expect the pressures on efficiencies, such as from shared services, year, which should be similar in application to manufacturing will continue.
More emphasis will be driven from common procedures and FRS 17, pending the approval of the recent is now being placed on our strengths in data.
Customer and supplier support and amendment by the International Accounting meeting particular customer needs whatever capabilities should be signicantly enhanced, Standards Board.
Under FRS 17, the dened the sector in the refocused strategy.
In including more rapid and focused product benefit schemes showed a combined deficit particular concentration on the Electronics introductions.
Over the project life, we believe of 32.4m, net of deferred tax, compared to a and Electromechanical offer for R&D and the benets of the projects should broadly deficit of 34.6m at the end of last year.
The maintenance engineers builds our strength cover the cash investment.
charge to profits arising from these schemes in an area where migration to lower cost would have been 10.6m last year 10.4m.
There is the risk Pension however, that this strategy will have a more The Group has dened benefit schemes in Risks limited impact or take more resource and the UK closed to new entrants in April 2003 Business risks time than currently envisaged.
and replaced by a new dened contribution In looking forward, the most significant Over the longer term our businesses in scheme, Ireland closed to new entrants potential business risk remains that the RS China and in other low cost economies will and Germany.
Elsewhere, including the business model of high service, low volume benefit from the migration of manufacturing replacement UK scheme, the schemes distribution has diminishing relevance to our from Europe and indeed from North America are dened contribution.
customers or prospective customers so that and Japan.
SSAP 24 remains the accounting they are less willing to pay the price levels The increased attention paid to pricing standard applied to pensions.
A triennial implied by such service.
Providing these by some of our customers is expected to valuation of the UK dened benefit scheme services means that the Group carries high continue.
Our price levels are scrutinised was carried out as at 31 March 2004 and costs.
We continue to monitor this risk through for competitiveness against relevant completed during the year.
It showed a deficit the actual results of our businesses, the competitors: a procedure has been extended of 33.4m, net of deferred tax of 14.3m.
In development of the customer base, and in recent years.
We make adjustments to order to eliminate the deficit, based on the through market research.
In the past year we our catalogue prices to try and ensure that assumptions used in the valuation, the Group have undertaken more extensive customer our prices are fair to customers for the is making annual payments to the scheme research in the UK and Europe.
These indicate products and services we provide.
We have for the next 15 years of 4.3m increasing at that our model has relevance in all our also responded with higher or more exible 3% per year.
Last year, an increased charge markets, but that it will need to evolve to meet discounts particularly for our larger of 1.8m was taken.
customer needs and the increasing capability customers related to business development, The total charge for dened benefit of more local competitors.
Customers are and we have in place appropriate schemes increased by 2.4m to 8.5m.
becoming more value conscious and our management controls and guidelines.
SALES ARE ACHIEVED SHARED LEARNING THROUGH 70 WEBSITES ACROSS EUROPE WORLDWIDE, IN IS ACCELERATING LANGUAGES CUSTOMER DEVELOPMENT 17 16 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review The large systems projects inevitably carry for the company.
Changes in funding efficient in the nancing of subsidiaries and implementation risks, particularly the EBS requirements could result in higher this provides a partial hedge.
This was implementation in the UK during the coming contributions.
The Group works closely particularly so of the US Dollar over the year year.
As this implementation also includes the with the Trustees in agreeing a mutually as a large part of the debt is in US Dollars, Groups central logistics processes then the sensible way forward.
originally arising from the acquisition of Allied, overall impact of a failed implementation The Board has conducted risk reviews and the exchange rate movements relating annually for some years to consider the would be very high.
Hence our approach is to this debt offset the impact on underlying major risks and managements mitigating to implement when both the system and the assets.
Guidelines are in place for reviewing actions.
This process is being refreshed over business are ready, and this takes precedence the impact of translation exposures should the coming year with the implementation over the timetable and cost.
Given the stress there be any material changes.
of broader risk management techniques that such implementations put on the Multi-country cash pooling is in place across the Group.
Business continuity, business, however, there is also every effort with our banks across the Group to ensure disaster recovery and other preventative being made to complete the project as soon daily netting of almost all the Groups cash practices are a major focus of the Group as possible.
The lessons from previous ows in all currencies with consequent and are continually being enhanced and implementations are being applied so more improvements in liquidity and interest costs.
Where resources have been planned with the intent The investment management of liquid appropriate, residual risk is covered by that there is no reduction in customer service.
funds aims to maximise the return on net insurance, which is managed centrally.
The training of all employees engaged in the funds subject to the security of the principal change process has also been intensied.
and the liquidity of the Group.
The Group has Financial risks Project support, contingency plans and established policies to identify counterparts Group Treasury operates as a centralised substantially increased stock levels have also of suitable credit worthiness and has service centre and is managed to reduce the been put in hand or are planned.
Given the procedures to ensure that only these parties Groups financial risks.
risks involved, the project is under the direct are used, that exposure limits are set and The Groups foreign currency transaction control of the Chief Executive and an that these limits are not exceeded.
risks typically arise because purchases in experienced project team.
The Group does not intend to change currencies other than Sterling are much less Over the coming year, product materially its Treasury policies as a than its receivables in those currencies.
compliance with the new RoHS regulations will consequence of International Accounting Substantial hedging of net currency be an increasingly important and complex Standard 39. exposures over catalogue lives is area with the potential risk of higher stock implemented in order to shelter forecast and or increased stock write-offs if the Corporate and Social Responsibility gross profits.
In this way the impacts of product transition is not well managed.
We We have long encouraged a social, ethical and currency uctuations are smoothed until also need to ensure that we are providing our environmentally responsible approach to our selling or cost prices can be changed in light customers with the service and assurance business activities.
This is the third year of of the movement in exchange rates.
We have a senior management formally reporting on our corporate social hedges are enacted through forward team working on the changes that will be responsibility policies and performance in currency contracts entered into by Group required in co-operation with suppliers and accordance with the Association of British Treasury on the basis of trading projections customers.
Our approach is well dened, but provided by local businesses.
We are pleased to there remains uncertainty by suppliers and Specic cash ows relating to material report progress in a number of areas although customers on the detailed application of the transactions in currencies other than the progress has not been uniform across the regulations in practice for them and so we are functional currency of the local business are Group.
In addition to this formal report, our in continuous communication with them.
hedged when the commitment is made.
communications with stakeholders regarding Though the Groups pension position Foreign currency translation exposures corporate social responsibility CSR are is relatively strong, the new UK regulations are not explicitly hedged, but local currency supplemented by periodic updates on the governing pensions do imply increased risk debt is used where economic and scally www.
WE ARE MEETING THE ACROSS THE GROUP CHALLENGE OF THE RoHS DIRECTIVE BY 22% working closely with suppliers of sales are now updating product compliance status through e-Commerce and actively managing existing stock Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 Principles Environment philosophy of reduce, re-use and recycle During the year, a set of Corporate and Social We are committed to minimising the impact in our use of packaging materials wherever of our activities on the environment Responsibility CSR principles were practicable.
Last year the UK business and continuously improving our established that underpin the Groups trading recycled 415 tonnes of packaging materials environmental performance.
practices and the ethical standards and compared with 406 tonnes last year.
In 2003 we developed a generic respect with which it manages employees.
We continue to promote the use of reusable Environmental Management Standard EMS In particular the Group: plastic replenishment modules RMs model and benchmarking process to support requires compliance with the laws as transit packaging for stock shipments our businesses in implementing EMS and and regulations in the countries in between suppliers and our warehouses to spread best practice.
We continue to be which it operates whenever appropriate for the product.
supportive of our businesses adopting an requires that its resources are not Currently, 34% of all products delivered to our externally accredited EMS where these used in any illegal manner and that UK warehouses from suppliers are in RMs last provide tangible business and environmental it shall not enter into any year 35% thus reducing costs and waste by benets.
The Group has three businesses anti-competitive arrangements eliminating the need for transit packaging.
UK, Germany and Austria certicated strives to maintain the highest standards Production of paper catalogues and to ISO14001 Environmental Management of personal ethics and behaviour promotional literature is organised to Standard, whilst our Japanese business respects the rights of every employee minimise environmental impact, with use of is pursuing certication.
and provides a safe and healthy optimised grades of paper to help reduce We have no manufacturing operations environment in which to work and paper consumption and where practicable and are not intensive users of energy or maintains procedures for the distribution costs.
All paper for catalogues and generators of waste.
Our main environmental condential reporting of breaches promotional literature is sourced from pulp impacts and those we can directly control of these principles.
from Forestry Stewardship Council FSC and inuence are associated with national approved sources.
Catalogues and other Corporate accountability and international distribution, specically promotional literature are printed in facilities The Board has overall responsibility for the packaging and paper consumption and the accredited to the ISO14001 Environmental Groups CSR policies and performance.
These energy used in our facilities and that Management Systems standard.
include procedures for the identication, associated with transportation where we management and control of risks to the work with our subcontractors.
Health and safety business arising from CSR issues.
Although we have not sought to quantify We are committed to health and safety best The Chief Process officer, Richard Butler, the benefit, an important part of the Groups practice as an integral part of our business has specic responsibility for CSR matters, contribution to sustainable developments is activities and the Group Health and Safety and for ensuring that the associated risks are our capability to provide customers with a policy statement forms a sound basis for incorporated into the overall Group risk single source for a wide range of products, health and safety management throughout the management process.
thus consolidating multiple highly Group.
The policy, which is the responsibility of fragmented global supply chains and the Group Board, is to develop effective health Ethical trading reducing overall environmental impact.
and safety management processes using risk Electrocomponents products are sourced We are supportive of the objectives of management principles to promote globally from a wide range of suppliers with the Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment continuous improvement.
RS Components in whom we seek to foster long term and WEEE and RoHS legislation.
The legislation the UK is certied to Occupational Health and mutually beneficial relationships.
Our Ethical will place new demands on our businesses, Safety Standard OHSAS18001 and we are Audit process for suppliers is based on the but our preparations are well advanced.
using the OHSAS18001 model to develop our Ethical Trade Initiative guidelines.
Since 2003 Packaging and catalogues on-site audits have been conducted with 46 approach systems throughout the business.
We use a variety of packaging both for product suppliers in Asian countries and a number of It is with regret that we report that in packaging and for transit purposes and have a potential new suppliers have been rejected.
January 2005 a fatality occurred at our requires compliance with the laws and regulations in the countries THE CORPORATE AND in which it operates SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY requires that its resources are not used in any illegal manner and that it shall not enter into any anti-competitive arrangements PRINCIPLES ARE THAT strives to maintain the highest standards of personal ethics and behaviour THE GROUP: respects the rights of every employee and provides a safe and healthy environment in which to work and maintains procedures for the condential reporting of breaches of these principles.
18 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 Operating and Financial Review Operating and Financial Review Nuneaton facility to an engineer undertaking businesses around the world to enhance warehouse maintenance activities.
relationships with the communities in We closely monitor the number of which they operate by contributions accidents and occupational conditions where in kind as well as financial.
Links with employees are absent from work for over educational establishments are developed 24 hours.
During 2004 05 there were and remain strong.
31 Lost Time accidents across the Group compared to 26 in 2003 04.
The lost time International Financial Reporting accident rate rose from 0.306 accidents per Standards 100,000 hours in 2003 04 to 0.312 The Group will report using International accidents per 100,000 hours in 2004 05.
Financial Reporting Standards for the year This increase was primarily due to an ending 31 March 2006.
The next set of interim increase in the number of manual handling financial statements, for the six months and slip and trip injury reports.
ending 30 September 2005, will consequently also be prepared using these standards.
Employees A project team has been working for We value the commitment of our employees.
18 months to estimate the extent of the Our employment policies are designed to changes to the Group results.
The main attract, retain, motivate and train our people changes for the Group include accounting and to respect their human rights, including for dened benefit pension schemes, share freedom of association, and to ensure equal option plans, dividends and goodwill.
We comply with changes to reported profit will also change the core International Labour Organisation the presentation of earnings per share.
conventions that prohibit the use of child, We plan to make a separate under-age or forced labour.
announcement on the extent of changes In addition to in-house magazines, arising from the conversion to International we communicate with our employees Financial Reporting Standards in July 2005. through the corporate Intranet and the Electrocomponents Forum, which includes employees elected from each Operating Company and Process.
This year we have also established a UK Information & Consultation forum that will comply with the Information & Consultation Regulations.
We have made good progress in extending the corporate Intranet service across the Group, and in ensuring that all employees have access to it and are trained in its use.
In the UK, we achieved Investor in People in recognition of our training and development activities in October 2004.
Community activities We have a strong sense of community responsibility and we encourage our IN THE UK WE WERE ACCREDITED WITH THE INVESTOR IN PEOPLE STANDARD IN OCTOBER 2004 Electrocomponents plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19
