24898 PRE-ACC new 15 12 05 13:23 Page 6 OPERA TING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW profit before tax by 2008, a target which underpins xcellent performances from many of the conference the capital appreciation plan incentive for senior Eand training businesses, better subscription managers, and which remains firmly within the revenues especially for internet products, the recovery companys sights.
in the second half of the US dollar and some slight improvement in advertising revenues produced record Financial publishing operating profits increased by profits.
Tight controls of direct costs and only a limited 1.0m which includes strong performances by many increase in employee costs saw an improvement in of the specialist finance titles.
Subscription income gross margins from 66.8% last year to 67.3% this increased in most of the financial titles and there has year and in net margin from 16.0% to 18.9%.
generally been some improvement in advertising Timing differences had a small beneficial impact: revenues.
Business publishing profits were flat, otherwise most of the growth was organic led by the reflecting still difficult advertising markets and relatively events businesses although both CEIC, acquired in lower dependence on subscription income.
However, March this year, and in particular IMN, acquired in within the division, the transport titles, Petroleum February 2004, made valuable contributions.
Revenue Economist and Global Agenda, the joint venture with for the year was 12% ahead of last year which the World Economic Forum, showed good growth.
suggests an accelerating trend as the first half was The events businesses - conferences, seminars and 9% ahead of the comparable half.
awards dinners - produced excellent results.
IMN, the At least temporarily, our financial service industry New York based financial conference organiser of clients have altered the emphasis of their marketing which the group acquired 80% in February 2004, and promotional expenditure to face to face events made a full years contribution but also showed strong such as conferences, away from more traditional underlying growth in revenues and profits particularly advertising.
At the same time we have seen in its securitization events where it is the global market a significant shift to buying information and leader.
In addition, Institutional Investor Memberships data electronically.
and the Sponsored Conference businesses based in the UK and Asia produced sharply better results.
Adhesion, The average dollar rate for the year was $1.85 against the Paris based business to business meetings and $1.81 in 2004.
The recovery in the second half in the exhibitions organiser, was disappointing in part because US dollar has helped despite the insulating effect of Vinisud, which is a biennial event, did not run this year, the companys currency hedging programme.
At and in part because of weak trading.
The business was constant exchange rates revenues would have been reorganised during the year.
The training businesses had an exceptional year, Profit before tax at 37.1m is a record, up 9.1m continuing the growth seen in 2004 with increases in on the year to September 2004.
This has taken the delegate numbers driving profits in London, Hong Kong company a significant step towards reaching 50m Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment, Capital Appreciation Plan expense and exceptional items as set out in the group profit and loss account and note 2.
06 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 7 and New York as well as in our offshore training in different geographic sectors, in different industry centres.
MIS, an international business now, although sectors and in different types of media.
still based in Boston, performed especially well.
In addition, we are moving towards higher margin The database businesses increased operating profits businesses by concentrating our investment from 3.4m to 3.9m with most of the growth coming expenditure on, for instance, marketing and new from rapidly increasing revenues and margins at ISI, launches on those sectors which have produced better together with a contribution for the first time from margins while cutting back or selling businesses such CEIC.
The improvement in global markets, especially the as Business Traveller which were either low margin increased interest in emerging markets, has translated or unprofitable.
into strong sales worldwide by ISI which achieved its The quality and skills of our employees are of great highest sales levels since it was set up.
Capital Data importance to the group.
Despite the continuing and Capital Net, the products of the joint venture with emphasis on cost control, we have continued to hire Dealogic, showed a return to solid profit growth.
selectively and we have further developed our internal training programmes.
We have, in particular, expanded Strategy the human relations function by hiring a director of The companys strategy, first developed in 2001, human resources in London.
remains the same: to grow profits by driving top line growth from both new and existing products: to Acquisitions reduce the dependence on advertising by building Acquisitions remain a fundamental part of the more robust subscription and repeat revenues: to companys growth strategy and are key to the company improve the operating margin: and to make reaching its 50m profit target in 2008.
In particular acquisitions to strengthen the companys market we believe that acquisitions are valuable for taking position in key areas.
Although the difficult markets of us into new publishing sectors, for bringing new 2002 and 2003 delayed the growth plans, the results technologies into the company and for increasing the reflect the success of this strategy as well as the impact companys overall growth through identifying rapidly of the new management incentive introduced in the developing niche businesses.
year to help drive the companys profit before tax towards a target of 50 million by 2008.
In March 2005, the group, through ISI, purchased a The company continues to invest in the editorial quality 49% interest in CEIC Holdings Limited, one of the of its titles to reinforce the strength of its brands and leading providers of time-series macro-economic data to continue to increase subscription revenues.
We also covering Asia, for a cash consideration together with continued our focus on organic growth and believe associated costs of $7.7m.
In addition, it has entered a that the timing is suitable for launching new businesses binding contract to acquire a further 25% interest in internally.
We have seen a number of new ventures CEIC in June 2006 and the final 26% a year later.
Before goodwill amortization, goodwill impairment, Capital Appreciation Plan expense and exceptional items as set out in the group profit and loss account and note 2.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 07 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 8 OPERA TING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued These further payments are dependent on the audited Rachel Jones.
Its Capacity magazine, which was profits of CEIC for the years to 31 March 2006 and launched in late 2000, covers developments in 2007 respectively.
The maximum consideration payable the global wholesale telecoms sector and topic for 100% of CEIC is capped at $35.0m.
areas such as pricing strategies, connectivity issues, operational support services, risk management, The acquisition opens ISIs international customer network development, new telecom services and network to CEIC and it should accelerate ISIs growth in applications and last mile strategies.
Its audience are Asia by enabling ISI to introduce its services to CEICs the senior executives at telecom carriers and service Asian customer base, and by expanding ISIs physical providers who are responsible for managing their presence in South-East Asia.
It also continues ISIs network businesses and the sale and purchase of strategy of building its regional and global emerging telecoms capacity.
The companys nine annual markets information services through the acquisition conferences have developed a strong reputation.
of local online information providers.
The biggest is Capacity Europe which was first run CEIC was founded 12 years ago by Albert Fan, its in 2000.
There are also events in the US, Central & managing director and owner, who has remained as Eastern Europe, Asia, Latin America and Russia.
It specialises in providing high-quality, In October 2004 ISI acquired the assets of the business comprehensive databases focusing on macro-economic, intelligence division of Liquid Africa Ltd which delivers industrial and financial time-series data.
It aggregates aggregated news and data to subscribers in Africa.
data from over 500 primary sources, including national The initial cash consideration was 0.1m.
This enables statistical offices, central banks and financial exchanges.
ISI to cover the sub-Sahara Africa market in depth for In addition to its headquarters in Hong Kong, CEIC has the first time.
offices in Shanghai, Beijing, Kuala Lumpur, Singapore, The group continues to increase its holdings in its Jakarta, Manila and Bangkok.
subsidiaries and this year has paid the following: In September 2005 the group acquired a 40% interest In February 2005 the group paid the second instalment in TelCap Limited for a cash consideration together of $10.1m for Information Management Network, Inc. with associated costs of 2.1m.
In addition, it has the 80% owned financial conference organiser contracted to acquire four further tranches of TelCaps purchased in February 2004. equity of 15% each in March 2007, 2008, 2009 and In February 2005 the group paid the final instalment of 2010.
These consideration payments are dependent 5.5m for HedgeFund Intelligence Limited, the 100% on the audited profits of TelCap for the years to owned leading hedge fund publisher and event 31 January 2007 to 2010 respectively.
The maximum organiser purchased in August 2003. consideration payable for 100% of TelCap is capped Also in February 2005, the group purchased a further at 17.5 million.
1% of the equity share capital of Internet Securities, TelCap was founded in 2000 by Mark Kemp and Inc. for a cash consideration of $0.7m.
08 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 9 Marketing and Circulation after which the freehold of one of the groups smaller In 2005, the company invested further in its marketing existing buildings will be sold.
Technology developments in Eden, the The property improvements were necessary to improve companys marketing database, have focused on e-mail the groups IT and communications infrastructure as marketing.
A new in-house e-mail marketing system well as bringing the space up to the standards integrated with Eden has been developed, providing all expected in modern city offices.
the functionality available from external suppliers.
This has facilitated faster, integrated e-mail campaigns at Training significantly lower costs.
The company believes it is important to provide skills In 2005, all circulation and fulfilment systems were and management training of its employees around reviewed.
New on-line e-commerce software has been the world.
We continue to develop these programmes developed to enable all businesses to take on-line and try to ensure that as many of our employees as orders, whilst integrating with the off-line fulfilment possible benefit from internal and external training.
This has resulted in an increase in on-line The new director of human resources is developing revenues at a reduced cost per order.
and expanding the training programmes provided.
UK Property Portfolio Risk Management At the end of 2004 the group completed a review of The company has continued to develop its processes its London property portfolio and space requirements.
Management of significant risk Following this review, the board approved a two year is regularly on the agenda of the board and other project to expand and upgrade the groups London senior management meetings.
The number of buildings is to be cut from Risk areas considered during the year included: seven to three, rented space will be increased by Brand and reputational risk 10,000 square feet to 60,000 square feet, and the remaining offices will be refurbished.
The total Circulation estimated capital spend over the two years is 7.5m.
IT website and data security In addition the head lease on one of the groups Financial risks, particularly foreign exchange, existing properties has been extended from 28 to interest and tax exposures 150 years at a capital cost of 1.8m.
Libel Under the first phase of this project, the group entered into a new lease for 28,000 square feet of space in Data protection offices adjacent to one of its existing London buildings, People risk and employment disputes spending 1.3m on its fit out.
The refurbishment of the other two buildings will be completed in 2006, Health and safety Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 09 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 10 OPERA TING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued Social Responsibility infrastructure as part of the move into new London The group continues to participate and develop its office space.
A new data centre and network were involvement in the community.
Again this year it has implemented and investment continues in 2006 with provided specific paid graduate trainee programmes the rollout of an updated email system and enhanced and internships with the potential for long-term career disaster recovery systems.
Telecom services in London were reviewed and The company remains a keen supporter of local rationalised during the year and a new network service and international charities and regularly provides provider appointed, delivering significant cost savings.
sponsorships and funds to support these.
This year at In 2005 disaster recovery and business continuity plans one of our events, the Raven Fox Ball, $93,000 was for all businesses were updated.
The company has an raised for the childrens charity UNICEF and their efforts active programme for testing the disaster recovery in Beslan to help with the aftermath of the school plans of all business units.
In a letter to Raven Fox, UNICEF representative The company is continuing to invest in its internet for Russia and Belarus Carel fide Rooy said: I cant tell businesses and is in the process of transferring all its you how much this is appreciated by my colleagues, websites to a dedicated, fully-managed hosting centre.
who are working so hard to ensure that something In addition, a new leading-edge search engine good emerges from the tragic events of September technology will be implemented during 2006.
This donation will support our efforts to bring the children of this part of the world closer together.
Debt Please pass on our thanks to those whose generosity The group has funded its operations using a mixture of made the evening such a success and whose support its strong operating cash flows, retained earnings and makes our work possible.
Net debt levels at 65.8m are only 3.3m higher In addition to the above event, other businesses within than at year end 2004 despite spending 18.3m on the group have also specifically helped raised funds the acquisitions of CEIC and TelCap, paying earnout for and donated to the Tsunami appeal as well as payments on IMN and HFI and increasing the groups many other charities.
Other initiatives during the year include a charity Tax and Treasury matching scheme in the UK and US, annual blood The groups tax and treasury committee normally drives, recycling of old computers and peripherals by meets twice a year and is responsible for recommending giving these to developing countries, and hosting policy to the board.
The committee is attended by the charity gala dinners.
chairman and managing director of the company, and the finance director and the deputy finance director of Systems and Information Technologies Daily Mail and General Trust plc.
The chairman of the The company is investing significantly in its IT 10 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 11 audit committee is also invited to attend the tax and US dollars.
Subsidiaries normally do not hedge treasury meetings.
The groups treasury policies are transactions in foreign currencies into the functional directed to giving greater certainty of future costs and currency of their own operations.
However, at a group revenues and ensuring that the group has adequate level a series of US dollar forward contracts is put in liquidity for working capital and debt capacity for place up to 48 months forward partially to hedge funding acquisitions.
its dollar revenues into sterling.
Details of the financial instruments used are set out The treasury department does not act as a profit in note 18 to the accounts.
centre, nor does it undertake any speculative trading activity and it operates within policies and procedures The groups effective tax rate decreased to 6.3% approved by the board.
excluding the effect of goodwill amortization and exceptional items compared to 13.9% in 2004.
This Interest rate swaps and caps are used to manage the reflects the recognition, as a deferred tax asset, of the groups exposure to fluctuations in interest rates on its majority of the remaining brought forward US tax floating rate borrowings.
The maturity profile of these losses as the groups US businesses are now beginning derivatives is matched with the expected future debt to generate significant taxable profits.
Now that these profile of the group.
The groups policy is to fix the losses have been recognised, the group, in future years, interest rates on approximately 80% of its term debt will be subject to a higher effective tax rate.
In 2005 looking forward over five years.
At September 30 the underlying tax rate before the recognition of the 2005, the group had 73% of its net debt fixed by the deferred tax credit, CAP expense, goodwill and use of interest rate hedges.
As long-term rates are exceptional items was 20%.
This is expected to usually higher than short-term rates this hedging increase to approximately 25% in 2006. strategy has the effect of increasing the interest charge, but it does provide protection against increases Adoption of International Financial Reporting in market rates.
Standards The group is exposed to foreign exchange risk in the The Council of the European Union announced in June form of transactions in foreign currencies entered 2002 that listed companies would adopt International into by group companies and by the translation of the Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, formerly known as results of foreign subsidiaries into sterling for reporting International Accounting Standards IAS, for accounting purposes.
The group does not hedge the translation of periods beginning on or after January 1 2005.
The the results of foreign subsidiaries, but does endeavour adoption of IFRS will be first reflected in the groups to match foreign currency borrowings to investments financial statements for the half year ending March 31 in order to provide a natural hedge for the translation 2006 and the year ending September 30 2006. of the net assets of overseas subsidiaries.
The group started its IFRS transition project in 2003.
Approximately 60% of the groups revenues are in This entailed a detailed assessment of the impact of Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 11 24898 PRE-ACC new 13 12 05 11:02 pm Page 12 OPERA TING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW continued IFRS on the groups accounting policies: internal and 2.
Exceptional loss on sale of business: IFRS 1 no longer external financial reporting: system changes to capture requires goodwill previously written off to reserves to additional data: treasury issues such as hedging : be re-instated in the profit and loss account.
As such training of staff critical to the groups reporting process the exceptional loss on sale of business in 2005 of and the definition of our IFRS communication strategy.
The work related to all project activities is virtually 3.
Share based payments: Under IFRS 2, the imputed complete.
The group plans to communicate an analysis fair value at the date of grant of the SAYE schemes of the full impact of the adoption of IFRS on the and share options issued to employees will be charged groups audited 2005 results, 2005 balance sheet and to operating profit over the relevant vesting period.
opening October 1 2004 balance sheet in the first This will result in a reduction in the groups reported half of 2006. operating profit as, under UK GAAP, no cost is incurred as there was no difference between the grant Other than the format of presentation, there is no and exercise price for all issues of shares concerned.
cash flow impact from the adoption of IFRS.
The pre-tax impact of IFRS 2 is estimated to be 0.2m In the meantime, set out below is a summary of the and the cumulative pre-tax adjustment to 2005 net main areas of impact of IFRS on the groups operating assets to be 0.3m.
profit together with indicative estimates of the related 4.
Deferred marketing: Under IAS 38, the deferral of amounts: event promotional costs until the running of the event is specifically disallowed, and these costs will therefore 1.
Goodwill and other intangibles: Under IFRS 3, be expensed as incurred.
This will result in a reduction goodwill is no longer amortised and, instead, is in the groups reported operating profit of 0.3m in assessed annually for impairment.
Goodwill arising 2005 and a reduction in the groups opening pre-tax on acquisitions is required to be analysed between net asset position at October 1 2004 of 0.8m.
Goodwill arising on acquisitions before October 1 2004 will not be 5.
Financial instruments, hedging and statute of restated.
Intangible assets arising from acquisitions limitations: Under the transitional requirements of after October 1 2004 will be separately identified and IFRS, the group is permitted to continue to apply the amortised over their estimated useful economic lives, hedging requirements of UK GAAP in the preparation potentially over shorter periods than goodwill has of its comparative IFRS financial statements.
The group previously been amortised.
As a result of this change, has elected to apply this exemption and hence the the groups operating profit will be increased by the adoption of IAS 39 will have no impact on accounting amount of goodwill amortisation recorded under UK for financial instruments for 2005 or on the groups GAAP amounting to 5.7m for 2005 but reduced by opening net asset position at October 1 2004.
However, the amortisation of other purchased intangible assets going forward, the group will be required to adopt which was negligible for 2005.
12 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC 24898 PRE-ACC new 15 12 05 15:37 Page 13 IAS 39 in relation to its forward exchange contracts IAS 39 also requires the recognition of acquisition and interest rate swaps as set out in note 18.
The group is party to a number of put and group has been tracking its key derivatives during 2005 call options over the remaining minority and majority and has put in place the required documentation to interests in its subsidiaries, joint ventures and qualify for hedge accounting.
Where hedge accounting investments and as such is required to recognize the cannot be applied under IAS 39s prescriptive rules, discounted present value of these options in its change in the market value of financial investments October 1 2005 balance sheet.
In 2006 these discounts will be reported through the profit and loss account.
will be unwound as a notional interest charge to the profit and loss account.
As also set out in IAS 39, exchange differences arising from long term foreign currency funding can only be In addition to the above areas, a number of other offset against the net assets of foreign subsidiaries, changes will arise upon transition to IFRS, for example, excluding goodwill previously written off to reserves, in relation to the treatment of software costs, lease the remaining exchange difference being recognised in costs, deferred tax, dividends payable and certain the profit and loss account.
This may lead to a volatility balance sheet disclosures.
We will report on these of earnings but the group will aim to identify this other adjustments including further details relating to clearly so the underlying performance of the group the presentation and layout of the groups IFRS income can be readily assessed.
statement and balance sheet in our announcement next year.
Under IAS 39, uncashed cheques and similar transactions cannot be released to the profit and loss account until the entity has been released from its legal liability, usually for a period of more than six years in the countries where these statute of limitation balances arise.
As such, an increased liability will be recognised in the October 1 2005 balance sheet and Richard Ensor an increased statute of limitations credit to the profit Managing Director and loss account will begin to be recognised in 2006 as November 23 2005. this liability is released.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 2005 13
