Finance Directors Review Turnover Group turnover grew by 9% to 458.1m 2004: 421.1m.
The acquisitions of GLS Educational Supplies and Huntleigh National Care contributed 22.1m of the increase.
profit Group profit before amortisation of goodwill, exceptional items and taxation increased by 17% to 48.0m.
Return on sales before exceptional items, goodwill amortisation and taxation rose from 9.8% to 10.5%.
The improvement arises from increased income from financial services and improved buying.
The goodwill charge increased from 2.4m to 2.9m as a result of part year charges in respect of the two acquisitions.
Taxation The groups effective rate of tax, before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items, has increased from 25.8% to 28.2%.
This continues to be lower than the UK standard corporate tax rate, as a result of lower rates of company taxation in relation to the groups Hong Kong subsidiary and the utilisation of tax losses arising in prior periods.
Shareholder return and dividends Basic earnings per share before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation were 40.89p in the year to 31 March 2005 compared to 36.26p last year.
The board has proposed a final dividend of 12.9p per share, a rise of 1.5p or 13% on last year.
The dividend for the year as a whole of 16.4p is covered 2.5 times from earnings before goodwill amortisation and exceptional items.
Shareholders funds Shareholders funds amount to 120.8m, a rise of 16.1m in the year.
This is equivalent to 145p per share compared with 127p last year.
Share price and total shareholder return The share price of Findel ranged from a low of 338p to a high of 523.25p during the financial year.
On 31 March 2005 the mid market price was 485p, giving a market capitalisation of 411m at that date.
Total shareholder return the increase in the value of a share including reinvested dividends has been 495% in the eight years since the demerger of the group in 1996.
This compares favourably with the total shareholder return for the average for the FTSE 350 General Retailers which was 35% over the same period.
Cash ow and net debt The groups free cash ow before acquisitions, dividends and nancing was 3.3m, compared with 14.7m in 2004.
Taxation payments rose to 11.8m, having been unusually low in 2004 at 2.5m due to adjustments related to prior years.
Acquisitions in the year were made for cash consideration totalling 33.2m including associated expenses.
This expenditure, which was made in the third quarter, also increased interest costs by 0.6m in the year.
Capital expenditure in 2005 was 9.0m, 2.0m lower than last year, and was equivalent to 130% of the depreciation charge in 2005.
It is anticipated that the level of capital expenditure in 2006 will be similar to that in 2005.
After acquisitions and the payment of dividends, net debt at 31 March 2005 was 150.6m, an increase of 42.0m from 31 March 2004.
Liquidity and funding The maturity and currency prole of the groups borrowings are shown in Note 22 to the financial statements.
At 31 March 2005, 96% of the groups borrowings were drawn under the long-term facilities expiring in March 2009, and there were undrawn committed facilities of 82.8m.
In addition to the above facilities, the group has a securitisation facility of up to 100m, the amount of the available facility being dependent on certain debtor balances within the groups Home Shopping division.
This facility is due for renewal in March 2006, and the group expects this to be renewed on similar terms to the present facility.
At 31 March 2005 the amount drawn under this facility was 79.4m.
6 Treasury and risk management The groups Treasury function seeks to reduce or eliminate exposure to foreign exchange, interest rate and other financial risks, to ensure sufficient liquidity is available to meet foreseeable needs and to invest cash assets safely and profitably.
It does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to underlying business requirements.
It operates policies and procedures which are periodically reviewed by the board and is subject to regular audit control reviews.
Interest rate risk management The groups interest rate exposure is managed by the use of xed and oating rate borrowings, and by the use of cap and oor derivative arrangements.
The group also mixes the duration of its borrowings to smooth the impact of interest rate uctuations.
At 12.7m, interest costs were 3.2m higher than last year.
This principally reects increased interest rates during the period, together with the interest costs arising from the 33.2m expenditure on acquisitions within the Educational Supplies division.
The net interest charge was covered 4.8 times by operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill amortisation.
Currency risk management Approximately 30% of products sold through the groups Home Shopping division, and a growing proportion of those sold through the Educational Supplies division, are procured through the groups Far East buying ofce.
The currency of purchase for these goods is principally the US Dollar, with a proportion being in Hong Kong Dollars.
The group has a policy of hedging these foreign currency denominated transactions by entering into forward exchange purchase contracts.
Credit risk The groups exposure to credit risk is managed by dealing only with banks and financial institutions with strong credit ratings, within limits set for each organisation.
Acquisitions On 13 November 2004 the group acquired the business and assets of Huntleigh National Care HNC from Huntleigh plc.
HNC currently operates ten Integrated Community Equipment Services contracts, with annualised turnover of approximately 17m.
These complement the seven similar contracts already operated by the groups NRS Direct Care business.
The acquisition signicantly reinforces NRS Direct Cares market leading position in the market for outsourced Integrated Community Equipment Services.
On 2 December 2004 the group acquired GLS Educational Supplies Limited.
This company, which originates out of the educational supplies arm of the Inner London Education Authority, has annual turnover of 51m.
Its market leading position in the London area strengthens the groups development of regionally based commodity supply operations to schools.
Exceptional items In order to extract maximum benefit from the acquisitions made in the Educational Supplies division in the current and previous financial years, a restructuring of the division commenced during the period with the intention of rationalising systems, premises and product ranges.
The costs of this restructuring in the current period amounted to 3.3m and have been reported as an exceptional charge against operating profit of the division.
A further charge of up to 10m is anticipated in order to complete the restructuring during the period to 31 March 2006.
Minority interests profit attributable to equity minority interests in 2005 of 0.6m relates to the share of profit attributable to the minority shareholders of Home Farm Hampers.
Minority interests in the balance sheet represent the minority share of the net assets of Home Farm Hampers.
co. uk 7 Pensions The group has continued to account for pension costs under SSAP 24.
In accordance with the FRS 17 transitional arrangements, certain disclosures are included in note 24 to the financial statements.
There is no effect on the primary financial statements.
The groups dened benefit pension schemes had modest deficits at 31 March 2004.
To improve the funding of these schemes, the group made voluntary additional contributions totalling 1.5m during the year.
The FRS 17 disclosures show a net deficit for all retirement benefit schemes of 16.3m net of deferred tax at 31 March 2005.
The deficit is equal to around 4% of the groups market capitalisation and can prudently be resolved over a period of time.
Accounting Policies and Standards The principal accounting policies used by the group are shown on page 32.
There have been no changes to accounting policies as there were no new Financial Reporting Standards adopted in the period.
International Financial Reporting Standards In June 2002, the European Union approved the application of IFRS for all listed groups for periods commencing on or after 1 January 2005.
As a result, the group will apply IFRS in its financial statements for the year ending 31 March 2006.
The primary effects of IFRS on the group financial statements are currently expected to be the following: The introduction of pension accounting rules which broadly follow FRS 17 The cessation of amortisation of goodwill, which will become subject to an annual test for impairment The recognition of intangibles arising on acquisitions and amortisation of these assets The removal of the linked presentation against the associated debtor balances for amounts borrowed under the securitisation programme The redenition of an associated company, in our case causing the investments in The Webb Group and Confetti Network to be reclassied as associated companies The non-provision for final dividends payable until approved at General Meeting Whilst we currently anticipate that these will be the major adjustments which arise on transition to IFRS, the groups convergence project is necessarily ongoing and IFRS along with the associated interpretations continue to be rened and developed.
The group has established a project timetable to ensure the requirements under IFRS will be met and adopted in the 2005 06 interim statement.
David Dutton Group Finance Director 8
