Alfred McAlpine plc 12 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES ALFRED McALPINE DELIVERED A STRONG OPERATING AND PERFORMANCE IN 2005, EMPHASISING FINANCIAL REVIEW THE ROBUSTNESS OF OUR STRATEGY.
Alfred McAlpine can offer a total facilities management service to its clients, from cleaning and security, to energy management.
We focus on our core competencies, which we self deliver, and provide the balance of services through our supply chain.
The provision of a helpdesk and the interface with the customer are integral to our offering.
FACILITIES MANAGEMENT Cleaning Waste management Helpdesk Utilities management Security Grounds maintenance Building fabric Energy services Catering Building maintenance Building services Estate management Front of house Mechanical & electrical Financial services Design services Soft services Consultancy Business objectives to continuously improve our business by investing in the Alfred McAlpine is committed to building value for investors development of our people and the efficiency of our through sustained, controlled growth.
This will be driven by business processes.
our continued focus on delivering services and solutions for the built environment, by developing a balanced business The strength of Alfred McAlpine is in its people.
They have without over-dependence on any one client or market, and built the reputation on which our business is based and are by delivering outstanding service on which we can build long the basis of our continued growth.
We believe that a positive term relationships with our clients.
culture is essential to both high quality customer service and continuous business improvement.
Alfred McAlpine today is a leading support services business.
We are positioned in large, growing markets which are being We work with MORI, the international market and employee driven by the continuing trend to outsource the maintenance research organisation, using its employee advocacy model to and management of public and private buildings, and by the test our employees satisfaction with and commitment to Alfred high level of investment required to renew the UKs health and McAlpine.
Encouragingly, our key employee satisfaction measure education facilities and its transport and utility infrastructures.
rose again in the year and is now well ahead of the norm for the UK private sector.
Our medium term objective remains the Through the range of services we offer, we aim to be our achievement of engagement and advocacy levels that are in clients partner of choice in the built environment.
We can the top 10% of UK private sector organisations.
This will design, finance, build, manage and maintain buildings and ensure that we are able to recruit, retain and motivate the infrastructure, or apply our expertise in one or several of people who will fulfil our commitments to excellent customer these areas to deliver solutions that meet our clients service and innovation that differentiate Alfred McAlpine from specific requirements.
This investment in people development is mirrored by continued investment in fit-for-purpose, scaleable To build the long term, lower risk, visible earnings streams systems that can support the growth that we are targeting.
that we have targeted, we aim to generate at least 70% of our revenues from activities that are undertaken under long We are also committed to providing a safe environment for term contracts or framework agreements, based on service our employees, customers, supply chain partners and the public.
excellence and the breadth of our offer.
In 2005, in excess of Over the last five years, we have reduced our accident frequency 75% of our revenues were generated through these types of rate significantly from 0.35 in 2000 to 0.24 in 2005, and we long term partnering agreements.
now have one of the lowest accident frequency rates in our sector.
Our medium term objective continues to be the As a Group, our primary financial targets are to generate achievement of an accident frequency rate of 0.10 or less, which double digit growth and cash-backed profit.
These will equates to less than one accident per million man-hours worked.
drive increases in shareholder value.
To do this, we have Ultimately, our goal is to work in a zero accident environment.
Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 13 MOVING UP THE VALUE CHAIN CLIENT DEVELOPMENT Consultancy Projects Expanded contract Initial contract 80m In 2002, we began working with Airbus on a particular challenge that the client had with its energy needs.
The first contract was worth 7m.
Airbus were so pleased with our solution that they awarded us a 10 year FM contract, which in turn led into other work, including consultancy.
We have now secured 80m of work from Airbus.
90% Delivering the promise Our commitment to service and our emphasis on adding value and providing clients with innovative solutions, has resulted in us retaining over 90% of our clients over the last five years.
Ian Grice Group chief executive Alfred McAlpine plc 14 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Business review THE QUALITY OF SERVICE PROVIDED BY OUR Good progress has been made in each of our principal EMPLOYEES IS A KEY DRIVER OF GROWTH businesses.
AND PROFITABILITY IN OUR BUSINESS.
Business Services Our Business Services operation is a leading provider of facilities management services in the UK.
This core offering is complemented by added value consultancy services, such as health and safety compliance and energy management, which allow Alfred McAlpine to offer a total facilities management solution.
The value of the outsourced element of the UK facilities management market is estimated to be approximately 1 60bn p. a.
This represents around a third of the total 200bn p. a. facilities management market, the balance of which is currently serviced in-house.
These markets continue to 1 grow at a rate in excess of 6% p. a. as organisations continue to seek to focus their resources human and capital on their core activities and to secure short and long term cost savings by leveraging the experience and skills of expert facilities management service providers.
Strong organic growth during the year has delivered another significant advance in revenues and profit.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 33% to 21.4m 2004: 16.1m on revenues that increased by 34% to 361.1m 2004: 270.2m.
Major business wins in the year included the expansion of our contract with BAA to cover four airports, and new contracts with British Telecom, Scottish Enterprise, Yell, Yorkshire Water and the Scottish Courts.
Alfred McAlpine has also been appointed as a key service provider to Babcock Dyncorp on the MOD Regional Prime East contract, building on the partnership success with Babcock on the Regional Prime South West contract.
Business Services has a strong position in the financial services, aviation and defence markets, and has a growing presence in retail, technology and infrastructure.
We continue to target organic growth in each of these markets to ensure that the business is not overly reliant on any one sector.
Service excellence remains our prime focus for differentiation and we continue to invest in our people, operating efficiencies and service capabilities to drive growth.
Project Services Project Services comprises our construction services and investment and development led businesses.
It provides building and civil engineering services to local and national government, 1 Mintel 2003 survey Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 15 to commercial developers and to the health, education and leisure sectors, and also manages the development, financing, construction and maintenance of long term assets, including Alfred McAlpines PFI investments.
These services were previously provided through our Capital Projects and Project Investments businesses.
We combined the management teams of these businesses into Project Services with effect from 1 February 2006 to ensure that we are best able to leverage the experience and technical knowledge available within them.
Alfred McAlpine has a well-established reputation and strong client relationships in the construction and land led development markets.
Our objective over recent years has been to refocus the business onto longer term, lower risk earnings streams based on framework and Early Contractor Involvement ECI schemes and an increased emphasis on development and investment led opportunities, where we can capitalise on our management and Alfred McAlpine has generated financing expertise.
significant savings for Sainsburys in 2005, by improving FM service and quality.
Project Services delivered a solid performance in 2005.
Underlying profit before tax increased by 2% to 16.5m We operate a 24 7 helpdesk dealing with 40,000 tasks 2004: 16.2m from revenues that increased by 13% to each week.
Reported profit before tax was 24.0m.
The increase in revenues, the first for several years, was driven by the new style contracts won during 2004 and 2005 entering the construction phase.
Of the underlying profit before tax generated by Project Services, Project Investments contributed 1.8m 2004: 2.0m.
During the year, a series of major new contracts was secured, adding in excess of 450m to Project Services order book.
This included four ECI schemes, two with the Highways Agency and one each with the Welsh Assembly and Leeds City Council, and contracts to design and build new facilities for the Oxford Churchill Hospital and Lewisham Leisure as well as a mixed use scheme for ProLogis near the Dartford Crossing.
Project Services also renewed its Great Western Earthworks and Structures Partnering Agreement GWESPA, with Network Rail for a further five years.
Our Project Services team also manages our PFI portfolio.
Our strategy with PFI is that we will continue to invest selectively in PFI schemes that match our capabilities, and we will dispose of PFI investments if and when appropriate opportunities arise.
Following the sale of two PFI interests during the year, our portfolio now comprises nine financially closed concessions, representing an initial investment of 18.7m, of which seven 16 million square feet are operational.
A further PFI scheme is at the preferred bidder Alfred McAlpine and Sainsburys stage.
We are committed to investing a further 7.9m in our We manage FM services on behalf of Sainsburys across PFI portfolio over the next two years.
570 stores 16 million square feet of sales floor used by 15 million customers.
Alfred McAlpine plc 16 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Infrastructure Services Infrastructure Services is focused on providing maintenance and renewal services to the utilities and highways maintenance sectors, where clients continue to seek to reduce costs and improve delivery through outsourcing.
The regulatory reviews in 2004 approved significant investment in the renewal and upgrading of the UKs utilities networks over the five years from April 2005.
In the electricity sector, Ofgem has indicated that the investment spend required to renew network assets will amount to 5.7bn over this period.
In the water sector, the equivalent planned investment is 16.8bn.
It is anticipated that this additional spend will increasingly be released during 2006.
Reflecting the challenges in this business and the slowness of the recovery in the utility markets, where the anticipated ALFRED McALPINE UNDERSTAND recovery in volumes did not start to emerge until the final quarter of 2005, underlying profit before tax was 4.2m WHAT WE ARE TRYING TO ACHIEVE 2004: 7.5m.
The reported loss before tax was 3.0m.
IN TERMS OF SERVICE EXCELLENCE, Revenues were 323.0m 2004: 339.3m.
PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT AND The business has seen significant change in the year.
TRUE PARTNERING, AND HAVE The leadership team has been strengthened through the SUCCESSFULLY INTEGRATED WITH appointments of a new managing director, finance director OUR CULTURE.
and commercial director, and the restructuring of the operational management team.
The teams main focus has been on Tim Plummer pictured above Nationwide Building Societys head of property.
Alfred McAlpine has worked with Nationwide reshaping our utilities business, ready for the anticipated upturn for over five years.
in workflows in the sector.
This included a complete review of our commercial operations together with, as highlighted at the half year, our exit from one non-performing contract and two loss-making businesses.
In total, these actions resulted in a non-recurring charge of 13.2m in 2005, which included a 5.6m provision against work-in-progress, reflecting the more prudent commercial approach being adopted by the new team.
Our highways maintenance activities continued to make good progress during the year, with the extension of the Area 7 contract for the Highways Agency in the East Midlands and our appointment as preferred bidder with City of York Council during the year.
Slate After a strong performance in 2004, our Slate business has again delivered double digit revenue and profit growth.
Revenues increased by 13% to 27.6m, generating profit before tax of 4.3m 2004: 3.8m.
We have invested in 690 Nationwide branches a new, automated slate production facility, which will be commissioned in spring 2006.
This will remove existing Alfred McAlpine and Nationwide Over 320 Alfred McAlpine people look after Nationwides production constraints and further improve operating branches and head office.
Our people are so committed efficiencies.
We are confident that this business will deliver that they win Nationwides own service awards.
another year of strong revenue and profit growth in 2006 as the benefits of this investment flow through.
Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 17 GROUP UNDERLYING PROFIT BEFORE TAX ROSE BY 12% TO 37.4m ON REVENUES INCREASED BY 12% TO 1,038.8m 2004: 930.7m.
THIS IS THE FIRST TIME THAT GROUP REVENUES HAVE EXCEEDED 1bn.
Group financial performance and position At 31 December 2005, the Group had a series of committed Group underlying profit before tax rose by 12% to 37.4m bilateral facilities totalling 105m, scheduled to mature in 2004: 33.4m on revenues increased by 12% to 1,038.8m November 2007.
In February 2006, we refinanced three of 2004: 930.7m.
This is the first time that Group revenues these facilities and we now have committed bilateral facilities have exceeded 1bn.
Underlying PBIT margins remained amounting to 125m available to us with the same banks.
The three refinanced facilities provide committed funding on improved terms, and in addition, their maturity has been After the 13.5m profit realised on the disposal of the Groups extended to February 2011.
The remaining 10m bilateral facility interests in Core Utility Solutions Limited Core and in the continues to be available on its original terms and will mature in Mercia Healthcare and South Manchester Healthcare PFI projects November 2007.
In aggregate, these facilities are available to and the 13.2m of non-recurring costs in our Infrastructure support general corporate purposes.
Services business, reported profit before tax was 37.7m 2004: 8.4m.
Shareholders funds total 282.7m, up from 237.7m in 2004.
The sale of Core followed a review by Scottish Power of During the year, our original investments in PFI joint ventures developments in the UK customer connections market since reduced by 2.7m to 18.7m following the sale of our equity the creation of Core in 2003, which resulted in its decision to interests in Mercia Healthcare and South Manchester Healthcare.
purchase our interest in this joint venture.
As at 31 December 2005, there was an IAS 19 deficit in the four Our PFI disposals were made alongside our partners at very defined benefit pension plans totalling 33.8m net of tax credit attractive multiples.
At the beginning of the year, we sold our 2004: 57.4m.
Of this, the deficit in the main Alfred McAlpine interest in Mercia Healthcare on a multiple of over three times Pension Plan was 25.8m net of tax credit 2004: 44.7m.
Then, in November, we sold our interest in South Manchester Healthcare on a multiple of over four times The 27m reduction in the gross deficit in the main Plan reflects our initial investment.
We believe that these sales provide a very the achievement of a 20% return 46m on Plan assets during positive endorsement of the value in the rest of our PFI portfolio.
This was countered by the reduction in corporate bond yields, which fell by 0.5% during the year and accounted for Underlying earnings per share increased by 12% to most of the 19m cost of strengthening the actuarial 32.0p per share 2004: 28.6p per share.
Dividend cover assumptions at 31 December 2005. remains unchanged.
These figures are based on all the non-financial assumptions Reflecting our continued focus on improving working capital used for the most recent formal funding valuation of the Plan management, our net cash position at year end was 32.8m, as at 31 December 2002.
1.5m higher than the comparable position as at 31 December 2004.
This was achieved notwithstanding the investment The Plans actuary has indicated in recent months that a further required to fund double digit organic growth and the increased material strengthening in the mortality assumptions should be dividend.
Average weekly net borrowings through the year were expected.
The full extent of this will depend on the Plan actuarys 34.0m.
The net interest charge for the year was 2.0m, up detailed analysis of the Plans actual experience over the last few from 1.1m in the prior year.
years, which will be undertaken as part of the Plan actuarys formal valuation of the Plan as at 31 December 2005.
Our tax charge continues to benefit from prudent planning and Preliminary indications are that a move onto the new mortality brought forward losses.
As indicated previously, our effective tables and building in an allowance for continuing future underlying tax rate remained at 19% during 2005 and we improvements in life expectancy could together add around expect that we will benefit from a similar rate for the next two 10% to the Plans liabilities.
The results of the formal valuation years and then return to a normalised rate by 2010. are expected to be available in the autumn.
We have continued to reduce corporate centre costs, which fell to 6.1m in the year 2004: 6.5m.
Our balance sheet remains strong, which ensures that we have the capacity to take advantage of future opportunities as they arise.
Alfred McAlpine plc 18 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Risk management OUR ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE AFR We address strategic risks and risks specific to individual SHOWED A FURTHER REDUCTION IN 2005 businesses and contracts, including social, environmental and AND NOW STANDS AT 0.24 2004: 0.25 ethical risks through a rigorous risk management and review process.
Our risk management processes apply to every aspect DOWN FROM 0.35 IN 2000.
OUR 2005 AFR of our business, from selecting the markets in which we operate, EQUATES TO 2.4 ACCIDENTS FOR EVERY to the contracts we bid for and the suppliers we partner with.
They apply to every stage of a contract, from inception to completion, in order to deliver the cash-backed profit we expect and a service that meets or exceeds our customers expectations.
Health, safety and environment Our accident frequency rate AFR showed a further reduction in 2005 and now stands at 0.24 2004: 0.25 down from 0.35 in 2000.
Our 2005 AFR equates to 2.4 accidents for every million man-hours worked.
Congratulations are due to all our people for their ongoing efforts to make Alfred McAlpine one of the safest places to work in our sector.
In the medium term, our target is to reduce the AFR to no higher than 0.10.
To achieve this we continuously look to introduce improvements that make our working practices safer.
Our primary focus remains on developing work place behaviours and ensuring that the leadership provided by our management teams exemplifies our zero tolerance approach to accidents.
We continually seek to improve our environmental performance.
With effect from February 2005, all of the Groups businesses operate to ISO 14001, the International Standard for Environmental Management Systems, and our key objective is to maintain this accreditation.
Throughout 2005, we focused our efforts on the development of robust environmental systems and management programmes, which allowed us to collect the data on which to base measurable objectives going forward.
For 2006, we have set new objectives for energy management and reductions in CO2 emissions based on the data collected in 2005.
Culture Alfred McAlpines positive culture underpins our business offer and is a key driver of our future growth and profitability.
It provides us with a unique selling proposition based on the quality and commitment of our employees.
Our culture encourages everyone in our business to take the extra steps required to turn ordinary service into outstanding service.
It demands that all our employees take responsibility for their own actions and concentrates on building high quality business relationships at every level.
It values collaboration, both internally and with our clients and partners, and rewards the development of new solutions.
It is founded on five values: Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 19 CULTURE IS POTENTIALLY THE ONLY SUSTAINABLE SOURCE OF COMPETITIVE 2 ADVANTAGE.
THE MORI EMPLOYEE ADVOCACY MODEL Winning we value winners.
People who want to create success for themselves, for their company, and for their customers.
Advocacy People with real commitment.
Engagement Passion we believe that superior performance is born out Pride of passion.
We value people who are passionate about their work and about doing the very best job for their customers.
Commitment Satisfaction Honesty we demand honesty.
Honesty in dealing with each other and honesty in dealing with all of our external Awareness understanding stakeholders.
Collaboration we value people who work openly and productively with each other, with their clients and with our EMPLOYEE SURVEY RESULTS % supply partners: people who listen: people who explore new Speak highly of the Company as an employer ideas and create new value.
55 52 Enjoyment we value job satisfaction.
People who enjoy what they do put more in and get more out.
Speak highly of the Companys services 60 63 In our annual employee survey, we reinforce the link between the values, our culture and the success of the business by measuring Involved or want to be more involved in the Company the levels of employee engagement, commitment and advocacy.
63 The 2005 survey, conducted in November, confirmed that we 63 have continued to make progress in all areas.
Our employee Proud of the Company satisfaction score of 67% 2004: 64% is now in the MORI top 60 ten for private sector organisations.
Scores for each of the other 56 key indicators also improved since the 2004 survey.
Committed to helping the Company achieve its objectives 78 Our focus in 2006 will be on continuing to raise the levels 74 of pride, engagement and advocacy.
We will continue to strengthen our culture by further aligning and underpinning all satisfied with the Company our management processes with our values.
Our performance 67 61 management systems measure how we deliver as well as what we deliver.
Our 360 feedback system evaluates the behaviours Understand the Companys objectives that reinforce our culture.
The values and behaviours are 63 embedded in all our assessment processes and development 64 programmes.
Additionally, we will continue to work to increase Alfred McAlpine UK norm employee understanding of, and involvement in, our business improvement initiatives.
We will do this by utilising the knowledge and experience of all 9,000 of our people through our team briefing and toolbox talk programmes, employee The UK norm is the average result for UK private sector forums and the use of knowledge management systems and companies in over 100 previous MORI surveys.
67% 3% Employee satisfaction Our employee satisfaction score of 67% 2004: 64% is now in the MORI top ten for private sector organisations.
2 Deloitte & Touche, 2006 Alfred McAlpine plc 20 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Corporate responsibility CR WE BELIEVE THAT CORPORATE We are committed to ensuring that our business is RESPONSIBILITY IS A CRUCIAL BUSINESS environmentally and socially sustainable in the long term, ISSUE FOR OUR COMPANY, AND ONE ON whether in the way that we treat suppliers and customers, in our approach to employees, or in the care we show for WHICH WE LIKE OTHER COMPANIES the natural environment.
Not only do people expect us to ARE INCREASINGLY JUDGED.
behave in that way: they increasingly want to work with, or join, companies that show real commitment to responsible behaviour.
It also protects our reputation and attracts socially responsible investment.
Our clients and prospective clients tell us that our commitment to corporate responsibility is a key factor in the decision to appoint us.
We do not have all the answers, but we are firmly committed to working with others to seek solutions and to improve our performance every year.
Our CR programme developed significantly during 2005.
The key initiatives were: Environmental impact measurement the environmental data collection programme established in 2004 has been extended Group-wide.
During 2006, we will develop this further by formulating Group standards for the development of waste management plans and the reporting of environmental incidents and in developing a CO2 emissions reduction plan, with specific targets for each business unit.
Throughout 2005, we continued our programme of audits against the requirements of the International Standard for Environmental Management Systems, ISO 14001.
Each business within the Group was audited by third party assessors during 2005, including a review of objectives, targets and legal compliance and an evaluation of environmental management resources as required by the standard.
All of our business units To access our latest corporate responsibility report, go to are ISO 14001 accredited.
com Occupational health OHSAS 18001 sets out the requirements for an occupational health and safety management system that enables an organisation to control its occupational health and CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2005 Home Contact us Back Accessibility Print safety risks and improve performance.
All of our businesses WE BELIEVE THAT CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY IS A CRUCIAL BUSINESS ISSUE FOR OUR COMPANY, AND ONE ON WHICH WE LIKE OTHER COMPANIES ARE INCREASINGLY JUDGED.
WE HAVE SET OUT IN THIS WEBSITE OUR RECORD ON CORPORATE operate health and safety management systems certified to this RESPONSIBILITY ACROSS BUSINESSES AND OUR SUPPLYCHAIN RELATIONSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS, AS WELL AS OUR COMMITMENTS FOR THE FUTURE.
WORKFORCE standard by third party assessors.
WE ARE INTERESTED IN WHAT YOU THINK OF OUR PERFORMANCE.
TO GIVE US FEEDBACK CLICK HERE COMMUNITY OUR BUSINESS PERFORMANCE CORPORATE CASE STUDIES DOWNLOADS RESPONSIBILITY HEALTH AND SAFETY ENVIRONMENT Behavioural safety as part of our commitment to reducing our accident frequency rate to 0.10 or lower in the medium term, behavioural safety programmes were introduced on a business specific basis through 2005.
These are designed to embed zero tolerance of accidents into our culture and working practices.
Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 21 Drugs and alcohol all of our businesses have introduced drugs and alcohol management programmes during 2005.
We will continue to refine these programmes over 2006 to ensure that they are best suited to our operations.
Driver safety programmes have been developed within the businesses to reflect the risk relating to driver safety in each business.
These plans are subject to continuous review to ensure that each plan meets the Groups best practice requirements.
Audits throughout 2005, we continued with our programme of audits delivered using the principles of the International Safety Rating System ISRS, level 6.
This requires a desktop examination of management system documentation, followed by a series of representative project and site visits to verify compliance with system requirements.
In 2006, we will review the scope, style and content of our audit programme and our internal standards We manage around 1,400 as part of our programme of continuous improvement designed specific tasks in support of the MOD every day.
to deliver effective risk management and value to the business.
Alfred McAlpine has been Alfred McAlpine has again retained its membership of the working for the defence of the UK since the 1940s.
FTSE4Good Index and continues to participate in the annual EIRIS Ethical Investment Research Service survey.
In 2005, we joined the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index, having previously participated in the Business in the Community Environmental Index surveys.
In 2006, whilst continuing to work on the above initiatives, we will introduce a root cause based incident investigation system and will review our Group audit and standards development processes.
Investing in the future As a service business, our future success and the growth of the business are dependent on the quality of service that we deliver to our clients.
This requires us to recruit, develop and retain large numbers of high quality people who are supported by appropriate structures, knowledge and processes to deliver the growth that we have targeted.
To address these issues we have an integrated development strategy, which focuses on our customers, our people and culture and the processes that support our business.
45m every year Alfred McAlpine and the Ministry of Defence Alfred McAlpine provides support services to the MOD.
We work across 45,000 operational facilities for the MOD and its support organisations, maintaining four million square metres of space and providing over 25m worth of runways, accommodation and infrastructure, as well as undertaking refits and maintenance.
Alfred McAlpine plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED Customer service WE CONTINUE TO IMPROVE OUR BUSINESS Excellent customer service is at the heart of everything we do.
BY INVESTING IN THE DEVELOPMENT OF OUR We are committed to providing outstanding service for all our PEOPLE AND THE EFFICIENCY OF OUR BUSINESS customers.
THE STRENGTH OF ALFRED Right across the Group, we ensure that we meet our service McALPINE IS IN ITS PEOPLE.
THEY HAVE BUILT commitment by working in partnership with our clients, by THE REPUTATION ON WHICH OUR SUCCESS monitoring the impact of what we do on communities and by applying performance measurement tools.
We have dedicated IS BASED AND ARE THE BASIS OF OUR customer-care managers and staff who are highly skilled in CONTINUED GROWTH.
dealing with the public and fully understand the customer-care commitments that we and our clients make.
We operate a call-out service, to investigate any issues and make immediate changes to our delivery contract, if these are necessary.
To confirm our service delivery, we seek regular feedback from our customers in the form of formal, objective customer satisfaction surveys, to confirm our service levels and to identify areas for improvement.
These surveys augment the ad hoc feedback received from customers throughout the course of a contract.
In our facilities management business, we conduct a customer satisfaction survey with key clients every six months.
A relevant independent senior executive undertakes the surveys, in collaboration with the most senior client contact.
In our Project Services operation, we use customer satisfaction surveys to measure our performance on specific projects.
Taking the form of a questionnaire, the survey covers all aspects of product and service delivery.
In Infrastructure Services, where our teams often deal with the public, who are end-users of the services provided by our customers, we measure the quality of our service delivery in two ways through our direct dealings with the public and by undertaking regular benchmarking exercises with our customers.
Our customer feedback tells us that we consistently deliver the high level of service to which we are committed, and that where areas for improvement are identified these are rapidly addressed.
Across the business, our employees regularly receive commendations from our customers for their commitment.
People In addition to the focus on culture and values, we concentrate on three key areas to support the overall business strategy the development and retention of leadership talent: the enhancement of the technical and professional skills of our employees: and the continuous improvement of the processes to manage and support our people.
Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 23 Considerable emphasis is placed on our recruitment, retention and succession management processes.
This ensures that we recruit and identify candidates who have the potential to develop and ultimately assume senior roles.
Our management development programmes are structured to provide our managers with the leadership, performance, change management and recruitment and selection skills that are essential to their roles.
In 2005, over 600 managers attended these senior development programmes and we provided over 4,500 training days.
We aim to develop each employee to his or her potential.
In addition to the main programmes, we have training for specific groups of employees such as graduates currently numbering 50, apprentices and those showing the potential for accelerated development.
Leanne Henry pictured top Our workforce training and development initiatives focus on joined Alfred McAlpine from Leeds University in 2002.
She three areas: developing line management and supervisory worked around the business on skills: developing interpersonal and communication skills the graduate programme before as a foundation to delivering excellent customer service: becoming a commercial manager for Business Services.
and developing technical skills to support Alfred McAlpines reputation for delivering high quality, innovative solutions for Joining the graduate programme our clients.
in 2003, Alex Proctor pictured bottom experienced health and safety, project management and To deliver this, we operate six training centres across the UK.
estimating before his role as an In 2005, we delivered over 12,000 training days and 540 NVQs IT manager in Business Services.
to our employees, and delivered a further 12,000 training days to external companies, including our customers and supply chain, together with over 660 NVQs.
Business processes Our businesses share a number of common core processes and we have continued to invest in fit-for-purpose, scaleable support systems that support our people and add value to our service offer.
In 2003, we commenced the implementation of a project and financial accounting system across our Project Services and Infrastructure Services businesses.
Our investment in this system, which reached operational status in mid-2005, was 8m.
Through 2006, we will implement a new Oracle ERP system at a cost of 6m to support the growth that we are targeting for our facilities management business.
To provide a high quality service to our employees and ensure operational efficiency, we continue to invest in our HR systems 16,500 and processes.
As part of this initiative, we are investing 4m Employee development in a Group-wide HR and payroll system.
The system is scaleable In 2005, we delivered over 12,000 training days and 540 NVQs to and will meet our needs over the medium term.
Full operational our employees, and 4,500 development days for senior managers.
status will be achieved by July 2006.
Alfred McAlpine plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2005 GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVES OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW CONTINUED ORDER BOOK THE KEY DRIVERS OF OUR FUTURE GROWTH WILL BE EXCELLENCE IN CUSTOMER SERVICE AND THE PROVISION OF INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS.
Infrastructure Services Business Services Project Services TERM OF CONTRACT Projects Term & framework contracts Alfred McAlpine plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 25 New business We have completed the reshaping of our Infrastructure Services We have made a good start to 2006, securing in excess of business and it is now well placed to benefit, with over 20 800m of new business in the year to date.
framework and long term service agreements in place at a combined value in excess of 500m, as the approved regulatory We are targeting another year of significant growth in Business spend in the utilities sector is released.
Our projects business has Services.
In January, we secured our largest ever contract to been repositioned and now delivers the majority of its services provide Mapeley, the property investment and outsourcing through lower risk Early Contractor Involvement schemes and specialist, with facilities management services across an extensive partnering agreements.
portfolio of UK properties from 1 May 2006.
Over a period of approximately two years, the contract will be expanded to cover The key drivers of our future growth will be excellence in the provision of a total facilities management service, including customer service and the provision of innovative solutions.
health and safety compliance, across this portfolio.
The contract To deliver this, we continue to improve the quality of our will run until spring 2021 and is worth approximately 50m p. a. people through recruitment, training and development and to Alfred McAlpine once all the services come on stream.
our business infrastructure and processes by selective investment in fit-for-purpose scaleable systems that can support the growth We are also in advanced discussions with Bank of Ireland to we are targeting and enhance operational efficiency.
provide it with facilities management services across its portfolio of 260 properties in Ireland.
The new contracts won since the start of 2006 recognise our reputation for service delivery, innovation and continuous In March, our Infrastructure Services business renewed and improvement.
extended its contract with Central Networks, first won in 2002, which will now run to 2009, with a potential further five year With the business now reshaped and positioned in large, high extension, and is worth approximately 20m p. a. to Alfred growth markets, we are confident that Alfred McAlpine is well McAlpine.
We have also secured a new five year contract with placed to deliver the controlled, sustained growth in shareholder Scottish & Southern Energy worth approximately 10m.
These value that we are targeting.
contract wins, which confirm that the anticipated recovery in the utilities markets is now gaining momentum, give us confidence that this business will deliver an improved performance in 2006.
Our Project Services business enters 2006 with a strong order book reflecting the success in winning contracts in 2004 and 2005, and with in excess of 80% of its targeted 2006 revenues I M Grice secured.
Group chief executive 16 March 2006 Outlook Alfred McAlpine today is a leading support services business positioned in strong growth markets that are being driven by the continuing trend to outsource the maintenance and management of buildings and by the high level of investment required to renew the UKs infrastructure.
Our clear strategic focus is on providing solutions in the built environment.
We have a well-balanced business that is not over dependent on any one client or sector and is not exposed to specific risks beyond the normal generic risks faced by any business in our sector.
