Operating and financial review The underlying strength of the groups Summary 2005 2004 businesses is demonstrated by the strong 52 weeks 53 weeks m m operating cash ow generation.
The year Turnover including share has seen significant investment in people, of joint venture 1,306.0 1,244.0 property, equipment and further earnings Operating profit before exceptional items and goodwill 97.7 95.7 enhancing acquisitions.
Operating cash ow 131.7 150.3 profit before exceptional items, goodwill and tax 95.9 91.3 Earnings per share adjusted 122.5p 110.3p Dividend per share 48.0p 38.0p The underlying strength of the groups businesses is demonstrated by the strong operating cash ow generation of 157 million, after adding back an additional 25 million contribution to the groups pension scheme.
The growth in profits has been achieved against a background of a 6 million increase in bus fuel costs.
Earnings have been further enhanced by effective management of the groups tax charge.
The year has seen significant investment in people, property, equipment and further earnings enhancing acquisitions.
The prospects for the current year are affected by the continuing rise in fuel costs, terrorist attacks in London and the economic slow down but the actions taken in the last year, together with continuing focused management, adding value for shareholders, provide confidence for the future.
0 08 8::0 05 5 0 08 8::2 23 3 0 09 9::0 02 2 Michael undertakes minor Southerns new trains ready The X3 Abingdon Direct service maintenance on a Go North to undergo maintenance at its leaves Oxford city centre for Abingdon.
1.5 million has been invested in high Go North Easts engineering Southern are managing a quality improvements to the service, team maintains the eet to the 125 million investment in including air conditioning and improved exacting standards of VOSA with upgrading train maintenance legroom, delivering an 18% growth a closely monitored system facilities, with the Brighton in patronage.
of planned maintenance and work accounting for around breakdown prevention.
6 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 Divisional review the year adding 2% 6 million to overall costs of bus operations, despite the benefit of the partial hedging in place Bus at the start of the financial year.
There have also been some 2005 2004 positive contributions in reducing costs.
In particular, the 52 weeks 53 weeks m m continuing development of the groups risk management systems has delivered over 1 million in cost reductions Turnover 412.9 387.5 in the area of third party claim and insurance costs, against Operating profit 52.4 54.2 market trends.
Margin 12.7% 14.0% The second half of the year was disappointing with margins declining compared to the first half from 14.1% to 11.2%.
Adjusting for the acquisition of Wilts & Dorset in August Margins normally weaken in the second half of the year 2003, and for 52 weeks against 53 weeks in 2004, but the rising cost of fuel was a key factor in exaggerating turnover has grown by 8%.
The London regulated market, the decline this year, together with passenger volume representing over 50% of the divisions turnover, grew by slowing against expectations.
Hence the expectation of an 7.9%, whilst the provincial deregulated market grew by improvement in bus margins this year, noted in last years 8.1%.
In London, where volume is dictated by miles review, was not achieved.
operated rather than passengers carried, volume growth During the year there has been significant activity designed was small with contract gains and losses broadly equal.
This to improve the quality of the business, supporting margins contrasts sharply with 2004, which showed a 7% increase in future years, in the form of investment in people, vehicles in mileage operated, consistent with the growth in the and depots.
In the short-term, these activities have reduced market around the time of the introduction of the profits but the benets will help underpin future profitability.
In the provincial deregulated market, where revenue is dictated by the number of passengers Increased pay and improved staff training has had a shortcarried, passenger volumes decreased by 1%.
It can be seen term negative effect, but the benets are now showing, that price increases have played a significant part in revenue particularly in reduced staff turnover.
In the case of London, a further contributor was factor in a labour intensive business.
Several years ago staff the continued growth in quality incentive bonuses rising turnover in London exceeded 30% per annum.
This has now from 7 million in 2004 to nearly 9 million this year.
This reduced to below 15% and similar achievements have been was a result of continued excellent operating performance registered elsewhere.
In the north east, where pay increases consistently above 99.5% of contracted mileage operated have been held at a relatively low level, in line with local before losses due to trafc congestion, the key measure market conditions, high turnover has continued.
This has of quality in this market.
manifested itself in declining service quality and reliability, exacerbating the decline of an already declining market.
Despite the overall growth in revenue, profit margins have This is being addressed with more generous pay settlements been squeezed by rising costs.
65% of the divisions costs are and the introduction of bus drivers from Poland where for labour and, during the year, the unit cost of labour rose 82 are now employed or in training.
The biggest increases were in London with 8.9% growth and the rest of the division averaged just over 5%.
The projects to expand depot capacity for Metrobus at The cost of fuel per operating mile increased by 30% in Crawley and Orpington have signicantly increased short- 0 09 9::3 37 7 0 09 9::5 58 8 110 0::2 23 3 Thameslinks Patrick assists Passengers travelling on a new Veron from Southern and commuters at City Thameslink station.
low oor bus on the Wilts & Dorset Diamond from sister company more service.
During its franchise length Thameslink has returned 200 million to The Following investment of over Meteor provides Southern with Treasury in premium payments, 4 million in new low oor buses trained security staff who also grown patronage by almost 60% and with air conditioning and 2 1 seating, assist with revenue protection achieved Secure Station status for the more network of services has duties when required.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 7 Operating and financial review continued term costs estimated at 0.5 million in the year as a at the end of the year and it is hoped that three outdated consequence of using more remote temporary depot existing depots can be consolidated here.
This programme will be complete by January 2006 signicance in this market has been the investment in and, also by then, a new depot purchased at the end of the vehicles, following the award of the Bournemouth University year in Croydon will be deployed to replace the inadequate contract to operate a dedicated network of bus services Godstone facilities.
This positions Metrobus well for further for students and staff, and the launch of the more services expansion of its business, adding to the London contracts into the Bournemouth market using vehicles with full won in the year and those acquired in the second half air conditioning, 2 1 layout seating and CCTV.
High of the year from Tellings Golden Miller.
This will also enable specication vehicles have also been acquired to support Metrobus to take full advantage of its recent successful bid additional park and ride services in Salisbury.
Expansion here for phase III of the Gatwick Fastway, expanding the business has also meant the need to recruit almost 100 additional north of Horley in Surrey and continued growth of the drivers, which has been successfully achieved.
Despite the Crawley town network, which grew by 14% in volume disappointing proposed sale of the Bournemouth Borough during the year.
Council owned Yellow Bus to a third party, notwithstanding a strong Go-Ahead bid, it is intended to continue to invest Oxford and Brighton have also seen significant in the Bournemouth Poole operation to expand market developments in depot facilities.
In Oxford, the whole of share in this area.
the depot operations were moved from the old antiquated depot site to a new purpose built depot in Cowley.
Investment in people and vehicles continues in the north Whilst the move created significant additional short-term east business, despite the demographic decline and increase costs, operational benets can now be expected into the in car ownership leading to a fall in patronage numbers.
This will support action plans in the coming year The decline has, however, led to further reductions in depot to address the recent relatively poor performance in the capacity and, in the second half of the year, the operating face of stiff competition.
base in South Tyneside was closed and further network reductions were put in place.
This is a continuing process In Brighton, a major upgrade of facilities at the Lewes Road in this market and further action might be expected in the depot is currently being undertaken to support continuing current year.
strong patronage growth in the city where overall patronage growth, since 1994, has been more than 57% under Overall, during the year, the group has invested in Go-Aheads ownership.
This will be further enhanced in the 269 new buses 2004 319 with a capital value of immediate future by the expected conclusion of discussions 37 million 2004 45 million.
The groups eet remains with Stagecoach to take over their operations based one of the newest in the industry with the average age in Lewes.
Growth in the city is expected to continue with currently standing at 5.5 years 2004 5.2 years excluding major developments requiring a significant role for public the heritage Routemaster eet, which has been taken transport, including a planned new park and ride system on out of service since the year-end.
the outskirts of the city linked to rapid transport services.
With a continuing rise in the oil price, margins will continue The Wilts & Dorset depot network has also been reviewed to be under pressure going forward.
Whilst volume in following acquisition in August 2003 and further investments London will again be broadly static in the new financial year, are planned here.
A new site at Blandford was acquired following recent investment in depot capacity, we expect 1111::0 03 3 1111::5 50 0 112 2::5 50 0 Southern driver John undertaking The 24-hour Fastway 10 service The 12:06 Southern service refresher training on the train on route from Gatwick airport.
from London Victoria approaching simulator at Selhurst.
Fastway combines sections of Over 1.3 million has been invested guided busway, dedicated bus lanes and Over 900 million has been invested in state-of-the-art train driving satellite based GPS real time in 700 new electric carriages and simulators to complement live information system, providing a more 42 new diesel carriages, providing driver training, allowing Southern reliable service to passengers.
modern, comfortable and to measure performance in a variety air conditioned trains.
8 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 growth to resume thereafter.
The actions and investments The other main dynamics in evaluating these results are the noted above, together with careful cost management, financial consequences of operating performance and, in the will support margins over the division as a whole in the case of Thameslink, the compensation received in respect new financial year, despite continuing inationary pressures.
of the 35-week period of blockade of the franchise at With only modest fuel hedging in place, however, the St Pancras.
In both cases remarkable results were achieved.
continuing increase in fuel price remains a risk.
For Southern, the biggest challenge in the year was The board maintains its confidence in the growth and managing the near completion of the 1 billion investment development of a profitable bus business in the UK and programme delivering 742 new rail vehicles to the network.
continues to seek appropriate acquisitions in this area This included a major investment programme to upgrade of business.
A recent manifestation of this policy is the outdated but working depots to meet the needs of acquisition of Southern Vectis PLC shortly before the the new eet.
In the first half of the year, this created huge year-end.
Action plans are already being developed to management pressure until technical teething problems signicantly enhance its profitability as part of the group.
were resolved and operating performance suffered as a consequence.
However, as the year progressed, a turnaround The group will continue to actively seek further opportunities was established so that, by the end of the year, record though, given the consolidation in the market, these are few performance levels were being achieved.
This had a and relatively small.
Nevertheless, significant value can be signicantly beneficial effect in the second half of the year.
added to the groups returns, at low risk, through this route.
For Thameslink, the major challenge was the blockade.
Rail In effect, this required the closure of Thameslinks cross- 2005 2004 London link with trains from the north terminating at 52 weeks 53 weeks m m St Pancras whilst trains from the south terminated at Kings Cross Thameslink.
This challenge required huge Turnover 618.3 619.9 advance planning, including construction of a completely Operating profit 39.3 40.9 new maintenance facility at Bedford now managed Margin 6.4% 6.6% by Southern personnel and a comprehensive 2.1 million communications plan to keep customers, staff and stakeholders informed of the changes.
This latter The 2004 result includes that of Thames Trains, which programme won the HSBC Rail Award for PR Campaign ceased to be a part of the division turnover of 82 million of 2004.
Management of the changes themselves proved and operating profit of 3.8 million on 31 March 2004. highly successful, not only sustaining passenger volumes The result for 2005 consists of those for the Thameslink but also delivering signicantly improved operating and Southern formerly South Central franchises, both performance, again benefiting the performance related owned by Govia, a 65% 35% partnership between the payments.
Thameslink also successfully negotiated financial group and Keolis.
compensation for the costs and disruption caused by the Excluding Thames Trains and adjusting 2004 to 52 weeks, blockade, amounting to 34.5 million against 4.6 million passenger income increased by 9%.
Passenger journeys have received in the previous year for the relatively minor decreased increased by 1 % and 5% respectively in disruption suffered then.
113 3::3 35 5 114 4::0 02 2 114 4::4 40 0 Peter undertakes preventative A Southern passenger makes use Oxford Bus Company tters at work maintenance on Meteors ticketof the new ticket machines at in the new Cowley House depot.
Oxford moved to a new purpose Maintenance is undertaken on a To date 184 new touch screen built depot on a browneld site this weekly basis to ensure equipment ticket machines have been installed year, delivering a range of operational uptime is maximised during busy peak by Southern, providing a faster service, benets and providing state-of-the-art periods, with this mid-stay car park at accepting credit cards and cash, and facilities for 560 driving and Stansted attracting more than 25,000 supplying a wider range of tickets engineering staff.
across the national rail network.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 9 Operating and financial review continued Key measures of the quality of performance of the railway Looking ahead for the new financial year the recent industry are the number of complaints received and national London terrorist attacks will clearly have a negative impact passenger survey results.
Complaints fell, year on year, by on revenue, though the effect is partially mitigated by 16% and 28% respectively for Southern and Thameslink and existing revenue and profit share arrangements with the both companies improved their national passenger survey franchising authority.
Indeed, Southern was the most improved UK train Aviation services operator for the year in this respect.
2005 2004 52 weeks 53 weeks Continued investment has been undertaken by both m m franchises in depots, station improvements, train upgrades and the introduction of modern ticketing systems and Turnover 274.8 236.6 automatic ticket machines.
Further measures have been Operating profit 6.0 0.6 introduced to improve safety and security.
Thameslink won Margin 2.2% 0.3% the Gold RoSPA Occupational Health and Safety Award for the second year running.
The introduction by Southern Includes the groups share of joint venture of The Southern Task Force has made a significant The aviation services division engages in three main contribution in reducing low level crime and further streams of activity.
These may be summarised as passenger investment in CCTV is supporting this trend.
and aircraft handling, cargo and car parking.
In the passenger Despite the very successful track records of the groups and aircraft handling business, turnover has grown by franchises, particularly over the past year, Govia failed to 5% after adjusting for the change in ownership structure pre-qualify in its bid for the new enlarged Thameslink of Plane Handling and the 53-week year in 2004. franchise, due to commence operations in April 2006.
The underlying driver of revenue in this area is aircraft The group remains committed to the industry, however, turnarounds and these have grown by 4% in the year.
and the group submitted the final bid for the Integrated Cargo revenue is determined by the number of tonnes Kent franchise on 29 July.
It is hoped the preferred bidder weight handled.
Growth here has been 4% in the year with for this franchise will be announced before the end of turnover up 6%.
Revenue in car parking grew by 22%, the calendar year and the group is confident that it has driven by an increase in spaces managed of 9% and growth submitted a robust and competitive bid.
Further franchise in related services, as well as prices.
bid opportunities will be considered whatever the outcome.
Passenger and aircraft handling recorded a small operating Discussions are currently taking place with the DfT on profit in the year reversing the modest loss recorded last implementing the Brighton Main Line Route Utilisation year.
Large variations were experienced in the performance Study, with a view to speeding up journey times, improving of different stations.
Heathrow delivered a 2 million performance and relieving congestion.
contribution against 0.25 million last year.
This success The bidding process is becoming ever more expensive.
was driven by significant contract wins both before and after The cost charged in these accounts against operating profit the withdrawal of Swissport from the airport.
Combined for activity during the year was 1.3 million against with the activities of Plane Handling, the division is by far 0.5 million last year.
the biggest handler at this station, other than British Airways, 115 5::3 34 4 115 5::5 55 5 116 6::0 07 7 One of Londons modern low oor Wilts & Dorset driver Mark operates A British Midland ight to Glasgow buses heads across Waterloo Bridge.
Operating over 1,200 buses on Wilts & Dorset more and Park & Aviance undertakes around 250,000 tendered services for Transport Ride drivers have recently received aircraft turnarounds each year across for London, Go-Aheads combined dedicated and comprehensive 18 UK and Eire airports, up 4% on London bus operations account customer care training to improve last year.
for 18% by mileage of the tendered service quality.
10 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 who self handle.
Losses at Gatwick were reduced from This has been another successful year for the groups 2.3 million to 0.8 million, whilst Stansted delivered car parking business Meteor Parking.
significant growth a contribution of over 0.1 million against losses last year has been achieved, particularly in value added airport of over 0.85 million.
Much of this benefit was lost, however, services.
The airport chauffeured parking product, acquired due to a difficult year at Manchester where labour shortages, through the acquisition of Chauffeured Parking Services followed by the loss of a core contract, meant the station at the end of last year, has been more successful than suffered a loss of 0.5 million against a contribution last year anticipated.
The business has also developed complementary of 1.3 million.
In addition, the Reed distribution business, airport services, including airside and landside bussing, accounted for within this part of the division, delivered crew transfers, forecourt and taxi management and other a loss this year against a contribution last year.
Development of rail station parking in hand to turn round these two businesses and maintain has been supplemented with the rapid expansion in momentum in other areas but the market continues to be Meteors security involvement in rail and Meteor is now characterised by stiff competition where airlines continue providing gate line and on-train security services to to pursue price reductions.
Southern, in addition to operating all the groups rail car parks and those of First Great Western Link.
As a Management continue to focus on delivery of good consequence of car park and other relevant security operational performance and, in the year, 98.4% of all involvement, the business is also establishing a small, but ights handled were serviced on time.
Service quality has growing, technology capability.
It has recently won contracts helped to support the signing during the year of five-year for the installation and maintenance of on-board CCTV contracts with two principal customers in BMI and Virgin.
cameras with the groups bus operations.
Retail and Longer-term contracts are also becoming the norm with hospital contract sectors are also growing.
These varied scheduled carriers at Heathrow providing more stability developments have helped to diversify the business risk to the business.
Meanwhile, the groups deliberate policy currently dependent on contracts with airport operators.
of reducing exposure to charter carriers provides better These operators are moving towards management visibility going forward.
agreements that limit scope for management to contribute In August 2004 the group purchased the 50% share in Plane to, and gain benets from, growth into the future.
Handling owned by Virgin Aviation Services.
This is now the The turnaround and the overall financial performance principal cargo handling unit of the division.
Following this of the division are showing signs of accelerating.
In the first acquisition, reorganisation of back ofce functions, to half of the year profits grew compared to the equivalent capitalise on the synergy available with the main aviance half last year by 1.7 million.
Whereas in 2004 the division business, has led to significant cost reductions which will delivered a loss of 1.4 million in the second half, be fully realised in the coming year.
In addition, it has 2.3 million profit has been delivered in the second half achieved an improvement in revenue yield per tonne of this year.
With nearly full UK coverage of airports in the handled as well as increasing volume.
Full ownership has passenger and ground handling area, the focus of future meant a more than doubling of turnover from 2004, when growth will be a continuation of the turnaround, it was accounted for as joint venture, from 19 million supplemented by more investment in cargo.
The group will to 39 million.
Further investment for growth is planned also continue to pursue organic and non-organic growth for the coming year.
116 6::2 20 0 116 6::3 36 6 116 6::5 54 4 A trainee takes the wheel under Passengers boarding one of Brightons The Meteor managed Pink Elephant the professional guidance of high frequency Metro Line 1 buses.
car park at Stansted airport.
a Go North East driver training The active partnership between Meteor manages around 77,000 instructor.
Brighton & Hove and the local car park spaces, 45,000 of which are Last year over 350 drivers were authority has delivered 5% patronage based at airports.
Stansted airport prepared for life on the road by growth in the last year, bringing the alone accounts for 26,000 spaces.
Go North Easts training team.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 11 Operating and financial review continued Additional financial matters providing the prospect of a growing return to shareholders, who have already seen growth of over 280% since 2002, Exceptional items when the dividend was 17p per share.
The only exceptional items recorded are a profit of 4.5 million in respect of property disposals in the first half Cash ow of the year and 0.7 million in respect of residual costs of Operating cash ow of 132 million 2004 150 million the Thames Trains closure during last year.
Re-organisation was in line with EBITDA.
Working capital movements were costs incurred within the aviation services division, broadly neutral in contrast to last year when a net amounting to 0.7 million, have been treated as normal 19 million was generated, mainly from growth in creditors.
The group also treats the rail franchise However, as announced on 5 July 2005, the group made a bid costs of 1.3 million 2004 0.5 million as normal payment to the pension scheme on 20 June of 25 million operating costs since participating in the rail industry and this has been absorbed within operating cash ow requires that such costs be incurred each year on an numbers, reected as an increase in debtors under SSAP 24. ongoing basis.
Without this payment, operating cash ow would have been 157 million.
Goodwill In contrast to 2004, the impairment review of the carrying As noted earlier in the review, the year has been significant value of purchased goodwill under FRS 11, in accordance in the quantum of capital expenditure.
In particular, with the groups accounting policy, does not require any opportunities for property investment of 24 million have impairment to be recorded.
The only goodwill charge in the been taken, not wholly envisaged last year.
More than half year is 2.4 million in respect of amortisation of goodwill of this expenditure was within the bus division but further associated with the acquisition of Southern, which is being investment was made to support the depots development amortised over the period of the current franchise.
Disposals of property, however, generated cash covering nearly half of this expenditure.
Taxation Whilst a large proportion of the remaining capital Effective management has been applied in the year to the expenditure continues to be in respect of new buses, groups tax charge.
The result is a considerably reduced amounting to 34 million 2004 29 million, not effective rate of tax, before goodwill charges, of 22.9% including buses nanced by operating lease amounting to 2004 28.6%.
As set out in note 8 to the accounts, 3 million 2004 16 million, significant expenditure permanent differences made a significant contribution was invested in the rail and aviation services division, including 3 million in respect of the groups SAYE scheme.
respectively amounting to 7 million and 8 million.
An In the current year, the rate is also expected to be well increasing amount of expenditure can be expected in these below the standard rate of 30%.
two divisions next year with a particular emphasis on Dividends aviation services, which has had very little investment in The total dividend for the year of 48.0p represents an recent years.
increase of 26%, following last years increase of 52%.
This In addition to the acquisitions in the year of the 50% is in line with the boards policy to reduce dividend cover shareholding in Plane Handling and Southern Vectis at a net levels.
Last year cover was 2.9 times adjusted earnings and aggregate cash cost of 33 million, the group has invested the proposed cover is reduced to 2.6 times.
Future dividend 14 million on a share buy-back programme.
This cover levels will be further reduced towards 2 times, programme will continue during the current year, an 117 7::115 5 117 7::3 30 0 118 8::3 30 0 A commuter departing Meteors Property & Services team members Marsid from Southern discusses e parking mid-stay car park at Alan, Shaun and Chris work on service issues with a passenger Stansted airport.
plans for a new Metrobus depot.
e parking was the first parking The team manages Go-Aheads Southern holds monthly Meet product in the UK to provide property assets along with The Manager sessions at London credit card recognition of premultimillion pound property Bridge and London Victoria stations booked customers.
acquisitions, new developments, where passengers are able to raise rebuilds and refurbishments.
any issues, queries or suggestions.
12 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 additional 6 million having already been spent in early July.
Next year, the group will be required to account for With increasing dividend payments and the pension pensions under IAS 19 and, for the non-rail schemes, the contribution, overall the group has absorbed 25 million effects will be similar to those of FRS 17 set out in note cash over the year.
Discussions continue with the groups auditors as to the appropriate treatment of the rail pension Balance sheet schemes under IAS, where, because the group has no rights Net assets have grown by 31 million despite the effect of or obligations on the expiry of a franchise, in the opinion of the share buy-back programme.
The shares purchased are the directors, the application of IAS 19 would not show a held as treasury shares and may be re-issued at some future true and fair view of profit or balance sheet position.
time if required although the accounting treatment is the equivalent to cancellation, the shares being held as a The FRS 17 deficits shown in note 24 have increased negative reserve.
signicantly, in contrast to the ongoing valuation basis.
This is entirely due to the discount rate applied in valuing Year-end net debt is now 63 million 2004 31 million.
liabilities falling from 6.0% to 5.2% in line with bond rates Excluding restricted rail cash deposits, the gure is of return at the respective accounting dates, as required 147 million 2004 85 million.
Debt and bank facilities under FRS 17.
The ongoing basis values liabilities based on have been restructured as detailed in note 23 to the the expected return on assets.
Despite operating lease commitments, set out in note 22 to the accounts, and banking guarantees, set Accounting Policies and International Financial out in note 25 to the accounts, the groups spare debt Reporting Standards IFRS capacity remains high.
There were no material changes in accounting standards Pensions or policies applied to the financial statements in the year.
Following the 25 million contribution to the Go-Ahead The group is making significant progress in preparation scheme at the end of the year, the scheme is now fully for its first set of IFRS interim statements for the six funded on an ongoing basis.
Consequently, employer months ended 31 December 2005.
The material issues contributions have been reduced from 1 July to the longaffecting the groups profit under IFRS are in relation term rates advised by the actuary.
Continued improvement to pensions IAS 19 and share based payments IFRS 2, in equity markets mean the scheme is in a very strong both of which will result in additional charges.
position compared to many in the UK.
The 25 million contribution, which is tax deductible, puts the group in a The total group pre-tax pension charge for the year relatively robust position for the determination of its of 17.4 million under current UK GAAP would be Pension Protection Fund Levy and has a favourable impact 18.2 million under IAS 2006 currently estimated for IAS 19 accounting.
The Wilts & Dorset and, more at 18.7 million.
This assumes the group adopts the recently, Southern Vectis schemes are relatively small and emerging transport industry norm for the treatment will continue to be dealt with separately from the of rail pension schemes under IAS.
Go-Ahead scheme for the time being.
Both have deficits Under IFRS 2, there would be an additional charge on an ongoing basis but the current levels of contributions to profit as a result of the recent savings related share are expected to eliminate these deficits within eight and option scheme.
In the current year this would be five-years respectively.
0.1 million 2006 currently estimated at 0.5 million.
118 8::5 55 5 119 9::3 30 0 2 211::0 04 4 Advance Cleaning Services Gail checks in baggage at Heathrow The 436 service prepares to depart undertakes a turn around clean for a 21:00 ight to Edinburgh.
of a new Southern train as it arrives In the last year aviance handled Operating 94 Mercedes articulated at London Victoria.
over 45 million passengers across buses, London Central General Southern has improved its train all 18 airport operations.
are the largest operator of such cleaning regime with a resulting vehicles in London, providing 30% increase in passenger satisfaction step-free entry for the disabled with train cleanliness.
The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005 13 Operating and financial review continued There will also be changes in the treatment of dividends business practice Go-Ahead was the highest ranked to a cash basis and changes to the tax charge.
Adjustments company in its sector amongst those that participated.
for other relevant items, including depreciation of assets Last year Go-Ahead carried out a major consultation based on their revalued amount and fair value of exercise both within the group and with external derivatives, are not expected to be material.
stakeholders, designed to confirm that the company had The groups net assets will be reduced by the IAS19 identied the priority issues that matter to stakeholders.
This impact is currently expected to be The results helped to define what environmental and social partially mitigated by the upward revaluation of group responsibility means to Go-Ahead and the ways in which properties to fair value, as permitted on transition to IAS.
it measures, manages and reports on its environmental and social responsibilities has been reorganised against Corporate responsibility these principles.
Being a responsible and ethical company has been part of Go-Aheads ethos from its earliest days.
The group believes A dening characteristic of Go-Ahead is that each operating that public transport is essential to the health and well company has the freedom to develop its business in ways being of local communities.
With people needing to travel that best serve local transport needs.
The commitment to to work, visit family and friends, to shop and for leisure, responsibility principles and the underlying key performance individuals tend to travel further and more often than indicators are shared by all group companies, although each before with the resulting social and environmental pressures operation sets its own objectives for the year in line with on communities and the climate.
Go-Ahead sees public its business plan.
transport as playing a vital role in helping address these A detailed web-based report covering the environmental pressures.
People have a choice about how they travel and social responsibility performance will be available later and so the groups role is to make its services the preferred in the year on the groups website at www.
travel option, further building on the approximate A hard copy executive summary version is available from 700 million passenger journeys made with Go-Ahead the company or can be downloaded from the website.
Go-Ahead was the first company in its sector to report on its environmental impacts and was also the first to extend reporting to cover social issues.
This year, each operating company is to publish a report on its performance, another first for the sector, and these local reports will be available from the groups website www.
com and directly from the relevant operating company.
Benchmarking our performance continues to be a priority for the group and Go-Ahead retained its position in the FTSE4Good UK Index.
The group was also included in the Business in the Community Top 100 UK Companies that Count listing, an initiative that rates company effectiveness at measuring, managing and reporting on responsible 2 211::4 40 0 2 22 2::0 00 0 0 02 2::3 30 0 Brighton passengers benefit from the Baggage handler Keith loads The last Thameslink train of the day provision of real time information luggage for a British Midland ight.
returns to the new depot at Bedford.
aviance has a long-term five-year The new state-of-the-art depot All Brightons buses are tted with contract agreed with British Midland facility at Bedford was opened in the automatic vehicle location equipment, and the majority of on-time year, housing four trains at a time complemented by the local authoritys performance targets have been met.
and with additional facilities for a provision of real time information further 20 trains.
14 The Go-Ahead Group plc Annual Review for the year ended 2 July 2005
