HALMA Financial Review We maintained healthy margins, strong returns and good cash flow, but we aim for greater improvement.
US Dollar-related currencies, with Some underlying organic sales around 15% in Euros.
The average growth with marginal profit growth rate at which we translate US Dollars to a new high has deteriorated by 9% in the year Group turnover was 2% higher than and even though the Euro translation last year at 299 million 2003 04: rate was reasonably stable, the total 293 million and ongoing turnover currency impact reduced turnover by grew by 5% on a constant currency 10 million 3.7% and profits by 1.6 basis, excluding the turnover of new million 3.2%.
The commercial effects businesses at the time of acquisition.
of currency movements on Profit before tax at 50.4 million transactions, which show themselves 2003 04: 50.3 million was the for example in the advantage gained highest ever made by the Group, by by US competitors, are difficult to a small amount.
On a statutory basis quantify, but have a notable adverse profit before taxation increased to impact on our business.
These results were achieved in 52 Measured at constant exchange rates, weeks rather than 53 weeks last year.
four of our sectors moved ahead in We maintained healthy margins, sales and profits, the exceptions being strong returns and good cash flow, but Resistors and Water these are we aim for greater improvement.
discussed in the Chief Executives Review.
The currency headwind played a notable part in the results Whilst the adverse currency effect was this year not as bad as we feared at the Interim Around one-third of Halmas turnover stage, it impeded our progress.
and profits are made in US Dollars and see Financial Highlights Halma p. l. c. 2005 9 HALMA Financial Review continued over many years.
It demonstrates the Our acquisitions exceeded effectiveness of our managers in expectations and helped utilising the tangible assets under their development of the Optics sector direct control.
At 62% for the Group In May 2004 we acquired Diba this year, ROCE is high even for Industries, Inc. for 8 million and in Halma reflecting the good June 2004 we paid an initial management of resource at operating consideration of 14 million for Ocean company level.
In both cases the purchase price was approximately equal to their We recognise the value to turnover at the time of acquisition, and shareholders in reporting Return on pro-rata they would have added Total Invested Capital ROTIC and so 17 million to our 2004 05 turnover.
this year we are also reporting that Up to a further 14 million is payable figure.
We are reporting a post-tax for Ocean Optics, with the maximum ROTIC which includes goodwill going reached if it doubles its profit in the back over the years.
ROTIC two years post acquisition.
In the first recognises that businesses must use year, it met its target.
both retained earnings and debt wisely to give shareholders good returns.
As Both are high-return businesses and the graph on page three of this Annual have developed well since acquisition, Report shows, this years ROTIC of contributing to the ongoing 13.1% is far in excess of our weighted development of our Optics and average cost of capital, continuing Specialist sector which started with the the trend established over many years.
disposal of three non-core businesses last year.
Within the Optics and Our strong cash flow funded Specialist sector we also report holding increased dividends with no company costs which increased this year end net debt year, in part due to the cost of Halma has a history of good cash management changes.
generation and this year was no exception.
Operating cash flow net of Healthy margins and high returns capital expenditure as a percentage of continue shareholder value operating profit was 101%.
We creation finished the year with net cash of Return on sales at 16.8% was slightly 12 million.
As noted below we do below last years figure of 17.2%.
High carry loans to hedge our currency and consistent margins are a feature assets but overall we are currently of the Group and all sectors except ungeared.
Resistors and Water maintained their return on sales.
The benefit to Group These strong cash flows will finance margins from the disposals mentioned another record dividend.
The Board above was eliminated this year by the recommends a final dividend of 3.92p impact of those two sector per share, giving a dividend for the full performances.
One important factor year of 6.5p, 5% up on last year.
We which affected the Resistors sector in have continued our progressive particular, was the increase in stainless dividend policy, dividends having steel prices this year taking increased every year for more than 0.9 million from Group profit.
A key indicator used internally in As the dividend increase is above the managing our businesses is Return on earnings increase, dividend cover has Capital Employed ROCE and we reduced a little.
Our task is to deliver have therefore published its progress see Financial Highlights 10 Halma p. l. c. 2005 HALMA Financial Review continued the earnings growth in the coming years ago.
years so that we can raise that cover again.
If approved, this final dividend Internal audit builds on a history will be paid on 24 August 2005 to of sound Group controls shareholders on the register at the A critical feature of Halma is the close of business on 22 July 2005. entrepreneurial and autonomous nature of our operating companies.
Treasury, tax and pensions To underpin that approach we install continue on a prudent path high-quality finance executives in Our operating companies hedge their each business to monitor and assist trading transactions back into their development.
Our policy is to hedge our US Dollar and Euro Responsibility and accountability of net investment in overseas local management has always been operations through currency paramount but this has been further denominated loans, but not to hedge emphasised over the past year with the effects of currency movements strengthened local accounts sign-off on the translation of overseas and by widespread use of relevant earnings into Sterling.
The financial warning signs across the philosophy behind our treasury Group.
activities is one of risk management and control: no speculative We have further enhanced our transactions are undertaken.
internal review procedures this year, continuing to use senior finance staff As anticipated, the effective tax rate to review other operating businesses on profits was in line with last year but adding more rigorous feedback at 31.2%.
Depending on the precise and follow-up.
Together with the mix of profits earned in various tax independent reporting route to the jurisdictions, we expect the effective Audit Committee introduced in rate going forward to be broadly 2003 04, I can now confirm that our similar but perhaps a little higher.
internal audit function is fully established.
Pending the introduction of International Financial Reporting IFRS preparations are well Standards IFRS next year, we have advanced continued to adopt the transitional For 2005 06 the Group is required to provisions of FRS 17 Retirement prepare its consolidated accounts in Benefits and these disclosures are accordance with International given in Note 26.
Under FRS 17, the Financial Reporting Standards net pension deficit has remained at IFRS.
Halmas Interim Report and 29 million net of the related Annual Report and Accounts for deferred tax.
The increase in the 2005 06 will therefore contain market value of scheme assets has financial statements for 2005 06 and been offset by higher calculated comparatives for 2004 05 prepared liabilities in part due to lower under IFRS.
There will be some discount rates.
New cash going into presentational differences, but in the main defined benefit pension summary the impact on trading scheme is being invested in fixed results is not expected to be interest securities so that over time material and net assets will be the profile of assets is more closely reduced mainly by the inclusion in matched with the schemes the Balance Sheet of the pension liabilities, the scheme having been deficit noted above.
Cash flows and closed to new members several see Financial Highlights Halma p. l. c. 2005 11 HALMA Financial Review continued the underlying economics of the We continue to focus on high business remain unchanged.
returns for our shareholders This year has seen a fair amount of In a little more detail, the main effects change, with some repositioning and a of IFRS on Halma are as follows: since lot of investment there has been Research and Development is an associated cost.
Our pursuit of positive important part of our business we change and improvement will continue.
spend 4% of sales on R&D we will Our key objective is to continue recognise this asset by capitalising creating wealth for our shareholders appropriate costs, although we through investment in high anticipate expensing most of the cost performance businesses and the as we go: share-based payments will generation of strong cash flows.
add a new charge against our profits, starting off low but expected to increase as each new year falls under these rules and as we transition away from share options to our proposed performance share plan: goodwill on Kevin J Thompson acquisitions will be frozen, goodwill amortisation no longer appearing in the Profit and Loss Account: pension costs are likely to be a little more volatile and as mentioned above, the pension deficit will come onto the Balance Sheet.
The new rules on financial instruments will have a negligible effect on us.
In late summer, ahead of our half year end, we will publish a full quantification, reconciliation and explanation of the impacts on Halma of IFRS.
