Hays plc Annual Report and Accounts 2005 64 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT TO THE procedures or its risk and control procedures.
MEMBERS OF HAYS PLC We read the Directors report and the other information We have audited the financial statements of Hays plc contained in the annual report for the above year as for the year ended 30 June 2005 which comprise the described in the contents section including the unaudited consolidated profit and loss account, the balance sheets, part of the Directors remuneration report and consider the consolidated cash flow statement, the consolidated the implications for our report if we become aware of any statement of total recognised gains and losses, the apparent misstatements or material inconsistencies with reconciliation of movements in consolidated equity the financial statements.
shareholders interests, the statement of accounting policies and the related notes 1 to 28.
These financial statements BASIS OF AUDIT OPINION have been prepared under the accounting policies set out We conducted our audit in accordance with United Kingdom therein.
We have also audited the information in the part of auditing standards issued by the Auditing Practices Board.
the Directors remuneration report that is described as An audit includes examination, on a test basis, of evidence having been audited.
relevant to the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration This report is made solely to the Companys members, as a report described as having been audited.
It also includes an body, in accordance with section 235 of the Companies Act assessment of the significant estimates and judgements 1985.
Our audit work has been undertaken so that we made by the Directors in the preparation of the financial might state to the Companys members those matters we statements and of whether the accounting policies are are required to state to them in an auditors report and for appropriate to the circumstances of the Company and the no other purpose.
To the fullest extent permitted by law, we Group, consistently applied and adequately disclosed.
do not accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than the Company and the Companys members as a body, for We planned and performed our audit so as to obtain all our audit work, for this report, or for the opinions we the information and explanations which we considered have formed.
necessary in order to provide us with sufficient evidence to give reasonable assurance that the financial statements and RESPECTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES OF DIRECTORS the part of the Directors remuneration report described as AND AUDITORS having been audited are free from material misstatement, As described in the statement of Directors responsibilities, whether caused by fraud or other irregularity or error.
In the Companys Directors are responsible for the preparation forming our opinion, we also evaluated the overall adequacy of the financial statements in accordance with applicable of the presentation of information in the financial United Kingdom law and accounting standards.
They are statements and the part of the Directors remuneration also responsible for the preparation of the other information report described as having been audited.
contained in the annual report including the Directors remuneration report.
Our responsibility is to audit the OPINION financial statements and the part of the Directors In our opinion: remuneration report described as having been audited in the financial statements give a true and fair view of the accordance with relevant United Kingdom legal and state of affairs of the Company and the Group as at 30 regulatory requirements and auditing standards.
June 2005 and of the profit of the Group for the year then We report to you our opinion as to whether the financial ended: and statements give a true and fair view and whether the the financial statements and part of the Directors financial statements and the part of the Directors remuneration report described as having been audited remuneration report described as having been audited have have been properly prepared in accordance with the been properly prepared in accordance with the Companies Companies Act 1985.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Directors report is not consistent with the financial Deloitte & Touche LLP statements, if the Company has not kept proper accounting Chartered Accountants and Registered Auditors records, if we have not received all the information and London explanations we require for our audit, or if information 5 September 2005 specified by law regarding Directors remuneration and transactions with the Company and other members of the Group is not disclosed.
We also report to you if, in our opinion, the Company has not complied with any of the four Directors remuneration disclosure requirements specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
These comprise the amount of each element in the remuneration package and information on share options, details of long term incentive schemes and money purchase and defined benefit schemes.
We give a statement, to the extent possible, of details of any non-compliance.
We review whether the corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the July 2003 FRC Combined Code specified for our review by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, and we report if it does not.
We are not required to consider whether the Boards statements on internal control cover all risks and controls, or form an opinion on the effectiveness of the Groups corporate governance
