More design, more features and fast response to fashion change.
MFI is alive to global design and sourcing opportunities.
OPERATIONAL REVIEW HOWDEN JOINERY Howdens has made good progress during the year, despite more difficult trading conditions.
Sales were up 10.5% to 618 million 2004: 559 million, with operating profits before exceptional items up 0.8% to 103.6 million on the FRS 17 restated pre-exceptional profits last year 2004: 102.8 million.
Same depot sales growth was up 6.8% for the same period last year.
Despite more demanding market conditions, gross margins have increased by 1.1%.
The inevitable cost increases, primarily investment in staff, a 6 million increased pension charge referred to in last years annual report and 5 million higher logistics costs from working time directive and fuel increases, have resulted in operating margins falling to 16.8% compared to 18.4% last year.
The Howden Joinery franchise has continued to strengthen through the build up and maintenance of relationships with small builders, based as always on trust and reliability.
A net 5,000 new accounts have been opened in the year, bringing the total to 175,000 accounts: 60% of these accounts have been active in the last three months.
A new kitchen catalogue and a DVD, produced in the year to support sales, have both been well received by our customers.
The business is highly cash generative with a raised pre-exceptional operating profit, low capital expenditure and reduced stock levels.
9.1 million of capital expenditure was spent in the year to extend 38, open 22 and relocate nine depots.
342 depots were trading at the end of 2005.
UK RETAIL INCLUDING SOFA WORKSHOP Total sales fell 4.5% to 788 million 2004: 825 million and were 5.1% down on a same store basis.
First half sales were up 3.2% at 429 million 2004: 416 million, as we set highly competitive pricing to re-establish the customer franchise following the customer service issues in 2004.
Second half sales were down 12.4% at 359 million 2004: 409 million as market conditions became more demanding.
As at the year-end, UK Retail traded out of 194 out-of-town stores, 21 high street stores, nine clearance stores and 29 Sofa Workshop high street stores.
Gross margins were 0.7% lower due primarily to the drive for sales volume for the 2005 Winter Sale.
Gross margin in the weeks following the change of management in October rose 2.5% with more successful new product introductions and a more focused promotional programme.
It makes no sense to ship cabinets full of air around the world, when we can make this element of our product cost effectively here in the UK.
The majority of this increased loss can be attributed to the cost increases identified in the last annual report namely 9 million rent and rates, 11 million pensions, 4 million supply chain stabilisation and 8 million for working time directives, other logistics costs and increased depreciation.
In addition we have spent an extra 6 million on direct advertising, as mentioned at the Interims.
The new Customer Charter incorporated new guidelines on service and has enabled us to recover costs by charging for delivery, and by making additional charges to customers for changing delivery dates and cancelling orders.
This, together with other cost savings initiatives, has totalled 23 million, but partially offsets the loss of gross profit arising from lower gross margins and falling sales.
FRANCE RETAIL Sales in France, at 133 million, were up 11.6% on last year 2004: 119 million with same store growth of 8.8% in local currency.
Pre-exceptional profits were 4.2 million compared to 2.0 million pre-exceptional profit for the same period last year.
These results reflect further benefits from the store refurbishment, reduced cost of failure and infrastructure investment over the past two years.
As at the year-end, France traded out of 138 stores, 110 out-of-town stores and 28 malls.
On 14 February 2006 we announced the simultaneous exchange and completion of the disposal of this business to Nobia AB for total gross cash proceeds before expenses of 135 million euros.
The Group will continue to supply Hygena Cuisines with kitchen furniture products for a term of three years after completion.
SUPPLY The Asian sourcing Joint Venture has continued to make progress with the value of product sourced from Asia increasing from 5 million in 2004 to 20 million in 2005.
These sourced products provide a significant gross margin benefit for the Group.
During 2005 we developed and introduced 20 new kitchen and bedroom ranges, including two new floor to ceiling bedroom systems.
We also extended our appliance offering in areas such as American-style fridges, Range cooking and small domestic appliances.
2005 saw the first full year of operation of our 6 million panel machining line at our Runcorn factory.
This helped us supply over four million cabinets from the site in the year, maintaining our premier position in cabinet manufacture.
We also invested 7 million in a new worktop production line, significantly increasing our capacity and capability in this key product area.
As customer service stabilised during the year, we were also able to make significant progress in reducing the stock levels.
Excluding the exceptional provision, stock levels were reduced by 31 million over the year from better stock management and from exiting peripheral businesses.
FINANCIAL REVIEW GROSS MARGIN The Groups gross margin was marginally higher at 50.0%, compared to 49.6% last year.
This reflects an improved gross margin 0.6 percentage points impact to the Group at Howdens, offset by a reduction in the gross margin in UK Retail 0.2 percentage points impact to the Group.
The reduction in UK Retail gross margin reflects the deliberate policy during the 2005 Winter Sale, following service issues in 2004, to re-establish the customer franchise with highly competitive pricing.
The UK Retail gross margin in the second half was level with the previous year.
OVERHEADS We highlighted last year that costs for UK Retail would increase significantly.
Structural guarantee On 26 January 2006 the Group and HM Revenue & Customs reached agreement to settle the long-standing 60.5 million dispute over VAT on some of the Groups insurance-backed structural guarantees.
As a result the Group received 21.8 million from HM Revenue & Customs on 14 February 2006.
The Group has written off the remaining receivable of 38.7 million in the 2005 accounts.
Insurance Part of the structural guarantee insurance programme undertaken by the Groups captive insurance company Southon Insurance was novated to an external insurance company at the end of the year: this transaction generated an underwriting profit of 3 million, with funds being released from escrow for general corporate use.
C. Impairment provisions In response to poor trading, the Group has reviewed the carrying value of certain assets within the UK Retail business.
As a result, a 42.4 million impairment has been made for UK Retail fixed assets.
A further 14.9 million has been provided against the IT system 20 million was written off in 2004 and 13.0 million has been provided against the goodwill relating to the Sofa Workshop acquisition.
Stock valuations have also been reduced by 34.0 million across the Group for clearance of excess stock and for obsolete and slow-moving stock.
In total these asset impairments amount to 104.3 million.
D. Supply chain disruption and restructuring costs During the year the Group has incurred additional supply chain costs totalling 5.4 million: these are primarily consultant costs carried over from 2004 to repair the system-related issues.
In addition in 2005, 3.4 million was spent on restructuring and refinancing the Group.
E. Share schemes There has been a 2.0 million net credit in respect of share scheme amortisation and associated national insurance 2004: 7.5 million.
F. Pensions As at 25 December 2004 the pre-tax deficit in the Group UK pension plans included the additional liabilities announced on 6 May 2004 arising from a failure to equalise the pension age for men and women at age 65.
Under FRS 17 valuation methods, these additional liabilities were estimated at 50 million.
Approximately 90% by value of those to whom the offer was made accepted the cash option, and the additional liabilities were therefore reduced from 50 million to 5 million.
The aggregate cost of the cash offer was 16.9 million including 0.9 million in fees.
On 14 March 2005 the Group announced that a 12 million cash settlement had been received from one of the third parties on whose advice the Group and the pension plan trustees had relied.
The total net credit taken through the profit and loss account arising from these pension issues is 40.1 million.
Profit on disposal of fixed assets A 17.4 million profit on disposal has been generated from the sale and leaseback on six of our freeholds Inverness, Lewisham, Isle of Wight, Brighton, Poole and Norwich and the outright sale of one non-trade property Inverness.
B. Closure of peripheral operations During the year the Group has committed to close several of its peripheral operations.
In May 2005, the Group entered into an agreement with DSG Plc to end the venture, Hygena @ Currys.
In December 2005, the Group announced the sale of its 50% interest in the Taiwan joint venture to its Taiwanese partner and announced the closure of the UK joint venture with Ethan Allen and the US pilot operation Howden Millwork.
The total exit cost of these ventures, including future operating losses, has been estimated at 20.9 million of which 6 million will be paid in cash.
TAX The current tax charge of 1.5 million represents tax payable in France.
Prior year movements and deferred tax account for a further 6.3 million of tax charge.
There are trading tax losses within the UK Retail company to carry forward against future profits within the UK Retail trade.
DIVIDEND In the light of the results for the year as a whole, no final dividend 2004: 2.0 pence has been declared.
An interim dividend of 2.0 pence 2004: 2.0 pence was paid in October 2005.
PENSIONS The preliminary results of the valuation due at April 2005 have now been received and show a funding deficit, after the recent compromise with members had been completed, of 182 million.
The management have been in discussions with the Trustees regarding the future of the pension plan and how to clear the deficit.
Agreement has now been reached that a revised design for the pension plan will be effective from September 2006.
It is intended that the current scheme design, under which benefits are based on final salary at retirement, will be replaced with a contracted-in hybrid scheme under which a small core pension will be based on career average earnings, with an optional top-up defined contribution account.
The effect of the revised plan is to further reduce the funding deficit by 32 million to 150 million based on 5 April 2005 actuarial assumptions.
As part of the new secured lending facilities announced on 17 February 2006, the Company and the Trustees together with The Pensions Regulator have reached agreement with regard to the funding of the remaining deficit.
It is intended to clear it over a period of 10 years.
The Trustees have been granted security over the Groups shares in Howden Joinery Limited.
An amount of 35 million per year has been included within the budgeted cash flows for ongoing pension costs and clearance of the deficit over 10 years.
The Groups balance sheet pension accrual at the year end 2005, calculated on FRS 17 principles, reflects the up-to-date position at that point and does not take into account any of the changes to the plan that will be taking place during 2006.
This predominantly reflects the continuing fall in bond yields over 2005, with a smaller increase due to increased life expectancy assumptions.
RESERVES On 28 October 1993, the parent company obtained a Court Order to reduce its share premium account and cancel its capital redemption reserve to create a 482.6 million special reserve, against which goodwill arising on consolidation would be written off.
This Order provided that the special reserve would be treated as an undistributable reserve for as long as there remained any outstanding debts or claim against the company.
On 18 July 2005 this undertaking was released in full.
At the year-end, the parent company had distributable reserves of 537.1 million.
CASH FLOW Despite a poor profit performance, the business was cash generative with net debt reduced by 6.7 million in the year.
Adjusted operating cash inflow 24.0 66.7 Capital expenditure in the year totalled 47.9 million.
TREASURY POLICIES, FINANCING AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE Treasury operations are managed within policies and procedures approved by the Board.
The major financial risks to which the Group is exposed relate to movements in exchange rates and cash management.
Where appropriate, the Group uses financial instruments to manage these risks.
No speculative use of derivatives, currency or other instruments is permitted.
The Treasury function does not operate as a profit centre and transacts only in relation to the underlying business requirements.
LIQUIDITY AND FUNDING At 24 December 2005 the Group had net borrowings of 61.0 million 2004 net borrowings of 71.6 million.
This shows a reduction of net borrowings of 10.6 million during the year, but is struck after selling some freehold properties for 57.4 million.
In addition the Group held 5.5 million 2004 9.4 million on short-term deposit, held in escrow for future insurance claims.
The Group had a 185 million revolving credit facility with six major relationship banks during the year: this was drawn down 150 million at the year-end and had a 4.25 year maturity period to March 2009.
Since the year-end the Group has cancelled this loan and replaced it with a 150 million secured facility with a 3.25 year maturity period to May 2009.
This has been negotiated with the approval of The Pensions Regulator.
CASH MANAGEMENT Group treasury policy on investment restricts counterparties to those with a minimum Standard and Poors Moodys long-term credit rating of AA and a short-term credit rating of A1 P1.
Investments mainly consist of bank deposits and certificates of deposit.
The Group continuously reviews the credit quality of counterparties, the limits placed on individual credit exposures and categories of investments.
CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT Currency movements can affect the Groups reported profit.
The Group had a policy of hedging most of its foreign currency denominated transactions in the year by entering into forward foreign exchange purchase contracts.
As at 24 December 2005, 90 million euros and 30 million US dollars had been protected for 2006.
Following the adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards, it has become more difficult to ensure the ability to hedge account for foreign exchange transactions through the profit and loss account.
As the resultant volatility cannot be avoided in the profit and loss account, it is the view of the Board not to take out further forward foreign exchange contracts.
ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING STANDARDS IFRS The principal accounting policies used by the Group are shown on pages 63 to 65.
In June 2002, the European Union EU approved a regulation that will require all listed EU companies to prepare consolidated statements in accordance with IFRS.
The regulation applies to all accounting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2005.
MFIs accounting period started on Sunday 26 December 2004 and, as a result, the first accounting period for which the Group will prepare accounts under IFRS will be the financial year 2006.
The key areas likely to affect MFI are as follows: PROPERTY LEASES The definitions of finance and operating leases are different between UK GAAP and IFRS.
Under UK GAAP, all our property leases are currently treated as operating leases.
Under IFRS some companies will have to reclassify some of their operating leases as finance leases which would require a financial liability and corresponding asset to be recognised on the balance sheet.
We have carried out a preliminary review of our lease portfolio, and indications are that the treatment of nearly all of our current leases will remain unchanged, other than an adjustment for stepped rents and lease incentives.
SHARE-BASED PAYMENTS The Group has established various share incentive schemes for the benefit of Group employees.
Under UK GAAP, we charge the intrinsic value of the grant, at the date of the grant, to the profit and loss account.
The result of this is that we take a charge for grants of share awards but take no charge for grants of share options as the option price which will be refunded to the Company by the employees is equal to the intrinsic value of the grant.
Under IFRS, the Group will be required to calculate a fair value for each option and each award, and to charge that fair value to the profit and loss account over the life of the option.
Together with our advisers, we are carrying out a preliminary assessment of what we expect the future charge to be under IFRS.
Indications are that it will not be material circa 1 million charge.
FOREIGN EXCHANGE HEDGING The Group uses derivatives to manage its currency risk.
Under UK GAAP, the derivatives are not valued when they are hedges and any profit or loss is recognised in the profit and loss account consistently with the underlying hedged transaction.
Under IFRS we will have to value the hedges and include them on our balance sheet.
Unless the derivatives pass restrictive tests and qualify to be treated as hedges under the IFRS rules, any unrealised profit or loss on each hedge will have to be taken through the profit and loss account at each period end.
As a result, there may be more earnings volatility under IFRS.
DEFERRED TAXATION Under UK GAAP, deferred taxation is provided on all timing differences, except those that relate to revaluations where no sale is in process or where it is probable that rollover relief or capital losses will be applied to the gain.
Under IFRS, deferred taxation is usually provided on the differences between the book and tax bases of assets and liabilities.
Additional deferred tax liabilities required under IFRS for property revaluations and rollover relief claimed to date are likely to raise the deferred tax creditor, although this work cannot be finished until the Groups corporate restructuring is concluded.
DIVIDENDS UK GAAP requires proposed final dividends to be accrued.
IFRS requires recognition of the liability to pay a final dividend only when this has been approved in advance of the year-end.
This will lead to an increase in net asset value at the year-end, as the final dividend will not have been approved by shareholders at that point in time.
PENSIONS IAS 19 on pensions is broadly consistent with the UK pensions standard, FRS 17, which the Group has adopted in 2005.
Consequently, we anticipate little significant change on adopting this standard.
