Inchcape plc 10 Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review Group Chief Executives interview When you joined the Inchcape Board in September last year, you were new to car retailing.
What attracted you to the Company and the role?
Above all, I was attracted by the strengths of Inchcapes strategic assets and the growth opportunities for the Group around the world.
Inchcape is a scale automotive retail group operating in Asia, Australasia, Europe and South America.
We represent leading brands and operate either a retail or a vertically integrated retail i. e. exclusive distribution and retail model, depending on the market.
Inchcape has done extremely well over the past five years.
It has highly talented management teams, a good geographical spread of earnings, a healthy balance sheet and strong global relationships with its brand partners.
That is a fantastic legacy for a new Group Chief Executive to inherit, but what also attracts me are the opportunities and the challenges ahead.
There is no doubt in my mind that Inchcape is well positioned to play an important role in the emerging global retail consolidation process, but to capitalise fully we have to stay ahead of the changes in the marketplace.
The car industry is very dynamic.
The pace of innovation is increasing, and customers are more and more demanding when it comes to the quality of their vehicles and the service they expect.
I have always worked in consumer facing industries and these challenges will allow me to apply my skills, ensuring we make the most of the opportunities available to the Group.
I was attracted by the strengths of Inchcapes strategic assets and the growth opportunities for the Group around the world.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 11 My vision is for us to become the worlds most Inchcape is already a very successful business.
customer centric automotive retail group, exceeding Following your appointment, what developments the standards set by our brand partners and surpassing are there likely to be to the existing strategy?
That will be a strong It is clear from the returns that have been generated differentiator for Inchcape and will give us a sustainable and from the market positions that we hold, that the base for organic growth.
strategy pursued in recent years has been the right one.
Beyond organic growth, there are plenty of The result is a business, and a business model, that is opportunities in our existing markets to expand our extremely sound.
My task is to develop the next phase retail presence.
In Australia for example, we have recently of growth and to build on this success.
In the UK, consolidation Central to our approach are two words, strengthen continues, and in Belgium and Greece, we have a good and expand.
I am convinced that we can create existing infrastructure from which to grow.
further shareholder value by strengthening our organic performance, and leveraging our existing assets.
How are you progressing in your existing The second significant opportunity is to expand in both emerging markets?
our core markets and in new countries, with existing In the Balkans, the rapid success we have enjoyed and new brand partners.
demonstrates Inchcapes ability to develop scale To achieve this, it is important that we continue operations through a market focused approach.
to invest in the appropriate organisational capability The Balkans are now a sizeable profit contributor to deliver the next phase of growth.
Our organisational to the Group.
and people strategies must be capable of creating the We have also developed strong market positions right platform to execute our future plans.
in the Baltics with Mazda, and in Chile and Peru with BMW.
Is there growth potential in your existing core markets?
I believe that organic growth will come from us becoming truly customer centric.
This is one of my absolute priorities.
When someone buys a new or used car, we must provide them with an outstanding customer experience that gives us a competitive advantage in the marketplace.
The same philosophy applies when we take care of our customers vehicles in the service and bodyshop departments.
If you look at our current operations, we have some tremendous customer service practices, but we do not deliver them consistently in all our markets.
Moreover, it is important to recognise that we need to address the individual needs of our customers by having the right level of insight and information regarding their expectations.
This implies that we need to be the leading innovator in retail and customer service.
Inchcape plc 12 Annual report and accounts 2005 Operating and financial review continued Group Chief Executives interview continued Will you be entering new markets?
Can you be more specic with what you mean Our growth strategy is directed at existing, emerging by customer centric innovation?
An important element of our strategy There are lots of great examples, which already exist will be to continue to expand our business model where throughout the Inchcape Group.
we can build profitable scale operations.
In Melbourne, we have redened the rules of Today we have scale businesses in six markets, retailing by creating a fully immersive brand experience and over the next five years we expect this to increase at Subaru Docklands.
The site is a theatre, where to about ten.
our customers can discover the Subaru technology, In Russia, we have recently signed a joint venture experience it on the race track and jungle trail, and with the Independence Group of Companies and we enjoy a nice, relaxing lunch!
plan to open two new retail centres in Moscow for In Singapore, we have launched our innovative Toyota vehicles in the second half of 2007.
Russia is a Service Express concept, which guarantees one hour hugely exciting market, where the Toyota brand is well service time in scheduled service slots.
Furthermore, we accepted and Moscow itself accounts for approximately have created several Toyota service stations throughout 50.0% of foreign brand sales in Russia.
We will Singapore to reduce the travel time for our customers.
continue to evaluate scale opportunities in Russia.
In Hong Kong, we actually visit our customers in We are also continuing to develop our plans for their ofces and homes to discuss their needs.
We have China, a very promising growth opportunity, where created a Lexus Club, and all our Lexus customers are we can leverage the strengths of our Asian expertise.
invited to numerous, exclusive events during the year.
In the UK, we have examined in detail the In practical terms, how are you going to put fundamental elements of car buying.
By listening to our customers at the forefront of Inchcapes strategy?
customers and identifying nine moments of trust in Having the right location and the right brand is obviously the buying and servicing experience, we have developed important.
What really creates a strategic advantage, a systematic sales process that focuses on individual however, is the ability to deliver an outstanding customer customer needs.
The purchase of a There are many other examples of retail excellence car is an important investment, as well as an emotional and innovation around the Group, which convince me that decision.
Putting customers first will take Inchcape to we are capable of achieving our goal of becoming the the next level.
worlds most customer centric automotive retail group.
To do that, we intend to formalise transferable best practices around the Group, constantly update Is it your strategy to build with your existing brand our insights on customer expectations, identify the partners or to develop new partnerships?
areas for innovation in services and continually improve Both.
There are certainly development opportunities with our operational processes.
This should result in an our existing partners, provided that we continue to exceed outstanding customer experience that can be delivered their expectations in how we represent their brands.
consistently across our retail operations.
That is why we If there are other brands, however, that are relevant for plan to upgrade our training and increase our focus on our customers in a market where we want to invest, people development.
then we will seek to establish partnerships with those I am convinced that customer centric operational brands.
We are very open to such opportunities.
excellence is the right focus for us to deliver the next When a manufacturer considers entering a new phase of organic growth.
market or expanding signicantly in an existing one, Inchcape should be seen by them as the natural partner of choice for their strategy.
That is an ambitious goal, but I genuinely believe that if we get our customer centricity right we are capable of achieving it.
Inchcape plc Annual report and accounts 2005 13 There is some large scale consolidation taking What challenges do you face in achieving place in the UK retail market, in which Inchcape these objectives?
appears to be reluctant to participate.
Where does We compete every day against other car retailers, UK expansion sit on your list of priorities?
with other service industries for talent and with other Growth in the UK is a key priority for us, and our companies in convincing shareholders to invest in us.
Growth in year on year As I have already said, the industry in which we are revenue and profits has been considerable, because competing is dynamic with a high rate of innovation we are following a clear strategy based on contiguous and very demanding customers.
territories for the brands in our portfolio.
To do what I am talking about will take time and We have made several acquisitions in the recent will require strategic focus.
We will have to be highly past and will continue to do so, provided we can identify responsive.
Throughout the organisation, we must the right opportunity in terms of brand and geography execute our initiatives fully and seamlessly.
Moreover, with good returns for our shareholders.
we will continue to learn by listening to our customers and employees and will look to lead the market by Inchcape has low gearing and significant cash increasing retail innovation.
Will all Inchcapes financial resources be required for investment?
We do have the benefit of a very strong balance sheet, I have now been at the helm of the Company since and the approach we have decided to take is sequential.
January this year, and I am extremely excited about Firstly, we will develop our growth strategy to a high the future of Inchcape.
We have a clear vision, to be level of detail by country and by brand partner.
Secondly, the worlds most customer centric automotive retail we will see how much of our resources the required group.
To achieve this, we will strengthen our organic investments are likely to absorb.
performance and expand with our global brand partners.
What we do will depend on the investment What we have to do now is fully develop our new opportunities that we identify through our current strategic growth strategy with a specic country and brand approach, planning, and I am not going to pre-judge the scale of and disciplined allocation of capital for our future this investment.
What I can say, however, is that we investments.
will improve the efficiency of our balance sheet, but not It is a very exciting time for the Group.
Put another way, we will be disciplined about our allocation of funds towards investments that can deliver a satisfactory return on invested capital.
In five years time, what will be noticeably different Andr Lacroix Group Chief Executive about Inchcape?
6 March 2006 My rm intention is that we will have established scale businesses in about ten global markets and will be recognised as the most customer centric automotive retail group in the world, delivering an outstanding customer experience for the brand partners we represent.
If we achieve this, I am confident that we will have delivered the next phase of growth for our shareholders.
