OPERATING AND FINANCE REVIEW 2005 The year ended 30 April 2005 was an important year of delivery for the iSOFT Group.
Group revenues grew to 262.0m, an increase of 75.5% from the previous year.
Profit before tax, exceptional items and goodwill amortisation grew to 68.5m.
Overview the year before cash flows from restructuring of The year ended 30 April 2005 represented another 81.8m.
This represents a conversion ratio of 09 year of progress for iSOFT.
We continued our 113.6% of normalised operating profit, with record of achievement, recording organic growth the resulting year end cash balance standing and delivering higher than expected synergies from at 110.1m.
We also made significant The results profile for the year in terms of revenue, progress in developing the Group and its market profits and cash continued to be weighted to the proposition outside the UK.
second half of the year reflecting primarily the Trading results seasonality of the UK business.
In the year ended 30 April 2005, turnover for Improvement in the operating profit margins the Group increased 75.5% to 262.0m.
Of this relative to the prior year is a result of the combined headline growth, 7% was organic growth taking ongoing benefits of a reducing proportion of low the proforma 2004 enlarged post-merger Group margin revenues associated with the supply of as the comparator.
third party products, our increased use of offshore Normalised operating profit increased by 82.3% resources and the annual cost synergies realised as to 72.0m, and normalised profits before tax a result of the successful merger integration grew 86.1% to 68.5m.
Underlying earnings per share increased 23.2% A reconciliation to the statutory accounts of to 21.81p.
normalised operating profit, normalised profit before taxation and underlying earnings per share The strong cash generation inherent in the is set out in the table below.
business model was again demonstrated with cash generated from operating activities during Year ended 30 April 2005 Operating Profit before Earnings per profit taxation share m m pence As disclosed in the statutory accounts 48.0 44.5 11.10 Goodwill amortisation 25.3 25.3 11.10 Exceptional items 1.3 1.3 0.56 Tax on exceptional items - - 0.17 Normalised underlying amounts 72.0 68.5 21.81 stated before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items Operating performance Application development The iSOFT strategy, to develop and promote one During the year ended 30 April 2005 our research 10 common software application offering suitable and development expenditure increased from for all markets provides a focal point for our 12.7m to 18.3m.
This figure equates to 7% operational and marketing activities.
The LORENZO of turnover and is representative of our ongoing application offering continues to be positively commitment to maintaining our reputation as a received by customers in each of our current markets world class application company.
We continue and by potential new customers in existing and to invest in our dedicated Product Development new international markets.
Centre in Chennai, India, with the number of application specialists in this centre having grown LORENZO is acknowledged for delivering greater 122% over the course of the year to 956.
This processing power, functionality and utility by those dedicated facility, where code development and healthcare provider organisations seeking maintenance for all strategic products is performed, comprehensive modern application solutions.
is now complemented by our new Solution Centre facility in Hyderabad, India.
Together these centres The trading performance of the business in the UK during the year benefited from the introduction provide us with major competitive advantage in of the National Programme for IT in the NHS in accelerating our application development cycle times, allowing us to bring application solutions England, both in terms of new revenue streams to market quickly.
derived from delivery of application software under regional contracts, together with revenues derived Solution design work continues to be undertaken from the development and maintenance of our by staff located in our core markets principally the existing installed customer base.
UK, Ireland, Germany, Switzerland, Holland, In Germany and Switzerland, whilst the benefits Australia and New Zealand.
Combined with the of the merger integration are taking a little longer development and solution staff based in India, the total average number of staff directly employed in to flow through to the trading results, we are research and development activities during the particularly pleased with the early success achieved year was 1,019 2004: 491, representing 40.0% in introducing LORENZO into these markets.
2004: 36.7% of the total Group average headcount In Australia, New Zealand and Holland we of 2,546 2004: 1,338. have enjoyed the benefits of significant existing market shares and are working to identify and develop a number of early adopter references for LORENZO in these territories with both existing and new customers.
OPERATING AND FINANCE REVIEW 2005 The LORENZO application offering continues to be positively received by customers in each of our current markets and by potential new customers in existing and new international markets.
Business integration Our experience of successfully integrating Following final clearance by the Office of Fair Trading businesses over the last five years provides a 11 of the merger with Torex on 29 April 2004, the proven framework for addressing the challenges operating businesses have been fully and successfully of merging entities in order to build value.
The integration has resulted in a Group Interest with strong country operations in the UK, Ireland, Net interest payable in the year was 3.1m Germany, Switzerland, Holland, Australia and New 2004: 2.6m reflecting increased working capital Zealand.
These markets provide both an requirements and the higher proportion of profit established customer base and a platform to access and revenues in the second half of the financial new customers and markets with the LORENZO year, relative to the first half.
Taxation The benefit of the integration is a stronger more The increase in the effective tax rate before efficient operational organisation with greater goodwill amortisation for the year to 27.3% focus.
The integration and business improvement 2004: 23.6% is due primarily to the increased initiatives completed have secured annual cost size of the Group and the higher proportion of structure synergy benefits of 12.2m, the majority profits arising in territories with tax rates higher of which were realised in the year ended than the UK.
Earnings per share At the time of the merger with Torex, estimates Underlying earnings per share increased by were made of the fair value of the net assets 23.2% to 21.81p per share 2004:17.70p.
During the course of the year ended 30 April 2005 to the extent that these estimates In accordance with FRS 14, the basic earnings per required adjustment, in order to properly reflect share after goodwill amortisation and exceptional the fair value of the assets and liabilities assumed items were 11.10p 2004: 6.66p.
Diluted as a result of the merger, they have been revised earnings per share were 10.97p 2004: 6.57p.
with surpluses adjusted back through the calculation of the goodwill arising on consolidation.
At 30 April 2004 an exceptional provision was established for the cost of integration of the two businesses.
This provision has been utilised during the current year and credited to the profit and loss account where the provision is not required.
stated before amortisation of goodwill and exceptional items International Financial Reporting Standards Balance sheet and funding The Group consolidated balance sheet remained As a publicly quoted company, iSOFT will be 12 strong with closing net assets totalling 478.5m required to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS together with revised International 2004: 452.2m.
The net funds position was Accounting Standards IAS in issue at 31 March 56.4m 2004: 3.8m, with cash balances of 2004 for their financial statements for the period 110.1m 2004: 75.0m held at the year end.
Full IFRS consolidated At the balance sheet date, the Group had a term statements will be produced for the first time for loan of 51.0m and a multi-currency revolving the year ending 30 April 2006, with the first credit facility of 85.0m.
reported results under IFRS being the interim results for the six months ending 31 October 2005.
These facilities are structured to suit the Groups short term seasonality in trading and medium The consolidated financial statements for the year term requirements.
ended 30 April 2005 remain in accordance with UK GAAP.
The Groups profit and loss account, Cash deposits are managed to retain flexibility balance sheet, cash flow statement and related whilst ensuring reasonable interest receipts and notes for the current year will, however, have to be minimal credit risk.
restated in the future for comparative purposes.
Foreign currency transactional exposure is monitored We have already made significant progress in on an ongoing basis and is managed using natural identifying and quantifying the key accounting hedges where possible.
changes and accounting policy differences that Accounting policies exist between UK GAAP and IFRS.
The financial statements have been prepared on As a result of work performed to date, we are the basis of consistent accounting policies in line confident that we will be able to fully comply with with those used in the previous financial year.
the accounting and reporting requirements of IFRS Pensions in the year ended 30 April 2006.
The Group uses a mixture of defined benefit and defined contribution schemes, the former having been acquired as part of the merger with Torex.
The Torex Medical Systems defined benefit scheme was closed to new members in April 2000.
This pension scheme is accounted for in accordance with FRS 17.
At the balance sheet date, the FRS 17 deficit in respect of the scheme was 9.2m and the liability recorded in the Group accounts, net of the related deferred tax asset, was 6.4m.
OPERATING AND FINANCE REVIEW 2005 Our experience of successfully integrating businesses over the last five years provides a proven framework for addressing the challenges of merging entities in order to build value.
The key differences arising that are expected to affect Dividends iSOFT include: Consistent with a progressive dividend policy, the 13 directors have proposed a final dividend of 1.82p Development expenditure as permitted by per share 2004: 1.70p.
Combined with the UK GAAP, the Group currently expenses all interim dividend of 0.75p 2004: 0.70p per share, development expenditure as incurred, whereas this gives a total dividend payment for the year of IFRS requires such expenditure, providing certain 2.57p per share 2004: 2.40p.
The proposed criteria are met, to be capitalised and amortised dividend if approved at the Annual General over its useful life commencing with the date at Meeting, will be paid on 29 July 2005 to which the asset is available for use.
shareholders on the register on 1 July 2005.
Goodwill amortisation under UK GAAP, the Groups policy is to amortise goodwill on a straight-line basis over its estimated useful economic life of up to 20 years.
Under IFRS, instead of an annual charge to the profit and loss account, an impairment review will be Tim Whiston carried out at each balance sheet date.
This Chief Executive Officer is required irrespective of there being an indicator of impairment in existence.
If impairment is identified, the resulting debit will be charged to profit and loss account.
Share based payments under UK GAAP the cost of share options is based on the difference between exercise price and the market value of the option at the date of grant.
Since grants made under the Groups share option schemes have generally been made at an exercise price equal to the market value they have not resulted in a charge to the profit and loss account.
Under IFRS the Group is required to measure the cost of all share options granted since 7 November 2002 that have not fully vested at 30 April 2005, using an option pricing model.
This summary is not intended to be an exhaustive list, and further differences may arise as a result of our on-going detailed assessment and interpretations of IFRS.
Information needs to be accessible to clinical professionals in every location and every care setting, regardless of its source.
