Operating and Financial Review Neil Carson Chief Executive The boards strategies to achieve these financial objectives are: Strategy and Objectives Focus the business on the groups core skills in catalysis, precious metals and fine chemicals.
Johnson Mattheys strategic intent is to achieve consistent growth in earnings by concentrating on the development of Position the group in growth markets where our core high added value products and services in areas where our skills are applicable.
Catalysis is a key technology in many expertise provides a competitive edge, particularly in catalysis, developing markets for the 21st century, particularly those precious metals, fine chemicals and materials technology.
concerned with protecting the environment such as in emission control, cleaner fuel and the hydrogen economy.
Catalysis is also important in the manufacture of active The groups financial objectives are: pharmaceutical ingredients where Johnson Matthey has a To achieve consistent and above average growth in strong niche position in the growing markets for generic earnings per share.
Over the last ten years Johnson pain killers and other controlled drugs, as well as platinum Matthey has increased its earnings per share before based anticancer compounds.
Johnson Mattheys expertise exceptional items and goodwill amortisation at a and international strength in precious metals, particularly compound annual growth rate of 8.4% p. a. see pages platinum group metals, was the starting point for many of 86 and 87. our businesses.
The market for platinum has grown steadily To grow dividends in line with earnings while maintaining for many decades and demand is expected to grow dividend cover at about two and a half times to ensure significantly over the next ten years.
sufficient funds are retained to support organic growth.
Differentiate ourselves by using our world class technology.
Over the last ten years Johnson Matthey has increased its We will continue to invest significantly in research and dividend at a compound annual growth rate of 7.5% p. a. development to develop new products and manufacturing Dividend cover for 2004 05 was 2.4 times see page 19. processes.
Technology is the key driver for most of our To deliver a return on investment above the groups cost businesses and Johnson Matthey has a strong science base of capital.
We estimate Johnson Mattheys post tax cost of with technical centres located in all our major markets.
The groups post tax return Maintain strong relationships with our major customers, on assets for 2004 05 was 3.4% above that at 11.4%.
suppliers, government bodies and other stakeholders by We set a pre-tax target of 20% for return on assets for all investing resources on joint projects to ensure the group of our divisions with a minimum threshold of being ahead is well positioned for future market development.
of our cost of capital 11.3% on a pre-tax basis.
Precious Continue to invest in Johnson Mattheys employees to Metal Products achieved a return in excess of 20% in ensure they are well trained, motivated and encouraged 2004 05.
Each of the other divisions return on assets to meet the challenges of the future.
was between the cost of capital and the 20% target see page 18.
In 2004 05 the groups overall pre-tax In the near term our main focus will be to deliver the major organic growth opportunities we have been investing in over return was 16.1%.
These include emission controls for new heavy duty diesel HDD vehicles trucks and buses : further Johnson Matthey 4 opportunities in light duty diesel vehicles including catalysed soot
