Operating and financial review Kingston Communications HULL PLC Annual Report 2004-05 Our acquisitions, combined with our existing operations, have enabled us to accelerate our strategic positioning in the UK market as a high-quality converged communications integration partner.
Business and Operating Review Turnover from continuing operations, before Affiniti We set clear objectives for the year.
These were: acquisitions, has shown consistent growth across Affiniti, launched in April 2005, is our national the year, increasing by 3.2% to 304.0 million business-to-business operation created by bringing To broaden our capabilities to meet our customers 2004: 294.7 million with a corresponding EBITDA together our Business Services division, Omnetica changing needs in key vertical markets, reduce our improvement from 50.7 million to 56.9 million and Technica.
Affiniti reinforces our position in the dependency on basic voice services and increase with margins improving to 18.7% 2004: 17.2%.
UK market and combines a range of complementary the level of recurring revenues.
The steady turnover growth in continuing operations skills and capabilities that strengthen our customer To achieve sustainable, profitable growth.
has been achieved by focusing on higher quality, proposition and enable us to help our customers To deliver returns to our shareholders.
Exceptional costs of 3.7 million exploit the benefits of converged communications.
in the continuing operations of the Group 2004: These objectives have been achieved.
7.9 million include provisions for redundancies Turnover from Affiniti grew 30.9% to 248.8 million and onerous property leases arising from the drive 2004: 190.1 million, including one quarters We have also responded to the changing needs of for continued efficiency.
EBITDA increased our target customers by expanding our capabilities 77.4% also reflecting the three month contribution in the areas of broadband services, data and IP In line with the expectations we had at the time, from Omnetica and the improvement in the network services and storage solutions through the acquisitions made during the year have made operating performance of underlying activities.
the acquisitions of Eclipse, Omnetica and Technica an immediate positive impact on the Group.
These acquisitions, combined with The combined contribution from Eclipse over six As indicated at the half year, the first phase of our existing operations, have enabled us to months and Omnetica over three months has been the integration process was to organise the new accelerate our strategic positioning in the UK market 60.2 million of turnover and 6.1 million of EBITDA business around our extended customer base as a high-quality, converged communications before exceptional items.
with a focus on those discrete customer segments integration provider.
where we have a strong market position.
This has The Group reported an operating profit excluding been achieved and we are now focusing on the next The disposal of the Italian and French operations discontinued operations, exceptional items phase integrating the service delivery capabilities, of Omnetica for a combined consideration of and amortisation of intangible fixed assets of processes and systems.
51 million underlines our strategy of focusing 25.9 million 2004: 3.9 million.
This strong growth on the UK market.
The French disposal is subject demonstrates the Groups continued improvement We have already seen benefits coming through to French Competition Authority approval but in operating performance.
from the acquisitions as our enlarged customer is expected to be completed during the summer base provides real opportunities to sell and deliver of 2005.
Adjusted basic earnings per share, excluding our extended breadth of capabilities.
discontinued operations, exceptional items, The Group has performed strongly during the year amortisation of intangible fixed assets and deferred We are developing and extending relationships with turnover from continuing operations increasing tax, was 4.1 pence 2004: Loss 1.2 pence.
In light with a number of existing customers including 23.6% to 364.3 million as a result of organic growth of the improved financial performance of the EMBC and Ford of Europe, underlining our and acquisitions.
Group EBITDA, before exceptional Group, the Board is proposing a final dividend of commitment to delivering high quality, sustainable items and excluding discontinued operations, 0.54 pence per share, resulting in a full year dividend revenues from current as well as new customers.
has increased from 50.7 million to 62.9 million.
payment of 0.9 pence per share 2004: Nil.
We also secured some important new contracts This strong growth reflects improvements in University of Dundee and SportsWorld.
our continuing operations and the part year contributions from Eclipse and Omnetica.
Kingston provided energy efficiency company Elyo with a broadband VPN virtual private network across over 50 sites, allowing home-based and remote staff to work more effectively 2.
A contract to provide GSM & GPRS services as part of the Icomera Onboard Wireless Internet solution on the GNER East Coast Mainline Rail Service means that passengers can obtain internet and email access while they travel 3.
A solution involving Kingstons intelligent network technology and computer telephony and speech recognition from Telephonetics gives film fans who call CINEWORLDs 4 information and booking line a user-friendly experience 4.
A contract to provide BlackBerry devices to NHS managers and health professionals at Hulls Primary Care Trusts as part of a pilot scheme allows 3 remote employees to stay in contact with the workplace 5.
An upgrade of communications technology at car insurer Admirals call centres has boosted the productivity 5 of its agents by allowing them to make more calls in less time 7 Operating and financial review Kingston Communications HULL PLC Annual Report 2004-05 1 During the second half of the year, we secured some significant managed services contracts within our target sectors.
Warwickshire Police selected us for the provision of an advanced data and telephony network to carry all of the forces communications traffic using IP technology, while Bolton Council agreed a contract for the provision of a fullymanaged, IP-based communications infrastructure.
It is the combination of the strength of our 2 capabilities and the quality of the customer base that provides an exciting opportunity for future growth.
Our near term challenge is to ensure the continued successful operational integration of the businesses so that we can maximise this opportunity.
Kingston has equipped Our expertise has received significant industry endorsement.
During the year we were named Gloucestershire Constabularys as Ciscos IP Communications Partner of the Year, emergency helicopter service with Services Partner of the Year and Scottish Partner heli-tele, capable of beaming live of the Year, and won Nortels Best Customer Focus images to wherever they are needed award.
Our internet services have also won awards: the Internet Service Providers Association ISPA named us Best Internet Carrier and Best Sumo 2.
Kingston has provided the worlds Business Broadband service provider.
leading supplier of office products, Office Depot, with a networked contact East Yorkshire and Contact Centres Turnover in East Yorkshire and Contact Centres centre solution for its UK sites increased 11.1% to 103.5 million 2004: 93.2 million.
This includes six months contribution from Eclipse.
EBITDA increased to 39.2 million 2004: 37.5 million, an increase of 4.5% year on year.
Our East Yorkshire operation continues to experience strong growth in broadband, both in its core regional market via the Karoo brand and nationally via Eclipse Internet.
Overall, our internet customer base, on a like-for-like basis, has increased 58% from 66,000 to 104,000 with 70% of all internet customers having broadband connections.
The migration of customers to broadband and the resulting strong access revenues are offsetting the effects of the national trend of declining dial-up internet traffic.
