43 Corporate governance report Board of Directors Chairmans Introduction The Board of Directors met eight times in 2011.
The Board retains full The Board considers good corporate governance practice enhances and effective control of the Group and is collectively responsible for the the strength of our values, our reputation and our ability to implement Groups success through its leadership.
It sets the strategy, ensures our corporate strategy.
appropriate resources are in place and reviews performance on a regular basis.
The Board is responsible for setting the Groups values In 2012, one of our first corporate governance priorities will be to carry and standards and for ensuring its obligations to shareholders, out an externally facilitated Board evaluation process.
Introducing an employees and others are met.
The Board considers it has a good external evaluator with specialist skills and expertise will enhance our balance of executive and non-executive directors, is of an appropriate existing Board evaluation process and we will report on the outcome of size and includes the skills and experience required by the business.
this external evaluation next year.
The Board regularly receives reports from the Chief Executive on the During 2011, we appointed Brenda Reichelderfer to the Board as an Groups activities, from the Group Finance Director on financial independent non-executive director.
Brenda, an engineer, has already performance and treasury matters and from the Group Corporate made a significant positive contribution to the Board.
David Robins Affairs Director on legal and compliance issues.
Strategic issues and has completed over nine years service on the Board, and as a result other matters including capital structure, financial reporting and stepped down from our Board Committees in 2011 except for the controls are considered in line with a schedule of matters reserved for Remuneration Committee, from which he will resign at the end of the decision of the Board.
If a decision is not reserved for the Board, the Annual General Meeting in 2012.
David is a highly experienced and then authority lies, in accordance with an authorisation policy, with one valued non-executive director, who makes an important contribution to of the Finance Committee of the Board, the Chief Executive, an the Board and so continues to serve on the Board as a director.
In 2012, executive director, divisional presidents or site directors general another key governance priority will be the recruitment of a further managers as appropriate.
independent non-executive director to the Board.
All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual I can confirm that the Company has applied the Main Principles set out in General Meeting AGM after their appointment and to re-election the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in 2010 and is annually from 2012 onwards in compliance with the Code.
Biographical available on the Financial Reporting Council website www.
uk, and other relevant information on directors submitted for re-election is the Code.
We have provided explanations where we have not complied provided in the Notice of AGM.
with specific Code provisions in our Statement of Compliance on page 46.
Chairman In this report and the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 54, we have Sir Colin Terry met the independence criteria on appointment as provided further details about how the principles of the Code have Chairman on 1 July 2004. been applied including those relating to the role and effectiveness of the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and Board, together with activities of the Board and its Committees in 2011. there is a clear division of responsibilities which has been approved and agreed in writing by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for ensuring its effectiveness.
Accurate, timely and clear information is provided to all directors and the Chairman is satisfied that effective communication, principally by the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, is Sir Colin Terry undertaken with shareholders.
Chairman of the Board of Directors The Chairman facilitates the contribution of non-executive directors 5 March 2012 and oversees the relationship between them and the executive directors.
The Chairman holds informal meetings with the other Board of Directors non-executive directors without executives present.
Board membership and attendance during 2011 Senior Independent Director Meetings The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they eligible Meetings have concerns which contact through the normal channels has failed Name Title to attend attended to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Sir Colin Terry Chairman 8 8 Mr T Twigger Executive Director Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive 8 8 All of the non-executive directors are considered independent under Mr P E Green Executive Director the Code, with the exception of Mr D A Robins who has served on the Group Corporate Board for over nine years.
Affairs Director 8 8 The non-executive directors play a full part by constructively Mr S G Young Executive Director challenging and contributing to the development of strategy.
The Group Finance Director 8 8 performance of management, the integrity of financial information 1 Mr D M Williams Non-Executive Director, and the effectiveness of financial controls and risk management Senior Independent Director 8 8 systems are monitored.
2 Sir Alan Cox Non-Executive Director 2 2 The non-executive directors are responsible for determining Mr P Heiden Non-Executive Director 8 8 appropriate levels of remuneration for the executive directors and 3 Ms B L Reichelderfer Non-Executive Director 5 5 have an important role in appointing new directors.
4 Mr D A Robins Non-Executive Director 8 8 The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors are available for inspection.
Their letters of appointment set out the 1 Appointed as Senior Independent Director on 24 February 2011. expected time commitment required.
On appointment, their other 2 Resigned on 24 February 2011. significant commitments were disclosed, including the time involved.
4 Mr D A Robins is no longer judged to be independent under the Code by virtue of his having been on the Board for over nine years.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 44 Corporate governance report continued The work of the Board in 2011 of major shareholders views are enhanced by reports from the During the year, the Board approved the acquisition of Pacific Scientific Companys brokers and attendance at analysts briefings.
The Board received regular reports from executive notes on the Company are made available to all directors.
directors on business and financial performance and corporate affairs including litigation, health, safety and environmental, trade Annual General Meeting compliance and ethics and business conduct and received The Board uses the AGM to communicate with its shareholders.
presentations on business unit updates, strategy, organisation Proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders development and succession planning, investor relations, IT, internal with the option to direct their proxy to vote for or against resolutions control and risk management.
It also received reports on the activities or to withhold their vote.
All proxy votes for, against and withheld are of its committees.
In 2011, the Board reviewed and updated their counted by the Companys Registrars and the level of voting for, against objectives and the following other matters were also reviewed and and withheld on each resolution is made available after the meeting approved: and on the Companys website.
The proxy form and the announcement of the results of a vote make it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote The 2010 Annual report and preliminary announcement and the 2011 in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of half yearly results: votes for and against the resolution.
The final dividend payment to shareholders in respect of the year ended 31 December 2010 and the interim dividend payment for the Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on substantially year ending 31 December 2011: separate issues and there is a resolution relating to the financial The appointment of Ms B L Reichelderfer: statements.
The Notice of AGM and related papers are sent to The budget for 2012: shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A revised Group Health and Safety Policy: and The respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations The reorganisation of subsidiary entities see Note 4 to the Company Committees are available at the AGM to respond to questions.
It is accounts on page 102. usual for all other directors to attend.
During the year, no unresolved concerns were recorded in the Boards minutes.
Nominations Committee Responsibilities Board performance evaluation The Committee reviews the structure, size and composition including In February 2012, the Board conducted a self-evaluation.
The the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and, in Chairman led a review and discussion to consider the Boards consultation with all directors, makes recommendations to the Board performance against some high level objectives and its own terms of with regard to any proposed changes.
Decisions on Board changes are reference.
The Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees taken by the Board as a whole.
have considered their own performance during the year.
The Board and Committees were satisfied with their effectiveness.
The performance Terms of reference of individual directors has been reviewed by the Chairman and Chief The Committee operates within agreed Terms of Reference last Executive in discussion with other non-executive directors and the updated in August 2004 which are available at www.
non-executive directors have considered the performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
Committee membership and attendance during 2011 Meetings An external advisor has been appointed to carry out an evaluation of eligible Meetings Name to attend attended Board effectiveness during 2012.
Sir Colin Terry 4 4 Information and professional development Mr T Twigger 4 4 The Board is supplied with the information it needs to discharge its Mr D M Williams 4 4 duties.
New directors receive an appropriate induction to the business.
1 Sir Alan Cox 2 1 Major shareholders have the opportunity to meet new non-executive Mr P Heiden 4 4 directors should they wish to do so.
Directors are encouraged to 2 Ms B L Reichelderfer 1 1 update their skills regularly.
Their knowledge and familiarity with the 3 Mr D A Robins 4 4 Group is facilitated by access to senior management, reports on the 1 business and visits to the Groups operating facilities.
Resources are Resigned on 24 February 2011 2 available to directors for developing and updating their knowledge Appointed on 7 June 2011 3 and capabilities.
Mr D A Robins is no longer judged to be independent under the Code by virtue of his having been on the Board for over nine years.
The Board allows all directors to take independent professional advice Mr D A Robins stepped down from the Nominations Committee at the Companys expense.
Committees are provided with sufficient on 21 December 2011. resources to undertake their duties.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to The work of the Committee in 2011 the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and The Nominations Committee met four times in 2011.
The Committee there is good information flow within the Board.
The appointment reviewed the structure, size, diversity and composition of the Board and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a and in the light of these reviews, made recommendations in respect whole.
The Company maintains appropriate insurance for directors of the role and capabilities required for the appointment of a new and officers.
Ms B L Reichelderfer was appointed in June 2011 using the services of an external search consultancy.
Dialogue with shareholders Ms Reichelderfer, an engineer, was appointed as a result of her wealth The Company values its dialogue with institutional and private of experience of engineering and manufacturing matters across a investors.
Effective communication with fund managers, institutional range of different commercial markets.
investors and analysts about strategy, performance and policy is In December 2011 the Committee agreed that a further independent promoted by way of meetings involving the Chief Executive and Group non-executive director should be recruited in 2012, using the services Finance Director.
The views of shareholders are reported to the of an external search consultancy.
It was noted that due care and Board by the Chief Executive.
The Chairman and other non-executive attention would be placed on ensuring the appropriate emphasis was directors are available to attend meetings with shareholders and a placed on diversity as part of the selection process.
number of such meetings took place in 2011.
Directors understanding MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 45 Audit Committee Auditors The external auditors are  LLP who were Responsibilities appointed as Group auditors on 2 October 2003.
The lead audit partner Manage the relationship with external auditors including is Mr J Maitland whose appointment in this role commenced with the recommending the appointment, reappointment, assessment of audit for the financial year ended 31 December 2008. independence, review of performance and removal of the auditors: Recommend the audit fee and non-audit services policy: Non-audit services Discuss the nature and scope of the external audit and audit results: The Company places great importance on the independence of its Review the external auditors management letter and ensure findings auditors and is careful to ensure their objectivity is not compromised.
are appropriately acted on: The Committee agrees the fees paid to external auditors for their Review the effectiveness of the internal audit function and to services as auditors and is required to approve, in advance, any fees to consider managements response to internal audit the external auditors for non-audit services in excess of 0.1 million.
recommendations: During 2011, there were no fees paid to  LLP Review the Groups procedures for handling allegations from for non-audit services above 0.1 million.
whistleblowers: The Groups policy on non-audit services is as follows: Review the reports from management and internal audit on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial 1.
The following non-audit services may be provided by the Groups reporting and risk management: and external auditor: Review, and challenge where necessary, the actions and judgements Assurance on the interpretation and implementation of accounting of management, in relation to the interim and annual financial standards, financial reporting matters, tax standards and statements and to recommend approval of the financial information governance regulations: contained in those statements to the Board.
Services related to potential acquisitions or reorganisations such as working capital reports and due diligence procedures: Terms of reference Internal accounting and risk management control reviews and The Committee operates within agreed Terms of Reference last reviews of policy and procedure compliance: and updated in March 2012 which are available at www.
Attestation and other reports as required by third parties where the information derives principally from the audited financial Committee membership and attendance during 2011 statements.
In general, the following non-audit services may not be provided by eligible Meetings the Groups external auditor: Name to attend attended Executive management of company operations and activities, Mr D M Williams 3 3 including acting temporarily or permanently as a director, officer or Mr P Heiden 3 3 employee of the Group: 1 Ms B L Reichelderfer 2 2 Provision of internal audit services: 2 Mr D A Robins 3 3 Tax planning services: 1 Design and implementation of financial information systems: Appointed on 7 June 2011 2 Actuarial consulting services: Mr D A Robins is no longer judged to be independent under the Valuation of assets or liabilities for inclusion in the Groups financial Code by virtue of his having been on the Board for over nine years.
statements: Mr D A Robins stepped down from the Audit Committee on Broker, investment adviser or investment banking services: and 21 December 2011.
General consulting work, where this could impair external auditors The Board is satisfied that the Committees members have recent independence or objectivity.
Details of non-audit services provided by the Groups external The work of the Committee in 2011 auditor are provided to the Audit Committee annually.
The Committee met three times in 2011.
At these meetings, the Committee: Financial reporting Monitored the integrity of the Groups financial statements and The financial statements contain an explanation of the directors reviewed the Groups internal controls and the effectiveness of the responsibility for the preparation of the accounts page 42 and a internal audit function.
The Committee reviewed Internal Audit statement by the auditors concerning their responsibilities page 55. reports at every meeting.
The directors also report that the business is a going concern Reviewed formal announcements relating to the Groups financial page 46. performance and any significant financial reporting statements contained in those announcements.
The Company has in place internal control and risk management Received a presentation on Group taxation.
systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process Received technical updates of relevant changes in the governance and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
environment and in accounting standards and other reporting Consolidated Group financial information is derived from the matters.
underlying financial systems of the business units.
Business unit Considered and discussed its own effectiveness following an financial processes are integrated into these financial systems and internal evaluation.
are monitored and managed through regular monthly reporting.
The finance policies and procedures followed in business unit reporting The external auditors attended these meetings to discuss the scope are set out in the Meggitt Finance Policies and Procedures Manual.
and the final results of the 2010 audit in detail which included the main risks facing the Group, the strategy for the 2011 audit and the hard close results of the 2011 audit.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AT A GLANCE | BUSINESS REVIEW | GOVERNANCE | FINANCIAL STATEMENTS | SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 46 Corporate governance report continued Financial reporting continued Share capital These polices are reviewed regularly by management and compliance This report includes the information required by the Disclosure is monitored by management and internal audit.
and Transparency Rules DTR 7.2 to be contained in the Companys corporate governance statement, with the exception of the information The Group Ethics Line enables employees to raise any concerns about required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is located in the Directors Report possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or otherwise.
This allows for proportionate and independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
Compliance with the Code Internal control The Board confirms that during the year the Company has complied with Sections A - E of the Code, with the exception of the following: The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets i B.
1.2 At least half of the Board is not independent.
Although the and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage Company complied with provision B.
1.2 after the resignation of Sir Alan the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide Cox in February 2011, the Company has been out of compliance with reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The the Code since 23 May 2011, when Mr D A Robins had served as a Board confirms full implementation of the Financial Reporting director for more than nine years since his date of first election.
Councils updated Turnbull guidance on Internal Control 2005.
Although Mr D A Robins is not considered independent under the Code, the Board consider him to be a highly experienced and valued The Board reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control non-executive director, who makes an important contribution to the via the following procedures: Board and therefore he has been asked to continue to serve as a Regular reports at Board meetings on the state of the business from non-executive director.
During 2012, it is the intention of the Board to the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director and on legal and appoint a further independent non-executive director which will bring compliance activities from the Group Corporate Affairs Director: the Company into compliance with B.
Regular reviews by the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of ii C. 3.1 All members of the Audit Committee were independent, except the Groups internal controls and of the reports from the external for Mr D A Robins who ceased to be independent under the Code on auditors and internal audit.
Internal audit visits to operating units 23 May 2011 and stepped down from the Committee on 15 December are carried out using a risk model approved by the Audit Committee: 2011.
As at the year end and the date of this report, the Company A review of the Groups key risks and the general risk environment is complied with this provision.
presented annually to the Board and the Board receives an annual report on its insurance coverage and uninsured risks: iii D. 2.1 All members of the Remuneration Committee were The Ethics and Trade Compliance Committee of the Board reviews independent, except for Mr D A Robins, who ceased to be independent ethics and trade compliance quarterly: under the Code on 23 May 2011.
Mr D A Robins has continued to serve Every month, each business submits detailed operating and as Chairman of this Committee to maintain consistency of financial reports covering all aspects of their performance.
Issues chairmanship during the 2011 financial reporting cycle, which will end are communicated to the Management Board and the Board: and when the shareholders vote on the Remuneration Report at the AGM in The Board receives annual written confirmation from presidents, 2012.
Mr D A Robins will step down as Chairman and member of the site directors general managers as appropriate that Group policies Remuneration Committee at the end of the AGM, and the Company will have been complied with.
therefore comply with this provision from 26 April 2012.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant Going concern risks faced by the Group is as follows: After making enquiries, the directors have formed a judgement, at the Key risks are identified at risk workshops held at business, division time of approving the financial statements, that there is a reasonable and Group level and these risks are regularly reviewed by the expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources businesses, divisional management and, by exception, the to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Board reviews the list of key risks and reason, the directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in mitigation plans which have been identified: preparing the financial statements.
This statement of going concern A regular review of the performance of each business is undertaken also constitutes part of the Business Review on pages 3 to 36. by the executive directors and senior Group management: The Meggitt Finance Policies and Procedures Manual, which is By order of the Board reviewed and updated regularly, establishes appropriate authority levels throughout the Group to cover certain items of expenditure, financial commitments and other matters to ensure overall financial control is maintained throughout the Group: There is a comprehensive insurance programme: M L Young There are programmes for the management of business continuity Company Secretary and ethics: and 5 March 2012 There is an ongoing programme, including assurance activities, covering external tax compliance, environmental, health and safety, property risk and export law compliance.
The Board confirms this process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the financial statements.
The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that the Groups cash inflow from operating activities represented 110% 2010: 109% of underlying operating profit in 2011.
MEGGITT PLC REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
