20 Governance Corporate governance report and develop proposals on strategy and to scrutinise the performance Principles of Corporate Governance of management.
The SID is also available to shareholders if they have The Board remains committed to a process of ongoing improvement concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels, or in its corporate governance practice, not only in step with the evolving where such channels would be inappropriate.
nature of good corporate governance practice, but also in step with the growth of the Group.
There were two significant developments Effectiveness in this area in 2011 that have impacted the Group.
The first was the Excluding the Chairman, and following the resignation of Mr Tack in introduction of The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
September 2011, the Board is currently comprised of six directors, The Company believes that it complies with the Main Principles of three of whom are non-executive directors.
The Board considers all of the Code, except in respect of a formal annual process to evaluate its non-executive directors to be independent within the meaning of the performance of the Board and of its Committees and individual the Code.
Dr J. G. Whellock and Mr A. H. Yadgaroff were appointed to directors Main Principle B.
In this report, the Company explains the board on March 3, 2003 and as such, have served as non-executive how it has applied the Main Principles of the Code.
However, the directors for nine years.
As a result, the Board has recently had to Board believes that corporate governance involves more than a simple re-determine whether these individuals continue to be independent box ticking approach to establish whether the Group has met the in judgement and character.
At present, the Board feels that the requirements of a number of specific rules and regulations.
Rather, personal attributes of the individuals are such that both continue to be the issue is one of applying good corporate governance principles in a independent and to offer much to the Group.
With these two directors sensible and pragmatic fashion, which has proper regard to the Groups continuing to be viewed as independent, the Board is currently particular business profile and size.
The key objective is to enhance and compliant with the Codes provision that at least half of the board, protect shareholder value.
excluding the chairman, should be comprised of independent nonexecutive directors.
The second development was the promotion of the Company to the FTSE 250 Index in April 2011.
The Companys shares continue to be Further to the Davies Report, FTSE 350 companies have been listed on both the London and the Toronto Stock Exchanges and the encouraged to promote greater female representation on boards.
The Companys promotion from the FTSE SmallCap Index reflects the Group supports Lord Daviess published strategy and hopes to make strong growth of the Group.
However, despite this growth, the Groups progress in increasing the number of females on the Board.
However, organisation remains exceptionally small and compact.
At December the Board is wary of the potential superficiality of quotas and believes 31, 2011, apart from the four executive directors, the Group employed that the best approach is to continue to ensure that the appointments only seven staff.
process takes account of the benefits of diversity including gender, that all appointments are made on merit and that the Board The Board represents the best interests of shareholders.
Leadership The Board, through its Nomination Committee, keeps under review the The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the need for new director appointments, so as to maintain an appropriate Company and meets regularly to provide entrepreneurial leadership to balance of skills and independence within the Group and to ensure that the Group and to monitor the Groups risk management framework.
the Board is refreshed, as appropriate.
The size of the organisation allows The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive the directors to closely observe the skills, knowledge and behaviour of Officer, two additional executive directors and three non-executive those employees who have the potential to become future leaders of directors.
The day to day management of the Group is delegated to the Group.
New director appointments are made by the Board, having the executive directors, including the Chairman, save for certain matters regard to the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
All reserved for consideration by the Board.
Other responsibilities are directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity given to the Committees of the Board, as set out in the Committee after their appointment.
Under the terms of the Companys Articles of sections below and in their terms of reference, which are available on Association, all directors are required to retire and seek re-appointment the Groups website.
by shareholders at an annual general meeting on the third anniversary The Chairman, Mr P. M. Boycott, is responsible for the leadership of their appointment.
The current non-executive directors were and effectiveness of the Board.
The post remains an executive role, not appointed to specified terms, but the Board intends to appoint although the Chairman, together with one other of the executive future non-executive directors on a rolling three-year contract.
directors Mr B. M. Wides, is employed on a three days a week basis.
Notwithstanding this, the Board also intends that all of the directors The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer have distinct roles, which including the non-executive directors should now offer themselves for have been defined in writing and agreed by the Board.
Further, the re-election at each annual general meeting.
Board anticipates that the role of Chairman will in due course become Each director is required to disclose to the Board their other significant a non-executive one, but the transition is being managed progressively commitments prior to appointment and when there is any significant so as to take maximum advantage of the directors expertise.
There is a procedure in place whereby actual and potential 2011, the Chief Executive Officer took over the chairmanship of the conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed.
As permitted under the Executive Committee.
The Board anticipates that the transition should Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association contain be completed over the next two to three years and that, beyond that, Mr provisions that enable the Board to authorise conflicts or potential P. M. Boycott and Mr B. M. Wides would act as non-executive directors.
conflicts that individual directors may have and to impose such limits Mr M. H. Atkinson is the Groups Senior Independent Director SID.
or conditions as the Board thinks fit.
The Board considers that all of the The role of the SID is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and directors allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their to serve as an intermediary for the other directors where necessary.
He also takes the lead on meetings of the non-executive directors The Groups directors have a wide range of skills as well as experience outside the formal committee structure and works with the Chairman in financial, commercial and mining activities.
Each director takes to encourage constructive relations between the executive and nonresponsibility for undertaking the appropriate training required for executive directors and to ensure that the non-executive directors are developing and updating their knowledge and capabilities.
Where fully able to use their external experiences to constructively challenge appropriate, the Group provides the resources to meet the directors Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Go Gov vernance ernance 21 Corporate governance report requirements.
During the year, directors attended, inter alia, seminars Committees of the Board and conferences on mining industry developments, the Bribery Act and Most of the Boards work is conducted in Committees of either economic trends.
The nature of the Groups business and the number executive directors or non-executive directors.
Each Committee deals of its employees allow the directors to have a strong understanding of with specific aspects of the Groups affairs and has written terms of both the Groups operations and staff.
reference, which are available on the Groups website.
The Committees report to the full Board at regular intervals.
The executive directors and the Board Committees report and refer to the full Board at regular intervals on all matters relating to Executive Committee the running of the Group.
The Chairman, in conjunction with the The Executive Committee, comprising the executive directors of the Company Secretary, is responsible for setting the Boards agenda Group, is responsible for reaching and implementing decisions on and for ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear matters not reserved for the full Board.
The Committee is now chaired information.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring that by the Chief Executive Officer and held eight meetings during the period.
adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items and, Remuneration Committee in particular, strategic issues which are further discussed at annual The Remuneration Committee, comprising solely the independent strategy meetings attended by all of the directors and all of the non-executive directors, is responsible for making recommendations Companys employees.
to the Board on the Groups framework of executive director The Board approved the appointment of the Groups Corporate Counsel, remuneration.
The Committee determines the contract terms, Mr P. T. J. Mason, as Company Secretary in July 2011.
He is responsible for remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
directors including the Chairman, including performance-related All of the directors have access to his services and advice.
Further, incentivisation awards, pension rights and compensation payments.
all of the directors may seek independent professional advice in the It has access to the advice of independent remuneration consultants performance of their duties, at the Groups expense.
The Committee is chaired by Mr A. H. Yadgaroff and held three meetings during the period.
The Board itself determines The Code recommends that the board undertakes a formal and the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
The Directors rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Remuneration Report is set out on pages 23 to 25. committees and individual directors.
The Board does not currently have such formal standalone systems.
The presence of an open Nomination Committee environment where feedback is continually sought provides an The Nomination Committee comprises solely the independent informal process that enables the continual improvement of Board non-executive directors and is chaired by Mr M. H. Atkinson.
It meets and Committee performance.
The performance of individual executive as required in order to review the structure, size and composition of directors is regularly reviewed by the Chairman and the Chief the Board including its balance of skills, experience, independence Executive Officer, and is discussed in a structured way by the nonand knowledge in light of developments in the leadership needs of executive directors in the context of determining annual incentive the Group and in accepted best corporate governance practice.
The Board believes that these arrangements are appropriate Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for and effective given the current size of the Board, the compactness of the approval of the Board.
It may commission external advice or services the organisation and the extent of collective decision-making by the as required.
The Committee held two meetings during the period.
Each Committee and the Board is satisfied overall Audit Committee with its own effectiveness and the contribution and commitment of The Audit Committee comprises solely the independent non-executive each of the directors.
The Board will annually review the case for a directors and is chaired by Dr J. G. Whellock.
The Committee meets more formal evaluation process, including the new proposal in the at least twice a year and may be attended, by invitation, by the Code for an externally facilitated evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and companies at least every three years.
The external auditors meet the Committee, Attendance in the absence of any executive directors, at least once a year.
The Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during Committees terms of reference are available on the Groups website.
2011 was as follows: Its prime task is to review the half-yearly and annual accounts, in the light of advice from the external auditors, before they are presented General Executive Audit Remuneration Nomination to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies and areas of management judgment and estimation.
The Committee is responsible Total meetings 13 8 4 3 2 for monitoring the controls in place to ensure the integrity of the held: information reported to the shareholders.
The Committee acts as a Attendance: forum for discussion of internal control issues and contributes to the P. M. Boycott 13 8 - - - Boards review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems and processes.
The Committee also A. C. Orchard 13 8 - - - regularly reviews the case for an internal audit function in light of the 1 M. J.
Tack 11 6 - - - growing size and complexity of the Groups business: its present view J. Theobald 12 8 - - - is that this is not yet justified given the compact size of the Group and B. M. Wides 13 7 - - - the directors involvement with individual transactions.
M. H. Atkinson 11 - 4 3 2 The Committee advises the Board on the appointment, performance, objectivity and independence of the external auditors and on their J. G. Whellock 13 - 4 3 2 remuneration for both audit and non-audit work, and discusses A. H. Yadgaroff 13 - 4 3 2 the nature and scope of the audit with the external auditors.
Tack resigned as a director on September 23, 2011.
Committee accepts that some non-audit work is most appropriately Anglo P Anglo Pacific acific Gr Group PL oup PLC C Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 2011 ccounts 2011 22 Go Gov vernance ernance Corporate governance report undertaken by the auditors, but such work requires the prior approval Relations with shareholders of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Group does use other The Group is the only major mining royalty company in the UK and accounting firms for non-audit work, bearing in mind the need for recognises the importance of developing a fuller understanding of its experience, objectivity and value for money in each particular case.
To this end, increased attention was paid to investor relations during the period, and to improving During the year, the Committee met four times to consider and the effectiveness of two-way communication with fund managers, recommend the half-yearly and annual accounts and the annual report institutional investors and analysts, particularly those focusing on FTSE and to consider and review the annual audit approach and the Groups 350 companies.
During the year, the directors had several meetings with internal control and risk management.
The external auditors attended institutional investors whose combined shareholdings represented over each meeting at which they presented their audit strategy and their 50% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
The Company is findings and conclusions in respect of the half-yearly and annual assisted in this initiative by its external public relations advisers.
In addition, the Committee reviewed a number of regular items, including the Groups anti-corruption and whistle blowing There are over 2,000 private investors in the Group.
The Board was policies and procedures.
pleased by the attendance at the 2011 Annual General Meeting where investors were able to hear at first hand a review of the Groups results Internal control for 2010 and to ask about current business activity.
This years Annual The Board retains overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal General Meeting will be held on April 19, 2012.
The notice of the Annual control and risk management.
A statement of directors responsibilities General Meeting may be found on pages 68 to 72, and the Board in respect of the financial statements is set out on page 26. hopes that it will again be well-attended.
It is anticipated that the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, The Board has designed the Groups system of internal control in order as well as the executive directors, will be available to answer any to provide the directors with reasonable assurance that its assets are shareholder questions.
safeguarded, that transactions are authorised and properly recorded and that material errors and irregularities are either prevented or would be Other statutory and regulatory information detected within a timely period.
However, no system of internal control Additional information on substantial shareholdings, voting rights can eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives or provide and the appointment and powers of the Companys directors, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, or against amongst other things, can be found on pages 16 and 17 of the fraud or unlawful behaviour.
The key elements of the control system in operation are: The Remuneration Committee comprises: The Board meets regularly with a formal schedule of matters A. H. Yadgaroff chairman reserved to it for decision and has put in place an organisational structure with clear lines of responsibility and appropriate delegation M. H. Atkinson of authority: J. G. Whellock There are established procedures for planning and approving All the members of the Remuneration Committee are non-executive investments and information systems for monitoring the Groups directors and are considered to be independent by the Board.
financial performance against budgets and forecasts: The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the The Chief Financial Officer is required annually to undertake a full Groups policy on remuneration of its executive directors, including assessment process, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, service contracts and compensation in the event of early termination.
to identify and quantify the risks that face the Groups businesses and The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are available functions, and to assess the adequacy of the prevention, monitoring on the Groups website at www.
and mitigation practices in place for those risks.
In addition, regular reports about significant risks and associated control and monitoring The remuneration strategy procedures are made to the Audit Committee.
They are responsible The Group is characterised by a high market capitalisation relative to for reviewing the risk assessment for completeness and accuracy.
the size of its organisation, by long investment horizons, and by the The consolidated results of these reviews are reported to the Board absence of a comparable peer-group for the purpose of benchmarking to enable the directors to review the effectiveness of the system performance.
The Groups success is highly dependent on the collective of internal control.
The process adopted by the Group accords with expertise, judgement and drive of the executive directors, particularly the guidance contained in the document Internal Control Revised in the acquisition of further royalties.
Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the The Remuneration Committees strategy accordingly puts strong Financial Reporting Council.
emphasis on incentivising and retaining the executive directors with The Audit Committee receives reports from the external auditors a remuneration package that comprises a fixed monthly basic salary, on a regular basis and from the executive directors of the Group.
a significant performance-related incentive award, and a joint share The Board receives regular reports from all of its Committees.
ownership plan designed primarily to encourage long-term retention.
The Remuneration Committee has considered the scope for a longThere are no significant issues disclosed in the report and financial term incentive plan, but the long investment horizons and absence of statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 and up to the date comparable UK companies make this difficult.
Instead, a proportion of approval of the report and financial statements that have required of the overall package is in the form of shares, designed to ensure a the Board to deal with any related material internal control issues.
strong alignment with the interests of shareholders.
In determining The directors confirm that the Board has reviewed the effectiveness remuneration, consideration is also given to reward levels throughout of the system of internal control as described during the period and the Group as well as in the external employment market.
concluded that the controls and procedures are adequate.
Anglo P Anglo Pacific acific Gr Group PL oup PLC C Annual R Annual Report and eport and A Accounts 2011 ccounts 2011
