20 Governance Corporate governance report and develop proposals on strategy and to scrutinise the performance Principles of Corporate Governance of management.
The SID is also available to shareholders if they have The Board remains committed to a process of ongoing improvement concerns that have not been resolved through the normal channels, or in its corporate governance practice, not only in step with the evolving where such channels would be inappropriate.
nature of good corporate governance practice, but also in step with the growth of the Group.
There were two significant developments Effectiveness in this area in 2011 that have impacted the Group.
The first was the Excluding the Chairman, and following the resignation of Mr Tack in introduction of The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
September 2011, the Board is currently comprised of six directors, The Company believes that it complies with the Main Principles of three of whom are non-executive directors.
The Board considers all of the Code, except in respect of a formal annual process to evaluate its non-executive directors to be independent within the meaning of the performance of the Board and of its Committees and individual the Code.
Dr J. G. Whellock and Mr A. H. Yadgaroff were appointed to directors Main Principle B.
In this report, the Company explains the board on March 3, 2003 and as such, have served as non-executive how it has applied the Main Principles of the Code.
However, the directors for nine years.
As a result, the Board has recently had to Board believes that corporate governance involves more than a simple re-determine whether these individuals continue to be independent box ticking approach to establish whether the Group has met the in judgement and character.
At present, the Board feels that the requirements of a number of specific rules and regulations.
Rather, personal attributes of the individuals are such that both continue to be the issue is one of applying good corporate governance principles in a independent and to offer much to the Group.
With these two directors sensible and pragmatic fashion, which has proper regard to the Groups continuing to be viewed as independent, the Board is currently particular business profile and size.
The key objective is to enhance and compliant with the Codes provision that at least half of the board, protect shareholder value.
excluding the chairman, should be comprised of independent nonexecutive directors.
The second development was the promotion of the Company to the FTSE 250 Index in April 2011.
The Companys shares continue to be Further to the Davies Report, FTSE 350 companies have been listed on both the London and the Toronto Stock Exchanges and the encouraged to promote greater female representation on boards.
The Companys promotion from the FTSE SmallCap Index reflects the Group supports Lord Daviess published strategy and hopes to make strong growth of the Group.
However, despite this growth, the Groups progress in increasing the number of females on the Board.
However, organisation remains exceptionally small and compact.
At December the Board is wary of the potential superficiality of quotas and believes 31, 2011, apart from the four executive directors, the Group employed that the best approach is to continue to ensure that the appointments only seven staff.
process takes account of the benefits of diversity including gender, that all appointments are made on merit and that the Board The Board represents the best interests of shareholders.
Leadership The Board, through its Nomination Committee, keeps under review the The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the need for new director appointments, so as to maintain an appropriate Company and meets regularly to provide entrepreneurial leadership to balance of skills and independence within the Group and to ensure that the Group and to monitor the Groups risk management framework.
the Board is refreshed, as appropriate.
The size of the organisation allows The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive the directors to closely observe the skills, knowledge and behaviour of Officer, two additional executive directors and three non-executive those employees who have the potential to become future leaders of directors.
The day to day management of the Group is delegated to the Group.
New director appointments are made by the Board, having the executive directors, including the Chairman, save for certain matters regard to the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
All reserved for consideration by the Board.
Other responsibilities are directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity given to the Committees of the Board, as set out in the Committee after their appointment.
Under the terms of the Companys Articles of sections below and in their terms of reference, which are available on Association, all directors are required to retire and seek re-appointment the Groups website.
by shareholders at an annual general meeting on the third anniversary The Chairman, Mr P. M. Boycott, is responsible for the leadership of their appointment.
The current non-executive directors were and effectiveness of the Board.
The post remains an executive role, not appointed to specified terms, but the Board intends to appoint although the Chairman, together with one other of the executive future non-executive directors on a rolling three-year contract.
directors Mr B. M. Wides, is employed on a three days a week basis.
Notwithstanding this, the Board also intends that all of the directors The Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer have distinct roles, which including the non-executive directors should now offer themselves for have been defined in writing and agreed by the Board.
Further, the re-election at each annual general meeting.
Board anticipates that the role of Chairman will in due course become Each director is required to disclose to the Board their other significant a non-executive one, but the transition is being managed progressively commitments prior to appointment and when there is any significant so as to take maximum advantage of the directors expertise.
There is a procedure in place whereby actual and potential 2011, the Chief Executive Officer took over the chairmanship of the conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed.
As permitted under the Executive Committee.
The Board anticipates that the transition should Companies Act 2006, the Companys Articles of Association contain be completed over the next two to three years and that, beyond that, Mr provisions that enable the Board to authorise conflicts or potential P. M. Boycott and Mr B. M. Wides would act as non-executive directors.
conflicts that individual directors may have and to impose such limits Mr M. H. Atkinson is the Groups Senior Independent Director SID.
or conditions as the Board thinks fit.
The Board considers that all of the The role of the SID is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and directors allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their to serve as an intermediary for the other directors where necessary.
He also takes the lead on meetings of the non-executive directors The Groups directors have a wide range of skills as well as experience outside the formal committee structure and works with the Chairman in financial, commercial and mining activities.
Each director takes to encourage constructive relations between the executive and nonresponsibility for undertaking the appropriate training required for executive directors and to ensure that the non-executive directors are developing and updating their knowledge and capabilities.
Where fully able to use their external experiences to constructively challenge appropriate, the Group provides the resources to meet the directors Anglo Pacific Group PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
