Melrose PLC 50 Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance report STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE BOARD BALANCE, INDEPENDENCE AND PERFORMANCE The Board of Directors remains committed to maintaining the The Board believes that the Directors possess diverse business high standards of corporate governance required to ensure the experience in areas complementary to the activities of the Company can continue to deliver its long term strategic goals Company: this position has been enhanced further by the for shareholders.
As part of this approach, the Board supports appointment of Justin Dowley during the year.
Biographies of the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK the Directors are shown on pages 36 and 37.
These biographies Code, which replaced the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate identify any other appointments held by the Directors.
The only Governance with effect from financial years beginning on or after executive Director to hold non-executive Director appointments 29 June 2010. elsewhere is Christopher Miller, who is a non-executive Director of TMO Renewables Limited and is allowed to retain the remuneration The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good he receives from that appointment.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Code and with In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, consideration the requirements of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR has been given to the independence of all the non-executive on audit committees and corporate governance statements.
The Directors: the Board considers all the non-executive Directors to statements below describe how the Company has applied the be independent.
The non-executive Directors are not entitled to principles identified in the UK Code and DTR directives.
any bonus or shares under the 2009 Incentive Share Scheme.
Performance of the Board and each Committee is evaluated THE BOARD annually.
Members: Christopher Miller, Executive Chairman David Roper, Chief Executive As part of the performance appraisal process both the executive Simon Peckham, Chief Operating Officer and non-executive Directors are required to complete performance Geoffrey Martin, Group Finance Director questionnaires on an annual basis in relation to the Board, its three Perry Crosthwaite, Non-executive Director committees of audit, remuneration and nomination and their fellow Justin Dowley, Non-executive Director Directors.
All responses are reviewed and collated by the Company John Grant, Non-executive Director Secretary before further action is taken, as necessary.
This process Miles Templeman, Senior non-executive Director also helps to determine if any of the Directors have any specific training requirements.
All of the above Directors served throughout the year, with the exception of Justin Dowley who was appointed as a non-executive The Chairman has held meetings with the Directors, including the Director on 1 September 2011. senior independent non-executive Director, Miles Templeman, to discuss the performance of individual executive Directors and the THE MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: Board as a whole.
It was considered that the individual Directors effectively manage and control the Company via a formal and the Board as a whole were operating effectively.
The nonschedule of matters reserved for its decision: executive Directors, led by Miles Templeman, the senior nonexecutive Director, are responsible for the performance evaluation determine and review Company strategy and policy: of the Chairman and as part of this process also took account of consider acquisitions, disposals and asset requests for major the views of the executive Directors.
capital expenditure: review trading performance: The Board are currently considering the impact on the performance ensure that adequate funding and personnel are in place: evaluation process with respect to the new requirement under the maintain sound internal control systems: and UK Code to carry out externally facilitated performance evaluations report to shareholders and give consideration to all other at least every three years.
The Company has therefore not yet significant financial matters.
carried out an external evaluation of its Directors performance.
Board responsibilities are undertaken in conjunction with senior The Nomination Committee currently takes into account a variety management, who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day of factors before recommending any new appointments to the conduct of the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board Board, including relevant skills to perform in the role, experience, on items of significance and progress against objectives.
The Board knowledge, ethnicity and gender.
The most important priority of the meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis as Nomination Committee has been, and will continue to be, ensuring required by time critical business needs.
There were four scheduled that the best candidate is selected to join the Board and this Board meetings held during the year and the attendance of each of approach will remain in place going forward.
the Directors is shown on page 54.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 51 THE BOARD Christopher Miller Executive Chairman 1 David Roper Chief Executive 2 Simon Peckham Chief Operating Officer Geoffrey Martin Group Finance Director Perry Crosthwaite Non-executive Director Justin Dowley Non-executive Director John Grant Non-executive Director Miles Templeman Senior non-executive Director NOMINATION COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Miles Templeman Chairman 3 John Grant Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Chairman Perry Crosthwaite Perry Crosthwaite Justin Dowley Justin Dowley Justin Dowley John Grant John Grant Miles Templeman Miles Templeman Christopher Miller 1 David Roper will become Executive Vice-Chairman with effect from the Companys AGM on 9 May 2012.
2 Simon Peckham will become Chief Executive with effect from the Companys AGM on 9 May 2012.
3 John Grant became Chairman of the Audit Committee on 6 March 2012.
Prior to this the Chairman of this committee was Miles Templeman.
New Directors joining the Board receive a formal and tailored election at the forthcoming AGM and annually thereafter, in induction shortly after their appointment.
Directors are advised compliance with the provisions of the UK Code.
that they have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures The Board and Nomination Committee have carefully considered are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied the time commitments required and the contribution made by with.
The Board may seek independent legal and financial advice in each Director.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Board are the furtherance of its duties, at the Companys expense.
of the belief that the performance of each executive and nonexecutive Director continues to be effective and that each Director A pack of briefing papers and an agenda are provided to each demonstrates commitment to his role.
Director in advance of each scheduled Board or standing CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF ExECUTIVE Committee meeting.
The Directors are able to seek further The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive of the Company clarification and information on any matter from any other Director are, and will remain, separate and distinct from one another in or employee of the Group whenever necessary.
Decisions are accordance with best practice and Board policy.
taken by the Board in conjunction with the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external consultants, advisers and The Chairman alone is responsible for leadership of the Board.
Responsibility for ensuring effective communications with shareholders rests with the Chairman and other executive Directors.
DIRECTOR TERMS AND CONDITIONS The Chief Executive is responsible for strategic direction and The terms and conditions of the executive Directors service decisions involving the day-to-day management of the Company.
contracts and the non-executive Directors appointments are These respective responsibilities are set out in writing and have available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
The been approved by the Board, which considers that the respective non-executive Directors appointment letters are also available on roles and responsibilities are clearly understood by both individuals the Companys website: www.
and by the Board as a whole.
ANNUAL RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD In previous years, one third of the Companys Directors have In accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, the Board been subject to retirement by rotation with a requirement then has three standing Committees: the Audit, Remuneration to offer themselves for re-election.
However, going forward and and Nomination Committees.
Each of these includes the four notwithstanding the Companys Articles, the Board has determined independent non-executive Directors.
The duties of the Committees that all Directors of the Company will stand for election or reare set out in formal terms of reference.
These are available from 21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 52 Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance report continued the Company Secretary and on the Companys website, The Audit Committee has a policy on the engagement of the www.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary external auditor for the supply of non-audit services.
In accordance to each of the Committees.
with best practice FRC guidelines, which apply from 30 April 2011 onwards, the Company policy in relation to non-audit services AUDIT COMMITTEE is kept under regular review: the policy outlines which non-audit Members: John Grant, Chairman from 6 March 2012 services are pre-approved, which services require the prior approval Perry Crosthwaite of the Audit Committee and which services the auditor is excluded Justin Dowley from providing.
Miles Templeman Chairman to 6 March 2012 During 2011, the main non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: were in relation to taxation compliance, tax planning, corporate review and monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the finance which includes work carried out around the sale of Group, including its interim accounts, the annual report, interim Dynacast and aborted purchase of Charter International plc and management and preliminary statements and any other formal UK pensions.
announcements relating to the financial performance of the Group: The Audit Committee carries out regular reviews to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained at all times.
keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups financial A different senior partner carries out the taxation audit of the reporting, internal controls, risk management systems and Company compared to those working on the non-audit taxation compliance controls: services.
With regard to corporate finance services a separate focus and challenge the consistency of accounting policies, team, which was independent from the audit team was used within methods used to account for significant or unusual transactions Deloitte LLP to carry out this work.
The non-audit work provided and compliance with accounting standards: on pensions was performed either by a different senior partner review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise to those involved in audit work, or by independent actuaries who concerns in confidence about possible wrongdoing in financial have no links with Deloitte LLP.
Based on these strict procedures reporting, in accordance with the Companys whistleblowing the Audit Committee remains confident that auditor objectivity and policy: and independence has been maintained but accepts that non-audit develop, implement and monitor the Groups policy on external work should be controlled to ensure that it does not compromise audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the the auditors position.
Deloitte LLP was appointed in 2003.
At each year end, Deloitte Each member of the Audit Committee brings relevant financial LLP submits a letter setting out how it believes its independence experience from senior executive and non-executive positions as and objectivity have been maintained.
They are also required to described in their biographies on pages 36 and 37. rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits every five years.
The Groups audit signing partner changed The Audit Committee invites the Group Finance Director, the Head as part of that rotation process in 2010.
There are no contractual of Financial Reporting and senior representatives of the external obligations that restrict the Groups capacity to recommend a and internal auditors to attend meetings as appropriate to the particular firm for appointment as auditor.
The Audit Committee has the right to invite any other employees to attend meetings where this is INTERNAL AUDIT PROGRAMME considered appropriate.
In addition, the Audit Committee meets Due to the size and complexity of the Group, it is appropriate for an at least once per year with both the external and internal auditors, internal audit programme to be used within the business.
BM Howarth, without management present.
an external firm, provides internal audit services to the Group.
A rotation programme is in place, such that every business unit will have The Audit Committee is expected to meet not less than three times an internal audit at least once every three years, with the largest sites a year and the Audit Committee met three times during 2011.
The being reviewed at least once every two years.
The rotation programme attendance of its members, along with the Group Finance Director, allows divisional managements actions and responses to be followed is shown in the table on page 54. up on a timely basis.
During the year, BM Howarth also carried out an audit of the Groups central head office functions.
GROUP AUDITOR The Groups external auditor is recommended for reappointment by The internal auditors remit includes assessment of the effectiveness the Audit Committee, which also assesses the appropriateness of of internal control systems, compliance with the Groups the scope of audit work performed and provides recommendations Policies and Procedures Manual and a review of the businesses in respect of their remuneration and terms of engagement.
A report of key findings and recommendations Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Groups external is presented to the Group Finance Director, Head of Financial auditor.
Reporting and Group Operations Controller, followed by a meeting 21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Business performance Governance Financials Shareholder information www.
net Stock code: MRO 53 to discuss key findings and resulting action points.
BM Howarth NOMINATION COMMITTEE also presented their key findings to the Audit Committee twice Members: Miles Templeman, Chairman during the year.
Review of the internal audit process and scope Perry Crosthwaite of work covered by the internal auditor is the responsibility of the Justin Dowley Audit Committee, to ensure their objectives, level of authority and John Grant resources are appropriate for the nature of the businesses under Christopher Miller review.
A report of significant findings is presented by the internal auditor to the Committee at each meeting and implementation of MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: recommendations by the Board are followed up at the subsequent keep the size, structure and composition of the Board under Committee meeting.
regular review and recommend to the Board any adjustments as may be necessary from time to time: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE give full consideration to succession planning to ensure an Members: Perry Crosthwaite, Chairman optimum balance of executive and non-executive Directors in Justin Dowley terms of skills, experience and diversity: John Grant keep under review the leadership needs of the business: and Miles Templeman keep up to date and fully informed about strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the Company and the markets in MAIN RESPONSIBILITIES: which it operates.
annually review remuneration trends across the Group and obtain reliable and up-to-date information about the remuneration of Directors and senior employees in other companies: As one of the main responsibilities of the Nomination Committee is to recommend any adjustments to the size or structure of the consider and make recommendations to the Board on the Board, it was involved in the recruitment of Justin Dowley, who framework for the remuneration of the Companys executive was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 September 2011.
Directors, the Company Secretary and other senior employees: Prior to Justins appointment the Committee agreed upon a specific ensure the executive Directors and senior employees are recruitment process.
This included the development of a candidate provided with appropriate annual incentives to encourage specification which set out the required skills, qualifications and enhanced performance and that they are rewarded for their experience followed by a thorough interview process.
individual contributions to the success of the Company: and approve the structure of, and determine targets for, any long The Nomination Committee is expected to meet not less than twice term incentive plans operated by the Company.
a year and during 2011 the Nomination Committee met three times.
The attendance of its members is shown in the table overleaf.
In developing its recommendations, the Committee has given due consideration to Schedule 8 of Part 15 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Nomination Committee uses external search consultants as appropriate.
The Remuneration Committee is expected to meet not less than twice a year and during 2011 the Remuneration Committee met ATTENDANCE AT MEETINGS twice.
The attendance of its members is shown in the table on page The table over the page shows the attendance of each of the 54.
The report to shareholders on how Directors are remunerated, Directors at the scheduled and significant meetings of the Board together with details of individual Directors remuneration is shown and its standing Committees held during the year.
The quorum in the Remuneration report on pages 56 to 59. necessary for the transaction of business by the Board and each of its standing Committees is two.
Briefing papers and meeting agendas are provided to each Director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board in conjunction with the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external advisers and senior management as appropriate.
The representations of any Director who is unable to attend a meeting of the Board or a standing Committee are duly considered by those Directors in attendance.
21012-04 26 03 2012 Proof 6 Melrose PLC 54 Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance report continued Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 1 Number of meetings 4 3 2 3 Christopher Miller 4 3 David Roper 4 Simon Peckham 4 2 Geoffrey Martin 4 3 Miles Templeman 4 3 2 3 Perry Crosthwaite 4 3 2 3 John Grant 4 3 2 3 3 Justin Dowley 1 1 1 1 1 In addition, ad-hoc meetings are held from time-to-time which are attended by a quorum of Directors and are convened to deal with specific items of business.
2 Geoffrey Martin attends by invitation.
3 Justin Dowley was appointed as a non-executive Director on 1 September 2011 and attended the remaining Board meeting of the year in December 2011, together with the December meetings of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Group operates on a fide-centralised basis and the Board Objectives and policy has established an organisational structure with clear reporting The objectives of the Directors and senior management are to procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
Divisional safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of the senior management, plant managers and financial controllers have Group.
Achievement of their objectives requires the development been delegated responsibility by the Board for the establishment of policies and appropriate internal control frameworks to ensure and implementation of detailed control systems as appropriate for the Groups resources are managed properly and any key risks are their business.
identified and mitigated where possible.
An established programme of regular review is in place at the The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups overall system businesses and a culture of continuous improvement is encouraged of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, while the by the Board through regular meetings with senior management, role of management is to implement the policies set by the review of operating performance and progress against business Board in respect of risk management and controls.
The ongoing process of review provides assurance that the recognise that the systems and processes established by the control environment is operating as intended.
Board are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and cannot provide absolute The Audit Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
internal control processes implemented across the Group through review of the key findings presented by the external and The Board is committed to satisfying the internal control guidance internal auditors and discussions with senior management on for Directors set out in the revised version of the Turnbull Guidance an ad-hoc basis.
The Board is responsible for considering Audit on Internal Control.
In accordance with this guidance, there is an Committee recommendations in respect of internal controls and ongoing process, regularly reviewed by the Directors, for identifying, risk management and ensuring implementation by management of evaluating, managing and mitigating where possible the significant those recommendations it deems appropriate for the business.
This process for reviewing the Groups internal controls is consistent with prior years and has been in place Internal financial controls throughout the 2011 financial year and up to the date of approval of The Group has a comprehensive system for assessing the this Annual Report.
effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal financial controls, including strategic business planning and regular monitoring and Managing and controlling risk reporting of financial performance.
A detailed annual budget is The Group has policies which address a number of key business prepared by senior management and thereafter is reviewed and risks, including strategic, operational, compliance, ethical and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are financial risks.
A summary of some of the strategic and operational regularly updated via a rolling forecast process and regular business risks and uncertainties that could impact on the Companys review meetings are held involving senior management to assess performance is set out on pages 31 to 33.
The results of these reviews are in turn reported to risk management objectives and policies are also described in the and discussed by the Board at each meeting.
Finance Directors review on pages 23 to 30.
Further information can also be found in the Chief Executives review on pages 12 to 22, and the Directors report on pages 38 to 49.
net Stock code: MRO 55 As discussed in the Audit Committee section on pages 52 and The Company also updated its whistleblowing policy during the 53 of this report, BM Howarth is the Groups internal auditor.
A year, as part of the anti-bribery and corruption communication total of 21 businesses have been visited during the year, including process within the Group.
This enables individuals to make the Groups central head office functions, and the Directors are protected disclosures to their divisional human resources manager, pleased to report that there were no material deficiencies and Group Company Secretary or the senior non-executive Director that the majority of recommendations presented in the internal if they have concerns about possible improprieties in financial auditor reports have now been, or are in the process of being reporting or other malpractices within their business.
A further 23 businesses are planned for review during 2012.
COMMUNICATIONS wITH SHAREHOLDERS The Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of The Board confirms that, from the review of internal controls, it objectives with its institutional shareholders, via the executive has not determined any significant failings or weaknesses that Directors, through regular meetings and presentations following it considers require remedial action.
The Board also confirms that announcements of its annual and interim results.
The non-executive it has not been advised of any material weaknesses in the internal Directors are available to meet institutional shareholders should control systems that relate to financial reporting.
there be unresolved matters they wish to bring to their attention.
The views of key analysts and major shareholders are fed back wHISTLEBLOwING, ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION to the Board directly by individual Directors, or via the Companys POLICIES brokers.
This helps to ensure that all members of the Board During the year, the Company updated its anti-bribery and develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
corruption policy in accordance with the Bribery Act 2010 the Corporate information is available on the Companys website, 2010 Act, which came into force on 1 July 2011.
this process, a full audit of each Group business was carried out in which key risks were identified and mitigating actions agreed.
The Board welcomes the attendance of shareholders at the The results of the audit confirmed that additional procedures were AGM.
The number of proxy votes cast for and against each of the required within some of the Group businesses in relation to the resolutions proposed is announced at the AGM and a summary will use of sales agents who operate in high risk areas of the world, be provided shortly after the AGM, on the Companys website.
together with the general development of stricter policies and procedures when trading in certain territories for the first time.
By order of the Board Additional procedures have also been developed with regard to gift, hospitality and charitable donation registers.
In order to ensure compliance with the 2010 Act, the Company developed a specific training and communication process to ensure all relevant senior employees were aware of the Groups policy and their individual obligations in helping to ensure adherence.
This Garry Barnes process involved the development of a specific internally designed Secretary training portal for use by relevant employees within the Group.
7 March 2012 An internal review process has also been incorporated into the annual audit programme carried out by BM Howarth, to ensure ongoing compliance to the Group policy.
As an addition to this, each business is required to provide an annual confirmation to the Company that it has fully complied with the Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy.
The Groups anti-bribery and corruption policy applies to all Directors, employees whether permanent, fixed-term, or temporary, pension trustees, consultants and other business advisers, contractors, trainees, volunteers, business agents, distributors, joint venture partners, or any other person working for or performing a service on behalf of the Company, its subsidiaries and associated companies in which it has a majority interest.
Responsibility for anti-corruption policies and procedures rests with the Board of Directors.
It is tasked with ensuring that adequate internal financial controls and record keeping is in place within the Group in order to minimise the risk of bribery and corruption.
