Corporate governance At the date of this report, the principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed The Directors also seek to comply with guidelines issued by institutional investors and their on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the representative bodies where it is practical to do so.
The FRC issued the Code in May 2011, which applies to financial years beginning Compliance with the Code on or after 29 June 2011.
The FRC has stated that changes have been made to help The Directors consider that the Company has complied with all of the principles set out company boards to become more effective and more accountable to shareholders.
in sections A to E of the Code for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Companys The Board as a whole has been proactive in addressing many of the recent developments auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reflects including the annual re-election of all the Directors, which was adopted last year ahead of the the Companys compliance with the relevant provisions of the Code specified for the review formal implementation of the new Code provision.
by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such The Board of Directors has a strong commitment to high standards of corporate governance compliance.
and has applied all of the main and supporting principles set out in sections A to E as recommended in the Code for the year ended 31 December 2011.
46 Until 31 December 2011, the Chairman was Sir Adrian Montague.
Sir Adrian retired as Chairman Leadership of the Board on 31 December 2011 following the completion of a planned succession process, The Board and its operation and Robin Buchanan, who joined the Board as an independent Non-Executive Director in August 2011, succeeded him as Chairman.
Sir Adrian joined the Board of Michael Page in February The Board of Michael Page International plc is the body responsible for corporate governance, 2001 as a Non-Executive Director and was appointed Chairman in May 2002. establishing policies and objectives, and the management of the Groups resources.
On 28 July 2011, during his time as Chairman of Michael Page International plc, Sir Adrian was The Board comprises currently the Chairman, who is deemed to be independent and has appointed Non-Executive Chairman of Hurricane Exploration plc, an oil and gas exploration no operational responsibilities, two Executive Directors and four independent Non-Executive company based in the UK.
Collectively, they have a broad balance of skills and experience.
Senior Independent Director SID The Board meets regularly throughout the year.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders when they may have issues or it and delegates specific responsibilities to Committees.
During the Meetings, the Board formally considers how and to whom matters covered at each meeting should be communicated and concerns where contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has either failed to resolve concerns, or contact is deemed inappropriate.
Decisions concerning matters of a more routine nature are dealt with by management below Board level.
The structure of the Group facilitates the day-to-day The Senior Independent Director is Hubert Reid, but following the Annual General Meeting running of the business and enables efficient and effective communication of issues to the Board on 18 May 2012 where Hubert Reid will step down, the Senior Independent Director will be when required.
The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors also met during the year without the Ruby McGregor Smith.
Attendance at meetings Each of the Committees has formal written terms of reference, which were reviewed in 2011.
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and individual attendance by the The terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on members of the Committees only are shown in Fig.
request and can be found on the Groups website.
Their composition and the manner in which they discharge their responsibilities are described in this report.
The Executive Board, a Committee of the Board, meets formally at least four times a year, Effectiveness and is responsible for assisting the Chief Executive in the performance of his duties, including The composition of the Board complies with Code Provision B.
The Board annually reviews development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and the composition of the Board and considers that there is an appropriate balance of Executive budgets.
and Non-Executive Directors on the Board.
These activities are performed at a regional level by four Regional Boards for the UK, EMEA, Asia Board appointments Pacific and the Americas.
Each Regional Board meets at least four times a year.
The Board follows formal and transparent procedures when appointing directors.
All candidates Chairman are interviewed by the Chairman and the Chief Executive, and all candidates in the final shortlist are interviewed by the Nomination Committee.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and efficient operation of the Board, setting its agenda and ensuring all Directors provide an effective contribution.
The Chairman is also Evaluations of all candidates are discussed with all members of the Nomination Committee and responsible for ensuring the provision of accurate and timely information to the Board and recommendations are subsequently made to the Board.
Michael Page International plc is an organisation founded on the principle of encouraging It is the Groups policy that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate.
talented people to realise their full potential at all levels in the business.
Our management philosophy is to create a culture in the business that recognises and rewards our people for their achievements.
We actively encourage and pursue diversity, including diversity in gender, throughout the business.
47 CORPORATe GOveRNANCe Diversity at Board level is no more important than diversity at every other level in the This particular non-executive recruitment process was led by the SID as it was intended that business.
In a small Board we balance diversity, including diversity in gender, against the the successful candidate would succeed Sir Adrian Montague as Chairman in the future.
paramount need to create a talented high-performing board with a suitable mix of experience A detailed role profile was agreed by the Committee before a shortlist of suitable candidates and capability, in sector, geography, financing, management and governance.
We especially was prepared to go forward to an interview process.
This resulted in the recommendation focus on the importance in diversity at the time of each new board appointment and in of the appointment of Robin Buchanan.
Terms and conditions for Robin Buchanan and the framing instructions to the search consultants we retain to assist us in such appointments.
other Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
Nomination Committee It was announced on 11 July 2011 that Stephen Puckett, the Group Finance Director, would be leaving the Group, but would continue full-time in office until his successor was appointed The Nomination Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Robin and a full handover of his responsibilities had been completed.
The Group retained external Buchanan.
It is responsible for making recommendations to the Board on new appointments, executive recruitment consultants to carry out a worldwide search against an exacting brief as well as making recommendations as to the composition of the Board generally, the to identify a short-list of candidates.
From the short-list, the Committee identified Andrew balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors appointed to the Board and Bracey as the preferred candidate and having completed a comprehensive interview and reviewing any conflicts of interest.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee can assessment process, he was appointed.
He will join the Group on 23 April 2012. be found on our website.
Re-election of Directors During the year, the Nomination Committee, led by the Senior Independent Director Hubert Reid, oversaw the search for a new non-executive director assisted by The Inzito Partnership.
All Directors are subject to election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Attendance at Board Meetings Committee attendance shown for Committee members only Board In accordance with the Code, the Directors have resolved that they will all submit themselves for annual re-election at the AGM.
Accordingly, at the forthcoming AGM to be held on Total meetings 12 18 May 2012, Robin Buchanan and Andrew Bracey will offer themselves for election, Meetings attended with the remaining Directors, with the exception of Hubert Reid, Stephen Puckett and Executive Charles-Henri Dumon, offering themselves for re-election.
As a result of their annual Steve Ingham 12 performance evaluation, the Board considers that their individual performances continue Charles-Henri Dumon left the Board on 28 February 2012 11 to be effective, with each Director demonstrating commitment to their role.
The Board is Stephen Puckett 11 therefore pleased to support their re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Induction and training programme Board Committee Committee Committee On appointment to the Board, each Director discusses with the Company Secretary the Total meetings 12 9 5 4 extent of training required and a tailored induction programme to cover their individual Meetings attended requirements is then compiled.
Elements of the programme typically consist of meeting Non-Executive senior management, site visits and attending internal conferences.
Robin Buchanan appointed 10 August 2011 4 3 2 0 In addition, information is provided on the Companys services, Group structure, Board Sir Adrian Montague CBE retired 31 December 2011 12 9 5 3 arrangements, financial information, major competitors and major risks.
After an initial Ruby McGregor-Smith 10 7 4 1 induction phase, updates are provided on a periodic basis.
Dr Tim Miller 10 7 4 4 Hubert Reid 12 9 5 4 Reg Sindall 10 7 5 4 48 Performance evaluation Company Secretary The Board, as part of its commitment to ensuring effectiveness and evaluating its performance, All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is together with that of its Directors and Committees, conducted an internal review comprising responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are meetings between the Chairman and all other Board members, individually and collectively, observed.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to obtain independent professional advice, concerning all aspects of procedure and effectiveness.
if necessary, at the Companys expense.
During this review, a number of matters were considered, including overall composition and diversity of the board.
Accountability Following completion of this part of the process, the Chairman met again with each of the Responsibilities individual Directors to discuss their views and to give feedback on their performance.
The results of the evaluation were reported to the Board and where areas of improvement have The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the preparation of the Annual Report.
The been identified, actions have been agreed upon and training will be provided where required.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities is shown on page 123.
A statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities is shown in the Independent Auditors Report on page 65.
Succession planning Strategy One of the basic premises behind the strategic development of the Michael Page business, is that growth is organic.
It is therefore one of the fundamental principles of the Company that we A detailed discussion of results, strategy and outlook is contained within the Business Review train and develop our own people.
This approach creates opportunities for career progression of this Annual Report.
and helps us attract and retain high calibre individuals.
Audit Committee Due to this philosophy of nurturing our own talent, succession planning is inherently a key part of The Audit Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by the business process.
We do not make promotions or move people within the business unless Ruby McGregor-Smith.
The Committee members have broad experience and knowledge of there is a clear successor for the vacant position.
It is, therefore, one of the key responsibilities financial reporting.
Their relevant qualifications and experience are shown in their biographies on of all levels of management, and not just the Board, to have a clear plan of development for their the Board of Directors pages 33 and 34. direct reports.
The Board believes that Ruby McGregor-Smith and Hubert Reid have recent and relevant Conflicts of interest financial experience.
The other members of the Audit Committee, Dr Tim Miller and Reg Sindall The Company has implemented robust procedures, in line with the Companies Act 2006, both have wide experience in regulatory and risk issues.
requiring Directors to seek appropriate authorisation prior to entering into any outside business The Committee met nine times in 2011 to fulfil its duties and included attendance by the external interests.
The Committee also met with the external auditors during the year In all cases where a potential conflict is identified, it is Board policy that the Director in question is without the presence of management.
not involved in any discussion of the area or issue giving rise to the conflict.
In 2011, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in the terms of reference, During the course of the year, the Board reviewed and authorised, in accordance with the which can be found on our website, www.
Its principal tasks are Companys Articles of Association, a small number of external directorships and other business to ensure the integrity of the Companys Financial Reporting process, review the effectiveness interests held by individual directors.
However, none were regarded as being of such significance of the Groups risk management and internal control systems, review the scope of the external as to give rise to a conflict of interest.
audit, consider issues raised by the external auditor, and review the half-yearly and annual accounts before they are presented to the Board, focusing in particular on accounting policies All Directors are aware of their continuing obligation to report any new interests or changes in and compliance, and areas of management judgement and estimates, as well as ensuring the existing interests that might amount to a possible conflict of interest in order that these may be independence of the external auditor and the provision of additional services to the Company.
considered by the Board and appropriate authorisations given.
49 CORPORATe GOveRNANCe During the year, with Deloitte LLP having been group auditors since 1998, the Audit The following areas are considered to be unacceptable for the external auditor to undertake: Committee recommended to the Board that it was appropriate to put the group audit out to selection, design or implementation of key financial systems: competitive tender.
Ernst & Young LLP was successful in this process.
maintaining or preparing the accounting books and records or the preparation of financial accounts or other key financial data: Objectivity and independence of external auditor provision of outsourced financial systems: Ernst & Young LLP is employed to perform work in addition to their statutory duties where provision of outsource operational management functions: it is felt that they are best placed to carry out the engagement as a result of their being the recruitment of senior finance or other executives: Groups auditor.
All other work is awarded on the basis of competitive tender.
secondment of senior finance or other executives: provision of internal audit services: The objectivity and independence of the external auditor is safeguarded by: valuation services or fairness opinions: and a. obtaining assurances from the external auditor that adequate policies and procedures any services specifically prohibited to be provided by a listed companys external auditors exist within its firm to ensure the firm and its staff are independent of the Group by reason under UK regulations.
of family, finance, employment, investment and business relationships other than in the The following criteria also need to be met before the external auditors are contracted to normal course of business : provide such services: b. enforcing a policy concerning the provision of non-audit services by the auditor which the firm has the necessary skills and experience to undertake the work: governs the types of work: there are no potential conflicts that may arise as a result of carrying out this activity: i. from which the external auditor is excluded: the external audit firm is subject to the companys normal tendering processes: and ii.
for which the external auditor can be engaged without referral to the Audit Committee: and in addition to the normal authorisation procedures and prior to inclusion in a tender, iii.
for which a case-by-case decision is required, which includes all engagements over approval has to be given by the Group Finance Director and, if the fee exceeds a certain certain fee limits.
c. enforcing a policy of reviewing all cases where it is proposed that a former employee of the external auditor be employed by the Group in a senior management position: and d. monitoring the external auditors compliance with applicable UK ethical guidance on the rotation of audit partners.
The Committee has also considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors independence and objectivity: the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and any variations from the plan: the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the content of the external auditors reporting on internal control.
Following the above, the Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that Ernst & Young LLP is re-appointed.
50 Internal control Any system of internal control can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement and loss.
Key elements of the system of internal control are as follows: The responsibilities of the Directors in respect of internal control are defined by the Financial Services Authoritys Listing Rules that incorporate a Code of Practice known as the Combined Group organisation.
Code, which requires that Directors review, at least annually, the effectiveness of the Groups The Board of Directors meets at least ten times a year, focusing mainly on strategic issues, system of internal controls.
This requirement stipulates that the review shall cover all material operational and financial performance.
There is also a defined policy on matters reserved controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial.
Internal strictly for the Board.
The Managing Director of each operating division is accountable for Control Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the Turnbull Report was published establishing and monitoring internal controls within that division: in September 1999, updated October 2005 and sets out best practice on internal audit for UK Annual business plan.
listed companies and assists them in applying Section C. 2 of the Code.
The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the The Board has assessed existing risk management and internal control processes during the Board: year ended 31 December 2011 in accordance with the current Turnbull guidance.
believes it has the procedures in place such that the Group has fully complied for the financial The Group prepares a full-year reforecast on a quarterly basis showing, by individual year ended 31 December 2011 and at the date of this report.
businesses disciplines, the results to date and a reforecast against budget for the remaining The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal financial and operational controls, period up to the end of the year: which are designed to meet the Groups particular needs and aim to safeguard Group assets, Financial reporting.
ensure proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial information used within Detailed monthly reports are produced showing comparisons of results against budget, the business and for publication is reliable.
forecast and the prior year, with performance monitoring and explanations provided for significant variances.
The Group issues trading updates to shareholders on a quarterly basis: Audit Committee.
There is an established Audit Committee whose activities are previously described: Financial and operational controls.
Individual operations complete an annual controls self assessment and certification statement.
Each operational manager, in addition to the finance function for that operation, confirms the adequacy of their systems of internal control and compliance with Group policies.
The statement also requires the reporting of any significant control issues, including suspected or reported fraud, that have emerged so that areas of Group concern can be identified and investigated as required: 51 CORPORATe GOveRNANCe Risk management.
Remuneration Identification of major business risks is carried out at Group level in conjunction with operational management and appropriate steps taken to monitor and mitigate risk: Remuneration Committee Public interest disclosure policy whistleblowing.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the independent Non-Executive Directors and, The audit committee has reviewed arrangements by which staff of the company may, in since 21 January 2011, is chaired by Reg Sindall, who took over the Chairmanship from confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting Dr Tim Miller.
Arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent The Committee reviews the Groups policy on the Chairmans, Executive Directors and investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow-up action: and senior executives remuneration and terms of employment, makes recommendations upon Internal audit activities.
this, along with the specific level of remuneration to the Board, and also approves the The internal audit function is an independent, dedicated Internal Audit team, comprising provision of policies for the incentivisation of senior employees, including share schemes.
the Head of Internal Audit and a team of Internal Auditors.
Businesses are visited on The Committee meets at least twice a year and is also attended by the Chief Executive, a risk-based and rotational basis to assess the effectiveness of controls in mitigating except when his own remuneration is under consideration.
The Remuneration Report specific risks.
In addition, risks are regularly reviewed and changes are made to the risk includes information on the Directors service contracts.
The terms of reference of the profile where necessary.
All internal audit activities are reported to the Audit Committee.
Remuneration Committee can be found on our website.
During the year, the Board monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit The Report of the Remuneration Committee can be found on pages 54 to 63 of the activities.
The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the Code and confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and that the processes have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
52 Relations with shareholders Board contact with shareholders Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The main contact between the Board and shareholders is through the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
They undertake two major investor roadshows each year in February March and August September, in which numerous one-to-one meetings with shareholders take place.
The outcome of these meetings and the views of shareholders are relayed back to the Board by the corporate brokers, at the end of each roadshow.
The Groups corporate brokers also report monthly to the Board on broking activity during the month and any issues that may have been raised with them.
Shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General Meeting where they are able to discuss any concerns with the Non-Executive Directors.
When requested by shareholders, individual matters can be discussed with the Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
The Group also has a website with an investor section http: investors.
co. uk that contains Company announcements and other shareholder information.
Annual Report The Annual Report is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Business Review provides an assessment of the Groups affairs and position.
The Annual Report and Interim Report are sent to all shareholders on the Register.
