4.1 Nomination committee The Combined Code requires The principal corporate governance guidance that applies to that a majority of members of the nomination committee should companies listed with the UK Listing Authority during the year be independent non-executive directors.
Throughout the year until reported on is contained in the Financial Reporting Councils 14 April 2011, the nomination committee comprised the Chairman, Combined Code 2008 the Combined Code.
The Combined Code, David Maloney non-executive Senior Independent Director and which operates on a comply or explain basis, incorporates, among Nigel Clifford executive director until Nigel Clifford left the Company others, recommendations by the Higgs Review regarding the role of on 14 April 2011.
The Company is aware that the Chairman is not non-executive directors and the Smith Review, which refers to audit regarded as independent for purposes of the Combined Code, committees.
Through their commitment to the highest standards of however, the Chairman operated in a non-executive capacity and corporate governance, the board endorses and supports the essential was considered by the board to be independent of management and elements of the Combined Code and, apart from a limited exception free from any business or other relationship which could materially as described below, believes the Group has fully complied with the interfere with the exercise of his independent judgment.
On Combined Code during the year reported on.
Where it has not, an 14 April 2011 the Chairman was appointed Executive Chairman explanation has been provided.
and Tom Skelton became a member of the nomination committee.
Tom Skelton is an independent non-executive director and On 28 May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council published the new therefore, since 14 April 2011, the nomination committee has UK Corporate Governance Code UK Corporate Governance Code to been in compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The UK Corporate Governance Code applies to reporting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and The principles set out in the Combined Code cover four areas: consequently has applied to the Company since 1 May 2011. the board, directors remuneration, accountability and audit and Although largely restating the Combined Code, the UK Corporate shareholder relations.
With the exception of directors remuneration Governance Code introduces a number of structural changes and new which is dealt with separately in the remuneration report on requirements aimed at improving the governance of listed companies.
pages 28 to 34 the following section sets out how the board has One of the more signi cant changes is the recommendation that all applied these principles.
The Combined Code can be accessed at directors stand for re-election at each AGM and this is discussed in www.
The board Compliance statement The Group is controlled by the board, which is responsible for the The directors are committed to ensuring that the Company will work Groups system of corporate governance.
As at 30 April 2011, the towards compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the board comprised six directors: Combined Code.
Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman Throughout the year reported on the Company has been in Mike Phillips Chief Financial Of cer compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Combined David Maloney Deputy Chairman and Non-executive Senior Code on corporate governance, except for the following: Independent Director Paul Pester Non-executive independent director A.
2.1 Chairman and Chief Executive The Combined Code requires Tom Skelton Non-executive independent director that the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive should not be Karen Slatford Non-executive independent director exercised by the same individual.
Following Nigel Clifford leaving the Company on 14 April 2011 as Chief Executive, Kevin Loosemore Nigel Clifford was appointed to the board as Chief Executive Of cer formerly non-executive Chairman was appointed to the role of on 1 May 2010 and left the Company on 14 April 2011.
The nomination committee and the board Loosemore was appointed Executive Chairman on 14 April 2011. considered that the combined role is in the interests of shareholders David Maloney was appointed Deputy Chairman on 14 April 2011. in order to utilise the proven leadership qualities and signi cant Mike Phillips was appointed Chief Financial Of cer on 7 September experience of Kevin Loosemore through a challenging period for 2010 and Nick Bray resigned from the board as Chief Financial Of cer the Company and to ensure the ongoing commercial success of on 23 June 2010.
Karen Slatford was appointed as an independent the Company.
In order to mitigate any potential concerns over non-executive director on 5 July 2010.
The role of the non-executive the combined role, David Maloney was also appointed as Deputy directors is to ensure that independent judgment is brought to board Chairman on 14 April 2011, and continues to perform his deliberations and decisions.
role as Senior Independent Director.
The board also has a clear majority of independent directors, with four out of six directors The non-executive directors possess a wide range of skills and being independent.
experience, relevant to the development of the Company, which complement those of the executive directors.
Until his appointment as Executive Chairman on 14 April 2011, the Chairman operated in a non-executive capacity and was considered by the board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of his independent judgment.
Micro Focus International plc 22 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information David Maloney, the non-executive Senior Independent Director and, In the year under review, the board met on fifteen occasions, ten such since 14 April 2011, Deputy Chairman, Paul Pester, Tom Skelton and meetings being scheduled formal board meetings with a further Karen Slatford, each a non-executive director, are considered by the five additional meetings of the board called at short notice to consider board to be independent.
In accordance with the Combined Code, all directors will be subject to While the board retains overall responsibility for, and control of the election by the shareholders at the first AGM of the Company after Company, day-to-day management of the business is conducted their appointment.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance by the executive directors.
Review of the Groups principal business Code, which has applied to the Company since 1 May 2011, all activities is the responsibility of task teams, comprising the executive directors are subject to election by the shareholders on an annual basis directors together with executives responsible for the relevant tasks at the AGM.
Therefore all directors will retire at the forthcoming AGM.
Non-executive directors are appointed for speci c terms.
Full terms of their appointment are to be found in the remuneration report.
The board receives papers on key subjects in advance of each board meeting.
These typically cover: The board has agreed procedures for directors to follow if they believe they require independent professional advice in the furtherance of Strategy and budgets: their duties and these procedures allow the directors to take such Business and financial performance: advice at the Companys expense.
In addition, all the directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Corporate activities: Company Secretary is accountable to the board through the Executive Chairman on governance matters.
It is the responsibility of the Human resources: and Company Secretary to ensure that board procedures are followed and all rules and regulations are complied with.
Under the direction of the Investor relations.
Chairman, the Company Secretarys responsibilities include facilitating induction and professional development and ensuring the smooth The board has undertaken a formal and rigorous process for the ow of information between board members, between the board and evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and its committees and between non-executive directors and senior individual directors including the Chairman, as required by Combined management.
Any new director receives a comprehensive, formal and Code provision A6.1.
Following an independent review of the board tailored induction into the Companys operations.
The directors can and committee performance in 2009, this years evaluation has been request that appropriate training is available as required.
conducted in the form of online surveys completed by members of the board with respect to the performance of the board and each of its The terms of reference for a non-executive Chairman and for a Chief committees, as well as individual director surveys.
These surveys were Executive have been agreed with the board and their roles remained provided by Lintstock Limited, a corporate advisory rm that provides separate until Nigel Clifford left the Company as Chief Executive and objective and independent counsel to leading European companies.
Kevin Loosemore was appointed as Executive Chairman on 14 April The results of these surveys have been reviewed by the board and 2011.
To address any potential concerns over the combined role, each committee and the resulting recommendations are being David Maloney non-executive Senior Independent Director was also implemented.
The Chairman and the Deputy Chairman individually appointed Deputy Chairman.
The board also has a clear majority of holds meetings with non-executive directors without the presence independent directors, with four out of six directors being of executive directors.
Con icts of interest As part of its leadership and control of the Company, the board has Following the implementation of the relevant provisions of the agreed a list of items that are speci cally reserved for its consideration.
Companies Act 2006, the Company has put in place procedures to These include business strategy, nancing arrangements, material deal with con icts of interests, which have operated effectively.
The acquisitions and divestments, approval of the annual budget, major board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and changes capital expenditure projects, risk management, treasury policies and to these commitments are reported to the board.
establishing and monitoring internal controls.
At each meeting, the board reviews progress of the Group towards its objectives, and Board committees monitors financial progress against budget.
In accordance with best practice, the Company has established audit, nomination and remuneration committees, with written terms of In the year to 30 April 2012, the board has scheduled meetings on a reference for each that deal with their respective authorities and regular basis approximately every one to two months, with additional duties.
The full terms of reference of all the committees are available meetings when circumstances and business dictate.
In months in from the Company Secretary or can be viewed on the Companys which the board does not meet update calls are scheduled to review website.
The Company is aware that the Chairman is not regarded progress.
All directors receive an agenda and board papers in advance as independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
of meetings to help them make an effective contribution at the meetings.
In addition, the executive directors ensure regular informal contact is maintained with non-executive directors.
The board makes full use of appropriate technology as a means of updating and informing all its members.
Micro Focus International plc 23 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance continued Audit committee The audit committees terms of reference include a process for The audit committee is comprised entirely of non-executive directors employees of the Company to raise, in con dence, concerns about of the Company.
It is chaired by David Maloney, who the board possible impropriety in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
considers has recent and relevant financial experience.
The other members are Tom Skelton, Paul Pester and Karen Slatford.
The written terms of reference of the audit committee include, among other things, the following responsibilities: The audit committee has met six times during the financial year and will meet at least four times during the coming financial year and, To report to the board, identifying any matters in respect of which it additionally as appropriate.
A schedule of meetings for the coming considers that action or improvement is needed and making year has been established.
recommendations as to the steps to be taken: The audit committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups annual To ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly protected in accounts and interim reports prior to submission for approval to the relation to financial reporting and internal control: full board.
The committee also monitors the Groups accounting policies, internal financial control systems and financial reporting To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, procedures.
The audit committee provides a forum through which the including its annual and interim reports, preliminary results Groups external and internal auditors report to the board.
The announcements and any other announcement relating to its auditors are invited to attend meetings of the committee on a regular financial performance: basis and have the opportunity to meet privately with committee members in the absence of executive management.
The audit To review the consistency of, and changes to, accounting policies: committee oversees the relationship with the auditor, including the independence and objectivity of the auditor taking into account UK To keep under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the controls and risk management systems: audit rm as a whole and the consideration of audit fees and fees for other non-audit work.
In addition, the audit committee has developed To review the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise a policy designed to ensure that the auditors objectivity and concerns, in con dence, about possible wrongdoing in financial independence is not compromised by it undertaking inappropriate reporting or other matters: non-audit work.
All signi cant non-audit work commissioned from the external auditor requires audit committee approval.
An outsourced To review the Companys procedures for detecting fraud, the internal audit function continues to be provided by KPMG.
The Companys systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and Groups Chief Financial Of cer provides oversight and co-ordination of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Companys anti money internal audit.
In order to ensure independence, internal audit has a laundering systems: direct reporting line to the audit committee and its Chairman.
To monitor and review the need for, and the effectiveness of, the The role of internal audit is to advise executive management and the Companys internal audit function in the context of the Companys board on the extent to which the Groups systems of internal control overall risk management system: are effective.
The internal audit plan for each year is determined through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved by the To oversee the relationship with the Companys auditors, ensuring audit committee.
the independence and objectivity of the auditor and considering audit fees and fees for non-audit work: and The nature and scope of the internal audits to be completed during the year was reviewed and approved by the audit committee and the To consider and make recommendations to the board in relation to reports of results of completed audits received and responses of the appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys executive management were considered.
The plan set out at the external auditor.
beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work was in line with expectations.
During the year, the committees business included consideration of the following: The effectiveness of internal control procedures: The annual financial statements, full year results announcement, half year results and other stock exchange announcements: Micro Focus International plc 24 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information The annual review of the performance and effectiveness of both the The terms of reference of the nomination committee include, among internal and external auditors: other matters, the following responsibilities: Responses to a questionnaire on the audit committees performance To review the structure, size and composition including the skills, and effectiveness: knowledge, experience and diversity required of the board and make recommendations to the board with regard to any changes: A strategic risk assessment exercise to identify and assess the Groups key risks and the controls in place to manage and mitigate To identify and nominate, for the approval of the board, candidates against these risks: to ll board vacancies as and when they arise: Review of the internal audit reports issued during the year and the To give full consideration to succession planning for directors and risk based internal audit programme for the financial year ended other senior executives: 30 April 2011: To keep under review the leadership needs of the Group, both Review of the external audit plan: executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in the marketplace: and Review of the external auditors performance by means of completion of an online questionnaire by members of the board To review annually the time required from non-executives and and the Companys financial management as a result of which the evaluating whether they are spending enough time to ful l board is recommending that shareholders approve the their duties.
reappointment of  LLP as external auditor for the financial year ended 30 April 2012 at the forthcoming AGM Following the resignation of Nick Bray, the nomination committee on 22 September 2011.
The questionnaire was supplied by Lintstock oversaw the search and selection process of the new Chief Financial Limited, the independent corporate advisory rm that provides Of cer.
The committee appointed external independent professional objective and independent counsel to leading European companies.
advisers, Russell Reynolds, to assist and a shortlist of candidates was  LLP have been the external auditor to the recommended to the committee to be interviewed and considered by Group since the Companys initial public offering in 2005.
This process culminated in the appointment of Mike Phillips no contractual restrictions on the Company on the choice of as the Groups new Chief Financial Of cer with effect from external auditor: 7 September 2010.
An updated Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, prior to review Remuneration committee by the board, in connection with the UK Bribery Act: and Details of the remuneration committee are described in the remuneration report on pages 28 to 34.
The management of corporate fraud risks.
Accountability and audit Nomination committee The board is responsible for the preparation of financial statements The nomination committee is comprised of David Maloney nonthat present a balanced assessment of the Groups financial position executive Senior Independent Director and Deputy Chairman who and prospects.
This responsibility is administered primarily by the chairs the committee, Kevin Loosemore Executive Chairman and audit committee, the terms of reference of which are referred to Tom Skelton independent non-executive director.
Nigel Clifford left the Company as a director and ceased to be a member of the committee and was replaced by Tom Skelton.
During Risk management the year Kevin Loosemore was Chairman of the Committee until he The board recognises the need to understand and control the variety was appointed Executive Chairman on 14 April 2011 following which of risks to which the Group is exposed.
In order to address these David Maloney replaced Kevin Loosemore as Chairman of the challenges on behalf of the board, during the year, the audit Committee.
The committee has met four times during the financial committee oversaw the executive managements risk management year.
The nomination committee will meet at least twice during the activities.
The executive management took responsibility for regular coming financial year.
evaluation of generic and speci c risks within the business and the implementation of mitigation plans to address them.
The nomination committee is responsible to the full board for proposing candidates to the board, having regard to the balance and Risks are assessed with reference to the achievement of the Groups structure of the board.
The nomination committee uses consultants to business objectives and according to current market and economic identify suitable candidates where a position is identi ed.
The continuous monitoring of strategic and operational risks is the responsibility of the board and executive management respectively.
Micro Focus International plc 25 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance continued The risk process has been in place for the year under review and is up All contracts are reviewed.
The level of review depends on the to date at the time of this report.
size and complexity of the contracts and associated risks.
There are formal limits above which the review level is escalated: The audit committee considers any signi cant control matters raised in reports from management and by the internal and external Reconciliations are performed on a timely basis for all major auditors.
It then reports its findings to the board.
Where weaknesses accounts: and are identi ed, the audit committee requires appropriate action to be taken by management and may request internal audit to perform Research and development and capital expenditure programmes a speci c review into these areas if required.
are subject to formal review and monitoring procedures.
Internal controls Financial reporting The board is ultimately responsible for establishing and monitoring In addition to the general internal controls and risk management internal control systems throughout the Group and reviewing their processes described above, the Group also has speci c internal effectiveness.
It recognises that rigorous systems of internal control controls and risk management systems to govern the financial are critical to the Groups achievement of its business objectives, that reporting process: those systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and that they can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance There are Group policies covering what is reported in monthly against material misstatement or loss.
reporting to the board and senior management team.
The Groups financial reporting system has been guided by the requirement There is an ongoing internal process for identifying, evaluating and to ensure consistency and visibility of management information managing the signi cant risks faced by the Company in association to enable the board and senior management to review the Groups with the work performed by the outsourced internal audit function.
worldwide operations effectively: This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the report and accounts and it is regularly reviewed by Cash ow forecasts are produced twice monthly by all operations.
the board and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
These are reviewed by the Group treasury function to ensure effective cash management by the Group and to enable its bank As part of the process that the Company has in place to review the funding to be repaid as soon as possible: effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the Management representations covering compliance with Group case of those categorised by the board as signi cant, procedures policies and the accuracy of financial information are collated on exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy any a quarterly basis: and such failings.
All the major trading entities completed a self assessment on the This requirement is set out in the audit committees terms of reference effectiveness of their internal control environment.
to report on a regular basis to the board on the Groups internal financial control procedures and to make recommendations to the Consolidation reporting board in this area.
The consolidation process entails the combining and adjusting of financial information from the individual financial statements of The external auditor provides a supplementary, independent and Micro Focus International plc and its subsidiary undertakings to autonomous perspective on those areas of the internal control system prepare consolidated financial statements that present financial which they assess in the course of their work.
Their findings are information for the Group as a single economic entity.
Note 1, regularly reported to both the audit committee and the board.
Group accounting policies, sets out the basis of preparation and consolidation, including the elimination of inter-company To ensure auditor objectivity and independence there is a stringent transactions, balances and unrealised gains between process in place to approve non-audit work.
Group companies: The key elements of the control system are: Financial information from subsidiaries is reviewed for accuracy by internal review and by external audit where a formal audit The Group operates a structured, objectives-driven approach to is required: and ful l its core purpose and goals in respect of sustained pro tability and growth: The consolidated financial statements are completed in accordance with EU endorsed International Financial Reporting Standards, Systems and procedures are in place for all major transaction types IFRIC interpretations, and the Companies Act 2006. with appropriate authorisation controls: Micro Focus International plc 26 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 2011 overview Consolidated fi financial statements and notes Business review Company fi financial statements and notes Management and governance Additional information Human resources to the Executive Chairman, Chairman of the committee or the The Group endeavours to appoint employees with appropriate skills, Company Secretary and their comments are then communicated at knowledge and experience for the roles they undertake.
The Group has a range of policies which are aimed at retaining and Shareholder relations providing incentives for key staff.
Objectives are set for departments The Company values the views of shareholders and recognises their and employees that are derived from the Groups business objectives interests in the Groups strategy and performance.
and performance is formally measured against these objectives twice each year.
The Group has a clear and well-understood organisational The Company reports formally to shareholders four times a year, structure and each employee knows his or her line of accountability.
around June preliminary announcement of annual results and December interim statement and the Company also publishes interim Announcements management statements in or around August and February each year.
All major announcements are approved by the Chairman and the The annual report is expected to be mailed to shareholders at least executive directors and circulated to the board prior to issue.
20 business days before the AGM.
Separate announcements of all material events are made as necessary.
Regular communications are The Group also has internal and external checks to guard against maintained with institutional shareholders and presentations are given unauthorised release of information.
to shareholders when the half year and full year financial results are announced and at other times.
In addition to the Executive Chairman Budgetary process and Chief Financial Of cer, who have regular contact with investors, A comprehensive budgeting process allows managers to submit David Maloney the Senior Independent non-executive Director and detailed budgets which are reviewed and amended by executive Deputy Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as and when directors prior to submission to the board for approval.
The whole board is kept up to date at its regular meetings with the views of shareholders and analysts.
External analysts reports Insurance are also circulated to directors.
The Group keeps under review its portfolio of insurance policies with its insurance brokers to ensure that the policies are appropriate to the The Companys website www.
com provides an overview Groups activities and exposures.
of the business including its strategy, products and objectives.
Attendance at meetings All Group announcements are available on the Companys website The number of board meetings and committee meetings attended by and new announcements are published without delay.
The terms of each director in the year to 30 April 2011 was as follows: reference of each of the boards three committees and other important corporate governance documents are available on the Audit Remuneration Nomination website and from the Company Secretary.
Additionally, the Executive Board committee committee committee Chairman, Chief Financial Of cer and Head of Investor Relations Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended provide focal points for shareholders enquiries and dialogue throughout the year.
Kevin Loosemore 15 15 7 5 4 4 1 Nigel Clifford 13 12 2 2 2 AGM Mike Phillips 10 10 3 The Companys AGM, which will be held on 22 September 2011 at Nick Bray 1 1 3pm UK time will provide an opportunity for the board to meet with David Maloney 15 15 6 6 7 7 4 4 all shareholders and the participation of shareholders is encouraged.
Paul Pester 15 11 6 5 4 4 At the meeting, in addition to the statutory business, the board will be Tom Skelton 15 15 6 6 7 7 1 1 4 available for questions from shareholders.
Karen Slatford 13 13 5 5 5 4 In accordance with the Combined Code recommendations, the During period of appointment.
Company will count all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged, the number of proxy votes for and against each such Notes: 1 Nigel Clifford left the Company 14 April 2011. resolution and the number of votes withheld.
A resolution will be 2 Mike Phillips was appointed on 7 September 2010. proposed for each substantive issue and the chairs of the audit, 3 Nick Bray resigned on 23 June 2010. remuneration and nomination committees will attend to answer 4 Karen Slatford was appointed on 5 July 2010. questions.
Directors are normally provided with the agenda and supporting Information on share capital and other matters papers for board and committee meetings a week prior to the The information about share capital required to be included in this meeting.
If unable to attend a meeting a director will provide feedback statement can be found on page 20 of the directors report and in note 22 to the financial statements.
Micro Focus International plc 27 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
