Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation UGXJ UL OXKIZUXY Mike Lawrie Sir James Crosby John King John Ormerod Jeff Ubben Philip Rowley Timothy Tuff Stephen Wilson 48 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation 4 123 Mike Lawrie Philip Rowley Chief Executive 58 Non-executive Director 58 Mike joined the Board in November 2006.
Mike was previously Appointed a non-executive Director in November 2008.
Philip a General Partner with ValueAct Capital.
From 2004 to 2005 Rowley was Chairman and CEO of AOL Europe until February he was Chief Executive officer of Siebel Systems Inc. the 2007.
He is a qualied chartered accountant and was Group international software and solutions company.
Prior to that, Finance Director of Kingsher plc from 1998 to 2000.
During Mike spent 27 years with IBM where he rose to become 2000 and 2001 he was Deputy Chief Executive and Chief Senior Vice President and Group Executive with responsibility Financial officer of Kingshers General Merchandise Division.
for sales and distribution of all IBM products and services His previous roles included Executive Vice President and Chief worldwide.
Previously at IBM he had been the General Financial officer of EMI Music Worldwide and Chief Operating Manager for all operations in Europe, the Middle East and officer and CFO of Golden Books Family Entertainment, the Africa.
He previously served on the US Advisory Board of largest childrens book publisher in the US.
He is non-executive NTT DoCoMo and as a Director of SSA Global, Inc. Symbol Chairman of HMV Group plc and a non-executive Director of Technology, Inc. and Good Technology, Inc. Mike is the lead ARM Holdings Plc and Promethean World plc.
He is also independent non-executive Director of Juniper Networks, Inc. Chairman of Livestation Limited and Pouncer Media Limited.
and is also a Trustee of Drexel University, Philadelphia.
123 Timothy Tuff 234 Sir James Crosby Non-executive Director 64 Chairman 55 Appointed a non-executive Director in February 2011.
Timothy James joined the Board as a non-executive Director in Tuff was the Chairman, President and Chief Executive officer January 2009 and held that role until September 2009 of John H. Harland Company from 1998 to 2007.
Harland when he was appointed Chairman.
Thirty years in fund was a leading supplier of printed and software products to the management, insurance and banking culminated in his time financial industry and, through its subsidiary Scantron, to the as Chief Executive of Halifax and HBOS 1999 to 2006. educational industry.
Timothy joined Harland after five years as He is the Senior Independent Director of Compass Group President and CEO of Boral Industries, where he managed the plc and a Trustee and Treasurer of Cancer Research UK.
North American and European operations of Australia-based Boral, Ltd. a world leader in building and construction materials.
123 John King He also serves as a Venture Partner for Ampersand Capital Non-executive Director 72 Partners, is a Director of Printpack Inc. and of KnowledgeWorks Appointed a non-executive Director in November 2005.
John Foundation and serves on the Board of Councilors for the is Chairman of the remuneration committee.
He has over 30 Carter Center.
years experience of the US healthcare industry as President 5 and CEO of Legacy Health Systems until 1999.
Prior to Legacy, Stephen Wilson John was President and CEO of Evangelical Health Systems Executive Director 51 now Advocate Health Systems.
He is a member of the Stephen was appointed to the Board as an executive Director American Hospital Association and a Fellow in the American in October 2010 following his appointment as Chief Financial College of Healthcare Executives.
John serves on the Boards officer in June 2010.
He joined Misys in May 2009 as Vice of the Center for Healthcare Governance, Pacic University President, Group Finance, responsible for Investor Relations, and AHA Services, Inc. Corporate Development, Tax, Treasury and Internal Audit.
Prior to joining Misys Stephen worked at IBM for 25 years 123 John Ormerod where he developed his financial career most recently as Senior Independent Director 62 Vice President and Chief Financial officer for IBM UK and Appointed a non-executive Director in October 2005 and Senior Ireland.
Stephen is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Independent Director in November 2005.
John Ormerod is Management Accountants.
Chairman of the audit committee.
He is a chartered accountant and has over 30 years experience in professional practice.
He is a non-executive Director of Gemalto NV, Computacenter plc, ITV plc and Chairman of Tribal Group plc.
John is also a Trustee of the Design Museum.
4 Jeff Ubben Non-executive Director 50 Appointed a non-executive Director in January 2007.
Jeff Ubben is a co-founder, Chief Executive officer and the Chief Investment officer of ValueAct Capital, a San Francisco based investment partnership.
Prior to that, he was a Managing Partner at BLUM Capital Partners, a private investment partnership and previously spent eight years at Notes Fidelity Management and Research, where he managed the 1 Member of the audit committee Fidelity Value Fund.
Jeff is a Director of Sara Lee Corp. and 2 Member of the nomination committee Gartner Group, Inc. and previously served on the Boards of 3 Member of the remuneration committee Per-Se Technologies, Inc. and of Catalina Marketing Corp.
He 4 Member of the executive committee 5 Member of the treasury and finance committee is a former Chairman and Director of Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, Inc. and has served on the boards of a number Membership of Committees and ages are of other public and private companies.
Annual Report 2011 49 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation UXVUXGZK MU KXTGTIK XKVUXZ OXKIZUXY XKVUXZ The past year has been one of significant change for the business during which we have built on our governance process review completed last year.
We have also considered our Board composition and made two appointments to the Board to ensure it is aligned to meeting the changing requirements of the business.
One new executive Director and one new independent non-executive Director joined the Board.
The appointment of Stephen Wilson has brought a stronger executive representation to the Board and we have also strengthened the industry and geographical representation with the appointment of Timothy Tuff.
Their biographies are set out on page 49 and give more details on their respective backgrounds.
We will continue to monitor Board composition, balance and overall diversity during the coming year.
Sir James Crosby Effective governance is vital to our business and our values.
Our approach is to ensure that the governance structure enhances the business and supports it in achieving its strategic goals.
We keep our governance framework under regular review and have made certain updates during the year to ensure that it remains relevant to both the external and internal governance environment.
As a Board, we keep our objectives under constant review and part of this process is to consider our responsibilities and delivery against our objectives.
For the first time this year, we appointed an external advisor, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, to assess how the Board and its Committees are performing and to highlight any areas where we could improve.
The review afrmed our belief that the Board was operating effectively and was responsive to the needs of the business.
Where improvements have been suggested we are taking steps to implement them.
The Board style continues to be one of openness and constructive debate between Directors and this was reected in the findings of the review.
This review also gave us an external assessment of individual Directors, including myself as Chairman.
We have considered the recommendations as set out in The UK Corporate Governance Code.
We plan to comply with all new aspects of the code and in particular will be putting all our Directors up for re-election at the AGM.
I hope the following governance report will give you a fuller and deeper understanding of how we are governing our Company and engaging with our shareholders.
James Crosby Chairman 28 July 2011 50 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation Who is on our Board?
However, in line with The UK Corporate Governance Code, Our Board is led by James Crosby who is also Chairman of we have decided that all Directors will stand for election or the nomination committee.
Our Senior re-election at the 2011 AGM.
Independent Director is John Ormerod who is also Chairman of the audit committee and John King is Chairman of our Our non-executive Directors full a vital role in corporate remuneration committee.
Other Board members are Stephen accountability by bringing their independent judgement to bear Wilson, Philip Rowley, Timothy Tuff and Jeff Ubben.
Full details on issues brought before the Board and its Committees.
Their on all our Directors can be found on page 49. knowledge and experience gained in other areas of international business and public life contributes greatly to the understanding We appointed Stephen Wilson, our CFO, to the Board on and decision making process of the Board.
Over half our Board 1 October 2010 as an executive Director.
Stephen brings is made up of non-executive Directors with exactly half of the with him a wealth of experience in the software sector and Board being independent not including the Chairman who was is a valuable addition to the overall balance of the Board.
considered independent at the time of his appointment.
During the year, there were no significant changes to the Chairmans Timothy Tuff was appointed as an independent non-executive commitments and none which could affect his ability to devote Director on 23 February 2011.
He was subsequently appointed sufficient time to the Companys affairs.
as a member to each of the audit, remuneration and nomination committees.
His strong background in financial We do not consider Jeff Ubben to be independent under services software and international business complements Provision A.
3.1 of the Combined Code as a result of his the existing skill set of the rest of the Board members.
Our interest in ValueAct Capital, a major shareholder in the Directors bring UK and international experience of the software Company.
Mike Lawrie is a non-executive Director of and financial services industries as well as the specialist skills Juniper Networks, Inc. and a Trustee of Drexel University needed to lead and participate in key Board committees such and does not hold any non-executive Directorships with as audit and remuneration.
Currently our articles provide that Directors may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the shareholders or by resolution of the Board.
At each AGM, any Director who has been appointed by the Board since the previous AGM, or for whom it is the third AGM following the AGM at which they were last elected or re-elected, shall retire and offer himself for election or re-election.
How is our Board What is the tenure structured?
Chairman James Crosby 2 year tenure Executive Directors John Ormerod 5 year tenure Non-independent John King 5 year tenure non-executive Directors Philip Rowley 2 year tenure Independent Timothy Tuff 3 month tenure non-executive Directors Jeff Ubben 4 year tenure Mike Lawrie 4 year tenure Stephen Wilson 8 month tenure Annual Report 2011 51 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation UXVUXGZK MU KXTGTIK XKVUXZ OXKIZUXY XKVUXZ IUTZOT[KJ Attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Director 2010 AGM Main Board Committee Committee Committee Sch Ad Hoc Sch Ad Hoc Sch Ad Hoc Sch Sir James Crosby 1 1 8 8 9 9 7 7 4 4 1 1 M Lawrie 1 1 8 8 9 9 S Wilson app 1 Oct 2010 5 5 4 4 J G King 1 1 8 8 8 9 7 7 1 1 7 7 4 4 1 1 J Ormerod 1 1 8 8 9 9 7 7 1 1 7 7 4 4 1 1 P Rowley 1 1 8 8 9 9 7 7 1 1 7 7 4 4 1 1 T Tuff app 23 Feb 2011 2 2 1 1 2 2 2 2 J Ubben 1 1 8 8 9 9 Typically the Board meets around 8 times a year and the Bangalore is our fastest growing site housing much of our Committees up to 5 times a year.
However, this year, due to development operations as well as customer support, services increased corporate activity, the Board met 17 times.
The and finance teams and has over 1,200 employees.
Whilst in Board aims to hold two of its meetings at Misys overseas Bangalore, the Board had the opportunity to meet many of the operations.
This year, the Board held meetings in New York local leaders, see the local teams in action and review plans to and an in-depth two day strategy session in Bangalore.
further develop an increasingly important centre for Misyss various businesses.
What has the Board done during the year?
Appointed two Board members using an external On target to deliver on internal search agency for the non-executive Director business plans Undertook a detailed review of succession Disposal of Allscripts and creation of planning and talent across the organisation a pure play financial services business Addressed the total reward framework throughout Acquisition of Sophis resulting in a the organisation leading position within the capital Reviewed and consulted with shareholders on a markets industry new long-term incentive arrangement for the CEO Banking returned to growth through sales of new solutions Leadership Delivery on our strategy Engaged an external consultant to facilitate Introducted a new engagement survey to the effectiveness review of the Board and enable staff to feedback how they really performance review of Directors feel achieving a 74% response rate Delivered a full induction process for Launched the Misys Club, a framework Our employees Effectiveness new Directors for employee giving and volunteering Continued to enhance our risk management processes with new, more focused, reports to the Board Our customers Commitment to our shareholders Refreshed and enhanced our product Consulted openly and collaboratively during portfolio delivering new products to market the disposal of Allscripts in each division Returned 670m to our shareholders Listened to customer feedback and Active consultation on recalibration of existing improved on our Satmetrix score for the 4th incentive arrangements to reect major year in a row corporate activity Made significant strides with our new suite of banking products in particular BankFusion Continued investment in our quality programmes 52 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation The Boards role is to provide leadership, set the strategic How did we comply with the Combined Code?
direction of the business and continuously monitor Compliance with the Combined Code which applies to performance against strategic objectives through oversight and Misys for the year ended 31 May 2011 is an important step in the effective monitoring of risk.
Critical to this role is the Boards achieving good and transparent corporate governance.
To that oversight of succession planning, particularly for the CEO and end we have complied with the principles and provisions of the other senior executives, and the management of risk.
Both 2008 Combined Code during this year.
In previous years we had have been an area of focus for the Boards attention in 2011. highlighted that we only had one executive Director on the Board The Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company but the Directors considered the balance of the Board was subject to the provisions of relevant law, the Companys compliant with the code due to the independent strengths of the Articles and any special resolution of the Company in the non-executive DIrectors.
The appointment of Stephen Wilson furtherance of their role.
as an executive Director has further strengthened the Board.
How do we approach Governance?
We believe that strong governance processes and oversight In order to make strong, good quality decisions, it is important sit at the heart of our culture, not only in the Boardroom but that no-one involved in the decision making process is conicted across the whole of the business, enabling it to better deliver on in such a way that could impair their decision making.
However, its responsibilities to all of our partners and other stakeholders.
we recognise that from time to time conicts may arise and accordingly we have a formal system in place for the Directors to Our Code of Conduct sets out how we expect our Board, declare any situational conict they may have.
Such conicts may employees, partners, suppliers and others to live by our be authorised by the other Directors that are not interested in the values and demonstrate strong ethical behaviour.
matter and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, as they see t. We maintain a We are also committed to operating in an environmentally register of conicts and keep this under review on an annual sustainable way and to promoting community involvement.
In particular, the Board is mindful of the position of Jeff This year we launched the Misys Club, an initiative to support Ubben who is also an executive with ValueAct Capital, our largest employee giving and volunteering, and further details can shareholder.
The process for managing and monitoring conicts be found in the Social and Environmental section of the continues to operate effectively.
How is our governance framework structured?
Our policy is not to make political donations and we have not Our governance framework provides the formal governance done so in this period 2010: nil.
structure within which the Board and its Committees operate.
The framework details the terms of reference for each of the The Chairman is responsible for the effective operation of the Committees and sets out the matters that are specically Board and for inuencing the culture around the Board table reserved to the Board.
It also clearly defines the roles of the and between Directors.
The Misys Board has an open style Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent of communication, one which encourages an environment Director.
The Board process itself, including the timely and of constructive debate and healthy challenge between Board relevant provision of information, conduct at meetings members, both inside and outside the Boardroom.
Regular and the reporting of the each of the Committees up to the updates between meetings ensure that Directors are always Board is also covered.
We deliver our Board papers through able to contribute to and have oversight of a fast moving an electronic portal that enables Directors to access Board executive agenda.
papers wherever they may be in the world.
Arrangements for the induction of Directors, ongoing development and monitoring our effectiveness are clearly dened in the framework.
Misys plc Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Executive Committee Treasury and Finance Management Processes Committee Annual Report 2011 53 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation UXVUXGZK MU KXTGTIK XKVUXZ OXKIZUXY XKVUXZ IUTZOT[KJ This year we have further enhanced our governance framework The governance structure is designed to deliver an effective taking into consideration the FRC Report on the Effectiveness two way ow of information from the business up to the Board of Boards and the ICSA best practice guidance notes on and from the Board back to the business.
The CEO reports Committee Terms of Reference.
directly to the Board and provides a regular update to the Directors on business performance and opportunities.
He is We introduced a role description for the Senior Independent supported in the management of the business and on the Director and updated and improved our Committee terms of delivery of strategy by a management team made up of the reference where we felt it would improve the effectiveness, senior business leaders and the CFO.
The CEO meets with the performance and oversight of the relevant Committee.
management team on a bi-weekly basis to review and discuss operational performance and other matters.
The management We also believe that in order for a Director to contribute at their team, and other senior managers as appropriate, are provided most effective, an extensive and tailored induction should be with opportunities to report directly to the Board on their provided to all new Directors.
Furthermore, following the initial progress.
Through the CEO updates, the Board monitors what induction, ongoing development for all Directors is important.
management is doing within the framework of delivering on the Our Committee composition is such that we have common strategy and probes their thinking to ensure they are on the membership across our Committees, thereby ensuring that right path.
there are no gaps in the remit or the matters considered by each Committee nor unnecessary duplication.
Summary of responsibilities of our Board and Committees Board Responsible for setting the strategic direction of the Company and monitoring performance against the strategic plan in a manner that is most likely to promote the long-term success of the business.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee s Supports the Board in reviewing the s Determines the framework and broad s Reviews the composition of the Board integrity of the financial statements remuneration strategy and policy for and makes recommendations for Board and the effectiveness of the system executive Directors and other senior appointments.
In doing so keeps under s Monitors ongoing succession planning for s Keeps under review the relationship and review the alignment of our remuneration Directors and senior executives.
performance of the external auditors.
strategy to the wider environment.
Each of the Committees has detailed terms of reference and On an ongoing basis the non-executive Directors are provided reports to the Board on its activities at each Board meeting.
with targeted development sessions which are built into the rolling agenda.
These sessions are developed to address the Effectiveness needs of the Directors as they arise or in response to particular How do we ensure effectiveness?
During the year we covered updates in respect of Our open and collaborative culture is supported by well the UK Corporate Governance Code, recent and prospective organised internal processes which support the Board in changes to accounting practices, the impact of the Bribery Act maximising their decision making process.
The Board and its and aspects of crisis management.
Committees operate forward looking rolling agendas which are aligned to both the strategic aims of the Group and the How do we measure our effectiveness?
Meetings and discussions outside Despite all of the above, it is important that we monitor how the Boardroom are also facilitated as part of this process, we are performing.
During January 2011 Dr Tracy Long of particularly during the overseas site visits where the Board Boardroom Review carried out a full assessment of the takes full advantage of a forum that provides for detailed effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, the discussion, consultation and debate.
performance of each individual Director and in particular the Chairman.
Boardroom Review has substantial experience of Induction process such reviews in the UK so were able to test the Boards We have appointed new Directors during the year and provided effectiveness in a comparative context.
each with a comprehensive personalised induction.
Stephen Wilson had been the Vice President Group Finance and CFO During her review Dr Long highlighted the strengths of the prior to his Board appointment and during that tenure had Board as including a exible approach to strategic shifts and developed a good understanding of the business.
Upon his challenges, a continually improving risk management and control appointment as a Director, he was provided with a detailed environment, an open relationship between Board members and review of his additional responsibilities and the obligations the CEO and nally, strong Board dynamics.
This endorsed the placed upon him as a Director.
Timothy Tuff was new to the feeling that already existed among the individual Board members.
business and his induction was more comprehensive and included a detailed overview of the Company including its Critically, she also identied ways in which the Board could Governance practices, constitutional make-up and culture.
For example, it was felt that the Board also met with key personnel across the business to help build collectively should discuss updates on the competitive context in his understanding of the business, its strategy, our shareholder each of our businesses more frequently.
Whilst this had always expectations and the strategic priorities in each area.
He has been considered as part of our strategy away day, more regular visited various sites including Bangalore, London and New updates will now be provided.
Whilst the non-executive Directors York.
He also met with one of our strategic partners, HCL, receive opportunities to meet with our advisors and key and nally with our external advisors.
management on a regular basis, it was recommended that they could benefit from more regular invitations to attend relevant industry conferences and customer advisory groups.
54 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation Highlights of what our Committees have achieved during the year?
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee s Engaged with investors on the impact of s Engaged an external search agency on the s Reviewed and received reports from the disposal of Allscripts on the Companys non-executive Director search resulting in the auditors on the annual financial share plans.
the appointment of Timothy Tuff.
statements and other published s Agreed retention incentive arrangements s Reviewed the succession planning of the financial information.
with the CEO having consulted with our Companys leadership team.
s Monitored the work of internal audit.
s Kept under review the composition of the s Reviewed the Groups approach to risk s Oversaw the re-alignment of our share plan Board.
and oversaw improvements in the targets for the Omnibus Share Scheme Enterprise Risk Management System arising due to the capital return and and linkages to the Boards risk appetite.
s Oversaw the audit and disclosure process during the disposal of Allscripts and the subsequent return of capital to shareholders.
s Reviewed foreign currency hedging and accounting policies.
s Maintained financial oversight during the acquisition of Sophis.
s Closely monitored the external auditors independence and non-audit fees during the year.
The External Auditor Accountability Board Committees The effectiveness and independence of the external auditor Audit Committee is vital to ensuring that the Committee has confidence in the Our audit committee is chaired by John Ormerod and Groups published financial information as well as providing both he and Philip Rowley have recent and relevant financial insight on risks and controls.
We judge the external auditor not experience.
Following his appointment to the Board, Timothy only on their understanding of the Companys business and Tuff was appointed to the Committee on 23 March 2011.
John the quality of the relationship across Misys but on the quality of King is also a member of the Committee.
An environment of their audit findings, the degree of challenge and managements open communication and dialogue is vital to the Committees response and, nally, their independence.
As part of this effectiveness and as such the CFO, the Group Financial process, the Committee seeks feedback from management, Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors the business areas the external auditor has visited and reviews have a standing invitation to attend meetings.
reports of the Audit Inspection Unit.
To ensure integrity is maintained and to allow individuals to Before the commencement of each audit the Committee highlight any specic matters to the members of the audit discusses and approves the audit plan.
PwC explain the committee, they met in private with the CFO three times, programme of work they plan to undertake to address the the Head of Internal Audit twice and the external auditors, risks they have identied to ensure that these risks do not lead PwC, twice during the year.
There is also an open line of to a material mis-statement in the financial statements.
The communication between the Committee Chairman and all Committee receives updates on the audit as it progresses senior management as and when required.
The Committee and discusses any risks identied during the audit.
receives detailed reports from the external auditor and from the Head of Internal Audit regularly.
The Committee monitors closely the auditors independence.
We have reviewed in the year the policy which limits the scope The audit committee has detailed terms of reference which of non-audit assignments for which the auditors may be facilitate its oversight of the financial reporting process, the engaged and the policy for recruitment of staff from the audit Groups risk management processes, the external auditor, the rm.
This policy prohibits using the auditors for example to Groups system of internal control, the internal audit function, implement financial reporting systems or undertake asset changes in financial reporting requirements and matters arising valuations.
Where the auditors are considered for non-audit from the annual audit.
In addition to the Committee highlights assignments, in the absence of overriding reasons to use our set out above, the Committee met its obligations under its audit rm, competitive proposals are obtained.
The Committee terms of reference during the year.
closely monitors the amount the Company spends with PwC on non-audit fees.
We have a detailed policy in place that We operate an independent condential raising concerns line.
requires that any permitted non-audit work must have the All matters reported via the line are considered by a committee scope of work and fees approved in advance by the CFO comprised of the EVP General Counsel, the EVP Group HR and the Committee Secretary if less than 50,000 and, if over Director, the Head of Internal Audit and the Deputy Company this amount, pre-approval must be sought from the Committee Secretary.
Matters are investigated and where necessary itself.
Rotation of the audit partner and the audit team is also escalated to the audit committee.
The Committee reviews important and a new lead audit partner was appointed during annually the number of matters reported and the outcome 2009 and a new audit senior manager in 2010 thus providing a of any investigations.
fresh approach to the audit and to the level of challenge.
Annual Report 2011 55 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation UXVUXGZK MU KXTGTIK XKVUXZ OXKIZUXY XKVUXZ IUTZOT[KJ Having completed the review of the external auditor we are We review our Board succession on a continual basis and will satisfied that they have carried out their obligations in an effective continue to make recommendations to the Board as and when and appropriate manner and continue to remain independent.
On that basis we will be recommending their re-appointment at the 2011 AGM.
We are conscious that PwC have been auditors Remuneration Committee to the Company for 12 years and whilst we are content with their The remuneration committee is chaired by John King.
Details performance and the degree of rigour they bring to the audit of the how the Committee operates, its membership, and our process the Committee feels it would be appropriate to conduct remuneration policies are set out in the remuneration report on a market appraisal during the course of the next year.
The internal audit function has continued to develop during the The Executive Committee year.
The detailed audit plan is developed as part of the risk Our executive committee is made up of three or more Directors management process that is overseen by the Head of Internal including the CEO and the Chairman.
Mike Lawrie is the Audit and which the Board approves.
The programme of audits Committee Chairman.
The aim of the Committee is to facilitate provide objective assurance over the processes and controls.
the CEO in making decisions on how best to progress the Actions are agreed in response to recommendations made strategy or objectives set by the Board of Directors between and these are followed up by the internal audit function to meetings of the Board.
It focuses in particular, but not ensure that the required actions are implemented.
exclusively, on business development opportunities which enhance value for shareholders.
However, it has no authority Nomination Committee to change strategy or objectives set by the Board.
Our nomination committee is chaired by James Crosby and all other independent Directors are members.
Treasury and Finance Committee Our treasury and finance committee is chaired by the CFO The Committee leads deliberations around Board succession and is a management Committee that reports directly into the and the procedure for the appointment of Directors to the Board.
This Committee maintains oversight of the treasury Board.
Timothy Tuff was appointed to the Board following a policy and operations, monitors pension plan funding and, comprehensive search conducted by an independent external reviews and approves the insurance arrangements for the search agency and a rigorous interview process.
The agency Group with the exception of the Directors and Ofcers was provided with a detailed brief that included consideration Insurance which is approved by the Board.
of the existing Directors mix of skills and the overall diversity of the Board.
We have also increased the executive representation with the appointment of Stephen Wilson, our CFO, to the Board.
Risk Management Over the last year we have continued to improve risk How do we monitor our risks?
management throughout the Group embedding a process The Board is ultimately accountable for ensuring that we have which aligns strategy and risk management, actively considers a robust approach to risk management and have appropriate high impact but low likelihood risks and maintains the Board internal controls in place.
The Board is also responsible for focus on the key risks facing the Group.
monitoring the effectiveness of the agreed approach.
Taking risks is an inherent part of entrepreneurial activity and the assessment of risk is part of our culture.
Specically, we give careful consideration to the key risks in our business and how we can best mitigate those risks to meet our business objectives.
56 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation Risk Management Process Risk management at Misys is dynamic and ongoing.
For The risk management process includes a review by the Board example, a key risk included in last years annual report of the Groups risk prole on a semi-annual basis, facilitated related to the disposal of our US healthcare business, by internal audit.
The effectiveness of the risk management Allscripts.
This disposal was successfully managed in the process is monitored by the audit committee.
The process first half of this financial year and, therefore, the risk has been involves identifying, prioritising and allocating ownership for risks removed from the analysis.
Meanwhile, a new risk related to and developing and implementing appropriate mitigation plans the effective integration of our recent Sophis acquisition has to address those risks.
Each key risk identied through the been added to the analysis.
process is owned by a member of the executive team.
A summary of the risks that we currently see as important to We review our risks in terms of potential likelihood and our business, together with associated key mitigation activities, impact.
Our analysis also includes both gross and net is shown overleaf.
This summary also shows the alignment risk assessments so that we can identify the extent to which of the risks with the key strategic imperatives of the Group.
management has addressed the key risks through appropriate controls and mitigation activity.
The Group Internal Audit Plan is based on the results of the risk management process and therefore tests the effectiveness of the most important controls of the Group.
Misys Risk Management Process Risk assessment, prioritise risk and ownership Existing controls, Risk new mitigation and identification action plans Board evaluation of risk with a particular focus on significant risks Reporting Execute and action performance plans Monitoring and assurance Management actions with Board oversight Management actions Annual Report 2011 57 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation UXVUXGZK MU KXTGTIK XKVUXZ OXKIZUXY XKVUXZ IUTZOT[KJ Develop a focused strategy and integrated portfolio for each of the business units Business strategy, market and product development risks Mitigation s 4HE lNANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR IS CURRENTLY SUBJECT s 4HE 'ROUP OPERATES ACROSS THE lNANCIAL SERVICES SECTOR T IS GEOGRAPHICALLY to regulatory review and concerns related to diversied with customers in 120 countries: it has a wide range of products economic factors e. g. Eurozone sovereign across the capital markets and banking sectors and it has a large installed base indebtedness.
This could lead customers to with approximately 50% of revenues recurring.
s 4HEISYS 3OPHIS ACQUISITION CASE INCLUDES s 7ELL STRUCTURED INTEGRATION PROCESSES WITH MONITORING OF PERFORMANCE AGAINST revenue and cost synergy projections which detailed synergy targets and regular executive Board reviews.
sISYS 3OPHIS INCENTIVES ALIGNED AND ONGOING CROSS PRODUCT TRAINING AND SALES collaboration.
s. EXT GENERATIONISYS SOLUTIONS INCLUDING s $EVELOPMENT FUNCTION CONTINUING TO IMPLEMENT BEST PRACTICE METHODOLOGIES AND products based on our new BankFusion processes.
technology, need to be developed in line s 7ELL DElNED GOVERNANCE PROCESSES TO ENSURE PRODUCT ROADMAPS ARE MET with product roadmaps and need to succeed s 2EGULAR DIALOGUE WITH CUSTOMERS E G THROUGHISYS CUSTOMER ADVISORY BOARDS in the market.
and product regional user groups to support market acceptance of products.
Build a solution orientation Contract implementation and service level risks Mitigation s MPLEMENTATION OFISYS BUSINESS CRITICAL sODULAR APPROACH TO CUSTOMER IMPLEMENTATIONS solutions at customer sites requires effective s 'LOBAL SOLUTION CENTRES IN KEY MARKETS PROVIDING SUBJECT MATTER EXPERTISE management to deliver value on time and s 3KILLED IMPLEMENTATION AND SERVICES TEAMS to budget.
s #USTOMER SUPPORT AND RELATED PROCESSES ARE WELL DElNED AND MONITORED s #USTOMER SERVICE LEVEL AGREEMENTS NEED TO be met.
Continuously innovate to capture market opportunities Intellectual property IP risks Mitigation s 4HE FOCUS ON INNOVATION MAY LEAD TO INFRINGEMENT s #OPYRIGHT LAW AND LICENSING OF RIGHTS TO USEISYS APPLICATIONS of our IP rights and or the inadvertent s #ROSS FUNCTIONAL 0 COUNCIL AND 0 POLICIES AND PROCEDURES infringement by us of third party IP rights.
s !PPLICATION FOR 53 PATENTS COVERING CERTAIN NOVEL ASPECTS OF BankFusion technology.
"s 0ATENT REWARD PROGRAMME ESTABLISHED DURING THE YEAR FOR EMPLOYEES s !WARENESS PROGRAMMES WITH RESPECT TO COMPETITOR PRODUCTS AND RELATED 0 Develop winning partnerships and collaborations Partnerships, acquisitions and disposals risks Mitigation s PPORTUNITIES TO COMPLEMENT OUR EXISTING s $EDICATED AND EXPERIENCED CORPORATE DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIP TEAMS product services portfolio, build a partner s %XECUTIVE DEAL COMMITTEE AND ""OARD REVIEW OF SIGNIlCANT OPPORTUNITIES ecosystem and or streamline operations s 7ELL DElNED AND EMBEDDED - !"
AND PARTNER PROCESSES AND TOOLS may not be identied and captured.
Revitalise the organisation People risks Mitigation s %XTENSION OF THE #OMPANY S GLOBAL REACH TO s 4ALENT RECRUITMENT AND MANAGEMENT PROGRAMMES INCLUDING GRADUATE emerging markets may mean that the supply programmes in key emerging markets.
of people with the required skills is limited.
s 2EGULAR BENCHMARKING OF COMPENSATION AND BENElTS ACROSS KEY MARKETS s 4ALENTED STAFF NEED TO BE DEVELOPED AND RETAINED s %MPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEYS AND FOLLOW UP ACTION PLANS in competitive markets.
s 2ETENTION PROGRAMMES FOR TALENTED STAFF ACQUIRED VIA THE 3OPHIS TRANSACTION 58 Annual Report 2011 Governance Misys Leading technology and innovation Other key imperatives IT and business continuity risks Mitigation s !N ADEQUATE 4 INFRASTRUCTURE IS REQUIRED TO s NFORMATION SECURITY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES AND ONGOING SYSTEMS SECURITY support our geographically distributed business and network infrastructure reviews across key sites.
and to protect our information assets.
"s ""USINESS CONTINUITY DISASTER RECOVERY AND PANDEMIC RESPONSE PLANS OVERSEEN s NTERRUPTION FROM NATURAL EVENTS POLITICAL OR by a dedicated business continuity team."
social instability needs to be effectively s NSITE INCIDENT MANAGEMENT TEAMS AND RELATED POLICIES AND PROCEDURES managed.
This is particularly important given the location of many of our key sites in emerging s NGOING WORK TO INCREASE THE SPEED AND TESTING OF OUR SELF RECOVERY CAPABILITIES markets with, for example, key development and to reduce our dependence on third-party providers.
sites and customer support sites located in India and the Philippines.
Legal and regulatory risks Mitigation s #OMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS INCLUDING s, EGAL FUNCTION MONITORS LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS IN MARKETS SERVED the UK Bribery Act needs to be maintained.
sISYS #ODE OF #ONDUCT WHICH ALL EMPLOYERS MUST ACKNOWLEDGE s !NTI BRIBERY POLICIES AND PROCEDURES HAVE RECENTLY BEEN UPGRADED AND implemented.
What Internal Controls do we have in place?
With specic regard to preparing consolidated accounts, Our system of internal control is designed to support the we operate rigorous controls including detailed policies and achievement of the Groups objectives and to manage the formal processes for business units, finance functions, Group related risks.
We recognise that the system is designed to consolidation reviews and analyses of material variances, manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve technical reviews and other controls.
These controls are business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and monitored and assessed during the year by internal audit.
not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
We have strengthened our system of internal controls by As mentioned elsewhere in the governance report, the Board had continuing to centralise our transaction processing in Bangalore.
a two day strategy meeting in March 2011 at which the Directors We have also developed our Group analysis and reporting challenged and questioned the senior management around their function and continue to review and enhance our processes strategic priorities and performance.
A detailed financial and around working capital, cash management and compliance.
operational budget is produced which is reviewed and approved The new requirements such as the Bribery Act and the Senior by the Board in April, in advance of the new financial year.
In Accounting officer Certication are also being addressed November 2010 the Board completed a detailed review of the We have introduced a suite of new policies and processes management team and the associated succession planning.
to underpin our anti-bribery programme and strengthen our Together, these provide the overall framework for business bribery controls.
We have introduced a new tax reporting tool planning and the resources required to deliver on the during the year.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the Companys We operate a control framework which provides a comprehensive system of internal controls.
This is principally carried out system of delegated authorities from the Board and its through the work of the audit committee.
This Committee Committees to the business units of the organisation.
All major reviews the effectiveness of internal controls principally development projects, contractual and other commitments through discussions with management on significant risks, relating to revenue and capital expenditure require appropriate the review of both the internal and external audit plans approvals.
Authority levels under the framework are reviewed and subsequent findings and other relevant reports.
If any periodically and are updated as necessary.
significant failings or weaknesses are identied that need to be addressed these are highlighted to the Board who ensure We also have a system of policies and procedures that that appropriate action is taken.
underpin our internal control and cover areas such as financial reporting and planning, capital expenditure, business continuity, IT controls, treasury and cash management.
