Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation 3KGJOTM ZKINTURUM GTJ OTTU GZOUT.
RUHGR XKGIN Relocating leadership roles As these locations are experiencing Bangalore Misys has viewed globalisation very unprecedented growth, our challenge is to 3 1,200 employees pragmatically and moved ownership keep pace with the competition and attract 3 20% growth and accountability of work rather than and retain talent.
We have devised many 3 265 people hired during the year just focusing on traditional labour innovative ways to manage attrition and 3 Centre of excellence for BankFusion arbitrage.
Instead of centralising all create a culture of high performance.
We leadership roles in the head ofce, we run very successful graduate programmes have multiple global leadership roles in these locations, attracting engineering Bangalore is our primary Development in our development locations based in students from some of the best universities.
Centre: a multi-function, multi-divisional emerging economies.
This shows the hub covering every solution in the Misys strategic shift in our capacity planning During the year we also added portfolio with the exception of Misys and approach to global sourcing.
Development Centres in Paris and Sophis.
75% of staff are focused on Dublin with the acquisition of Sophis.
development and together constitute Building a globally distributed our centre of excellence for Java and development model.
Bangalore is also the At Misys, our strategy has been to global centre for innovations in Open Distribution of Misys R&D professionals develop a globally distributed development Source solutions for Misys.
We have model to minimise the risk of having all of doubled in size over the past four years, our development expertise housed in a achieving the critical mass that we need single location and to introduce different to service our clients development perspectives to our development process.
It also provides us access to skills and resources around the world as and when Bangalore is host to a huge ecosystem of required.
Our goal is to have development domain expertise in both IT and financial capabilities for each product line in at services, providing us with access to least two locations.
This strategy is on leading talent with the right skills for our track following the successful migration business.
The competitive environment of our development capacity to the East means that we need to stay sharp and with four Global Development Centres provide our employees with exciting and based in Bangalore India, Bucharest technically challenging work.
Misys has Romania, Manila the Philippines a strong reputation with the major and Beijing China.
universities and is able to attract top graduates to work in our organisation.
Each of these locations is a centre of excellence for different technical skills In addition to acting as a main R&D hub Bangalore 32% so that we can continue to support our for Misys, Bangalore also hosts customer existing solutions, while also developing Manila 19% support and professional services teams: new solutions based on the latest it is a global solutions centre GSC for Partners 18% technical innovations.
customisations and a shared services Western Europe 10% centre for finance.
Bucharest 8% New York 7% London 6% 08 Annual Report 2011 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation Misys has introduced an innovative to evolve into a resource pool of experts Manila programme called excellence through for delivering professional services to our 3 650 employees education where selected employees European customers.
3 115 people hired during the year are sponsored for higher education in 3 24 7 global call centre software engineering in collaboration Misys Sophis Development Centres 3 Centre of excellence for Midas with a university.
Flexible hours allow our and Equation staff to pursue advanced education and 3 148 employees converge their academic learning with 3 29 people hired during the year industry experience.
Manila is the home of Misys global call 3 Centre of excellence for C & C# centre which provides 24 7 level 1 and 2 and Quality Assurance support to clients across the globe.
The Beijing language skills that Manila offers make it We have two further Development the perfect location to consolidate our 3 Newly established Opics Centres in Paris and Dublin that support customer support teams.
We are actively development team our Misys Sophis solutions.
They provide rotating employees between support and 3 Double-byte expertise to support a pool of highly skilled engineers including services roles to encourage knowledge North Asia talented financial engineers skilled in transfer and to provide our support staff 3 Global Solutions Centre for developing and integrating cutting-edge with a 360 view of the customer.
It is customisations mathematical models for pricing.
We also our centre of excellence for our Midas focus on maintaining the right balance and Equation banking solutions.
We have The growth regions of Asia, and China of expertise between technical skills and recently started BankFusion shared in particular, are of increasing importance business knowledge.
As such, we are application development in Manila to Misys continued growth.
To meet able to attract top-level graduates and alongside Bangalore.
current and anticipated demand from experienced people to work on the region, we are scaling Beijing as a developing and maintaining our solutions.
strategic Development Centre to support They are responsible for all buy-side Bucharest North Asia, including the development and asset class functionality, quantitative 3 235 employees of double-byte versions of our solutions.
models, and server and technical 3 83 people hired during the year This year, we established an Opics architecture-related developments.
3 Centre of excellence for C Summit development team in Beijing to assist with the large number of opportunities in These bases also provide Quality China, and to accelerate the development Bucharest provides an excellent pool Assurance QA, documentation and of generic product functionality for of good quality engineering skills global IT second level support.
The team will deliver accompanied by high levels of host the back-ofce development team both strategic and funded developments productivity and quality.
Bucharest focusing on operations and accounting for the region.
We will add other product provides time zone and travel advantages as well as the team in charge of security lines over time starting with Summit, for servicing the needs of our European finance developments.
The QA team is and our intention is to have BankFusion clients.
We are expanding the footprint in in charge of testing and validating all development facilities in Beijing which Bucharest from just being an R&D centre Misys Sophis solutions, the Documentation will supplement the Bangalore and team is responsible for the technical Manila Development Centres.
documentation that is delivered with our products and the Support team helps our consultants to solve technical issues for our clients.
The main areas of focus across all our Global Development Centres are on quality and productivity.
Our ultimate goal is for these centres to deliver end-to-end world-class software solutions.
Manoj Kumar, Vice President, Solution Management and Development U] JU ]K KTGHRK U[X I[YZUSKXY& 3 Annual Report 2011 09 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation percentage points year-on-year increase in customer satisfaction 3KGJOTM ZKINTURUM GTJ OTTU GZOUT 9KRGZOUTYNOVY ZNGZ SGZZKX 10 Annual Report 2011 Overview Misys Leading technology and innovation of new name business won in conjunction with partners partners By strengthening relationships between our customers, our partners and our people, Misys is able to grow its business, expand into new markets and gain market share.
We have built a global partner network of more than 100 partners that provide us with the scalability and expertise to expand our coverage, extend our scale and drive deeper customer relationships.
Together, we create compelling solutions enabling our customers to differentiate themselves and drive a competitive edge.
Fostering close relationships with our customers and partners provides valuable insight to Misys so that we can deliver the best solutions in an ever-growing and changing market.
