Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Corporate governance statement As previously announced, it is the Boards The Executive Directors may be permitted to Corporate governance statement intention to appoint additional Non-Executive accept one external non-executive director Directors to the Board.
Notwithstanding the appointment with the Boards prior approval The Board is responsible for ensuring compliance with Code non-compliance in relation to the and as long as this is not likely to lead to the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which is issued by the Financial Reporting Council and composition of the Board, the Board believes conflicts of interest.
which is available at www.
This includes all other aspects of the Companys corporate reviewing internal controls, ensuring that there is an governance are in compliance with the Code, The Company Secretarys responsibilities appropriate balance of skills and experience represented as set out in this report.
include ensuring good information flows to on the Board and maintaining relations with shareholders.
the Board and its committees and between For our latest financial information go to: The information required by Disclosure and senior management and the Non-Executive www.
com investors Transparency Rule DTR 7.1 is set out in Directors.
The appointment and removal of the Audit Committee report on pages 23 the Company Secretary is a matter reserved The Board recognises the importance of to 24.
The information required by DTR 7.2 for the Board.
The Company Secretary is good corporate governance in creating a is set out in this Corporate governance responsible through the Chairman, for sustainable, successful and profitable business statement, other than that required under advising the Board on all corporate and details are set out in this Statement of the DTR 7.2.
6 which is set out in the Directors governance matters and for assisting the Companys corporate governance procedures report on pages 14 to 17.
Directors with their professional development.
and application of the principles of the Code.
This includes regular corporate governance Board composition and business issues updates, as well as the use Explanation for non-compliance with A table listing all changes to the Board of of operational site visits and the provision of parts of the Code Directors during the year is on page 20. external courses where required.
During the For part of the year the Board was not fully On 26 October 2011, Bob Ivell was appointed year, the Company Secretary facilitated a constituted in compliance with the Code, as Executive Chairman, Jeremy Blood resigned comprehensive induction for each of the which impacted governance in the form of as a Director, and Doug Evans was appointed newly appointed Directors, tailored to Board and Committee appointments and as a Director.
individual requirements and including membership and the frequency of Committee guidance on requirements of, and meetings.
It meant that for certain periods, Board and Committee structure Directors duties in connection with, the as described more fully below, Committee The Board and Committee structure operates Code and the Companies Act 2006 as well functions were undertaken by the full Board.
As a result, the Company did not comply with The Board During FY 2011 there were 10 scheduled the following provisions of the Code during The Board is responsible to shareholders Board meetings including a two day off-site the periods specified below: for the strategic direction, development and meeting which considered the Groups control of the Group.
It approves strategic strategy and a further three Board meetings A.
1.1 Matters reserved for the Board.
plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
which were called at short notice.
The table It reviews significant investment proposals below shows attendance levels at the Board A.
4.1 Senior Independent Director from and the performance of past investments and Committee meetings held during the 11 February 2011 to year end.
and maintains an overview and control of the year: the numbers in brackets confirm how Groups operating and financial performance.
many meetings each Director was eligible to A.
It monitors the Groups overall system of attend during the year.
internal controls, governance and compliance B.
2.4 Composition of the Board and ensures that the necessary financial and Where a Director was unable to attend a and appointments from 11 February 2011 to human resources are in place for the Company meeting, they were provided with all the year end.
papers and information relating to that meeting and were able to discuss issues B.
2.1, C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 Constitution of the arising directly with the Chairman and Chief Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Executive.
There are 10 Board meetings Committees respectively from 11 February currently planned for FY 2012.
6.3 Board and committee evaluation and external evaluation.
Attendance levels at Board and Committee meetings Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Current Directors who served during the year Bob Ivell 6 6 N A N A N A Tim Jones 11 11 N A N A N A 1 Douglas McMahon 9 11 N A N A N A Ron Robson 13 13 N A N A N A Former Directors who served during the year Michael Balfour 9 11 2 2 4 4 2 2 Jeremy Blood 13 13 2 2 4 4 N A Simon Burke 10 11 2 2 3 4 2 2 Adam Fowle 4 6 N A N A 1 2 Sir Tim Lankester 4 4 1 1 3 4 2 2 John Lovering 4 5 N A N A 2 2 Left post year-end.
1 Douglas McMahon was unable to attend two Board meetings convened at short notice.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 19 Corporate governance statement continued Directors Other than their fees which are disclosed on The following were Directors of the Company during the year ended 24 September 2011: page 30, the Non-Executive Directors received no remuneration from the Company Date Date of during the year.
When Non-Executive appointed change of role Directors are considered for appointment, the Current Directors who served during the year Nomination Committee will take into account Bob Ivell Independent Non-Executive Director 09 05 11 14 07 11 their other responsibilities in assessing Interim Chairman 14 07 11 whether they can commit sufficient time to Tim Jones Finance Director 18 10 10 their prospective directorship.
Douglas McMahon Non-Executive Director 15 10 10 Ron Robson Non-Executive Director 22 01 10 All Directors are briefed by the use of Deputy Chairman 14 07 11 comprehensive papers circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the Date Date meetings in addition to receiving minutes of appointed ceased previous meetings.
Their understanding of Former Directors who served during the year the Groups business is enhanced by business Michael Balfour Independent Non-Executive Director 28 01 10 13 07 11 specific presentations and operational visits Jeremy Blood Independent Non-Executive Director 28 01 10 15 03 11 to the Groups businesses.
Separate strategy Interim Chief Executive 15 03 11 26 10 11 meetings and meetings with senior executives Simon Burke Independent Non-Executive Director 28 01 10 11 02 11 are also held throughout the year.
The training Deputy Chairman 02 02 10 11 02 11 needs of Directors and of members of the Senior Independent Director 02 02 10 11 02 11 Boards Committees are formally considered Chairman 11 02 11 13 07 11 on an annual basis and are also monitored Adam Fowle Managing Director, Restaurants 01 10 07 12 04 09 throughout the year.
COO 12 04 09 21 05 09 Acting CEO 21 05 09 03 08 09 Committees Chief Executive 03 08 09 15 03 11 Each Board Committee has written terms of Sir Tim Lankester Independent Non-Executive Director 16 05 03 27 01 11 reference approved by the Board, which are John Lovering Chairman 28 01 10 11 02 11 available on the Companys website.
Nominated shareholder representative of Piedmont Inc.
Audit Committee Independent while in the role specified.
Subsequently appointed as Executive Chairman on 26 October 2011.
Details of the Audit Committee are included in the Audit Committee report on pages 23 and 24 and are incorporated by reference into Details of the Executive Directors service Chief Executive this Statement.
contracts are set out on page 29 and on Jeremy Blood was the Interim Chief Executive the Companys website.
The Chairman and until his resignation on 26 October 2011 Remuneration Committee the Non-Executive Directors have letters and a search is under way for his replacement.
Details of the Remuneration Committee of appointment which are available for The Chief Executive has responsibility for are included in the Report on Directors inspection at the registered office of the implementing the strategy agreed by the remuneration on pages 25 to 33 and are Company during normal business hours and Board and for the executive management of incorporated by reference into this Statement.
at the place of the Annual General Meeting the Group.
Bob Ivell has assumed the duties from at least 15 minutes before and until the of the Chief Executive until an appointment Nomination Committee end of the meeting.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for the approval of the Board, The provisions in the Articles concerning Senior Independent Director candidates for appointment to the Board.
Directors re-election are set out on page 15 Simon Burke was the Senior Independent It is also responsible for succession planning of the Directors report.
All the Companys Director until 11 February 2011.
There and reviewing the output of the Board Directors will stand for re-election at the 2012 has been no Senior Independent Director effectiveness review.
A detailed description AGM in accordance with provision B.
of the duties of the Nomination Committee the Code and their biographical details as at is set out within its terms of reference which 21 November 2011 are set out on page 13, Non-Executive Directors can be viewed at www.
com including their main commitments outside The Company has experienced Nonthe Company.
Executive Directors on its Board.
Bob Ivell The following were members of the was considered to be independent upon Nomination Committee during the year: Chairman his appointment on 9 May 2011, in that Member at Bob Ivell is the Executive Chairman of the he was free from any business or other 25 09 10 Board and, prior to this from 14 July 2011 relationship which could materially influence or later date of Leaving Member at to 26 October 2011, was Interim Chairman his judgement and he represented a strong appointment date 24 09 11 of the Board.
He ensures that appropriate source of advice and independent challenge.
Michael Balfour Y 13 07 11 1 communication is maintained with On his appointment as Interim Chairman on Jeremy Blood 15 02 11 Y 2 Simon Burke Y 13 07 11 shareholders.
He has responsibility for 14 July 2011 and subsequently as Executive Adam Fowle Y 15 03 11 running the Board and for ensuring that Chairman on 26 October 2011, as set out 3 Bob Ivell 19 08 11 Y all Directors are fully informed of matters in the Code, the independence test is no Sir Tim Lankester Y 27 01 11 4 relevant to their roles.
He is also Chairman longer appropriate to apply to his position.
John Lovering Y 11 02 11 Douglas McMahon 19 08 11 Y of the Nomination Committee and the Ron Robson and Douglas McMahon were Ron Robson 19 08 11 Y Remuneration Committee.
appointed as representatives of the Companys largest shareholder, Piedmont Inc. and are 1 Resigned from the Company on 26 10 11. therefore not regarded as independent in 2 Chairman from 15 02 11. accordance with the Code.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 20 Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Company Secretary is secretary to the Executive Committee The Company also offers an independently Nomination Committee.
The Executive Committee, which is chaired administered, confidential, whistleblowing by the Chief Executive currently by the hotline for any employee wishing to report any Between 13 July 2011 and the year end, Executive Chairman, consists of the Executive concern that they feel is inappropriate to raise the Company did not comply with provision Directors and certain other senior executives, with their line manager.
2.1 of the Code in respect of the namely Robin Young Operations Director, allegations are reported to and considered Nomination Committee consisting of a Saudagar Singh HR, Service & Productivity by the Executive and Audit Committees.
majority of independent Non-Executive Director, Gary John Property Director and Directors.
Notwithstanding this, when the Kevin Todd Business Development Director.
The Board takes regular account of social, Nomination Committee was not fully environmental and ethical matters concerning constituted its role was taken on by the full The Executive Committee meets at least every the Company through regular reports to the Board, so that there was at all times a formal, four weeks and has day-to-day responsibility Board and presentations to the Board at its rigorous and transparent procedure for the for the running of the Groups business.
The Company Secretary appointment of new Directors to the Board.
It develops the Groups strategy and annual is responsible for ensuring that Directors are Directors did not attend the relevant meetings revenue and capital budgets for Board made aware of and receive training in respect where their new roles were being discussed.
It reviews and recommends to the of such matters.
The Board is also responsible Board any significant investment proposals.
for the Companys internal risk management The Nomination Committee met twice during system, for which more details can be found the year to consider succession planning and This Committee monitors the financial and in the Risks and uncertainties section of this recommended the initial appointment of Bob operational performance of the Group and report, and below.
The Board subsequently considered his allocates resources within the budgets agreed appointment as Interim Chairman and later by the Board.
It considers employment issues, Internal control and risk management Executive Chairman, taking into account his ensures the Group has an appropriate pool The Board has overall responsibility for other external commitments none of which of talent and develops senior management the Groups system of internal control and were regarded as significant.
The initial manpower planning and succession plans.
risk management and for reviewing its appointment process for Bob Ivell was effectiveness.
In order to discharge that facilitated by an external recruitment agency.
Independent advice responsibility, the Board has established the The previous Chairman was not involved in Members of the Board may take independent procedures necessary to apply the 2010 UK the selection or appointment of Bob Ivell as professional advice in the furtherance of their Corporate Governance Code for the year Interim Chairman.
Where a Director was duties and they have access to the advice and under review and to the date of approval unable to attend a meeting and the meeting services of the Company Secretary & General of the Annual report.
Such procedures are did not relate to their own appointment, Counsel, the Companys legal advisers and regularly reviewed by the Board.
they were provided with all the papers and external auditor.
information relating to that meeting and The key features of the Groups internal were able to discuss issues arising direct Code of Ethics control and risk management systems include: with the chair of the Committee and the The Company has implemented business Company Secretary.
conduct guidelines describing the standards An overall governance framework of behaviour expected from those working including: General Purposes Committee for the Company, via a Code of Ethics the The General Purposes Committee comprises Ethics Code.
Its aim is to promote honest i. clearly defined delegation of authority any two Executive Directors or any one and ethical conduct throughout our business, and reporting lines: Executive Director together with a senior and it applies to all corporate employees.
a comprehensive set of policies and officer from an agreed and restricted list of The Ethics Code requires: procedures that employees are required senior executives.
It is always chaired by a to follow: and Director.
It attends to business of a routine compliance with all applicable rules and iii.
the Groups Code of Ethics, in respect nature and to the administration of matters, regulations that apply to the Company of which an annual confirmation of the principles of which have been agreed and its officers: compliance is obtained from all previously by the Board or an appropriate the ethical handling of actual or apparent corporate employees.
conflicts of interest between internal and external, personal and professional Processes, including monitoring by the Disclosure Committee relationships: and Board, in respect of: The Disclosure Committee considers and that any hospitality from suppliers must decides upon matters brought to its attention, be approved, with a presumption against i. strategic plan achievement: which would be likely to give rise to an its acceptance.
financial performance within a obligation to make a market announcement comprehensive financial planning, under the FSA Listing Rules.
It comprises The Ethics Code was updated during the year accounting and reporting framework: the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, to reflect the Bribery Act 2010 that came into iii.
capital investment and asset the Director of Corporate Affairs and the effect on 1 July 2011.
The Company takes management performance, with Company Secretary & General Counsel.
a zero tolerance approach to bribery and detailed appraisal, authorisation and has developed an extensive Bribery Policy.
post-investment reviews: and The Code requires employees to comply iv.
consumer insight data and actions to with the Bribery Policy.
evolve brands and formats to ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant.
Mitchells & Butlers plc Annual report and accounts 2011 21 Corporate governance statement continued The Risk Committee, a sub-committee of The Group also has in place systems, Shareholder relations the Executive Committee, which assists including policies and procedures, for The Board recognises that it is accountable the Board and Executive Committee in exercising control and managing risk in to shareholders for the performance and managing the processes for identifying, respect of financial reporting and the activities of the Company.
The Company evaluating, monitoring and mitigating risks.
formally updates the market on its financial The Risk Committee, which met three These systems, policies and procedures: performance at least five times a year, at times during FY 2011, is chaired by the the half year and full year results in May Company Secretary & General Counsel govern the maintenance of accounting and November respectively, the interim and comprises Executive Committee records that, in reasonable detail, management statements in January and July members and other members of senior accurately and fairly reflect transactions: and a pre-close trading update in September.
management from a cross section of require reported information to be reviewed The content of these updates is posted and functions including the Finance Director.
and reconciled, with monitoring by the webcast on the Companys website, together Its primary responsibilities are to: Audit Committee: and with general information about the Company provide reasonable assurance that so as to be available to all shareholders.
i. advise the Executive Committee on the transactions are recorded as necessary The Company has a regular programme of Companys overall risk appetite and to permit the preparation of financial meetings with its larger shareholders which strategy, taking account of the current statements in accordance with International provides an opportunity to discuss, on the and prospective operating, legal, Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or back of publicly available information, the macroeconomic and financial UK Generally Accepted Accounting progress of the business.
On a more informal environments: Principles, as appropriate.
basis, the Chairman, the Chief Executive and ii.
advise the Executive Committee on the the Finance Director regularly report to the current and emerging risk exposures In accordance with the Code, during the year Board the views of larger shareholders about of the Company in the context of the the Board completed its annual review of the the Company, and the Senior Independent overall risk appetite and strategy: effectiveness of the Groups risk management Director when one is in place and other iii.
promote the management of risk and internal control systems, including Non-Executive Directors are available to throughout the organisation: financial, operational and compliance controls.
meet shareholders on request and are iv.
review and monitor the Companys The system of internal control is designed offered the opportunity to attend meetings capability and processes to identify to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of with larger shareholders.
and manage risks: failure to achieve business objectives and, v. c onsider the identified key risks faced as such, it can only provide reasonable and The AGM provides a useful interface with by the Company and new and emerging not absolute assurance against material shareholders, many of whom are also risks and consider the adequacy of misstatement or loss.
In that context, in the customers.
All proxy votes received in respect mitigation plans in respect of such opinion of the Board, the review did not of each resolution at the AGM are counted risks: and indicate that the system was ineffective and the balance for and against, and any votes vi.
w here mitigation plans are inadequate, or unsatisfactory and to the extent that withheld, are indicated.
The chairmen of the recommend improvement actions.
weaknesses in internal controls were Audit, Remuneration and Nomination identified, the Board confirms that Committees attend to answer questions.
The Group risks identified by the processes necessary remedial action plans are in that are managed by the Risk Committee place.
The Board is not aware of any change Board effectiveness evaluation are described in Risks and uncertainties to this status up to the approval of this Recognising the non-compliance in relation on pages 10 to 11.
to the composition of the Board and its committees as outlined in this report, it was Examination of business processes on With regard to insurance against risk, it is considered inappropriate to conduct a Board a risk basis including reports from the not practicable to insure against every risk and committee effectiveness evaluation in Internal Audit function, known as Group to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly relation to FY 2011.
A Board and committee Assurance, which reports directly to the reviews both the type and amount of external effectiveness evaluation will be carried out Audit Committee.
insurance that it buys with guidance from an during FY 2012. external independent body, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the Going concern likelihood and magnitude of the risks involved.
The Directors statement as to going concern can be found on page 17.
Mitchells & Butlers plc 22 Annual report and accounts 2011
