Corporate governance report purpose the directors of each company will take into Introduction from joint chairmen account, in the exercise of their powers, the interests of Through the work of the DLC Board being the boards of the shareholders of the other.
both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and its committees, The boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc together the an environment of compliance and ethical behaviour Boards review and monitor compliance with the governance is created with approved policies and procedures clearly communicated throughout the Group.
In 2011 and regulatory requirements in both South Africa and the UK.
Mondi continued to deepen and broaden its corporate The report below provides an insight into the complexities governance practice and culture.
We see this as an managed by the Boards in order to maintain the highest important part of our work.
standards of governance throughout Mondi.
At Mondi we remain committed to strong ethical values Compliance statement and professionalism in all that we do and the DLC Board Mondi has complied throughout the year with the principles support the highest standards of corporate governance contained in the South African King III Code of Corporate and best practice.
The principles of transparency, integrity Governance Principles available at www.
co. za and and accountability guide the behaviour of the directors.
We the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial will continue to review our corporate governance structures in the coming year.
Reporting Council available at www.
uk save as set out below: Cyril Ramaphosa Cyril Ramaphosa, joint chairman, was not considered Joint chairman independent upon appointment due to his connection with David Williams Mondi through the Shanduka Group as explained more Joint chairman fully on page 59: the Boards determined that the DLC sustainable Dual listed company structure development committee provided the appropriate oversight for the sustainability reporting in the integrated report rather Mondi operates under a dual listed company DLC structure, than the DLC audit committee, as recommended under which requires compliance with the corporate and accounting King III.
Due to the nature of Mondis business the DLC regulations of both South Africa and the UK.
Mondi Limited sustainable development committee regularly reviews all and Mondi plc have separate corporate identities.
Mondi key sustainability issues for the Group, meeting six times Limited has a primary listing on the JSE Limited JSE and a year and reports directly to the Boards.
Therefore it Mondi plc has a premium listing on the London Stock is considered to be better placed to review the integrity Exchange and a secondary listing on the JSE.
Under the DLC of the sustainability reporting.
The DLC sustainable structure, any ordinary share held in either Mondi Limited or development committee therefore provides the assurance Mondi plc gives the holder an effective economic interest in on sustainability issues in the integrated report: and the whole Mondi Group.
within the constraints of complying with the differing legal The relationship between Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and regulatory requirements of both South Africa and the is underpinned by the DLC structure principles, which UK, Mondi has produced a report that addresses, as far as provide that: possible, the King III requirements for an integrated report.
Mondi Limited and Mondi plc and their subsidiaries must Board structure operate as if they are a single corporate group: and the directors of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc will, in The Boards, led by the joint chairmen, provide leadership for addition to their duties to the company concerned, have the Group.
There is a schedule of matters speci cally reserved regard to the interests of the Mondi Limited shareholders for the Boards.
This is reviewed annually and is available on the and the Mondi plc shareholders as if the two companies Mondi Group website at www.
In addition, were a single uni ed economic enterprise and for that in view of the broad nature of the Boards responsibilities, 56 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 56 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 56 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM certain speci c duties have been delegated to committees This is achieved through an established rolling agenda that as detailed below.
The key committees are audit, is reviewed and updated regularly to accommodate changes nominations, remuneration and sustainable development.
Whilst the majority of directors have been There is also an executive committee dealing with the day to with the Group since listing in July 2007 thereby providing day management of the Group, implementing decisions made consistency and understanding of Mondi, new directors by the Boards and managing the operational and financial joining at the end of 2009 and in early 2011 have brought new performance.
The chairmen of each committee report regularly thinking and insight to the board debates.
Communication with directors outside formal meetings is Following the successful completion of the two major strategic provided to them in hard copy, by e-mail and telephone, as capital expenditure projects in Poland and Russia, the Boards appropriate to the circumstances.
The directors also engage continue to be focused on the review and implementation in less formal exchanges between meetings.
of the longer term strategic direction of the Group.
With the global economic climate continuing to impact the wider Non-executive director meetings, chaired by the joint chairmen business operating environment, ensuring the Group operates except when their performance is being considered, are held within a framework of robust risk management, strong twice a year.
One of these meetings is attended by the chief corporate governance and ethical behaviour in uenced the executive of cer in order to provide input to the discussions 2011 agenda.
on executive performance and succession.
Management and advisers present to the Boards on a A policy is in place pursuant to which each director may obtain variety of topics in accordance with both the annual rolling independent professional advice at Mondis expense in the programme agreed by the Boards and on an ad hoc basis in furtherance of their duties as a director of either Mondi Limited response to any matters raised or changes in circumstances or Mondi plc.
No requests were received during the year.
Throughout the year to 31 December 2011, in line with In accordance with the matters reserved for the Boards, market practice, Mondi maintained directors and of cers a number of other regular reviews of shareholder matters liability insurance.
and the implementation of Group policies, including the code of business ethics and the share dealing code, have Directors been considered.
In 2011, in response to the UK Bribery Act, the Boards agreed a new business integrity policy for Mondi Limited and Mondi plc have boards of directors the Group.
Also, consideration of the business plan and comprising the same individuals.
This enables the effective budget, the integrity of the integrated report and financial management of the dual listed structure as a single uni ed statements and regularly reported results under advice economic enterprise with due consideration being given to the from the DLC audit committee, succession planning interests of the ordinary shareholders of both Mondi Limited under advice from the DLC nominations committee, listing and Mondi plc.
requirements, governance and a variety of Group policy matters have been reviewed and debated.
The directors holding of ce during the year ended 31 December 2011 are listed below, together with their The Boards add value to Mondi through setting the tone for attendance at board meetings.
As at 31 December 2011 the Group and their review and independent oversight of the: there were nine directors, with each of the four non-executive governance and ethical responsibilities: directors considered by the Boards to be independent.
effective leadership through monitoring risk and There continues to be a strong mix of skills and industry effective controls: experience, particularly in Europe and South Africa, locations strategic review: important to Mondis operations.
Those in of ce as at the sustainable and ethical business practices: and date of this report, together with their biographical details, can be found on pages 52 to 54. constructive challenge of management.
Mondi Group 57 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 57 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 57 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance report continued Mondi Limited Mondi plc DLC board board Board Board member one one six Directors Position Independent since meeting meeting meetings 1 Cyril Ramaphosa Joint chairman No May 2007 11 6 David Williams Joint chairman Yes May 2007 1 1 6 2 Stephen Harris Non-executive director Yes March 2011 1 1 3 1 David Hathorn Chief executive of cer No May 2007 11 6 Andrew King Chief financial of cer No October 2008 1 1 6 3 Colin Matthews Non-executive director Yes May 2007 1 1 1 Imogen Mkhize Non-executive director Yes May 2007 1 1 6 John Nicholas Non-executive director Yes October 2009 1 1 6 4 Peter Oswald Chief executive of cer, No January 2008 1 1 5 Europe & International Division Anne Quinn Senior independent Yes May 2007 1 1 6 non-executive director 1 Cyril Ramaphosa and David Hathorn were appointed directors of Mondi Limited in December 2004 and May 1997, respectively.
2 Stephen Harris, having been appointed on 1 March 2011, was unable to attend one of the DLC Board meetings due to a commitment in place prior to his appointment.
3 Colin Matthews resigned from the boards of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc on 5 May 2011 to enable him to focus on his role as chief executive of cer of BAA, the British airport operator.
4 Peter Oswald was unable to attend one DLC Board meeting due to illness.
The division of responsibilities between the joint chairmen Joint chairmen and chief executive and the chief executive of cer has been clearly fide ned and of cer approved by the Boards.
Mondi has joint chairmen, Cyril Ramaphosa and David The principal responsibilities of the joint chairmen include to: Williams, with the chief executive of cer role held separately lead the Boards, ensuring their effectiveness, by David Hathorn.
Having joint chairmen, one based in South consideration of succession and setting the agenda: Africa and the other in the UK, ensures that the Group and ensure high standards of corporate governance and its stakeholders bene t from an extensive knowledge and ethical behaviour: experience of the jurisdictions relating speci cally to its dual ensure that the Boards set a clear and appropriate listed structure.
With a continually changing regulatory and strategy for the Group: and financial operating environment in both South Africa and the ensure effective communication with shareholders and UK, having joint chairmen is considered important for the other stakeholders.
effective leadership of the Group.
The joint chairmen maintain a regular dialogue with each other and manage the Boards The principal responsibilities of the chief executive of cer include to: through mutual agreement.
Half the DLC Board meetings are held in South Africa and these will usually be chaired by lead the business: Cyril Ramaphosa, with David Williams chairing the remaining chair the DLC executive committee and lead the meetings held in Europe.
management team: 58 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 58 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 58 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM ensure that the Group has effective processes and matter for the Boards.
All directors have access to the advice controls: and and services of the company secretaries.
Throughout the year the company secretaries have ensured compliance with ensure that the Boards receive accurate, timely and clear board procedures.
They report at each board meeting on information about the Groups performance.
relevant corporate governance and regulatory matters and changes, including the provision of advice on the performance In addition, they work closely on matters such as the of directors duties and the continuing obligations of the stock relationships with major shareholders, government, analysts, media and other external relationships at a senior level.
exchanges on which Mondi is listed.
This has continued to be important as regulation and governance in both South Africa David Hathorn, chief executive of cer, does not hold any and the UK has continued to evolve during 2011. directorships external to Mondi.
The main positions held by Under the direction of the joint chairmen, the company Cyril Ramaphosa and David Williams outside the Mondi Group secretaries manage the provision of information and are detailed in their biographies set out on page 52.
There documentation to the Boards.
In particular, meeting have been no changes to the commitments of David Williams papers are issued one week in advance thereby allowing during the year.
Cyril Ramaphosa resigned from the boards of directors sufficient time to prepare fully for any Board or Macsteel Global b. v. and SASRIA Limited at the end of 2011. committee meetings.
David Williams was independent upon appointment, however, Cyril Ramaphosa was not considered independent Appointments to the Boards upon appointment in view of his existing connection with During the year Stephen Harris was appointed as an Mondi as chairman of the Shanduka Group, which has a independent non-executive director to replace Colin Matthews shareholding in Mondi Shanduka Newsprint Proprietary who retired from the Boards at the conclusion of the annual Limited and, until its demerger in July 2011, a holding in general meetings in order to focus on his role as chief Mpact Limited formerly Mondi Packaging South Africa executive of cer of BAA, the British airport operator.
Notwithstanding this, The appointment of Stephen Harris followed the procedure Mondi bene ts greatly from his considerable knowledge established by the Boards and involved the DLC nominations and experience, particularly of the South African business environment, and the Boards rmly believe that this justi es committee.
The DLC nominations committee reviewed the his appointment.
In addition, David Williams, together with composition of the Boards and considered the skills and the four independent non-executive directors, provides the type of experience required.
One of the key considerations on this occasion was to appoint someone with a sound required level of independent oversight.
Cyril excuses himself knowledge and understanding of sustainability and safety from any discussions involving matters in which he may have issues as they would be required to chair the DLC sustainable an interest through the Shanduka Group.
External search agents were briefed The Boards continue to consider that the chairmens external and provided a long list of diverse candidates, including of directorships do not interfere with the time they devote differing backgrounds and gender.
The list was reviewed to Mondi, with both having made themselves available to by David Williams, joint chairman and Anne Quinn, senior management and other directors when required.
David and Anne interviewed a short list before narrowing the search to two potential candidates Senior independent director who were then seen by a number of other non-executive and executive directors.
Reports were made to the DLC Anne Quinn is the senior independent director providing nominations committee on each of the possible candidates.
support to the joint chairmen.
During the year she chaired The committee considered the relative merits and t of each a meeting of the non-executive directors at which the candidate before recommending the appointment of Stephen performance of the joint chairmen was considered.
She is also Harris to the Boards.
available to shareholders should they have any concerns that contact through other channels has failed to resolve or for On appointment each non-executive director receives letters which such contact may be inappropriate.
No such requests of appointment from each of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc were received during the year.
setting out, among other things, their term of appointment, the expected time commitment for their duties to Mondi and Company secretaries details of any DLC committees of which they are a member.
Philip Laubscher is the company secretary of Mondi Limited Non-executive directors are initially appointed for a three-year and Carol Hunt the company secretary of Mondi plc.
The term after which their appointment may be extended for a appointment and removal of the company secretaries is a second term subject to mutual agreement.
Mondi Group 59 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 59 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 59 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance report continued and meetings with any relevant external advisers.
In addition, Diversity a brie ng from one of the company secretaries is provided As a global organisation operating in 28 countries, Mondi on the DLC structure and its implications for the Boards, as seeks to develop and empower all of its employees.
well as the corporate governance issues in South Africa and Diversity is encouraged and Mondi is committed to the fair the UK affecting the Group, directors duties and continuing and equitable treatment of all, irrespective of origin, race or obligations of the stock exchange listings.
Mondi is committed to employing, empowering and developing competent people with the necessary potential All directors are provided with a handbook containing the required to expand their careers and become valuable committee terms of reference and key Group policies together participants in sustaining its competitive business advantage.
with other material to assist them in understanding and ful lling their duties.
In South Africa we are committed to making a positive contribution to the process of transformation.
We have taken Site visits are arranged where the opportunity arises in active steps to meet the requirements of broad-based black conjunction with Board meetings and senior management economic empowerment BBBEE, including establishing throughout the Group are provided with opportunities to meet transformation forums in our South African operations to allow and present to the Boards.
our employees to discuss equity and training-related issues and ideas.
Regular updates on governance and regulation are provided to the Boards by the company secretaries and external In line with our philosophy of encouraging diversity and advisers.
During the year the South African legal advisers excluding discrimination, we provide equal opportunity for presented on changes to South African company law and men and women in the Group.
At the end of December 2011, the UK legal advisers provided an update on governance 21% of our employees were women and 18% of our developments and on directors duties.
In addition, an senior managers were women.
We also have 22% female economist presented views on the South African economic representation on the Boards.
Corporate function specialists also present to With gender diversity high on the international agenda the the Boards at regular intervals.
Directors are also encouraged Boards have reviewed the Mondi talent pool and considered to attend relevant training courses, workshops and seminars gender diversity performance indicators.
Speci c recruitment which support their position on the Boards and committees.
commitments with a percentage of female candidates at long and short list stage for each management function There is a policy in place setting out the parameters regarding in accordance with industry standards have been agreed.
the appointment of any executive director as a non-executive A working group has also been established to consider of another company.
Although valuable experience can be the needs of women in business and how best Mondi gained from such roles it is important for the Boards to ensure can support career development.
The establishment of a the appropriateness and number of such commitments.
kindergarten at the Mondi corporate of ce in Vienna, Austria A director will retain any fee paid to them in respect of is one example of putting these proposals into practice.
Peter Oswald is currently the Mondi is also increasing its involvement with universities to only executive director holding an external position, being a encourage female graduates to consider careers within non-executive director of Telekom Austria AG.
fee is set at E15,000 per annum plus a meeting attendance allowance which for 2011 amounted to E2,400 in total for Mondi currently has good gender diversity at Board level.
However, it remains a challenge to ensure adequate gender diversity at senior management level.
With the measures being Performance evaluation put in place it is anticipated that this will change over time.
Following the 2010 external review conducted by Boardroom Development and performance Review an action plan was agreed that has been reviewed and assessment monitored during 2011.
New directors participate in an induction programme that is tailored to their speci c duties on the Boards.
The programme In response to the agreed action plan, during the year a formal includes meetings with executive management, site visits review by the Boards of executive succession was undertaken 60 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 60 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 60 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM and the joint chairmen met with the chief executive of cer on on request.
The committees are empowered, through their a number of occasions to discuss the proposals.
The Boards terms of reference, to seek independent professional advice at Mondis expense in the furtherance of their duties.
had the opportunity during 2011 to consider the current and future composition of the Boards and committees with Only committee members are entitled to attend committee the retirement of Colin Matthews at the conclusion of the meetings, although the chairmen of each committee can annual general meetings and the process for the appointment invite, as they consider appropriate, management and of his replacement.
Suggestions regarding development advisers to meetings to provide information, answer questions opportunities have also been implemented.
and generally to assist the committees in carrying out their duties.
To ensure that the Boards as a whole have an For 2011 an internal review of the Boards, committees understanding of any key issues under consideration by a and individual directors was undertaken by the joint committee, each committee chairman provides a report to the chairmen with support from the company secretaries.
The Boards following each committee meeting.
senior independent director facilitated the review of the performance of the joint chairmen.
The evaluations were The company secretaries of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc conducted through a series of questionnaires and interviews.
each act as secretary to each of the DLC committees.
The results were reviewed by the DLC nominations committee and an action plan drawn up that was considered The membership of each of the DLC committees, together and approved by the Boards.
The key themes arising from with attendance at each of the committee meetings held the 2011 review were: during the year, is detailed below.
a continued focus on director development and training in light of changing regulation and governance in both DLC audit committee South Africa and the UK: and 2011 has presented some challenges for the committee, the inclusion in the rolling agenda of reviews on industry a change of membership, the technically complex Mpact speci cs to broaden understanding of the sector in which demerger, and the pending rotation of the UK external Mondi operates.
audit partner to name a few.
I am pleased to report that the Groups transparency, policies and internal The Boards continue to bene t from the annual review control systems have enabled all these issues to be process, the results from which help guide the future focus of properly considered by the committee.
The committee meeting agendas and behaviours.
strives to follow best practice and monitors governance developments in South Africa, the UK and Europe.
We Procedure for con icts of interest have noted, in particular, the extensive proposals for Company law, the memorandum of incorporation of Mondi change that are currently being considered in Europe.
Limited and the articles of association of Mondi plc allow John Nicholas directors to authorise potential con icts.
A formal procedure Chairman of the DLC audit committee for the reporting and review of any potential con icts of interest involving the Boards with support from the company secretaries are in place, with authorisations reviewed on an annual basis.
Committee DLC audit member committee Members since four meetings DLC committees 1 Stephen Harris March 2011 2 The DLC committees, to which the Boards delegate speci c 1 areas of responsibility as described below, have authority Colin Matthews May 2007 1 to make decisions according to their terms of reference.
October 2009 4 John Nicholas chairman Work programmes are agreed by each committee that are Anne Quinn May 2007 4 designed around the annual business calendar and their 1 Stephen Harris was appointed a committee member on 1 March 2011 respective terms of reference.
Each committee reviews its and Colin Matthews resigned from the committee on 5 May 2011. terms of reference on an annual basis and these are available Stephen was unable to attend one meeting due to a commitment in on the Mondi Group website at: www.
com or place prior to his appointment.
Mondi Group 61 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 61 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 61 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance report continued The DLC audit committee operates on a Group-wide basis.
account the reports received from the Group financial controller and the external auditors and considers the Following changes in South African company law the committee is now constituted as a statutory committee in compliance of the financial statements with International respect of the duties set out in the South African Companies Financial Reporting Standards.
It also has responsibility for Act 2008 and a DLC committee of the Boards in respect of reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal other duties assigned to it by the Boards.
The committee controls and risk management systems, including IT risks, met four times during the year and has four meetings ensuring that management are identifying, managing and scheduled for 2012.
The meetings are planned around the reporting risks appropriately, details of which can be found on Groups financial reporting cycle.
The Group heads of internal pages 24 to 27 of this integrated report.
At least once during audit and representatives from the external auditors, Deloitte each financial year the committee meets with the internal & Touche and Deloitte LLP, are regularly in attendance at and the external auditors, separately, without executive meetings in order to provide assurances in support of the management present.
This provides an additional opportunity work of the committee.
The chief executive of cer and chief for an open exchange of views and feedback.
financial of cer attend by invitation, as do other personnel The committee operates under formal terms of reference and from key finance functions.
For example the Group financial these are reviewed annually.
The committee considers that controller reports to the committee on the half-yearly and full it has appropriately discharged its responsibilities as set out year financial results.
in its terms of reference during the year and has operated All members of the committee are independent non-executive in compliance with relevant legal, regulatory and other directors.
They each have relevant financial, accounting or responsibilities.
Speci c matters reviewed by the committee similar experience from current or past employment.
The during year included: Boards consider each member has appropriate knowledge reviewing the financial information and integrity of the and understanding of financial matters, suf cient to enable Mondi Group financial announcements, in particular, the them to consider effectively the financial and accounting half-yearly results and full year results, including reports issues that are presented to the committee.
The Boards from the Group financial controller and the external consider John Nicholas, DLC audit committee chairman, to auditors on those results and recommending them to have speci c recent and relevant financial experience.
He is the Boards: a chartered accountant and a member of the UK Financial considering, and recommending to the Boards, the Reporting Review Panel.
He was formerly the group finance implementation of signi cant accounting policies for the director of Tate & Lyle plc and is currently the audit committee 2011 financial year: chairman of Ceres Power Holdings plc, Hunting PLC and oversight of the Mondi Group integrated report and Rotork p. l. c.. financial statements, in particular the evaluation of In accordance with the JSE Listings Requirements, the all signi cant judgements and reporting decisions DLC audit committee has considered and satis ed itself affecting the report and the integrity of the financial that Andrew King, chief financial of cer, has the appropriate statements, considering the assurance provided by the expertise and experience.
Andrew is a chartered accountant DLC sustainable development committee regarding the and throughout his career has held various finance and sustainability reporting and recommending the report for business development roles.
The committee has also approval to the Boards: considered and satis ed itself of the appropriateness of the reviewing and approving the external audit plan, the expertise and adequacy of resources of the finance function proposed fees for the 2011 year end and the engagement and expertise of the senior management responsible for the letters: finance function.
reviewing the effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors and considering their The committee has responsibility, among other things, for re-appointment for recommendation to the Boards: monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and reviewing the results announcements.
In ful lling this monitoring the risk management policy, plan and responsibility the committee considers signi cant financial risk tolerance levels and the effectiveness of the risk reporting judgements made by management, taking into management process, including an annual identi cation 62 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 62 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 62 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM and review of all key Group risks and a more detailed been made and the auditors report on the system of internal review of at least three of those risks at each meeting, control.
These are reported on by Deloitte to the committee and speci cally reviewing information technology who then have the opportunity to question them on their risk management: responses and findings.
There are also Group policies in place regarding the employment of ex-audit staff and the provision monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups system of of non-audit services.
internal control: reviewing the non-audit services policy and the services The committee, having considered all relevant matters, has approved in accordance with the policy: concluded that it is satis ed that auditor independence, monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of internal objectivity and effectiveness have been maintained.
Deloitte & audit activities, which included: a review of the internal Touche and Deloitte LLP were appointed as Mondis external audit charter: audits carried out, the results thereof auditors at the time of the demerger of Mondi from Anglo American plc in July 2007 and are familiar with the reporting and managements response: the programme for 2011 complexities arising from the Groups dual listed company and 2012: reports received via Speakout the Groups whistle-blowing facility : and reports on fraud: structure.
As such, the DLC audit committee does not consider that it would be appropriate at this time to put the reviewing the effectiveness and experience of the chief audit out to tender, but will continue to keep this under review.
financial of cer and the finance function: The lead audit partner for the UK is changing by rotation reviewing the competition compliance programme: in 2012.
The committee con rmed that Deloitte & Touche reviewing elements of the Groups code of business ethics is included in the JSE list of accredited auditors.
Following reserved for review by the committee: these considerations the committee made a recommendation reviewing the audit and risk management activities of the to, which was accepted by, the Boards that resolutions to Groups South African widely held companies until revised reappoint Deloitte & Touche and Deloitte LLP be proposed at requirements came into force following the implementation the annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, of the new South African Companies Act: and respectively, to be held in May 2012. a review of the terms of reference of the committee, its A policy that formalises the arrangements regarding the performance against those terms and the 2012 work provision of non-audit services provided by the auditors of programme for the committee.
Mondi Limited and of Mondi plc to the Group sets out the procedures for the pre-approval of such services.
All non-audit The DLC audit committee oversees the relationship with services provided by the auditors are pre-approved by either the external auditors: is responsible for the review of their the chief financial of cer or the DLC audit committee chairman appointment, reappointment and remuneration: reviews the under delegated approval authorities from the DLC audit effectiveness of the external audit process: and ensures that committee.
The policy also details those non-audit services the objectivity and independence of the external auditors that are prohibited, including financial information systems is maintained.
Representatives from Deloitte & Touche and design, internal audit outsourcing and actuarial valuation Deloitte LLP report to the committee on their independence services.
Reports are presented to the committee at each and objectivity and the mechanisms employed to ensure this meeting detailing any non-audit services approved since the is maintained.
previous meeting, to enable the committee to monitor the In considering the quality and effectiveness of the external provision of these services to ensure that they do not impair audit the committee has taken into account feedback received the external auditors independence and objectivity.
Although from management involved with the audit, in particular there remain a number of historical matters where the external the chief financial of cer and Group financial controller.
In auditors will continue to be used, it is anticipated that the addition the committee reviewed directly with Deloitte the level of such services will diminish over time.
During 2011 the work undertaken against the agreed plan, questioning any services of Deloitte were, however, used in connection with deviations from the plan and the reasons for this.
Of particular the demerger of Mpact as it was necessary for the circular concern to the committee is the assessment of the way in to be signed-off by the reporting accountant.
Deloitte are, by which certain key accounting and audit judgements have virtue of being appointed as Mondis auditors, the reporting Mondi Group 63 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 63 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 63 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance report continued accountant.
This has had the effect of increasing the level of DLC fees for non-audit services in 2011.
The breakdown of the nominations Committee committee fees paid to the external auditors, including the split between Members member since four meetings audit and non-audit fees, is included in note 3 on page 109 to 1 the financial statements.
Stephen Harris March 2011 2 1 Colin Matthews January 2008 1 The heads of internal audit have direct access and Imogen Mkhize January 2008 4 responsibility to the DLC audit committee and work John Nicholas October 2009 4 closely with the committee in co-ordination with the external auditors.
The committee has responsibility for the Anne Quinn May 2007 4 appointment of the heads of internal audit.
The internal Cyril Ramaphosa May 2007 4 audit team plan and undertake audits of the businesses David Williams to ensure that the controls operating in the businesses May 2007 4 chairman are appropriate, effective and conform with Mondi 1 Stephen Harris was appointed a committee member on 1 March 2011 controls and procedures.
The committee reviews the and Colin Matthews resigned from the committee on 5 May 2011. activities of the internal audit function at each meeting.
Stephen was unable to attend one meeting due to a commitment in place prior to his appointment.
The internal audit reports include details of audits carried out, the results and managements response to matters The DLC nominations committee operates on a Group-wide raised during the audits, and fraud and whistle-blowing.
The committee meets periodically as required to Maintaining sound oversight and control of activities discharge its duties, but a minimum of twice per annum, and through the use of internal audit reviews is considered met four times during the year.
The chief executive of cer by the committee to be a key element of its work.
The is invited to attend meetings and provides information to structure and resources of the internal audit function are support the work of the committee, in particular with regard to also regularly reviewed.
carried out a review of the internal audit function at the request of the committee, the results of which were The committee is responsible for making recommendations to presented to the committee.
The review concluded the Boards on the composition of each board and committee positively on the effectiveness of the internal audit function and on retirements and appointments of additional and whilst making some recommendations to further improve replacement directors.
It ensures that the required balance of on this.
During 2011 the recommendations from the skills, experience and knowledge appropriate for the Mondi external review have been progressed and reviewed by the dual listed company structure are maintained.
The committee has concluded that the internal the joint chairmen chairs this committee, he is not permitted to audit function remains effective in carrying out its remit.
chair meetings during discussions regarding his performance or when the appointment of a successor is being considered.
The committee considered the process for the board DLC nominations committee evaluation and decided that an internal review would be conducted in 2011.
The outcome of the review, as explained 2011 was an active year for the committee with particular in more detail above, was considered by the committee and focus on securing the appointment of a new non-executive an action plan recommended to the Boards.
Time was also spent on the continuing evaluation and monitoring of board performance and ensuring that A number of regular matters were reviewed by the the challenges of succession have been addressed.
committee in accordance with its terms of reference.
In particular, succession planning for the executives and senior David Williams management was debated and consideration was given Chairman of the DLC nominations committee to the time commitment required from each director.
The committee also speci cally addressed the likely succession 64 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 64 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
The presentation of The DLC remuneration committee operates on a Group-wide the succession plans are broken down by business unit and basis.
The committee met five times during the year and plans set out details of the current role holder together with those to meet four times in 2012 with additional meetings convened as required.
persons who may be ready in the near term, three and five years time to ll the role.
When considering the succession The committee has responsibility for making recommendations plans, thought is also given to meaningful cross business to each board on the Groups policy on the remuneration unit and division transfers.
Following the output from the of senior management, for the determination, within agreed 2010 evaluation process, a key area of consideration for the terms of reference, of the remuneration of the joint chairmen committee for 2011 was non-executive director succession and of speci c remuneration packages for each of the planning to ensure that the Boards have the appropriate executive directors and members of senior management, skills and experience to continue to manage the challenges including pension rights and any compensation payments.
Despite changes of non-executive directors at addition, the committee is responsible for the implementation the end of 2009 and in 2011, four of the six non-executives, of employee share plans.
including the joint chairmen, were appointed in 2007 at the The committees full report on directors remuneration, time of the demerger of Mondi from Anglo American plc.
including details of the Groups remuneration policies and Non-executive succession in particular therefore remains practices, is set out on pages 68 to 78. a key focus area for the committee acknowledging the need to effect changes with minimum disturbance to the DLC sustainable development stability and continuity of the Boards.
Independent external committee search consultants will be engaged to assist with nding replacement directors in line with an agreed process.
DLC Having reviewed governance developments the committee sustainable Committee development took the decision that all directors should stand for re-election member committee at the annual general meetings in 2011.
All directors will Members since five meetings stand for re-election again in 2012.
With a change in the 1 Stephen Harris chairman March 2011 4 non-executive directors made during the year, the process for which is set out in more detail above, the committee also David Hathorn May 2007 6 considered the consequential changes to the composition of Colin Matthews former each committee, reviewing the current membership of each 1 chairman May 2007 2 and the skills available.
Anne Quinn August 2009 6 DLC remuneration committee 1 Stephen Harris was appointed a committee member on 1 March 2011 and as chairman of the committee on 6 May 2011.
Colin Matthews resigned from the committee on 5 May 2011.
DLC remuneration The DLC sustainable development committee operates on a Committee committee Group-wide basis.
The committee met six times during the Members member since five meetings year and plans to meet six times in 2012.
The committee 1 Stephen Harris March 2011 2 has responsibility for overseeing the Groups policy, targets 1 Colin Matthews May 2007 1 and performance on safety, health, the environment, social Imogen Mkhize May 2007 5 responsibility, other sustainable development matters and Anne Quinn chairman May 2007 5 business ethics.
David Williams May 2007 5 During the year the committee reviewed the Groups key 1 Stephen Harris was appointed a committee member on 1 March 2011 sustainable development policies, monitored performance and Colin Matthews resigned from the committee on 5 May 2011. against environmental targets, received detailed safety Stephen was unable to attend two meetings due to commitments in place prior to his appointment.
reports including details of major incidents within the Mondi Group 65 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 65 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 65 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM DIRECTORS REPORT Corporate governance report continued Group and monitored the senior managements response to basis and that all shareholders are treated equally.
reports, trading updates and news about the business operations are available to all shareholders on the Mondi A summary report from the directors on the Groups Group website.
sustainability practices is set out on pages 34 to 41 and The Group head of sustainable development maintains a further details, including a full review of Mondis sustainability activities and progress in 2011, can be found on the Mondi dialogue on socially responsible investment through focused Group website.
brie ngs with interested investors and stakeholders.
Throughout the year responses are given to letters and e-mails DLC executive committee received from shareholders and other interested parties on The DLC executive committee operates on a Group-wide a variety of subjects.
Shareholders may choose to receive basis.
The members of the DLC executive committee are financial reports and other communications from the Group via detailed on page 55.
The committee is chaired by David electronic means.
Facilities are also available for the electronic Hathorn and met eleven times during the year, with nine submission of proxy votes for general meetings.
Furthermore, meetings scheduled for 2012. shareholders can use the opportunity of the annual general meetings to question the directors about Mondis activities The DLC executive committee is responsible for the day-toand prospects.
day management of the Group and its business operations within the limits set by the Boards, with particular focus on During 2011, Mondi did not receive any requests for access financial, operational and safety performance, together with to records under the South African Promotion of Access of policy implementation in line with the Groups strategy agreed Information Act 2000. by the Boards.
Dealing in securities Communication with stakeholders The Boards have adopted a share dealing code for dealing Ensuring that shareholders, be they institutional, private in securities of Mondi Limited and Mondi plc which is based or employee shareholders, receive accurate and timely on regulatory and governance best practice in South Africa information about the Groups financial performance, and the UK.
The code sets out the restrictions placed on operational and development activities, suf cient for them to directors, senior management and other key employees with make an informed judgement regarding their investments, is regard to their share dealing to ensure that they do not abuse considered by the Boards to be extremely important.
To this their access to information about the Group pending its public end a variety of communication mechanisms are used, with release and availability to shareholders and other interested the Mondi Group website providing a range of financial and parties.
The code is reviewed regularly and updated as business information about the Group, including an archive of required to ensure continued compliance with regulation and past announcements and share price information as well as best practice.
the Groups sustainability activities and practices.
All dealings by directors and persons discharging managerial During the year the chief executive of cer and chief financial responsibilities and their connected persons are announced of cer have continued a programme of regular dialogue with to the JSE Limited and the London Stock Exchange when institutional shareholders, analysts and fund managers, based they occur.
Details of the directors interests in the shares around the Groups financial reporting calendar.
Investors are of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc can be found in the also regularly offered the opportunity to speak directly with remuneration report on pages 75 to 78. the joint chairmen.
Periodically site visits are arranged to help increase the knowledge and understanding of the Group.
Business ethics Summaries of the feedback from these discussions, meetings The Boards have adopted a Code of Business Ethics, which and any site visits are presented to the Boards.
The Boards applies throughout the Group and sets out five fundamental also receive feedback directly from brokers and advisers principles that govern the way in which Mondi and its which enables them to gain a clear understanding of the views employees conduct business.
Three of the principles are and opinions of those interested in the Group.
All contact monitored and reviewed by the DLC sustainable development with investors and other interested parties is strictly controlled committee human rights, stakeholders and sustainability through the application of Group guidelines to ensure that no and two by the DLC audit committee legal compliance and price sensitive information is made available on a selective honesty and integrity.
66 Integrated report and financial statements 2011 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 66 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 66 2 2012 03 02 9:48 AM 012 03 02 9:48 AM The code incorporates the requirement for the Group to Mondi has not been engaged in any legal actions for anticomply with all applicable laws and regulations.
Although the competitive behaviour, anti-trust or monopoly practices during Group does not have a single compliance function the legal the year.
Mondi has also not received any material fines or teams of each division, together with the company secretaries non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and of both Mondi Limited and Mondi plc, have oversight of regulations.
compliance, including consideration of the application of non-binding rules, codes and standards.
Regular reports Annual general meetings are presented to the Boards, or relevant committees, on The annual general meetings of Mondi Limited and Mondi compliance matters.
plc will be held on 3 May 2012 in Johannesburg and London respectively.
It is expected that all directors and, in particular, The detailed application of the principles of the code is the chairmen of the principal committees will be present.
documented in Mondis policies and procedures, in particular the Mondi sustainable development policy.
The directors Separate resolutions will be proposed for each item of believe that the Group has robust compliance systems and business to be considered at the annual general meetings.
procedures in place in relation to the code.
The directors are All resolutions at the meetings will be voted on by taking polls, not aware of any material non-compliance with the code.
with the veri ed results announced as soon as practicable The code is available on the Mondi Group website.
following the close of both meetings.
The voting results will During the year the Boards approved and implemented a also be made available on the Mondi Group website.
new business integrity policy, partly in response to the UK The notices of the annual general meetings, which include Bribery Act, which supports the aims of the code.
The policy explanations of each resolution, are contained in separate consolidated a number of existing policies in order to reinforce circulars which are sent to all shareholders in advance of the standards of ethical behaviour expected throughout the meetings, in accordance with the corporate governance the Group by employees but also by others involved in the business activities of Mondi.
codes of South Africa and the UK.
Mondi Group 67 5 5036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
indd 67 036 11 Mondi AR 1March12 PRINT final.
