Previous Page View Contents Next Page 34 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Nomination Committee Report The Nomination Committee presents a separate report in relation At the invitation of the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, to the financial year ended 31 December 2011. the Chief Executive Officer and Human Resources Director may attend meetings of the Nomination Committee.
The Company Composition of the Nomination Committee Secretary acts as secretary to the Nomination Committee.
The members of the Nomination Committee can, where they judge it The Nomination Committee comprises the four Non-Executive Directors, Gerald Corbett Chairman of the Nomination necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Committee, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley and Bruce CarnegieBrown.
Rob Rowley, Michael Wemms and Bruce Carnegie-Brown The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are are considered by the Board to be independent.
Gerald Corbett was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment.
published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
com and are available in hard copy Biographies of the members of the Nomination Committee are set out on pages 22 and 23. form on application to the Company Secretary.
This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Operation of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee met on two occasions during the year.
Details of the attendance at Nomination Committee meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance Report Gerald Corbett Chairman of the Nomination Committee on page 30.
27 February 2012 The Nomination Committees duties include: Evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
Considering the size, structure and composition of the Board.
Where necessary, considering and recommending to the Board persons who are appropriate for appointment as Directors.
Ensuring that succession planning for the Board is in place.
The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board.
The process involves the Nomination Committee interviewing suitable candidates who are proposed by either existing Board members or by an external search firm.
Careful consideration is given to ensure proposed appointees have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
When the Nomination Committee has identified a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the Nomination Committee will make a recommendation to the Board with the Board making the final decision.
When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director will chair the Nomination Committee instead of the Chairman.
During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed the balance of skills, independence, knowledge and experience of the Board together with the size, diversity, structure and composition of the Board, and reviewed the succession plans for the Board.
