Previous Page View Contents Next Page Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 33 Annual Report 2011 Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee presents a separate report in relation to the proportionately and independently investigate such matters and financial year ended 31 December 2011. for appropriate follow-up action.
Composition of the Audit Committee Internal control and risk management The Audit Committee comprises the four Non-Executive Directors, The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control Rob Rowley Chairman of the Audit Committee, Gerald Corbett, and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Michael Wemms and Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
Rob Rowley, Michael Audit Committee monitors and reviews each year the Wemms and Bruce Carnegie-Brown are considered by the Board effectiveness of, and the framework for, the Groups system of to be independent.
Gerald Corbett was considered by the Board to internal control and risk management.
This includes annual be independent on appointment.
Biographies of the members of consideration as to whether there is a need to establish an the Audit Committee are set out on pages 22 and 23.
Rob Rowley internal audit function.
is a qualified accountant and was formerly finance director of The Audit Committee undertook a review of the effectiveness of, Reuters plc and chairman of the audit committee at Prudential plc.
and the framework for, the Groups system of internal control and He is currently chairman of the audit committee at Capital risk management, including financial, operational and compliance Shopping Centres Group PLC.
The Board is satisfied that controls during the year.
In addition to this review, the external Rob Rowley has recent and relevant financial experience.
auditors provided the Audit Committee with comprehensive reports of the results of their controls testing as part of the Operation of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met on three occasions during the year.
On a half yearly basis, the Audit Committee also reviewed the key risks facing the Group and the actions being Details of the attendance at Audit Committee meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 30. taken by management to mitigate and manage them.
During the year the Audit Committee considered the need to The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, together with the external auditors, will normally attend meetings at the establish an internal audit function and concluded that the control systems are sufficient for the size and complexity of the Group invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The external auditors are regularly invited by the Audit Committee to advise such that an internal audit function is not required at this time.
This will be reviewed in 2012. them of any matters which they consider should be brought to the Audit Committees attention without the Executive Directors Review of the work of the external auditors present.
The external auditors may also request a meeting with Subject to the annual appointment of the external auditors by the Audit Committee if they consider it necessary.
shareholders, the Audit Committee regularly reviews the The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit relationship between the Group and the external auditors.
The members of the Audit Committee can, where review includes an assessment of their performance, costthey judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities, obtain effectiveness, objectivity and independence.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate The Audit Committees duties include: relationship is maintained between the Group and the external Monitoring the financial reporting process.
The Group has implemented a policy of controlling the Monitoring the statutory audit of the Groups Financial Statements.
provision of non-audit services by the external auditors in order to Reviewing the Groups Financial Statements and the material ensure that their objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
This financial reporting judgements contained in them.
control is exercised by ensuring that all non-audit services are Monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and subject to the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
During the year, risk management systems.
the Company continued to engage its external auditors to provide Reviewing and monitoring the independence of the external non-audit services, including the provision of advice in connection auditors and the provision of additional services to the Group.
with the reimbursement of VAT, and other acquisition activities Advising the Board on the appointment and removal of the reflecting their knowledge and understanding of the Group.
The external auditors and the remuneration and terms of Audit Committee also continued with the appointment of other engagement of the external auditors.
accountancy firms to provide certain non-audit services to the Reviewing the Groups whistle blowing procedures.
Group and anticipates that this will continue in 2012.
The Audit Committee undertakes its activities in line with an The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors annual work plan.
The Audit Committee agrees the scope of the performance during their period in office, recommends their audit work and discusses the results of the full year audit and half re-appointment.
A full breakdown of the audit and non-audit year review each year.
related fees is set out in note 5 to the Group Financial Statements on page 56.
The Audit Committee discussed the level of fees and The terms of reference of the Audit Committee arepublished considered them appropriate given the current size of the Group.
on the investor relations section of the Groups website at The Audit Committee is satisfied that the level and scope of www.
com and are available in hard copy non-audit services undertaken by the external auditors does not form on application to the Company Secretary.
impair their independence and objectivity.
During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the Groups This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: whistle blowing procedures to ensure arrangements are in place to enable employees to raise concerns about possible Rob Rowley malpractice or wrongdoing by the Group or any of its employees Chairman of the Audit Committee on a confidential basis.
This includes arrangements to 27 February 2012
