Previous Page View Contents Next Page Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC 29 Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report The Board of Directors Board of Moneysupermarket.
com Conflicts of interest Group PLC Company is committed to high standards of The Companys Articles of Association were amended at the 2008 corporate governance and supports the principles laid down Annual General Meeting, in line with the Companies Act 2006, to in The UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010 allow the Board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may by the Financial Reporting Council Code.
This Corporate arise and to impose limits or conditions, as appropriate, when giving Governance Report describes how the principles of the Code any authorisation.
Any decision of the Board to authorise a conflict of are applied by the Company and reports on the Companys interest is only effective if it is agreed without the conflicted Directors compliance with the Codes provisions.
voting or without their votes being counted and in making such a decision, the Directors must act in a way they consider in good faith Compliance will be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Board considers that the Company has complied with the The Company has established a procedure for the appropriate provisions of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December authorisation to be sought prior to appointment of any new Director 2011 and to the date of this report except as set out below.
or prior to a new conflict arising and for the regular review of actual or potential conflicts of interest.
During the year, this procedure was Board of Directors adhered to and operated effectively.
The Board currently has nine members, comprising the NonExecutive Chairman, Gerald Corbett, three Independent NonRelationship Agreement Executive Directors, Michael Wemms, Rob Rowley and Bruce The majority shareholder of the Company is Simon Nixon.
The Carnegie-Brown, and five Executive Directors, Simon Nixon, Paul Company and Simon Nixon entered into a relationship agreement on Doughty, Peter Plumb, Graham Donoghue and David Osborne.
11 July 2007 to regulate the ongoing relationship between them Michael Wemms has been designated as the Senior Independent Relationship Agreement.
The principal purpose of the Relationship Non-Executive Director.
Agreement is to ensure that the Company is capable of carrying on its business independently of Simon Nixon, and that transactions and The Board normally meets on at least eight occasions in relationships with Simon Nixon are at arms length and on normal each financial year including a two day strategy conference.
enable the Non-Executive Directors to more freely discuss the performance of the Groups management, the Chairman meets The Company and Simon Nixon have agreed in the Relationship with the Non-Executive Directors at least once each year without Agreement that Simon Nixon is entitled to appoint such number the Executive Directors present.
including himself as a Director one Non-Executive Director for as long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 15% of the The Board considers that all the Directors are able to devote ordinary shares of the Company, two Non-Executive Directors for as sufficient time to their duties as Directors.
Biographies of the Board long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 30% of the ordinary are set out on pages 22 and 23 including details of the significant shares of the Company and three Non-Executive Directors for as commitments of the Chairman.
The Board is satisfied that these long as he holds the beneficial interest in at least 50% of the ordinary appointments do not conflict with the Chairmans ability to carry shares of the Company.
The Relationship Agreement will terminate out his duties and responsibilities effectively for the Group.
if Simon Nixon holds less than 15% of the ordinary shares of the Company.
The Board has reviewed the recommendations of the Davies Report as part of a wider diversity discussion and has recently The Relationship Agreement also includes a protocol to be endorsed a Group wide Diversity Policy.
The Board supports the observed in relation to any Non-Executive Director appointed by aims, objectives and recommendations of the Davies Report and Simon Nixon to deal with potential conflicts of interest and the in line with the Code will continue to make Board appointments provision of confidential information.
on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
As at the date of this report, Simon Nixon had not appointed any Non-Executive Directors pursuant to his rights in the Independence Non-Executive Directors Relationship Agreement.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors bring wide and varied commercial experience to Board and Committee Division of responsibilities deliberations.
The practice of the Company is to appoint NonThe positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are not Executive Directors for specified terms of three years, subject to combined, ensuring a clear division of responsibility at the head of the a maximum of up to 12 months notice within that period and also Company.
The division of roles and responsibilities between the subject to re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is clearly established, set out in to the removal of a Director.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors, writing and has been approved by the Board.
including the Chairman, currently holds a letter of appointment reflecting this.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
He ensures effective The Board considers that Gerald Corbett was independent communication with shareholders and that the Board is aware on appointment as Chairman and considers Michael Wemms, of the views of major shareholders.
He facilitates both the contribution Rob Rowley and Bruce Carnegie-Brown to be independent, of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive relations between being independent in character and judgement and free from the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the day to day appear to affect, their judgement.
running of the Group, carrying out agreed strategy and implementing specific Board decisions.
Previous Page View Contents Next Page 30 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued Role of the Board The Board is collectively responsible for the Groups performance and meets regularly to review the operation and performance of the Group.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision making and matters delegated to Committees of the Board which are available on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
These include the Groups strategy: business plan and annual budget: acquisitions and disposals: and other major investments and capital projects.
There is an established procedure for the preparation and approval each year by the Board of business plans and the annual budget.
The Board receives reports on performance against the business plan and budget and reviews any significant variances each time it meets.
This information enables business performance to be monitored, evaluated, discussed and challenged where necessary and enables informed, sound decisions to be made.
At least one of the Boards regular meetings each year is devoted to reviewing and agreeing the Groups strategic direction.
Board Committees The Board has three principal Committees Audit, Nomination and Remuneration to which various matters are delegated.
The Committees all have formal written terms of reference that have been approved by the Board and are published on the investor relations section of the Groups website at www.
They are also available in hard copy form on application to the Company Secretary.
Details of the work of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are given in the reports of those Committees on pages 33 to 42.
The Directors who served on each of the Committees during the year are set out below: Committee Chairman Member Member Member Audit Rob Rowley Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms Bruce Carnegie-Brown Nomination Gerald Corbett Michael Wemms Rob Rowley Bruce Carnegie-Brown Remuneration Michael Wemms Gerald Corbett Rob Rowley Bruce Carnegie-Brown Board and Committee attendance The attendance record of the Directors at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out in the following table.
The Board scheduled nine meetings during the year and ad hoc conference calls were also convened to deal with specific matters which required attention between scheduled meetings.
Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Simon Nixon 7 Peter Plumb 9 Paul Doughty 9 Graham Donoghue 9 David Osborne 9 Non-Executive Directors Gerald Corbett 9 3 2 6 Michael Wemms 8 3 2 6 Rob Rowley 9 3 2 6 Bruce Carnegie-Brown 9 3 2 6 Total number of scheduled meetings held 9 3 2 6 The Executive Directors of the Company may attend meetings of the Committees at the invitation of the Chairman of the respective Committee.
Directors The Companys Articles of Association require that new Directors appointed by the Board must retire and submit themselves for election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association further require that all Directors must retire and submit themselves for re-election at least every three years.
In accordance with the Code, all of the Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
The Company provides Directors and officers insurance cover for the benefit of Directors in respect of claims arising in the performance of their duties.
The Company has also granted indemnities to each of its Directors and the Company Secretary to the extent permitted by law and its Articles of Association.
com Group PLC 31 Annual Report 2011 Board evaluation Shareholder relations The formal annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, The Board is committed to establishing and maintaining good its Committees and individual Directors was undertaken during communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, including the year.
This consisted of an internally run exercise led by the the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer regularly Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
The meet with analysts and institutional shareholders to keep them appraisal questionnaire used in connection with the process informed of significant developments and to develop an was wide-ranging and based on questions outlined in the Code, understanding of their views which are discussed with the Board.
covering both Board and Committee performance.
The Board Formal presentations are given to analysts and shareholders considered that an internally run exercise was most appropriate covering the full year and half year results and the Company in the current year but agreed annually to give consideration to seeks to maintain a dialogue with the various bodies which whether an externally facilitated evaluation may be appropriate.
monitor the Companys governance policies and procedures.
The Company Secretary generally deals with questions from The appraisal output is used to identify strengths and individual shareholders.
development areas and confirmed that the Board and its Committees were operating effectively.
Individual performance The results and results presentations, together with all information was also appraised, based on one-to-one interviews with the reported to the market via the regulatory information service, Chairman, or in the case of the Chairman, with the Senior press releases and other shareholder information, are published Independent Non-Executive Director following consultation on the investor relations section of the Groups website at with each of the other Directors.
com to be viewed and accessed by all shareholders.
Development The Chairman and Company Secretary are responsible for The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Michael Wemms, is available to shareholders if they have concerns preparing and co-ordinating an induction programme for newly appointed Directors, including business related presentations by which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve, or senior management below Board level, as well as guidance on their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as a Director of the for which such contact is inappropriate.
Every Director has access to appropriate training as required following their appointment and is encouraged to All shareholders will have the opportunity to ask questions at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit, develop their understanding of the Group.
Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be available to answer questions at that meeting.
Shareholders may also contact Information the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer or, if more appropriate, Board members are given appropriate documentation in a the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to raise any issue timely manner in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
with one or all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
This normally includes a detailed report on current trading and comprehensive papers on matters where the Board or Committee The Company will prepare separate resolutions on each will be required to make a decision or give its approval.
Specific substantially separate issue at the forthcoming Annual General business related presentations are given by senior management Meeting.
The result of the vote on each resolution will be below Board level when appropriate.
published on the Groups website after the Annual General Meeting and will be announced via the regulatory The Directors have access to the advice and services of the information service.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and providing advice to the Board on corporate governance.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
Directors can, where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors, obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought by any Director during the year.
Directors have the right to require that any concerns they may have are recorded in the appropriate Board or Committee minutes.
Previous Page View Contents Next Page 32 Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued Internal control and risk management Compliance with the Code The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal The Directors consider that during the financial year ended control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
31 December 2011 and to the date of this report, the Company The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than complied with the Code except as follows: eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against B.
1.2 During the year at least half the Board, excluding the material misstatement or loss.
Chairman, did not comprise Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Directors consider that the Board is of sufficient The key features of the Groups system of internal control and risk size and diversity that the balance of skills and experience is management are: considered to be appropriate for the requirements of the Group A comprehensive annual business planning and budgeting at the current time.
process, requiring Board approval, against which the Groups actual performance and any significant variances are regularly E. 1.1 As a result of regular feedback provided to the Board by reviewed by the Board.
the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer following A schedule of matters reserved for the Boards approval to their dialogue with major shareholders, the Senior Independent ensure it maintains control over appropriate strategic, financial, Non-Executive Director believes he is aware of the views of major organisational, compliance and capital investment issues.
Unless requested by major shareholders, the An organisation structure with clearly defined lines of Senior Independent Non-Executive Director does not attend responsibility and delegation of authority.
Regular reviews of the key risks facing the Group to ensure key risks are being identified, evaluated and appropriately This report was approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: managed, having regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
The management of risk is undertaken by the Group Risk Committee, chaired by the Chief Executive Officer, which reviews the Group risk register on a quarterly basis, and Darren Drabble reports to the Audit Committee at least twice a year.
Company Secretary An annual two day strategy conference to discuss and 27 February 2012 approve the Groups strategic direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives: Reports from the external auditors in relation to the Financial Statements and the material financial reporting judgements contained in them.
Reports from the external auditors in relation to the system of internal control and the reviews by the external auditors of that system.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management during the year.
The Board considers that in the context of the control environment described above, the Groups system of internal control and risk management is effective and satisfactory.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital are set out in the Directors Report on pages 25 and 26.
