Overview Business review Governance Financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate All Directors submit themselves for election by the shareholders Governance Code at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Throughout the year ended 1 January 2012 the Company has been All Directors who are willing to continue in office stand for re-election in full compliance with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the by the shareholders each year.
Non-executive Directors are appointed UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published by the for a term of three years, subject to annual re-election.
The Financial Reporting Council and available on its website www.
independence, commitment and effectiveness of any non-executive Director who has served for two terms is subject to rigorous review This statement describes how the Company has applied the main prior to reappointment for a further three-year term.
It should be read in conjunction with the Business review and Remuneration report on pages 22 to 51 and The attendance of each Director at Board and Audit, Remuneration 66 to 76 respectively.
and Nomination Committee meetings is set out in the table below.
Directors The Chairman and the non-executive Directors met without the The Board executive Directors present on a number of occasions during the The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders year.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director and the other for the success of the Company.
The Board is satisfied it has met the non-executive Directors met without the Chairman present.
Codes requirements for its effective operation.
It has set the Companys strategic aims, which were reviewed by the Board at its strategy meeting Should a Director have concerns about the running of the Company during the year, and has ensured that there is a framework of prudent or a proposed action which are not resolved, their concerns would and effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed.
be recorded in the Board minutes.
The Board sets the Companys values and standards, which are contained in the Core Values Statement and Ethics Policy, both of An appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance policy is which are referred to on page 34 in the Business review.
The Board met formally eight times during the year to review current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer performance against agreed objectives and to make and review major The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, business decisions.
There is a schedule of matters specifically reserved clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
for the Board including significant contractual commitments including the acquisition or disposal of companies businesses, treasury and The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of intellectual property transactions, the review of the effectiveness the Board including setting the Boards agenda and ensuring sufficient of risk management processes, major capital expenditure and corporate time is available for all agenda items, particularly regarding strategic responsibility.
One meeting each year is specifically focused on strategy issues, for promoting a culture of open debate and constructive and the longer term development of the Group.
Various matters are challenge, facilitating effective contributions by the non-executive delegated to duly authorised sub-committees of the Board, as is further Directors and ensuring constructive relationships between the executive described below.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for the management of the Company, including the delivery of the During the year there were no changes of membership of the Board Groups business plan, the formulation and implementation of strategy, and there were no changes of role.
chairing the Executive Committee and for ensuring the implementation of the Groups policies and strategies.
The management of the Groups As at 15 February 2012 the Board comprises Tim Stevenson, Chairman: operating Divisions reports to the Chief Executive Officer.
Mark Robertshaw, Chief Executive Officer: Kevin Dangerfield, Chief Financial Officer: Andrew Hosty, Chief Executive Officer of the Morgan Ceramics Division and three non-executive Directors deemed by the Board to be independent, Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale.
Martin Flower is the Senior Independent Director.
Biographies of the Directors, including details of their other main commitments, are set out on pages 52 and 53.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible Director to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended Tim Stevenson 8 8 5 5 2 2 Mark Robertshaw 8 8 2 2 Kevin Dangerfield 8 8 Andrew Hosty 8 8 Martin Flower 8 8 5 5 5 5 2 2 Andrew Given 8 8 5 5 5 5 2 2 Simon Heale 8 8 5 5 5 5 2 2 Excludes meetings attended by invitation for all or part of a meeting.
Indicates a Director deemed by the Board to be independent or, in the case of the Chairman, independent on appointment.
58 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Board balance and independence Non-executive Directors have access to management and staff The size, structure and composition of the Board was reviewed at all levels and are encouraged to visit operating sites.
In addition to during the year, taking into account succession planning and visits by individual Directors and the Chairman, each year at least one the need to progressively refresh the membership of the Board.
Board meeting is held at an operating facility.
During 2011 formal Board meetings were held at the Technical Ceramics site in Corby, UK and At the year end, in addition to the Chairman, whom the Company at the Thermal Ceramics site in Saint Marcellin, France.
In addition, deemed to be independent on appointment, the Board comprised the non-executive Directors attended the Groups leadership three executive Directors and three non-executive Directors deemed conference held in Singapore.
by the Board to be independent.
Thus there is a balance of executive and non-executive Directors which helps ensure that no individual or The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company small group can dominate the Boards decision-making.
Throughout Secretary who, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring that the year the Company complied with the requirement of the Code Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations that at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise are observed.
A procedure is in place to enable the Directors to seek non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
independent professional advice at the Companys expense in In addition to the factors set out in the Code, the Boards assessment connection with their duties as Directors.
of a non-executive Directors independence and effectiveness covers their total number of commitments and any relationships with major Performance evaluation suppliers and with charities receiving material support from the Company.
The Board undertook a formal evaluation of its performance, its committees and of the individual Directors during the year.
The Code Appointments to the Board requires that the Company conducts an externally facilitated evaluation As is further detailed in the report of the Nomination Committee, set every three years and the 2011 Board performance evaluation was out on page 64, there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review.
Dr Long and for appointments to the Board.
Appointments are made on merit Boardroom Review have no other connection with the Company.
and against objective criteria, having due regard for diversity, including The evaluation process consisted of a structured interview with the gender.
The Board has also considered the recommendations made Chairman, each Director, the Divisional Chief Executives and the by the Davies Report on Women on Boards and has concluded that Company Secretary with an outline of the topics to be covered in the ensuring the Board has the right balance and an appropriately diverse interview sent to each Director in advance.
The evaluation also included mix of skills and experience is of paramount importance but that quotas the review of relevant papers and the observation of Board Committee are not appropriate for the Group.
The output from the evaluation was summarised as a discussion document which was presented to the December Board The Board is satisfied that there are succession plans in place for meeting with collective and individual feedback provided as appropriate.
appointments to the Board and for senior management.
The evaluation concluded that the Board performed effectively, Information and professional development with the Chairman facilitating a culture of openness and transparency The Company Secretary, with the Chairman, is responsible for ensuring which encourages constructive challenge.
The meetings of the Board the Board has full and timely access to all appropriate information to follow a structured pattern with flexible agendas focused on debate enable it to discharge its duties.
Board papers are generally sent out rather than presentation.
Strategy discussions are part of a continuing five working days before each meeting.
Non-executive Directors cycle through the year with the Chief Executive providing leadership also receive updates and information between formal Board meetings.
in setting strategic priorities in conjunction with the Board.
The non-executive Directors have strong familiarity with the Group New Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction on joining and its businesses and contribute to strategic thinking and judgment, the Board.
A new Directors experience and background is taken into providing multiple and relevant perspectives.
The relationship between account in developing a tailored programme.
the Board and management is open and transparent.
The Audit Committee has a positive and appropriately challenging relationship The Chairman considers the individual training and development with the external auditor and provides good quality oversight through needs of each Director, taking into account environmental, social and the detailed reporting, identification and mitigation of key control risks.
The Company Secretary keeps the suitability The Remuneration Committee is constructive and there is alignment of external courses under review and facilitates the induction of between the Group strategy, performance expectations and rewards.
new Directors and the ongoing training and development of all Directors as necessary.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 59 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The recommendations which will be implemented following the 2011 Remuneration Board performance evaluation include a review of the style, presentation Remuneration policy and practice is discussed in the Remuneration and length of Board papers in the context of the planned transition report on pages 66 to 76. from paper-based to electronic Board papers in 2012 and ongoing emphasis on succession planning to ensure the composition of the Accountability and audit Board and the balance of skills and experience of the Directors Financial reporting continues to be appropriate.
In its reporting to shareholders, the Board is satisfied that it has met its obligations to present a balanced and understandable assessment of The recommendations made following the 2010 Board performance the Companys position and prospects as required by the Code and in review were implemented during the year.
Further emphasis was placed accordance with the Accounting Standards Boards Reporting Statement 1, on succession planning and the composition of the Board, allowance The Operating and Financial Review RS1.
This is included in the was made in the Board timetable for informal meetings and the Board Business review on pages 22 to 51.
The Board also presents updated used an external facilitator to support the 2011 Board performance information in its half year and other public reports.
evaluation process, as described above.
A summary of the statement of Directors responsibilities in respect The non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, of the Annual Report and the financial statements is set out on page 65 met without the Chairman present to evaluate the Chairmans and the going concern statement is set out in the Business review on performance during the year, taking into account the views of the page 47. executive Directors.
Internal control During the year the Chairman took up an additional role as The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining a non-executive Chairman of Johnson Matthey plc, a FTSE 100 company.
sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment Prior to undertaking an additional external role or appointment, and the Companys assets and for reviewing the effectiveness of such the Chairman and the non-executive Directors are asked to confirm system.
The Companys system of internal control has been in place that they will continue to have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the to the Company.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control system annually and did so during Conflicts of interest the year.
The system of internal control accords with the Financial The Board has procedures in place to address the requirements Reporting Councils guidance on the internal control requirements of of the Companies Act 2006 concerning the duty of the Directors the Code Turnbull.
This review covered all material controls, including to avoid conflicts of interest.
Accordingly the Directors are required to financial, operational and compliance controls, and risk management 1 disclose proposed outside interests before they are taken in order systems.
The Audit Committee receives regular risk management to enable a prior assessment of any actual or potential conflict: and reports covering the full range of risks faced by Morgan Crucible as a 2 disclose without delay any situation which arises which gives rise Group and ensures there are adequate systems in place and evaluates to an actual or potential conflict.
The Board reviews the outside interests of the Directors and any conflicts disclosed and authorisations given at least annually.
Should an actual or potential conflict be identified, the Board considers whether to authorise the situation in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and, if so, the terms of any authorisation.
In the event of an actual conflict arising, the Director concerned is to notify the Chairman the Chairman would notify the Senior Independent Director and the Director would be excluded from the relevant information, debate and decision.
60 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Directors believe that the Groups system of internal financial Performance monitoring There are regular meetings of the Board controls provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that: the and of the Executive Committee.
A comparison of forecast and assets of the Group are safeguarded: that transactions are authorised actual results is considered, including cash flows and comparisons and recorded in a correct and timely manner: and that such controls against budget and the prior year.
Divisional management teams would prevent and detect, within a timely period, material errors or also meet regularly to review performance.
The system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, and forecast performance are made to the Executive Committee risk and to address key business and financial risks, including social, and the Board by the Groups Divisional Chief Executives.
The internal control framework In addition, regular site visits are made by members of the complements the Groups management structure.
The main features of Executive Committee.
the Groups systems for internal control and for assessing the potential Risk management The identification of major business risks is risks to which the Group is exposed are summarised as follows: an ongoing process carried out in conjunction with operating management.
Steps are taken to mitigate or manage any material Control environment The Groups management processes risks identified.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit include delegated authorities and the segregation of duties Committee, receives reports on financial, taxation, insurance, with documented policies and manuals.
These cover financial treasury, pension, legal and social, environmental and ethical risks procedures, environmental, health and safety practice and other from management.
The Divisional Chief Executives cover risk issues areas.
In addition, there is a schedule of matters reserved for at their management meetings and the Director of Risk Assurance the Board.
The Groups Core Values Statement, Ethics Policy helps to ensure that internal control and risk management is and other supporting policies and procedures set out the Groups embedded into the Groups operations through the Risk Management commitment to the highest standards of corporate and individual Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer and is behaviour and provide guidance for employees.
The Groups attended by the Chief Financial Officer of each Division.
Responsible Business Programme includes relevant training and Risk factors Morgan Crucibles businesses are affected by a number reporting and is part of the control framework.
The Ethics Hotline of factors, many of which are influenced by macro-economic is available to employees and others in this regard.
The Chief trends and are therefore outside the Companys immediate Executive of each Division makes an annual statement of compliance control, although, as described above and in the Business review, to the Board confirming that for each of the businesses for which the identification and management of such risks is carried out he is responsible, the financial statements are fairly presented in systematically.
These are further discussed in the Risk management all material respects, appropriate systems of internal controls have section on pages 48 and 49. been developed and maintained and the businesses comply with Internal audit The Groups internal audit function reviews internal Group policies and procedures.
control and risk management processes.
The Audit Committee Financial reporting Risk management systems and internal controls approves the plans for internal audit reviews and receives reports are in place in relation to the Groups financial reporting processes accordingly.
Actions resulting from internal audit reviews are agreed and the process for preparing consolidated accounts.
The Internal Auditor has direct access to the policies and procedures which require the maintenance of records Chairman of the Audit Committee.
which accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded Audit Committee and auditors as necessary to allow the preparation of financial statements in The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS how the Directors apply the Companys financial reporting and internal and the review and reconciliation of reported data.
As noted above, control principles, and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with representatives of the business are required to certify that their the Companys auditors.
This requirement is met by the work of the reported information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs Audit Committee, as described below, and by the audit work carried of the business and its results for the period.
The Audit Committee out by the Companys external auditors, KPMG Audit plc.
is responsible for monitoring these risk management systems and internal controls.
The Audit Committee has received confirmation from KPMG Audit plc that its general procedures support the auditors independence and objectivity in relation to non-audit services.
After considering such procedures the opinion of the Audit Committee was that the auditors objectivity and independence was safeguarded despite the provision of non-audit services by KPMG Audit plc.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 61 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Relations with shareholders Audit Dialogue with shareholders The Audit Committee assists the Board in effectively discharging The importance of dialogue with major shareholders is recognised its responsibilities for financial reporting and corporate control.
and meetings are held in order to help achieve a mutual understanding Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale were members of of objectives.
In this respect, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief the Committee throughout the year.
All members of the Committee Financial Officer make themselves available to major shareholders are independent Directors and Andrew Given, the Chairman of the as appropriate throughout the year, in particular at the time of the Committee, has the requisite financial experience.
half year and final results announcements.
The Audit Committee met five times during the year and has the The Chairman also discusses governance and other matters directly power to, and does, request the attendance at meetings of any Director, with shareholders.
The Chairman and the non-executive Directors auditor or member of management as may be considered appropriate avail themselves of opportunities to meet major shareholders and by the Committee.
At the end of each meeting the non-executive attend investor briefings to help ensure they have an understanding Directors who are members of the Committee also meet the auditors of the views of major shareholders.
They would also attend meetings without the executive Directors or other members of management with major shareholders if requested.
The Senior Independent Director present.
Between meetings the members of the Audit Committee keep is available to attend separate meetings with major shareholders in contact with the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, on request.
the Chief Financial Officer, the external auditors and the Internal Auditor as necessary.
During 2011, the Chairman and other non-executive Directors attended the annual and half year results presentations, the Groups Capital The Committee identifies and confirms that it receives the information Markets Day and other investor events.
This provided the opportunity it needs to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
This is complemented to meet institutional shareholders and other attendees and to further by an annual presentation made by the Divisional Chief Executives and develop an understanding of their views.
Chief Financial Officers on the internal control environment within their respective Divisions.
Training and development information is made Following the announcement of the Groups results and after other available to the members of the Audit Committee when appropriate.
significant statements and presentations, investor opinion is canvassed and any feedback is made available to the Board.
In addition, the Board The Audit Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated is provided with brokers reports and feedback from shareholder during the year.
They are available on the Groups website and include: meetings on a regular basis.
Monitoring and making appropriate recommendations to the Board To help facilitate dialogue with shareholders, the Investors section of the with regard to the financial reporting process, the integrity of the Companys website includes details of Stock Exchange announcements, financial statements of the Group, preliminary announcements, press releases, presentations, webcasts and other relevant information.
half year reports and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance, and reviewing significant financial Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting reporting judgments contained in them.
The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all members Reviewing accounting policies used by the Group and their of the Board and by a representative of the auditors.
At the AGM consistent application across the Group.
held in May 2011, the Chief Executive Officer made a short business Reviewing whether the Group has followed appropriate accounting presentation.
Shareholders are also invited to ask questions during the standards and made appropriate estimates and judgments, taking meeting and have the opportunity to meet the Directors and other into account the views of the external auditor.
members of senior management before and after the formal meeting.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal The results of the proxy voting on all resolutions are provided for all financial controls and internal control, internal audit and risk attendees and are released to the London Stock Exchange and published management systems.
on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the meeting.
Reviewing and monitoring the Groups whistleblowing arrangements and systems and controls for the prevention of bribery.
Board committees Making recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the The full terms of reference of the following Board committees are shareholders for their approval at the AGM, in relation to the available upon request and are also available on the Groups website.
appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the process for the statutory audit of the annual consolidated accounts, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements.
Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Reporting to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
62 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Committee has the authority to investigate any matters according To help ensure the objectivity and independence of the external to its terms of reference and may obtain external advice at the cost auditors, the policy implemented by the Committee for the provision of the Company, but did not do so during the year.
The Director of non-audit services by the external auditors is in summary as follows: of Risk Assurance and the Internal Auditor both have access to the Chairman of the Committee and regularly meet with the Committee Certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external without other executives present.
auditors, including the review of their own work: they may not make management decisions: their work must not create a mutuality The work of the Committee in discharging those responsibilities in of interest: and they may not put themselves in the position respect of 2011 included: of advocate.
Any non-audit work proposed to be placed with the external Reviewing the Groups 2010 financial statements and 2011 half year auditors with a fee between 50,000 and 200,000 must be statements prior to Board approval.
approved in advance by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Reviewing the scope of the external audit, and confirmation of Projects in excess of 200,000 must be approved in advance the external auditors terms of engagement and fee structures.
Work which includes multiple phases Assessing the effectiveness of the external audit process and all is treated as a single project for approval purposes.
aspects of the service provided by the external auditors.
The prior approval of the Audit Committee is required for any The review of the work of the Risk Management Committee non-audit work which, when added to the fees paid for other and of the process by which the Groups main business risks are non-audit work, would total more than 80% of the audit fee.
assessed and managed, with the principal risks being considered by the Board as a whole.
During the year the proportion of the auditors fees for non-audit work Reviewing the effectiveness of and receiving reports from relative to the audit fee was 14% 2010: 6%.
management on the Groups internal audit and risk management systems and updates to the Groups governance, risk and The Committees policy is to undertake an annual review of the compliance plans.
effectiveness of the audit process and of all aspects of the external Approval of the work and plans for the internal audit function auditors performance and independence before determining whether and the monitoring of progress against the plan.
to undertake a formal review of the auditors including a re-tender Appraisal of the Groups whistleblowing provision and related presentation or whether to put the Groups audit work out to full procedures and policies and of any breaches of the Groups third-party tender.
Reviews of material litigation, crisis management plans and controls The external auditors have processes in place to safeguard their in relation to joint ventures.
independence and have written to the Committee confirming that, Monitoring the level of non-audit work of the auditors, which in their opinion, they are independent.
The Group last changed its in 2011 included services amounting to 0.3 million, mainly in auditors in late 2001 and undertook a formal review of the external connection with tax services.
auditors, which included a re-tender presentation, during 2007.
The external auditors rotated the partner responsible for the Groups audit work in 2008 and the next rotation of audit partner will take place in 2013.
Having reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process, all aspects of the service provided by the auditors and taking account of the assurance given by the auditors as to their independence, the Committee recommended to the Board that the Groups audit work should not be put out to third-party tender during 2011 and will further review the situation during 2012.
Annual Report 2011 The Morgan Crucible Company plc 63 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Remuneration The Committee has the power to request the attendance of any other As is further described in the Remuneration report on pages 66 to 76, Director or member of management, for all or part of any meeting, the Remuneration Committee has responsibility for setting remuneration as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
The Committee for all executive Directors and the Chairman, including benefits such as met twice during 2011. share options and awards under the Companys incentive plans, pension rights and any compensation payments.
The Committee also monitors The Nomination Committee reviews the balance of skills, knowledge the level and structure of remuneration for senior management.
and experience on the Board, succession planning and the leadership The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated needs of the Group.
In the light of this review, the Committee during the year and are available on the Groups website.
prepares a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Tim Stevenson, Martin Flower, Andrew Given and Simon Heale, who is the Committee Chairman, were members of the Committee Candidates for appointment as Director are considered by the throughout the year.
The Committee is assisted in its duties by the Chief Committee, taking advice from external consultants where appropriate.
Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and the Director of Human Resources.
No member of the Committee or attendee is present when The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive Directors their own remuneration is under consideration, nor do they participate are available for inspection.
Non-executive Directors, including the in any relevant voting.
The Committee also has the power to request, Chairman, are asked to undertake that they will have sufficient time for all or part of any meeting, the attendance of any Director or member to meet their commitments to the Company and their other significant of management as may be considered appropriate by the Committee.
commitments are disclosed to the Board before appointment, with an The Committee met five times during the year.
indication of the time involved.
The Board is informed of any subsequent changes with additional commitments disclosed before they are taken.
It is the Companys policy to disclose the fees of any executive The terms of appointment for non-executive Directors do not include Director who serves as a non-executive Director of another company.
During the year Mark Robertshaw served as a non-executive Director of SEGRO plc, Kevin Dangerfield was appointed as a non-executive There were no nominations to the Board or changes in role during Director of e2v technologies plc on 28 January 2011 and Andrew Hosty the year.
served as a non-executive Director of British Ceramic Research Limited.
The fees received by Mark Robertshaw, Kevin Dangerfield and Disclosure and Transparency Rules Andrew Hosty in this regard are shown on page 72.
This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : 2.5: 2.7 and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure and The report of the Remuneration Committee, which includes details Transparency Rules.
The information required to be disclosed by of the Committees responsibilities and terms of reference and of the sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Directors report on Directors remuneration and Directors interests in options and shares, pages 54 to 57 and is incorporated in this statement by reference.
Information on share capital and other matters Nomination The information about share capital required to be included in this The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments statement can be found on pages 54 to 57 of the Directors report.
and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors.
A majority of members of the Nomination Committee are independent non-executive Directors.
Tim Stevenson, as Chairman of the Committee, Martin Flower, Andrew Given, Simon Heale and Mark Robertshaw were members of the Committee throughout the year.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed and updated during the year and are available on the Groups website.
64 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011
