Overview Business review Governance Financial statements KeY ResOURces And cOntRActUAl RelAtiOnshiPs Morgan crucible has built up significant Employees Manufacturing capabilities resources and benefits from contractual and Morgan crucibles most important resource Over many years Morgan crucible has other relationships with multiple stakeholders, is its people and the Group employs a highly invested heavily in manufacturing capacity and including customers and suppliers, employees skilled and qualified workforce.
One of the technology to develop its capability to serve and joint venture partners.
these relationships Groups strategic priorities is finding, keeping its chosen markets worldwide.
in recent years have been built up over many years to support and developing the right people.
Many the Group has developed and extended Morgan crucibles competitive positioning in employees stay with the Group for their its manufacturing presence and capabilities the key markets which the Group serves.
whole careers, as is highlighted on page 43. in china, india and latin America to meet Morgan crucible places great emphasis on customer needs in both local and global As is described below, no one contractual recruitment and training and the Groups markets.
this investment supports the or other relationship is considered essential policies and performance in these areas are Groups strategic priority of having a culture to the business of the Group as a whole.
set out on pages 42 and 43. of operational excellence and cost efficiency.
Further information on the Groups stakeholder relationships is included elsewhere succession plans are in place covering key Joint venture partners in this Business review, including in the management and technical roles and as such in a number of territories around the world, corporate responsibility section on pages 34 no individual employee is considered essential the Group has established joint ventures with to 43.
As referred to in the directors report to the business of the Group as a whole.
Many of these joint ventures on page 57, a number of commercial and have been in operation for many years: contractual agreements include change of the executive directors contracts and the however, no individual joint venture agreement control provisions which come into effect terms and conditions of appointment of the is considered to be essential to the business of in the event of a change in ownership of the non-executive directors are referred to on Morgan crucible as a whole.
page 71 and are available for inspection prior to the Annual General Meeting and at the Banking and other financial in accordance with its goal, aim and strategic companys registered office.
relationships priorities, the Group continues to invest details of significant banking and other financial in the areas discussed below to maintain Research and development, relationships are referred to on page 57 in the its leading market positions.
patents and intellectual property directors report.
however, no one banking Morgan crucibles goal is to continue to be or financial relationship is considered to be Commercial relationships, market one of the worlds very best advanced materials essential to the performance and value of position and reputation companies, supported by the strategic priority the company.
Morgan crucible is generally ranked number of offering high added-value to our customers.
one or two in its chosen market segments.
the Groups divisions use their extensive the Group is a world-leader in advanced knowledge base, particularly in the areas of ceramic and composite materials.
the advanced ceramic and composite materials, company was founded in 1856 and has to develop new products and services to meet a worldwide reputation.
customer needs and to differentiate themselves in the markets they serve.
Morgan crucibles Businesses provide products and services to other companies Morgan crucible benefits from technological and the Group has developed close working know-how and other forms of intellectual relationships with many of its customers property, some of which are covered by and suppliers and collaborates with them patents.
collectively this intellectual property to develop new products.
supports the development and manufacture of new products and services to meet customer the Group has a wide range of customers needs, but no one single patent is considered and suppliers and, while the loss of or essential to the business of the Group as disruption to certain of these arrangements a whole.
could temporarily affect the operations of a particular Business, none is considered essential Both of Morgan crucibles divisions have to the Group as a whole.
notwithstanding a technical director, and have research and this, the Group devotes significant resources development capabilities variously located at to ensuring these relationships continue to divisional centres of excellence and diffused operate satisfactorily.
through the business in the form of applications engineering.
Further details are included in the Review of operations for both divisions on pages 26 to 33.
50 The Morgan Crucible Company plc Annual Report 2011
