72 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Corporate governance report Key Board activities in 2011 Overview Appointment of three new Directors to the Board, who bring aconsiderable range of experience and expertise in the international mining sector, with many years of operational, financial, strategic and corporate finance experience across awide range of countries.
Approval of key steps in the Groups growth plans, with approval of the Antucoya project and initiation of the feasibility study fortheCentinela District and pre-feasibility study for the LosPelambres District.
Approved updated Ethics Code, which was launched by Good governance is central to our business, and theChairman.
webelieve that it is core to the Groups ongoing Ongoing review and monitoring of operational performance, development.
For Antofagasta good governance is including the ramp-up of Esperanza.
much more than a matter of compliance it is about Reviewed the Groups ongoing capital management, including having the right people, culture and structures in place approving total dividends of US$1.1 billion which were paid out to make sure we make the right decisions for our toshareholders during 2011. business and for our shareholders.
We strive to instill aculture throughout the Group which reflects our core principles of respect, honesty and transparency.
In this report we discuss the key features of the governance structures, processes and people we have in place in order to achieve our objectives.
Jean-Paul Luksic Chairman Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 73 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Our governance structure The Company now reports under the UK Corporate Governance Code the 2010 The Antofagasta plc Board the Board is collectively responsible for the long-term Code which sets out governance recommendations and best practice provisions success of the Group.
It is responsible for the leadership and strategic direction which apply to UK listed companies.
The 2010 code applies in place of the ofthe Group, and for oversight of the Groups performance, its risks and internal Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Company is required to report control systems.
The Board is assisted in the performance of its responsibilities onthe extent to which it complies with the main principles and the provisions of the byits four committees the Audit and Risk Committee, the Remuneration UK Corporate Governance Code and explain the reasons for any non-compliance.
andTalent Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee.
More detail of the role of the Board and The Company complied with the detailed code provisions contained in the itscommittees isset out below.
UKCorporate Governance Code throughout 2011 except as follows: The Groups businesses are divided into three divisions mining, transport the Board did not have a separately identified Chief Executive and hence andwater.
The mining division represents over 90% of the Groups earnings.
atBoard level there is no formal separation of the functions of Chairman and Antofagasta plc Board and Committees ChiefExecutive provision A.
The Board considers that its predominantly non-executive composition combined with the delegation of significant responsibility for operational management to a divisional level achieves Antofagasta plc Board anappropriate balance and prevents a concentration of power : performance-related pay measures did not apply to Board members principle D1.
The Board considers this appropriate given its predominantly non-executive composition and the role of the only Executive Director, who is a member of the Audit and Risk Nomination Sustainability Remuneration controlling family, as Chairman of the Board.
Performance-related remuneration Committee Committee and Stakeholder and Talent structures are in place for senior executive management in the Group: and Page 78 Page 80 Management Committee Charles Bailey retired from the Board and also therefore from the Audit and Committee Page 82 RiskCommittee, the Remuneration and Talent Committee and the Nomination Page 81 Committee on 8 June 2011.
Additional appointments were made to those Committees with effect from 1 July 2011, however for the intervening 22 days Business Divisions Divisional Boards the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration and Talent Committee didnot comprise three independent Non-Executive Directors provisions C. 3.1 Transport Mining Water and D. 2.1 and the Nomination Committee did not comprise a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors provision B.
No committee Mining Division Corporate Centre meetingswere held during this intervening 22-day period.
Executive CEO and Business Development Committee Vice-Presidents Committee Mining Division Subsidiary Companies Boards 74 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Corporate governance report The activities of the mining division are primarily controlled via the Antofagasta The role of the Board Minerals S. A. Antofagasta Minerals corporate centre.
Given the core role which The Board met 10 times during 2011.
Antofagasta Minerals plays in the management of the mining operations and The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group.
projects, and that the mining division represents the large majority of the Groups TheChairman encourages an open culture where healthy challenge and debate business, the Antofagasta plc Directors also serve as directors of the Antofagasta isencouraged within the Board.
He will always attempt to persuade the Board to Minerals board.
actas a single team by obtaining consensus at Board meetings but, in exceptional There is a monthly Operational Performance Review OPR process whereby the circumstances, decisions may be taken by majority.
There is a schedule of matters individual mining operations report to the Antofagasta Minerals corporate centre, specifically reserved for the Board.
providing a regular formalised process for monitoring and control of the operations by the corporate centre.
The Board is responsible for: providing leadership: An Executive Committee, comprising the Antofagasta Minerals CEO and Vicesetting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies: Presidents, and the General Managers of the four mines, reviews significant matters in respect of the mining division.
The Executive Committee approves capital ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet expenditures by the mining operations and corporate centre within designated itsobjectives: authority levels, leads the annual budgeting and planning processes, monitors the approving significant transactions and capital investments: performance of the mining operations and promotes the sharing of best practices reviewing the Groups performance: across the operations.
approving the Groups annual budgets: A Business Development Committee, comprising the Groups Chairman, the reviewing the Groups capital management including approval of dividends: and Antofagasta Minerals CEO and a number of the Antofagasta Minerals Vicedetermining the nature and extent of the significant risks that the Group is willing Presidents focuses on the mining divisions growth opportunities.
The Business to take to achieve its strategic objectives and for maintaining sound risk Development Committee reviews potential growth opportunities both internal management and internal control systems.
projects and potential transactions, approves transactions and project expenditures within designated authority levels, recommends transactions in excess of those As examples of the way in which this was reflected in the Boards activities levels to the Board for approval, and monitors ongoing projects.
during 2011: the Boards ongoing review and monitoring of the Groups operational There are divisional boards for the transport division Antofagasta Railway Company performance included particular focus on the progress of the ramp-up plc and the water division Aguas fide Antofagasta S. A., which consider matters ofEsperanza during the year: and specific to those divisions which do not require consideration by the main the Board approved key steps in the Groups growth plans, with approval of the Antofagasta plc Board.
Antucoya project and initiation of the feasibility study for the Centinela District Business model and pre-feasibility study for the Los Pelambres District.
The Operational review includes a section on page 10 outlining our business model Beyond these matters, the Board has delegated responsibility for implementing toachieve sustainable growth and provides an explanation of how the Group theGroups strategic and financial objectives to the senior management within generates value for its shareholders.
The Board has delegated authority to its Committees to perform certain activities asset out in their Terms of Reference.
They are the Audit and Risk Committee, theRemuneration and Talent Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee.
The activities of these Committees are set out in further detail on pages 78 to 81 of this Corporate governance report andpages 82 to 85 in the Remuneration report.
The terms ofreference of these committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 75 Senior Independent Director Board composition William Hayes is the Senior Independent Director.
Charles Bailey was the Senior Board balance Independent Director until his retirement from the Board on 8 June 2011, following As at the date of this report the Board had nine Directors, comprised of an which he was succeeded by William Hayes.
The responsibilities of the Senior Executive Chairman and eight Non-Executive Directors.
Five of those Non-Executive Independent Director include evaluation of the Chairmans effectiveness as part of Directors are considered by the Board to be independent.
The Board considers the Board evaluation process, as discussed below.
The role of Senior Independent thatthis predominance of Non-Executive Directors on the Board is valuable both Director can provide a sounding board for the Chairman if required.
As noted above, interms of providing a range of outside perspectives to the Group, and also in the Chairman encourages an open culture where healthy challenge and debate is encouraging robust debate and challenge with the Groups executive management.
encouraged within the Board, but the Senior Independent Director can also act as The Board is also satisfied that the balance of the Board limits the scope for an an intermediary between the Chairman and the other members of the Board should individual or small group of individuals to dominate the Boards decision making.
He also serves as an additional point of contact for shareholders if required, in addition to the Chairman and senior executives.
He provides a particular During 2011 Hugo Dryland, Tim Baker and Ollie Oliveira were appointed to focus for shareholders on the Groups governance and strategy, and also gives theBoard.
Between them they bring a considerable range of experience and shareholders a means of raising concerns other than with the Chairman or senior expertise in the international mining sector, with many years of operational, executives.
William Hayes met with a number of the Groups largest shareholders financial, strategic and corporate finance experience across a wide range of during the year, allowing him to provide his perspective on the Groups governance countries.
These appointments provided appropriate Board succession given and strategy, and to obtain direct feedback of their opinions and views of the Group.
theretirements of Daniel Yarur in March 2011 and Charles Bailey in June 2011.
Independent Non-Executive Directors Of the nine Directors as of the date of this report, five are based in Chile, three Of the eight Non-Executive Directors as at the date of this report five are considered arebased in North America and one is based in the United Kingdom.
Biographies by the Board to be independent Gonzalo Menndez, Juan Claro, William Hayes, of each of the Directors as at the date of this report are shown on page 70 and Tim Baker and Ollie Oliveira.
Juan Claro, William Hayes, Tim Baker and Ollie Oliveira demonstrate a detailed knowledge of the mining industry as well as significant meet the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and international business experience.
Their biographies also provide details of their the Board is satisfied as to their independence.
The Board is satisfied that Gonzalo Board Committee memberships as well as other principal directorships held.
Menndez also remains independent in character and judgement, notwithstanding Chairman that he has served on the Board for more than nine years and notwithstanding that Jean-Paul Luksic is Chairman of the Board.
His role is that of a full-time Executive he is a non-executive director of Quienco S. A. a Chilean-listed company also Chairman, and he has no other significant commitments that prevent him from controlled by the Luksic family and some of its subsidiaries.
This is because he devoting sufficient time to this role.
He is responsible for leadership of the Board does not receive any remuneration from the Group other than in a non-executive and for ensuring its effectiveness.
He sets the agenda for Board meetings and capacity, and his position in the Quienco group is also solely as a non-executive isresponsible for chairing the Board meetings.
The Board considers Gonzalo Menndezs length of service is of considerable benefit to the Board given his wealth of knowledge and experience The Group does not have a Board member who is designated as Chief Executive.
ofthe Group and of Latin America and of the mining industry, and therefore The Board believes that the Company is not at risk from a concentration of power proposes him for re-election.
Charles Bailey, who resigned from the Board by Jean-Paul Luksic having executive responsibilities as Chairman.
In reaching this duringthe year, was considered by the Board to be independent.
conclusion, it has taken into consideration the strong presence of independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board, the structure of the four Board Committees The Board does not consider Ramon Jara, Guillermo Luksic or Hugo Dryland designed to devolve away from the Chairman the responsibility and control of tobeindependent.
Ramon Jara provides advisory services to the Group, as certain key areas of Board responsibility, and the delegation of operational explained in the Remuneration Report on page 82.
Guillermo Luksic is the brother management to a divisional level.
of Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of Antofagasta plc.
Guillermo is chairman of Quienco S. A. and chairman or a director of Quiencos other listed subsidiaries.
Jean-Paul Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez are also non-executive directors of Quienco and some of its listed subsidiaries.
Like Antofagasta plc, Quienco isalsocontrolled by the Luksic family.
Hugo Dryland has provided advisory services to the Group in his capacity as a senior managing director at Rothschild, which remains a financial advisor to the Group.
76 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Corporate governance report Board meeting attendance Information and professional development All Directors receive an induction on joining the Board.
This will typically include Board briefings on the Groups operations and projects, meetings with the Chairman, Number Maximum attended possible otherDirectors and senior executives, briefings on the legal, regulatory and other Jean-Paul Luksic 10 10 duties and requirements of a director of a UK listed company and visits to the 1 Charles Bailey 4 4 Groups key operations.
Gonzalo Menndez 9 10 The Company provides Directors with the necessary resources to develop and Ramon Jara 10 10 update their knowledge and capabilities.
In particular, the Directors are regularly 2 Daniel Yarur 1 2 updated on the Groups business, the competitive and regulatory environment 3 Guillermo Luksic 3 10 inwhich it operates and other changes affecting the Group as a whole.
3 Juan Claro 9 10 The Directors based outside Chile visit the country regularly, both to attend Board William Hayes 9 10 4 meetings and other meetings with management, and for site visits to the Groups Hugo Dryland 8 9 5 operations.
The Directors based outside the United Kingdom also regularly visit Tim Baker 8 8 6 thiscountry, normally at least once a year to attend the Companys Annual Ollie Oliveira 1 1 GeneralMeeting held in London.
During the year the Board received briefings 10 meetings were held in the year.
fromexternaladvisors on key changes to the regulatory and legal environment 1 impactingthe Group.
Charles Bailey retired from the Board on 8 June 2011.
2 Daniel Yarur retired from the Board on 1 March 2011.
The Board and its Committees receive an analysis of the key matters for 3 Guillermo Luksic and Juan Claro were unable to attend the Annual General Meeting in June 2011 consideration in advance of each Board or Committee Meeting.
They also receive due to long-standing other commitments.
All other Directors in office at the time of the Annual regular reports which include analysis of key metrics in respect of operational, General Meeting attended that meeting.
financial, environmental and social performance, as well as key developments 4 Hugo Dryland was appointed to the Board on 20 January 2011. intheGroups exploration and business development activities, information on 5 Tim Baker was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2011. thecommodity markets, the Groups talent management activities and analysis 6 Ollie Oliveira was appointed to the Board on 28 October 2011. ofthe Groups financial investments.
Each Director withdrew from any meeting when his own position was being considered.
All Directors have access to management and to such further information asisneeded to carry out their duties and responsibilities fully and effectively.
Relevantmanagement will present to the Board and its Committees on the operational or development matters under consideration, allowing close interaction between the Board members and a wide range of executive management.
All Directors are entitled to seek independent professional advice concerning theaffairs of the Group at the Companys expense.
The Company has appropriate insurance in place to cover the Directors against any legal action against them.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 77 The Company maintains a dialogue with institutional shareholders and sell-side Performance evaluation analysts as well as potential shareholders.
This communication is managed by During the year an internal evaluation was conducted of the effectiveness of theInvestor Relations team, and includes a formal programme of presentations theBoard.
This principally comprised interviews conducted with the Directors, toupdate institutional shareholders and analysts on developments in the Group considering factors including the effectiveness of Board meetings, the level and following the announcement of the half-year and full-year results.
The Group also nature of information provided to Directors, the composition of the Board and the issues quarterly production figures and financial results.
Copies of these results and contribution of individual Directors.
As discussed above, the Senior Independent production announcements, presentations and other press releases issued by the Director is responsible for the evaluation of the Chairmans effectiveness as part of Company are available on its website.
As noted above, the Group also publishes this process.
Charles Bailey conducted the evaluation of the Chairman during 2011 aseparate Sustainability Report to provide further information on its social and in his role as Senior Independent Director prior to his retirement during the year.
The Board receives regular summaries and feedback The results of the evaluation process are used by the Chairman in further in respect of the meetings held as part of the investor relations programme as well developing the effective operation of the Board, and given his additional role as receiving analysts reports on the Company.
The Companys Annual General aschairman of the Nomination Committee will also be used by him in that role Meeting AGM is also used as an opportunity to communicate with both whenconsidering future individual appointments to the Board and changes institutional and private shareholders.
intheoverall composition of the Board.
The Company held regular meetings with institutional investors and sell-side In line with the new requirement of the UK Corporate Governance Code, analysts throughout the year which included an international investor roadshow inthefuture an externally facilitated evaluation will be conducted at least every programme, presenting at industry conferences, hosting sell-side analyst events threeyears.
aswell as individual investor meetings.
These were attended by various members of the management team including Jean-Paul Luksic, the Chairman of the Group, and the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals.
William Hayes, the Senior Independent Director, Relations with shareholders also attended meetings with key shareholders during the year.
Other Non-Executive The shares of Antofagasta plc are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Luksic Directors are given the opportunity to meet with major shareholders and attend family of Chile control 65% of the ordinary share capital of the Company, with the meetings if requested to do so by shareholders.
35% free-float traded on the London Stock Exchange.
The majority of the free-float is held by institutional investors, mainly based in the UK and North America.
Issues of particular focus for investors during the year included: % progress of the ramp-up of Esperanza: A A UK 45 the Groups growth pipeline: D B North America 25 the capital distribution policy of the Group: C Rest of Europe 15 D Rest of World 15 industry trends in operating and capital cost inflation: potential issues around the availability of key strategic resources for the mining C sector in Chile such as water, labour and energy: and general commodity market conditions.
Analysis of free-oat investors by geographical location B as at 31 December 2011.
78 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Corporate governance report Role and responsibilities of the Committee Audit and Risk Committee The Committees purpose is to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities relating to financial reporting and control matters.
Membership and meeting attendance The Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements and Directors Number Maximum attended possible statements on internal controls and reviews the going concern basis prior toitsendorsement by the Board.
The Committee also reviews the preliminary Current members 4 announcement and the half-yearly financial report.
William Hayes 2 2 6 Tim Baker 2 2 The Committee plays a key role in assisting the Board with its responsibilities 7 Ollie Oliveira inrespect of risk and related controls.
The Committee assists the Board with Members who stepped down during the year itsreview of the effectiveness of the risk management process, and monitoring 1 Charles Bailey 1 1 ofkey risks and mitigations.
2 Gonzalo Menndez 1 1 3 The Committee also reviews the scope and nature of the audit and issues arising Daniel Yarur 1 5 from it and is responsible for ensuring the independence of the external auditors.
Juan Claro 2 2 The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year and updates Three meetings were held in the year.
were made with effect from 22 August 2011.
The terms of reference of the Audit Key activities in 2011 and Risk Committee are available from the Companys registered office and may beviewed on the Companys website www.
The terms Reviewed the Groups annual results and its half-yearly and ofreference were updated to ensure they remain in line with current best practice, interim management statements.
andalso to reflect the increasing focus of the Committee on risk, including the Review of the continued independence and effectiveness Committees role in assisting the full Board to review the major risks facing the Group.
Reflecting these changes, the name of the Committee was changed oftheexternal auditors.
duringthe year, from the Audit Committee to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Reviewed updated terms of reference for the Committee prior The Audit and Risk Committee is authorised by the Board to investigate any activity totheir approval by the Board.
within its terms of reference.
It is authorised to seek any information it requires from Reviewed the activities and key findings of Internal Audit during any employees and all employees are directed to co-operate with any request made the year, and reviewed the 2012 Internal Audit work plan.
by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Audit and Risk Committee meets at least three times a year with the external auditors in attendance.
Review of the effectiveness of the risk management function andthe Groups system of internal control, including reviews Committee membership ofthe Groups key risks and related mitigations.
The Audit and Risk Committee members during the year and to the date of this Conducted site visits to the Groups principal operations in 2011 report are considered by the Board to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
Ofthe current Committee members William Hayes and Ollie Oliveira are considered and early 2012, with a focus on reviewing the risk management to have recent and relevant financial experience.
The previous Committee members processes in place at each operation.
who retired from the Committee during the year were all considered to have had recent and relevant financial experience.
1 Charles Bailey retired from the Board on 8 June 2011 and hence ceased to be chairman oftheAudit and Risk Committee from that date.
2 Gonzalo Menndez rotated off the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 July 2011.
3 Daniel Yarur retired from the Board on 1 March 2011, and hence ceased to be a member oftheAudit and Risk Committee from that date.
4 William Hayes was appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 March 2011.
On1July2011 he was appointed chairman of the Committee.
5 Juan Claro was appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 July 2011.
Subsequenttotheyear end on 25 January 2012 he rotated off the Committee.
6 Tim Baker was appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 July 2011.
7 Ollie Oliveira was appointed to the Audit and Risk Committee subsequent to the year end on25January 2012.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 79 Each year the Board, with the support of the Audit and Risk Committee, performs External audit areview of the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control As described above, the Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope and systems, covering all material controls including financial, operational and nature of the audit and issues arising from it and is responsible for ensuring the compliance controls and risk management systems.
There is a continuous process independence of the external auditor including its objectivity and effectiveness, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks that the Group faces.
monitoring the provision of any non-audit services and for making This process is regularly reviewed and it is an ongoing activity throughout the year.
recommendations to the Board for the appointment, re-appointment or removal The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate ofthe external auditor.
The Audit and Risk Committee periodically reviews if it the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable isnecessary to re-tender the audit engagement.
The Committee has reviewed and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
andapproved the external auditors fees and terms of engagement.
During 2011 the detailed review of the risk management and internal control The Company has a policy in place which aims to safeguard independence and systems was performed by the Audit and Risk Committee, with the Chairman of objectivity of the external auditor.
This includes policies in respect of the potential theAudit and Risk Committee reporting back to the Board on the findings of the employment of former auditors, the types of non-audit services which the external review, which were considered by the Board.
The review of internal control systems auditors may and may not provide to the Group, and the approval process in included the financial, operational and compliance controls and is based principally respect of permitted non-audit services.
In addition to this approval process for on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are specific non-audit services, the Audit and Risk Committee monitors the total level identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant ofnon-audit services to ensure that neither the objectivity or independence of the weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive auditor is put at risk.
The review of the risk management and internal control systems A breakdown of the non-audit fees is disclosed in Note 7 to the notes to the considers all significant aspects of internal control, including a review of the financial statements.
The Companys external auditor, Deloitte LLP, has provided effectiveness of the internal audit function.
The internal audit function is responsible non-audit services excluding audit-related services which amounted to for reviewing the adequacy of the internal control environment across the Group US$0.7million.
This mainly comprised the provision of services relating to andfor reporting the findings of the internal audit work to the Committee on a environmental advisory services for compliance requirements.
The Audit and Risk regular basis.
Committee has reviewed the level of these services in the course of the year and During 2011 and early 2012 the Audit and Risk Committee conducted site visits isconfident that the objectivity and independence of the auditor are not impaired toeach of the Groups main operations, with a focus on reviewing the risk byreason of such non-audit work.
management processes in place at each operation.
The Committee has also considered the effectiveness and independence of the During the course of the review of the system of internal control, the Committee external audit through meetings with Deloitte LLP, a review of their audit plan, hasnot identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has aconsideration of the results of work performed by the external auditor prior to determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary release of the half-year and full-year results, and the past performance of Deloitte actions is not required.
LLP who were first appointed in 2000.
Having satisfied itself as to their qualification, expertise, resources and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process, Further information relating to the Groups risk and management systems is given it has recommended to the Board, for approval by shareholders, the re-appointment on pages 20 to 23. of Deloitte LLP as the Companys external auditor.
Whistleblowing procedures Risk management and internal control The Committee is also responsible for reviewing arrangements by which employees The Board has ultimate responsibility for determining the nature and extent of the of the Group may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in significant risks that the Group is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives matters of financial reporting or other matters.
During 2011 an updated version and for maintaining sound risk management and internal control systems.
The Audit ofthe Ethics Code was launched by the Chairman and the Antofagasta Minerals and Risk Committee plays a key role in assisting the Board with its responsibilities in CEO and rolled out across the Groups operations.
The updated Ethics Code reflects respect of risk and related controls.
The section above which discusses information the requirements of the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the Chilean anti-corruption law.
flows to the Board explains the type of information and analysis provided to the The Code includes a procedure to enable employees to raise concerns, Board, which facilitates the timely identification of potential key issues and any anonymously if necessary.
An Ethics Committee, comprising members necessary mitigating actions.
As discussed in the Risk management section on ofseniormanagement, is responsible for implementing, developing and updating page 20, the Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board with its review of the the Ethics Code and investigating any allegations of impropriety.
The Ethics effectiveness of the risk management process, and monitoring of key risks and Committee reports directly to the CEO of Antofagasta Minerals.
The chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee reports to the Board RiskCommittee considers the results of this work and the operation of the Ethics following each Committee meeting, allowing the Board to understand and if Code as part of itsannual review of the effectiveness of internal control.
necessary further discuss the matters considered in detail by the Committee.
Theseprocesses allow the Board to monitor the Groups major risks and related mitigations, and to assess the acceptability of the level of risks which arise from theGroups operations and development activities.
80 Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Governance: Corporate governance report The Standards of Business Conduct also set out the Groups whistleblowing policy, which enables staff, in confidence, to raise concerns about possible improprieties Nomination Committee infinancial and other matters.
The policy is supplemented by local procedures Membership and meeting attendance throughout the Group, which provide staff with additional guidance and enable themto report matters in a language with which they are comfortable.
The Audit Number Maximum attended possible and Risk Committee receives quarterly reports on whistleblowing incidents.
Current members Itremains satisfied that the policy and the procedures in place incorporate 2 Jean-Paul Luksic 1 1 arrangements for the proportionate and independent investigation of matters 2 William Hayes 1 1 raisedand for the appropriate follow-up action.
2 Juan Claro 1 1 Members who stepped down during the year Going concern 1 Charles Bailey 2 2 The Groups business activities, together with those factors likely to affect its future 2 Gonzalo Menndez 2 2 performance, are set out in the Operational review on pages 26 to 57.
Details of the 2 Ramon Jara 2 2 cash flows of the Group during the year, along with its financial position at the year end are set out in this Financial review.
The financial statements include details Three meetings were held in the year.
ofthe Groups cash, cash equivalent and liquid investment balances in Note 22, Key activities in 2011 anddetails of borrowings are set out in Note 23.
Details of the Groups financial riskmanagement including details of the management of liquidity and counterparty Appointments of new Non-Executive Directors.
risk, are set out in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Review of the composition and balance of the Board, In assessing the Groups going concern status the Directors, with detailed andBoardsuccession.
assistance from the Audit Committee, have taken into account the above factors, Reviewed updated terms of reference for the Committee including the financial position of the Group and in particular its significant balance of cash, cash equivalents and liquid investments, the borrowing facilities in place priortotheir approval by the Board.
and their terms, the current copper price and market expectations in the medium term, the Groups expected operating cost profile and its capital expenditure andfinancing plans.
1 Charles Bailey retired from the Board on 8 June 2011 and hence ceased to be a member After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors consider that the Company oftheNomination Committee from that date.
2 andthe Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence On 1 July 2011 Gonzalo Menndez and Ramon Jara rotated off the Nomination Committee.
Gonzalo Menndez had been chairman of the Committee.
Jean-Paul Luksic, William Hayes fortheforeseeable future and that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern andJuan Claro were appointed to the Committee on that date, with Jean-Paul Luksic basisin preparing the financial statements.
Role and responsibilities of the Committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for the process for new Board appointments.
It makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
The Committee also periodically reviews the composition of the Board including the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and considers succession planning for the Board.
The Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year and updates were made in effect from 22 August 2011, to ensure they remain in line with current best practice.
The terms of reference are available from the Companys registered office and may be viewed on the Companys website www.
The Nomination Committee meets as necessary and, in any case, at least once a year.
Overview Strategic review Operational review Financial review Governance Financial statements Other information Antofagasta plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 81 Appointments to the Board Sustainability and Stakeholder In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee considers theskills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses which Management Committee ofthe potential candidates would most benefit the Board.
It considers the potential candidates knowledge and experience of Chile, the mining industry, Latin America, Membership and meeting attendance capital markets and the regulatory environment, and that they have sufficient time Number Maximum to devote to the role.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that any new attended possible Directors are provided with a full induction on joining the Board.
Current members During 2011 Hugo Dryland, Tim Baker and Ollie Oliveira were appointed to the Ramon Jara 1 1 1 Board on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
In this selection Juan Claro 1 process there was due regard to diversity, skills, experience and other time Tim Baker commitments.
Between them they bring a considerable range of experience Members who stepped down during the year andexpertise in the international mining sector, with many years of operational, 1 Jean-Paul Luksic 1 1 financial, strategic and corporate finance experience across a wide range of 1 Gonzalo Menndez 1 1 countries.
These appointments provided appropriate Board succession given One meeting was held in the year.
Key activities in 2011 As the Nomination Committee and the Board believed that it was able to identify anappropriate candidate through its knowledge of the appropriate industrial and Review and approval of sustainability reporting by the Group.
geographical sectors, and interviewing a range of candidates, advertising the Review of terms of reference for the Committee.
postor using a search agency was considered to be unnecessary.
All Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment with the Company foraninitial period of one year from the date of their appointment, subject 1 On 22 August 2011 Jean-Paul Luksic and Gonzalo Menndez rotated off the Sustainability tore-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
These letters require the andStakeholder Management Committee.
Juan Claro and Tim Baker were appointed Non-Executive Directors to undertake that they will have sufficient time to asmembers of the Committee on that date.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at theCompanys registered office during normal business hours and Role and responsibilities of the Committee atthe Annual General Meeting for 15 minutes prior to and during the meeting.
The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee assists the Board in its responsibilities with respect to the Groups social responsibility.
The Board takes into Boardroom diversity account the community, social, environmental and ethical impact of its decisions.
The Nomination Committee has considered the recommendations in Lord Davies During the year the Committee reviewed its terms of reference which sets out report Women on Boards published in February 2011.
The Group supports itsrole and responsibilities.
The Sustainability and Stakeholder Management boardroom diversity and will continue to be rigorous and transparent in its Committees responsibilities include reviewing the Groups framework of recruitment policies and will ensure that appointments are made on merit, sustainability policies and strategies including safety, health, environmental, takinginto account the benefits of diversity including gender diversity.
socialand stakeholder issues: monitoring the Groups performance in respect ofsustainability matters: andreviewing the Groups sustainability reporting.
Re-election Thename of the Committee waschanged during the year, from the Sustainability In accordance with the 2010 Code, all Directors will be standing for re-election Committee to the Sustainability and Stakeholder Management Committee, atthis years Annual General Meeting on 13 June 2012.
The Chairman confirms toreflectthe full rangeofthe Committees responsibilities.
that the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors continues to be effective andcontinues to demonstrate commitment to his role.
Key issues of social responsibility are identified and assessed through the Groupsrisk management processes described under Risk management andinternal control above.
The Group publishes a separate annual Sustainability report to provide further information on its social and environmental performance.
More information oncorporate sustainability is given on pages 46 to 57.
