Corporate governance The Company believes that by seeking to achieve a The groups objective with respect to managing capital is high standard of corporate governance in all of the to maintain a balance sheet structure that is both efficient activities undertaken by the group, the groups reputation in terms of providing long-term returns to shareholders and and performance will be enhanced.
In addition, it will also safeguards the groups ability to continue as a going concern.
promote and benefit the interests of investors, customers, As appropriate, the group can choose to adjust its capital staff and other stakeholders.
To this end, the Company structure by varying the amount of dividends paid to considers that it has complied throughout the 52-week shareholders, return of capital to shareholders, issuing new period ended on 26 March 2011 with the relevant provisions shares or the level of capital expenditure.
set out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate At the year end, the group had committed secured bank Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council facilities of 40 million which expire on 31 October 2013.
It also FRC having applied the main and supporting principles had an uncommitted unsecured bank overdraft of 10 million.
set out in Section 1 of the Code.
As of 16 May 2011 the group refinanced to increase its committed The board secured bank facilities to 80 million until 16 May 2014.
The The leadership of the Mothercare plc business is provided by uncommitted unsecured bank overdraft remains at 10 million.
It operates on a unitary basis and The groups previous and current committed borrowing facilities comprises the chairman, four independent non-executive contain certain financial covenants which have been met directors, and two full-time executive directors, being the group throughout the period.
The covenants are tested half-yearly chief executive and the group finance director.
A key element and are based around gearing, fixed charge cover and of the boards responsibility is monitoring and reviewing the guarantor cover.
effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
The non-executive directors play a pivotal role in challenging The committed bank facility was drawn down by a maximum and scrutinising its effectiveness and integrity.
The Company of 30 million during the period to fund seasonal working has continued to maintain a system of internal control within capital and at the year end the group had a cash balance of an executive management structure with defined lines of 15.3 million in addition to the 40 million of available facilities responsibility and delegation of authority within prescribed at the time which has now been increased to 80 million as financial and operational limits.
The system of internal control noted above.
is based on financial, operational, compliance and risk control Although the market conditions in the UK remain challenging, policies and procedures together with regular reporting of the global nature of the groups business means that it has financial performance and measurement of key performance long-term contracts with its franchisees around the world indicators.
Risk management, planning, budgeting and and long-standing relationships with many of its suppliers.
forecasting procedures are also in place together with As a consequence, the directors believe that the group is formal capital investment and appraisal arrangements.
well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite The importance of improving the gender balance on boards is the weak consumer outlook in the UK.
increasingly recognised and in February of this year Lord Davies The groups latest forecasts and projections have been made a series of recommendations in his report Women sensitivity-tested for reasonable possible adverse variations on Boards which are now being considered by the Financial in trading performance and show that the group will operate Reporting Council.
Currently the Mothercare plc board within the terms of its borrowing facilities and covenants for excluding the executive directors has one woman and four the foreseeable future.
men, and the senior executive management team including the executive directors has three women and six men.
The After making appropriate enquiries, the directors have a Company believes it is well positioned to meet the challenge reasonable expectation that the Company and the group of improving gender diversity.
have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the financial statements Going concern are prepared on the going concern basis.
The directors have reviewed the going concern principle in the light of the guidance provided by the FRC.
The groups business activities, and the factors likely to affect its future development are set out in the business review.
The financial position of the group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are set out in the financial review on pages 15 to 19.
In addition, notes 20 and 21 to the financial statements include the groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its hedging arrangements and its exposure to credit and liquidity risks.
30 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Risk management The group is potentially vulnerable to adverse movements The business review sets out the performance of the business in exchange rates as it pays for a large proportion of its during the year against the challenges that the board has set goods in foreign currency, principally the US dollar.
In this section some of the principal risks and the group effects transactions, the effect of which seeks to uncertainties that face the business are set out.
This section hedge the exposure to adverse exchange rates, there is no also forms part of the business review requirements.
guarantee that the transactions will be sufficient to cover all likely exposure.
The board recognises that the management of risk through the application of a consistent process during the year as required With the continued expansion of the groups international by Code provision C2 Internal Control is key to ensuring that franchise operations, the group may be exposed to sales a robust system of internal control is monitored by the business.
concentration risk as certain franchise partners extend their activities in their own and additional territories.
As at The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company may 26 March 2011 the groups largest franchisee represents include some of those set out below.
It should be borne in mind approximately 10 per cent of group sales and receivables.
that this is not an exhaustive list and that there may be other The groups brands are potentially exposed to the risks that have not been considered or risks that the board commercial risk in the default by franchisees of payment consider now are insignificant or immaterial in nature, but that for amounts due on royalties and goods supplied.
In order may arise and or have a larger effect than originally expected.
to mitigate this risk, the group seeks to insure the receivables due from franchisees but in turn may then be exposed to External risks the liquidity of the credit insurance market and or credit T he group is reliant upon manufacturers in other countries, quality of the insurers or potential default of banks or particularly China, India and the Far East.
Global economic insurance companies in providing security for franchisee conditions including global demand for goods and services primary default.
International operations are also exposed affecting sales levels and the availability of credit lines for to the possibility in some markets of political restrictions on business to its key suppliers affecting product supply will remittance of funds to the UK or refusal to enforce the relevant continue to affect the performance of the groups businesses brands intellectual property rights against infringement.
as will the effect of exchange rate movements, principally As the group grows its wholesale business a similar set of the US dollar: cost price movements including raw materials risks may, over time, become apparent.
and the difficulty of passing on input cost price increases, governmental and supra-national regulation affecting The group continues to operate defined benefit pension imports, taxation, duties and levies.
schemes albeit that they are now closed to new members.
The volatility in movement of real asset and liability values T he failure to react appropriately to changes in the economic together with those of the discount rate used for the environment generally or consumer confidence issues accounting assumptions under IAS 19 directly affect the affecting the groups core customers in the UK and in net surplus or deficit in the schemes and the variability overseas markets, particularly from levels of unemployment of the charge contained within the financial statements.
or the reduction in real disposable incomes caused by, Recent tax and legislative changes that are to be introduced amongst other things, any contraction of the global economy, in 2011 and 2012 may have implications for the funding and increases in personal and indirect taxation, interest rate future operation of these and defined contribution schemes movements and the availability of consumer credit.
currently operated by the group.
T he failure to identify or react appropriately to changes in consumer demand for the groups products or services: competitor activity or new entrants within the markets in which group companies operate.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 31 Corporate governance continued Internal risks In order to effectively manage risk, the executive committee B oth Early Learning Centre and Mothercare have a see page 33 has overall responsibility for ensuring that a rolling reputation for quality, safety and integrity.
This may be programme of structured risk assessments of those areas seriously undermined by adverse press or regulatory having a significant effect on the future of the business is carried comment on aspects of its business both in the UK and out.
The programme ensures, so far as practicably possible, overseas, whether justified or not.
To this end, the group takes that the appropriate risk management processes are identified, all reasonable care to safeguard the reputation of its brands, controls established, residual risks evaluated and that the particularly in product manufacture and supply areas, by necessary action and risk avoidance measures are taken or engaging independent third parties to validate critical areas monitored.
Elements of the programme are reviewed by the of its manufacturing and supply chain for compliance with internal audit function during the year.
The process outlined its ethical code.
above has been in effect during the period and up to the date of the approval of the accounts by the board.
A ny disruption to the relationship with or failure of key suppliers could adversely affect the groups ability to meet In addition to the evaluation of business risk referred to above, its sales and profit plans if suitable alternatives could not be the programme of specific risk management activity continued found quickly.
during the year across the activities of both brands in the United Kingdom.
Under this programme, individual stores are tested A ny failure in or termination of the groups wholesale business against a risk assessment model that emphasises health and such as mini club in the UK could adversely affect the safety, fire safety and internal process compliance.
development of and expansion of this channel of business, The internal audit function a combination of internal and in addition to any contractual or other liability that may result.
external resource led by  LLP T he groups investments in joint ventures and overseas supplements the risk-based approach set out above.
companies exposes it to greater risk to certain overseas Furthermore, the Company has adopted procedures to ensure markets, and to the operating performance of those auditor independence, the details of which are set out in businesses.
the section below detailing the work of the audit committee.
A ny failure of the groups logistics, distribution and information The board believes that the system of internal control described technology strategies or platforms, or its business continuity can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance procedures, may restrict the ability of the group to make against material misstatement or loss.
The audit committee product available to its UK business, in its worldwide stores periodically reviews the system of internal control on behalf network and or Direct businesses thereby failing to meet of the board.
customer expectations and adversely affecting sales and profits.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the board has not identified nor been advised of any failings A failure in any economic climate to invest appropriately or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
in the groups infrastructure, people, tangible and intangible Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions assets as it seeks to balance shortand long-term has not been considered appropriate.
The group aspires to achieve high standards in corporate F inancing.
The Company and the group may be exposed to governance and the principles adopted by the group are counterparty risk in respect of its hedging, banking, insurance commented on briefly below: or other finance based contracts and particularly in the ability of the relevant counterparties being able to continue to be able to meet their obligations.
As noted above, the group has sought to strengthen further its banking relationships through the recent renewal of its facilities.
Against this background, the system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risks.
32 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 The board and directors Throughout the period the board has been supplied with The board of Mothercare plc meets regularly and maintains information and papers submitted at each board meeting overall control of the groups affairs through a schedule of which ensures that the major aspects of the groups affairs matters reserved for its decision.
These include setting the are reviewed regularly in accordance with a rolling agenda group strategy, the approval of the annual budget and financial and programme of work.
All directors, whether executive or statements, major acquisitions and disposals, authority limits non-executive, have unrestricted access to the group general for capital and other expenditure and material treasury matters.
counsel and company secretary and executives within the Details of the terms of reference of the boards committees group on any matter of concern to them in respect of their are also set out in the corporate governance section of the duties.
In addition, new directors are given appropriate training Companys website at www.
on appointment to the board.
Appropriate time is made during the year for continuing training on relevant topics concerning The non-executive directors are independent and free from any the functioning of the board and the obligations of directors.
business or other relationship that could interfere materially with The Company has undertaken to reimburse legal fees to the their judgement.
The non-executive directors do not participate directors if circumstances should arise in which it is necessary for in any bonus, share option or pension scheme of the Company.
them to seek separate, independent, legal advice in furtherance of their duties.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, The chairmans other business commitments are set out in one-third of the directors are required to offer themselves for the biographical details on page 26 and there have been re-election every year.
no significant changes during the period relating to these commitments.
Directors interests and indemnity arrangements At no time during the year did any director hold a material The board considers that the balance achieved between interest in any contract of significance with the Company or any executive and non-executive directors during the period of its subsidiary undertakings other than a third-party indemnity was appropriate and effective for the control and direction provision between each director and the Company and service of the business.
contracts between each executive director and the Company.
The board is assisted by committees that it has established The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the with written terms of reference.
The roles of the remuneration, year directors and officers liability insurance in respect of audit and nomination committees are set out below.
The audit, itself and its directors.
The directors also have the benefit of remuneration and nomination committees were comprised of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys Articles of the four non-executive directors with the chairman additionally Association.
These provisions, which are qualifying third-party serving on the remuneration and nomination committees.
indemnity provisions as defined by Section 236 of the A record of the meetings held during the year of the board, Companies Act 2006, were in force throughout the year and its committees and the attendance by individual directors is are currently in force.
Details of directors remuneration, service set out at page 35. contracts and interests in the shares of the Company are set out in the directors remuneration report.
The board has delegated day-to-day and business management control of the group to the executive committee.
The Company also provides an indemnity for the benefit of each The executive committee consists of the group chief executive, person who is or was a director of Mothercare Pension Trustees group finance director, the operational directors within the Ltd, which is a corporate trustee of the Companys occupational group and the group general counsel and company secretary.
pension schemes, in respect of liabilities that may attach to them in their capacity as directors of that corporate trustee.
These provisions, which are qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions as defined in Section 235 of the Companies Act 2006, were in force throughout the year and are currently in force.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 33 Corporate governance continued Directors conflicts of interest Shareholder relations The Company maintains regular The board has maintained procedures whereby potential dialogue with institutional shareholders following presentation conflicts of interest are reviewed regularly.
These procedures of the financial performance of the business to the investing have been designed so that the board may be reasonably communities.
Opportunities for dialogue take place at least assured that any potential situation where a director may four times a year following the announcement of the halfand have a direct or indirect interest which may conflict or may full-year results and trading statements at the AGM and post possibly conflict with the interests of the Company are identified Christmas.
During such meetings the board is able to put and where appropriate dealt with in accordance with the forward its objectives for the business and discuss performance Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
against those objectives and develop an understanding of The board has not had to deal with any conflict during the views of major shareholders.
The outcome of meetings the period.
with major shareholders is reported by the chief executive at board meetings on a periodic basis.
The remuneration committee, chaired during the year by David Williams, establishes the remuneration policy generally, The Company seeks to reach a wider audience by the use approves specific arrangements for the chairman and the of its website www.
com and, with a view to executive directors and reviews and comments upon the encouraging full participation of those unable to attend the proposed arrangements for senior executives so as to ensure AGM, provides an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions consistency within the overall remuneration policy and group of their board through the internet at www.
Full disclosure of the Companys remuneration policy or by email to investorrelations@mothercare.
com or by the and details of the remuneration of each director is set out in provision of a reply-paid question service to the chairman.
the remuneration report on pages 36 to 41 and in Appendix A The Company provides electronic voting facilities through on pages 82 to 84.
During the period no director was, and www.
Those shareholders who wish to use this procedures are in place to ensure that no director is, involved facility should review the notes and procedures set out in the in deciding or determining his or her own remuneration.
The nomination committee, chaired during the year by Ian The audit committee was chaired during the year by Bernard Cragg, the senior non-executive director.
The remit of the audit Peacock, comprises all of the non-executive directors.
The terms of reference of the committee are set out on the Companys committee is to review the scope and issues arising from the audit and matters relating to financial control.
The committee makes proposals on the size, structure, composition and appointments to the board.
It carries out the board in its review of corporate governance and in the presentation of the Companys financial results through its the selection process and agrees the terms of appointment of non-executive directors.
An external search agency is ordinarily review of the interim and full-year accounts before approval by the board, focusing in particular on compliance with used to assist in the identification of suitable candidates for board appointments.
The nomination committee also reviews accounting principles, changes in accounting practice and major areas of judgement.
The full terms of reference are succession planning on an annual basis.
set out under the corporate governance section of the website The board is of the opinion that the directors seeking re-election at www.
at the AGM have continued to give effective counsel and commitment to the Company and accordingly should be The audit committee comprises the four non-executive directors.
The group general counsel and company secretary acts as secretary to the committee.
Bernard Cragg is a chartered During the period the board carried out a further evaluation accountant with considerable financial and varied commercial of its effectiveness and operation.
The review was carried experience.
out by the chairman with the assistance of the group general counsel and company secretary using an in-depth The committee met four times during the period.
The chairman also interviewed each remuneration of the non-executive directors is ascribed to non-executive director drawing upon the themes and issues membership of the audit committee other than a supplement disclosed by the questionnaire.
The review concluded that of 5,000 paid to Bernard Cragg in respect of his chairmanship the board, its committees and individual directors contributed of the committee.
effectively to the overall operation and review of the Companys affairs.
The senior independent director also carries out an annual performance review of the chairman, having first ascertained the views of all other directors.
34 | Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 The main activities of the audit committee in the 52 weeks In any event, the external auditors are required to rotate the ended 26 March 2011 audit partner responsible for the audit every five years.
The During the period the audit committee has: current lead audit partner has been in place for four years.
The audit committee has considered the likelihood of a r eviewed the financial statements both in the interim report and full-year report and accounts, having in both cases withdrawal of the auditor from the market.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the committees choice received a report from the external auditors on their review and audit of the respective reports and accounts: of external auditors.
a ssisted the board in its detailed review of the going concern In addition, a policy in respect of non-audit work by the audit principle underpinning the results of the group for the period firm is also in effect.
The general principle is that the audit firm in the light of the Financial Reporting Councils additional should not be requested to carry out non-audit services on guidance on going concern and liquidity risk: any activity of the Company where they may, in the future, be required to give an audit opinion, and the nature of any c onsidered the output of the procedures used to evaluate non-audit work must be approved by the committee.
The and mitigate risk within the group: committee has assisted the board in the assessment of the r eviewed the effectiveness of the groups internal controls adequacy of the resourcing plan for the internal audit function.
 took a lead role in the provision and disclosures made in the annual report: of such assurance services.
In respect of the activities of the c onsidered the management letter from the external auditors function, the committee has received reports upon the work on their review of the effectiveness of internal control: carried out and the results of the investigations including management responses, their adequacy and timeliness.
a greed the fees and terms of appointment of the external auditors: A review was also held of the effectiveness of the audit committee and the external auditors during the year.
It was r eviewed both the committees and the external auditors considered that the work of the audit committee during the effectiveness: year was effective measured against its terms of reference a greed the work plan of the internal audit function and and general audit committee practice.
In respect of the reviewed the resultant output from that plan: and auditor effectiveness review, it was considered that the external auditors had carried out their obligations in an effective and r eviewed and assessed the groups compliance with appropriate manner.
As a result of its work during the year, the committee has The audit committee reviews annually the independence of the concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of external audit firm and the individuals carrying out the audit by reference and has ensured as far as possible by enquiry of receiving assurances from, and assessing, the audit firm against them the independence of the external auditors.
The chairman best practice principles.
The committee seeks to balance the of the committee will be available at the AGM to answer any benefits of continuity of audit personnel and the need to assure questions on the work of the committee.
independence through change of audit personnel by agreeing with the audit firm staff rotation policies.
Director attendance statistics for the 52-week period ended 26 March 2011 Committee Director Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Maximum number of meetings 5 4 4 Ian Peacock 5 4 4 Karren Brady resigned August 2010 1 1 2 Bernard Cragg 4 4 4 Ben Gordon 5 2 3 Neil Harrington 5 4 4 Richard Rivers 5 4 4 David Williams 4 4 4 Amanda Mackenzie appointed January 2011 1 1 Notes: Ben Gordon and Neil Harrington attend meetings of the audit and remuneration committees upon the invitation of the respective chairmen.
Ian Peacock attends meetings of the audit committee on the same basis.
In addition to the board meetings above there were two ad hoc board meetings which approved the interim and full-year report and accounts respectively and which were constituted by the board from those members available at that time having considered the views of the whole board beforehand.
Although there was no formal meeting of the nominations committee, the members of the board at the time met with and approved the appointment of Amanda Mackenzie prior to her appointment.
Mothercare plc Annual report and accounts 2011 | 35
