Corporate Governance Report Combined code As with Ivan Fallon, the board considers Board operation The board is committed to maintaining Lord Stone to be an extremely effective An effective board of directors leads and high standards of corporate governance member of the board and that his controls the group.
The members of the and compliance with the principles in the extensive retail knowledge is of such board are shown on page 16 of this report.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance strategic value to the board that this far The board met 8 times during the year.
issued by the UK Financial Reporting outweighs any considerations of nonDirectors attendance at board meetings Council in 2008 the Code.
was as follows: For the year in review the group and The board considers that it had a majority Attendance the directors have complied with the of independent non-executive directors Lord Alliance of provisions set out in section 1 of the Code.
It is considered that the Manchester CBE 8 The following paragraphs explain how the composition of the board during the year main principles of the Code have been had the necessary balance of executive Ivan Fallon 8 applied.
The Directors remuneration report and non-executive directors providing the Alan White 8 contains further details on page 28 to 38. requisite skills, experience and judgement appropriate for the requirements of the Lord Stone of Blackheath 8 The board has noted and is aware of the business and board effectiveness.
Nigel Alliance OBE 8 recent changes in corporate governance: in particular the new UK Corporate Under the articles one third of the Dean Moore 8 Governance Code the New Code which board is required to retire every year.
was issued by the FRC in June 2010.
All directors joining the board are required John McGuire 8 The board is reviewing the New Code in to submit themselves for election at the Anna Ford 8 relation to financial years commencing annual general meeting following their March 2011 and will report on it in the appointment.
All non-executive directors The board is responsible for major policy Annual Report in 2012. serve the company under formal written decisions, delegating detailed operational terms and conditions of appointment.
matters to its committees and subBoard composition These terms of appointment stipulate committees and senior officers where The board currently comprises eight a period of service of an indefinite necessary.
The board is collectively members, six of whom are non-executive.
duration but terminable on six months responsible for providing effective There is a clear division of responsibilities notice by either party.
All non-executive leadership and promoting the success of between the Chairman, Lord Alliance of appointments are subject to early the group and has established a formal Manchester CBE, who is responsible for termination provisions, for example schedule of matters reserved for its the effective operation of the board and allowing earlier termination without approval a copy of which is available the Chief Executive, Alan White, who is compensation in the event a director on the companys website, www.
responsible for the groups operational is not re-elected upon retirement by nbrown.
rotation in accordance with the articles.
all decisions on business strategy, the Notwithstanding the foregoing, the board approval of financial statements, the annual The non-executive directors are, Lord has resolved to adopt, with immediate capital and operating expenditure plans, Alliance of Manchester CBE, Chairman, effect, the requirement in the New investment, treasury and dividend policies, Nigel Alliance OBE, both of whom are not Code that all directors retire and submit governance issues, major capital projects, regarded by the board as independent themselves for re-election annually.
overseeing the groups risk control under the provisions of the Code, the Therefore each of the directors will retire procedures, board membership and the deputy chairman Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of at the forthcoming AGM and, being composition of its committees and the Blackheath, John McGuire and Anna Ford.
eligible, offer themselves for reappointment groups ethical, social and environmental All of these are considered by the board to at that meeting.
Currently, the January board be independent.
meeting is held over two days and is The board, having carried out a recent entirely devoted to the development and Ivan Fallon was appointed to the board in performance evaluation, considers that the review of long-term corporate strategy and October 1994 and he has now served on commitment of all directors to the role and the development of the groups long-term the board for a period beyond which the the performance of all directors, continues strategic plan.
This years meeting was Code suggests that his independence may to be effective.
Sufficient biographical facilitated by external consultants who were be affected.
The board, nonetheless, holds detail is provided on page 16 of this annual given the brief by the Deputy Chairman Ivan Fallon to be independent and that his report to enable shareholders to make to challenge and evaluate the long-term commercial experience, acumen and an informed decision on the re-election growth and strategic plan drawn up by the extensive knowledge of the groups resolutions.
All appointments to the board executive directors.
The consultants did businesses gained during his tenure on the are made on merit against objective criteria not find any material weakness or omission board are of such great value to the board and with the intention of ensuring that in the groups strategic plan but made a that this far outweighs any considerations all appointees have the requisite skills number of recommendations which are of non-independence.
Ivan Fallon is also and sufficient time to devote themselves being worked upon.
Day-to-day operational our senior independent non-executive effectively to the business of the board and management of the group is delegated to director and deputy chairman.
Lord Stone to discharge their duties.
the home shopping board of JD Williams was appointed to the board in March 2002 & Company Limited on which Alan White and, at the date of this report, has also now Details of directors contract terms are and Dean Moore sit as Chief Executive and served for a period beyond which the Code shown in the Remuneration Report on Financial Director respectively.
suggests his independence may be affected.
24 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report The board governs through clearly with the other board members.
The Chief next following committee meeting, at mandated committees, accompanied by Executives performance was reviewed which they are ratified.
The following robust monitoring and reporting systems.
and appraised by the Chairman and the committees of the board have been Further detail is given below.
The performance established: of the Finance Director the only other A comprehensive set of board papers executive director on the board was Audit committee: including detailed management reports carried out in a similar manner to the Remuneration committee: and from the Chief Executive and the Finance Chief Executive.
Director, management accounts, broker analyses, compliance and regulatory The evaluation concluded that the After each committee meeting the briefings and bespoke reports from the board and committees operate well, are chairman of that committee makes a home shopping board is circulated to each effectively led and that robust, free and formal report to the board of directors director not less than seven days prior to frank discussion and challenge to the detailing the business carried out each board meeting.
Non-executive directors operational divisional directors and the by the committee and setting out its are encouraged to meet and talk to executive directors exists.
operational staff and undertake regular site also found that the board continues to visits to ensure they have the most up-tobe effectively led by the Chairman and Audit committee date knowledge and understanding of the that information provided in the form of The audit committee consists entirely of company and its activities.
Procedures are board papers remains comprehensive and non-executive directors the board consider in place to enable all directors to obtain sufficient for the directors needs and that to be independent.
The current chairman independent professional advice in respect each director is individually contributing is John McGuire.
The other members are of their fiduciary duties and obligations to the overall effectiveness and success Ivan Fallon, Lord Stone of Blackheath and and all board members have full and direct of the group.
With the growth of regulatory Anna Ford.
The members of the committee access to the Company Secretary, who is and compliance matters some directors are regarded as having recent and relevant a fully qualified solicitor and who attends reported that consideration be given to financial experience.
By invitation, the all board and committee meetings.
holding more meetings per year and this audit committee meetings are attended by The Company Secretary regularly briefs is being considered.
the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the board on regulatory and compliance the groups head of internal audit and the matters, shareholder engagement, Beyond the formal annual evaluation, the groups external auditors.
continuing director education and the performance of the executive directors is statutory duties and obligation of the continuously monitored throughout the The committee met 2 times in the year directors.
year by the Chairman and the Deputy under review.
The board has noted that as follows: In the year under review, the board the New Code will require an external undertook an appraisal of its own evaluation to be carried out in future, at Attendance performance and effectiveness, that of least once in every 3 years.
Lord Stone of Blackheath 2 the Chairman and that of its committees.
The engagement of an external body Directors conflicts of interest John McGuire 2 to manage the performance evaluation The articles of association of the company Ivan Fallon 2 process was considered but the board give the directors the power to consider concluded that the approach adopted in and, if appropriate, authorise conflict Anna Ford 2 the previous year remained sufficiently situations where a directors declared robust, appropriate and cost effective interest may conflict or does conflict with The audit committee is charged with for the company.
The evaluation process the interests of the company.
overseeing the nature and scope of the consisted of the individual completion group audit process both internal and of a questionnaire containing 26 detailed Procedures have been set in place by the external and its effectiveness.
In the year questions ranging from the effectiveness board to regularly report and record any under review the committee has: of individual members, the size and potential or actual conflicts which arise in number of board reports, relationships a register which is then reviewed by the Reviewed and approved the annual with management, the mix of skillboard at least annually.
internal audit programme and resources: sets, individual contribution at board Met with the internal and external meetings to the effectiveness of the No conflicts were reported in the year auditors in the absence of the Company Secretary.
executive directors: was completed by all directors in relation Considered the annual and interim to the board and also any committee of Committee structure financial statements before submission which they were a member.
The process The board has delegated specific to the board, received and reviewed the is designed to establish whether each authorities to a number of committees to audit reports and audit-related reports director continues to meet the boards deal with specific aspects of management provided by the external auditor, requirements in terms of effective and to maintain supervision over the Deloitte LLP: contribution, skills and devotion to the internal control procedures of the group.
Reviewed and assessed the groups role.
The evaluation results were collated These committees meet regularly and have system of internal risk control and by the Company Secretary for review by formal written terms of reference which are reported its findings twice to the the Chairman and then joint review by the available for inspection on the companys board: and board.
The performance of the Chairman website.
The minutes of the meetings of Received papers from the company was reviewed and appraised by the senior these committees are circulated to all secretary on CSR and governance issues.
non-executive director in consultation committee members in advance of the N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25 Corporate Governance Report On each occasion it meets, the committee do not provide the group with any other for appointments of directors including discusses audit and audit-related matters services which could bring into question directors of the operating company with the external auditor both with, and their independence or provide any conflict board J D Williams & Company Limited in the absence of, the executive directors of interest further details are set out in the and other senior executive staff.
Where and the internal auditor.
Additionally, the Remuneration Report on page 28. appropriate, the Chief Executive and chairman of the committee also regularly Company Secretary attend meetings attends the groups head office to meet As a result of its work during the year, of the nominations committee.
with the Finance Director and, separately, the audit committee has concluded the groups head of internal audit.
The that it has acted in accordance with its The nominations committee evaluates audit committee is also charged with the terms of reference and has ensured the board candidates on merit, against oversight and management of the groups independence and objectivity of the objective criteria, taking into account the whistleblowing procedure which contains external auditors.
skills and experience required to perform procedures for the committee to receive, the duties of the post.
Where appropriate, in confidence, complaints on all There are no contractual obligations external search consultants are engaged.
restricting the groups choice of external auditor.
The committee has recommended The Company Secretary is responsible The committee has established a that the existing auditor, Deloitte LLP be for the induction of new directors.
continuous process for identifying, reappointed.
Deloitte LLP have signified New directors are provided with a evaluating and managing the significant their willingness to continue in office and comprehensive pack of information risks the group faces.
This monitoring is ordinary resolutions appointing them as including terms of reference, information principally based on reviewing reports from auditors and authorising the directors to regarding the business and guidance on senior management to consider whether set their remuneration will be proposed their roles and duties as directors and significant risks are being identified, at the 2011 annual general meeting.
meetings site visits with key employee evaluated, managed and controlled and contacts are arranged as appropriate.
whether any significant weaknesses Remuneration committee The Company Secretary provides an exist which need to be addressed.
The remuneration committee consists ongoing programme of briefings for Again this year, the committee members entirely of non-executive directors regarded directors covering legal and regulatory have received, considered and approved by the company to be independent.
changes and developments relevant to the an updated risk evaluation from the The current chairman is Ivan Fallon.
groups activities and directors areas of operational directors.
Further details are The other members are Lord Stone of responsibility.
given later in the Risk Management section Blackheath, John McGuire and Anna Ford.
During the year the nominations committee The remuneration committee met on 4 did not have occasion to meet.
The board consider that the processes occasions during the year.
Members of the audit committee continue to be attendance was as follows: Finance Committee effective and to comply with the guidance So that actions may be taken promptly, issued by the Smith Committee.
During the Attendance a finance committee comprising the year under review the board has not been chairman of the audit committee, the Lord Stone of Blackheath 4 advised by the audit committee, nor has it Chief Executive and the Finance Director identified itself, any failings or weaknesses together with such other non-executive John McGuire 4 in internal control which it has determined directors as the board may appoint from Ivan Fallon 4 to be material.
time to time operates between scheduled board meetings and is authorised to make Anna Ford 4 The audit committee periodically reviews decisions, within limits defined by the the appointment and independence of the board, regarding certain finance, treasury The purpose of this committee is to review, external auditor as well as their relationship and tax or investment matters.
formulate and determine the remuneration with the group, including monitoring the package of each executive director and groups use of the auditors for non-audit Internal control other members of the board and to services and the balance of audit and nonThe directors have overall responsibility for consider how the company is applying audit fees paid to the auditors.
Deloitte ensuring that the group maintains a sound the principles of the Code in respect of LLP has been the groups auditor for a system of internal control, to give them directors remuneration.
Having reviewed the reasonable assurance regarding effective independence and effectiveness of the and efficient operations and compliance A comprehensive Remuneration Report is external auditor, the committee has not with laws and regulations.
There are, of included in this Annual Report on pages 28 considered it necessary to require them course, inherent limitations in any system to 38.
The report will be put to an advisory to tender for the audit work.
Deloitte LLP of internal control and accordingly even vote by the members at the companys have during the year also provided some the most effective system can provide 2011 annual general meeting.
non-audit services to the company in the only reasonable, and not absolute, form of tax advice.
The audit committee is assurance and management against Nominations committee aware that providing audit and non-audit material misstatement, loss or failure.
No The nominations committee is chaired services could give rise to a potential system can guarantee elimination of the by Lord Stone of Blackheath.
The other conflict of interest.
To address this risk of failure to meet the objectives of members are currently Lord Alliance concern, the company has also appointed the business.
The board has established of Manchester CBE, Ivan Fallon, John independent advisors to provide advice on a continuous process for identifying, McGuire and Anna Ford.
The formal terms executive remuneration issues and pension evaluating and managing the significant of reference for this committee require it to matters where appropriate.
These advisors risks the group faces.
make recommendations to the board 26 N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report Risk Management clear lines of responsibility and explicit The groups ongoing assessment of risk authority delegated to divisional boards and continual review of the structure of and executive management, and a internal controls remains in place.
In order comprehensive financial reporting system to ensure key business developments which communicates plans, budgets are appropriately factored into the risk and monthly results to relevant levels management process, internal audit of management, including the board.
facilitated two specific board-level risk sessions in the period.
The chief executive The company has complied, and continues of the group and the finance director along to comply, with the provisions of the Code with operational management reviewed on internal controls, and the relevant the key risks facing the business and parts of the Turnbull and Smith Guidance.
appraised the structure of internal controls There is an ongoing process in place for to mitigate these risks.
In a separate identifying, evaluating and managing the session the audit committee provided a significant risks facing the group that top-down view of risks across strategic, has been in place throughout the year financial and operational areas.
The results under review and to the date of approval were collated by internal audit and have of the accounts.
This process has been been used as a key driver for the annual reviewed by the audit committee and internal audit plan and have been reported the board, and accords with guidance to the board.
The board has not identified nor been advised of any failings The risk committee focuses on reviewing or weaknesses which it has determined to management's activities to continually be material.
monitor, reduce and eliminate the risks identified.
Operational management are Relations with investors asked to present to the risk committee on The company places considerable a cyclical basis on the progress of agreed importance on good communication actions against each major risk identified.
with shareholders, both institutional and The output from the risk committee is individual investors.
Institutional investors, shared with the audit committee twice fund managers and analysts are kept annually, and the chief executive of the informed of the companys overall strategy group and audit committee chairman by through regular meetings and company exception, if required.
The group head of roadshows.
All non-executive directors internal audit acts as the chairman of the are kept informed of shareholders views risk committee.
through detailed feedback on surveys and polls and analyst and broker reports are The board of directors through and tabled at each board meeting.
The senior with the benefit of the reports and non-executive director makes himself recommendations of the audit committee available to meet with, and understand, has reviewed the effectiveness of the the views of major shareholders.
system of internal risk control for the year under review.
As well as receiving regular The company aims to ensure that all reports from the risk committee, the board shareholders have full and timely access through the audit committee discusses to the information it discloses in the with the external auditor and the internal annual report, the yearly and half yearly audit department, the results of their work announcements and interim management and any resulting internal control issues, statements and that shareholders have including the implementation of action the opportunity to meet with the executive points arising from previous audits.
management team and certain members of the board of the operating division at The internal audit function is independent least twice a year at the announcement of of management and the head of the the groups results at the analysts financial function has direct access to the chairman presentation and also by constructive of the audit committee and the chief use of the annual general meeting.
Internal audit Non-executive and executive directors plans are discussed and agreed annually also attend meetings with shareholders between the group head of internal audit on request.
As well as being provided and the audit committee.
with a copy of the annual report and results announcements, our recently Appropriate internal financial controls upgraded website provides shareholders are in place throughout the group, some with up to date, comprehensive and of which have already been referred accessible information about the group to in this statement.
Other examples and its activities.
Shareholders views and include the existence of a well-defined feedback reports are also included in group organisation structure, with the directors board packs as and when received.
N Brown Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 27
