Governance 48 Corporate governance The systems that the Board has established are designed to safeguard both the shareholders investment and the assets of the Group.
4 2 The role of the Board Key governance and business matters The Board leads and controls the Group Group Strategy and Risk Management within a sound governance framework.
Formulation and approval of long-term objectives The Board is responsible for setting the Approval of changes to capital structure Groups strategic aims, its values and standards and ensuring the necessary Approval of major changes to management and control structure financial and human resources are in place Approval of extension of activities into new businesses or geographical areas to achieve its goals.
To help discharge its Financial and Internal Controls key responsibilities the Board has a defined list of key governance and business Oversight of risk management and internal control framework matters for which it is responsible, as Approval of major accounting policies summarised opposite.
Approval of financial statements and results announcements In addition to the matters above, which Approval of shareholder communications, circulars and notices of meetings form the core of the Boards agenda the Approval of the auditors remuneration and recommendations timeline on pages 52 to 53 shows the main for their appointment removal items of business addressed by the Board during the year.
Recommendation and declaration of dividends 3 The structure of the Board Monitoring Groups businesses against plan and budget The Board consists of a balance of Approval of major capital expenditure projects Executive and Non-Executive Directors Approval of material contracts who collectively bring a strong and indepth mix of business skills and experience Board Membership, Remuneration and Committees and considerable knowledge to assist Approval of the Companys remuneration policy and principles with Board decisions.
A summary of the Appointments of Directors members of the Board including the mix of Approval of remuneration of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors skills and experience each Director brings and senior management to the Board is given on pages 46 to 47 and full biographical details are included Approval of the Chairmans fees in the Notice of AGM.
Setting of committee terms of reference Approval of new share incentive plans Corporate Governance Undertaking of formal performance reviews of Board, committee and individual directors Determining the independence of directors Receiving reports from the Companys major shareholders Policies Review and approval of Group policies, for example: health and safety risk management strategy environment charitable and political donations The full terms of reference of the principal Committees are available on the Companys website at nationalexpressgroup.
com Governance Corporate governance 49 Management structure Share Allotment Committee Audit Committee The main committees of the Board are the Safety & Environment Committee Tax Committee Group Board Audit, Safety & Environment, Remuneration Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committees.
Treasury Committee Nomination Committee The UK, Spain and North America Executives report to the Group Group Executive Committee Executive Committee.
Board Committee UK Spain North America Executive Committee Executive Executive Executive Committee.
Each Committee has defined The members of each principal Committee 5 Independence terms of reference and reports on its and main duties are shown in each The Board considers all of the proceedings to the Board.
In addition there Committee report on pages 54 to 58.
Non-Executives to be independent other is an Executive Committee with authority The table below sets out the number of than Jorge Cosmen and considered John to approve routine matters of business meetings of the Board and its Committees Devaney to be independent prior to his and a Tax and Treasury Committee which during the year and individual attendance appointment as Chairman.
Jorge Cosmen reviews the Groups tax planning, banking by the Board and Committee members is not considered to be independent by facilities and treasury reports.
All of the at these meetings.
During the year the the Board due to his close links with the Committees are authorised to obtain legal Chairman met on several occasions with ALSA business and significant interests in or other professional advice as necessary, the Non-Executives without the Executive the shares of the Company which are held to secure the attendance of external Directors present to allow informal through European Express Enterprises advisors at their meetings and to seek discussions on a variety of issues.
Despite his non-independence, information required from any employee the Board feels that it benefits greatly of the Company in order to perform from Jorge Cosmens extensive local their duties.
The full terms of reference market knowledge and experience.
of the principal Committees are available Composition of the Board Non-Executive Directors do not participate on the Companys website at in any of the Companys share option nationalexpressgroup.
or bonus schemes and their service is non-pensionable.
The UK, Spain and North America Executives meet on a monthly basis 6 Principal committees of the Board and matters dealt with at these The principal committees established by meetings are reported to the Group the Board are the Audit Committee, the Executive Committee.
Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Executive Directors 2 Committee and the Safety & Environment Non-Executive Directors 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors 6 Safety & The Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Environment Board meetings of Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings in 2011 11 4 5 3 4 Executive Directors Dean Finch, Group Chief Executive 11 Jez Maiden, Group Finance Director 11 Non-Executive Directors John Devaney 11 5 4 2 Joaqun Ayuso 3 5 1 2 Jorge Cosmen 11 5 4 Miranda Curtis 11 3 4 1 Roger Devlin 6 7 1 2 1 1 2 2 Sir Andrew Foster 11 4 5 4 3 Chris Muntwyler 5 6 1 1 3 3 2 Lee Sander 3 5 1 1 1 2 4 Tim Score 10 11 4 3 4 Company Secretary: Michael Hampson also acts as Secretary to the Board Committees.
1 Resigned from the Board on 28 June 2011.
Maximum possible meetings shown in brackets.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2011.
3 Appointed to the Board on 11 May 2011.
4 Tim Score was unable to attend an unscheduled Board meeting on 8 September 2011 due to a prior engagement.
Governance 50 Corporate governance continued 7 9 The Chairman and the Group Executive Directors Seeing the front line Chief Executive The Executive Directors are responsible for by Sir Andrew Foster The roles of Chairman and Group Chief the day-to-day management of the Groups Non-Executive Directors spend Executive are held separately.
The businesses, implementation of its strategy, masses of time reading Board Chairman is responsible for leading the policies and budgets and its financial papers and helping to develop Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
Executive management strategy and challenge performance.
Group Chief Executive is responsible for the meetings, involving the Executive Directors leadership of the Group and implementation and senior management from the divisions All valuable stuff, but it can be much of the strategy and policies adopted by are held regularly to discuss current issues.
helped by seeing the sharp end of the Board.
The division of responsibilities service delivery.
I visited our school 10 Information and professional between the Chairman and Group Chief yellow bus service centre in Chicago development Executive is shown in the table below.
meeting drivers, mechanics, Reports from the Executive Directors, dispatchers, safety trainers and 8 Senior Independent Director which include in-depth financial managers.
Nothing beats chatting The Board appoints one of the information, are circulated to Board with the staff, understanding Non-Executive Directors to act as Senior members prior to every Board meeting.
operational issues, safety concerns Independent Director and this role has Senior management and advisers give and how to link well with students been held by Tim Score since April presentations to the Board on significant and schools.
The role of the Senior Independent matters during the year.
spirit and motivation behind their Director is to provide a sounding board Under the direction of the Chairman, the work to renew their contract.
for the Chairman and to serve as an Company Secretary is responsible for intermediary for the other Directors where After this, I spent a day with ten ensuring Board procedures are followed necessary.
The Senior Independent CEOs of School Boards, talking and applicable rules and regulations are Director is also available to address about how our student transport complied with and advises the Board on shareholders concerns if they have been services could be improved.
All Directors have unable to resolve these through normal Boards are squeezed financially access to the advice and services of the channels or when such channels would be and are seeking sustained service Company Secretary and the appointment inappropriate.
During the year the Senior levels at lower cost.
It was satisfying or removal of the Company Secretary is a Independent Director has discussed to explore joint ways we can work matter for the Board as a whole.
There is a the performance of the Chairman with through tough economic times procedure in place for any Director to take the Non-Executive Directors and has protecting safe service delivery.
independent professional advice where participated in meetings with significant considered necessary.
The chance to meet front line staff, institutional investors.
students and CEOs, adds to report On appointment, Directors are offered understanding and demonstrates training as appropriate and are thereafter support both ways.
A number of encouraged to keep abreast of matters staff commented It is good to affecting their duties as a Director and to know that there is real interest and attend training courses relevant to their understanding at board level.
An induction process is in place for new Directors, the aims of which are to: Chairmans responsibilities Group Chief Executives responsibilities chairing and managing the business of the Board communicating a shared purpose and the culture, vision and values of the Group together with the Group Chief Executive, leading the Board in developing the strategy of the business and the development and implementation of management ensuring its effective implementation by the executive strategy management team the daytoday management of the Group ensuring effective dialogue with investors concerning managing the executive management team mutual understanding of objectives fostering relationships with key stakeholders in conjunction with the Nomination Committee, taking leading the Group Executive Committee responsibility for the composition and replenishment of the Board in conjunction with the Group Finance Director, communicating the Groups financial performance to periodically reviewing with the Board its working practices investors and analysts and performance liaising with the Chairman to ensure effective dialogue ensuring there is an effective contribution from the with investors and stakeholders NonExecutive Directors and a constructive relationship between the Executive and NonExecutive Directors Governance Corporate governance 51 build an understanding of the nature balance of skills and experience: The Companys website houses wideof the Company, its business and the ranging information about the Group, independence and knowledge markets in which it operates: including the Annual Report and Accounts, of the Company: press releases, share price data and links establish a link with the Groups diversity including gender: to subsidiary company websites.
employees: and how the Board works together as From time to time the Company invites build an understanding of the Groups a unit: and research analysts and institutional investors main relationships including other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
to presentations and site visits that are stakeholders and customers.
designed to provide more understanding Following this, individual draft meeting For example, as part of Chris Muntwylers of the strengths and capabilities of its reports were circulated for individual introduction to the Group, he spent three business operations and strategy.
A draft omnibus report days visiting UK operations.
the Company held an Analyst and Investor was then prepared for discussion by 11 event in Madrid as well as hosting a visit to Performance evaluation the Chairman and Company Secretary school bus operations in the USA.
Formal evaluation of the Boards prior to submission of a final report performance is periodically carried out.
An for debate at the Board.
Action plans The Company has introduced an electronic internal evaluation was commenced in late are being developed based on the communications facility to enable 2010 and completed in the first quarter of outcome of the evaluation process and shareholders to receive documentation 2011.
The Board review concluded that the recommendations and outcomes such as the Annual Report and Accounts generally the Board was considered to be arising from the evaluation process will be electronically and also to cast their votes working very well.
The Board felt that it was reported on in next years Annual Report.
The Company receiving high quality information to aid has also introduced an electronic proxy 12 Relations with shareholders its decision-making both in terms of the appointment service for CREST members.
The Board recognises the importance of Board papers and specialist information maintaining good communications with the 13 Institutional shareholders provided.
Board Committees were also Companys shareholders to ensure mutual The Chairman, Group Chief Executive felt to be generally well-managed.
The understanding of the Groups strategy, and Group Finance Director have findings of the evaluation report resulted objectives, governance and performance.
held a number of meetings with in a number of recommendations for existing and prospective institutional improvement in the way the Board During the year shareholders are kept shareholders during the year as well operates, examples of which are shown informed of the progress of the Group as given presentations following the full in the table below.
through regular corporate communications: year and half-year results.
They have the Preliminary announcement, the Notice In late 2011 the Board commenced an also met and given presentations to of AGM, interim management statements externally facilitated Board review process.
research analysts and stockbrokers and press releases regarding any other Structured meetings were held with each sales teams.
The Companys appointed significant developments, as well as the Non-Executive Director and the Company brokers and investor relations advisors dissemination of regulated information.
Secretary and during the meetings the in turn have provided regular confidential Such communications are made available following areas were considered: feedback to the Company on the views to the London Stock Exchange and of the major institutions.
The Chairman, simultaneously available on the Companys Senior Independent Director and other website nationalexpressgroup.
Actions taken Areas for improvement The 2012 schedule of Board meetings should be reviewed A review was undertaken and the schedule of meetings was to ensure a more regular pattern and a closer link to the adjusted as proposed.
Companys reporting and events calendar.
Additional Non-Executive Directors should be appointed to the Search consultants were briefed and a shortlist of candidates Board to add North American and European experience and was drawn up.
Three high-calibre candidates were identified expertise and strengthen the breadth of skills and experience and appointed as Non-Executive Directors to the Board: Chris around the Board table.
Muntwyler appointed 11 May 2011, Joaqun Ayuso appointed 1 June 2011 and Lee Sander appointed 1 June 2011.
Board papers should be circulated at least four days prior Board papers are now circulated according to the to the meeting two of which must be working days.
recommendation: electronic dissemination of Board papers is currently being trialled.
Board members should not schedule other meetings on Board members are scheduling their commitments according Board days to remove some pressure from the schedule and to the recommendation.
enable time to be allocated to Non-Executive Directors to meet on their own in advance of Board meetings.
Governance 52 Corporate governance continued The Board has a regular schedule of meetings and convenes additional meetings as required.
Details of the number of meetings held and attendance at these meetings is on page 49.
The average attendance rate of the members of the Board in 2011 was 93%.
Board activity throughout the year Review of Strategic five-year plan Presentation on UK Bus business Visit to Spain and meetings with local Appointment of Chris Muntwyler management as a Non-Executive Director Review of Non-Executive Directors fees Presentation on Spanish Business Review and approval of Group Review of Board and Committee terms Anti-Bribery Act Policy Internal review of Board effectiveness of reference Consideration of shortlisted Approval of appointment of new Review of dividend policy Non-Executive Director candidates Auditor, Deloitte LLP Approval of full year results Pre-AGM engagement with Recommendation of final dividend major shareholders Non-Executive Directors are also given Private shareholders Board oversight and benchmarking the opportunity to meet institutional We welcome contact from our private the Board regularly and rigorously shareholders and are available by contact shareholders and are pleased to answer reviews and benchmarks through the normal channels.
During 2011 their queries by telephone or through our operational and functional the Chairman and Senior Independent website at nationalexpressgroup.
performance Director have both met with major We encourage our shareholders to make at each Board meeting the Board shareholders to discuss the governance use of our website to access Company receives a report from the Group and direction of the Company.
reports, Notices of meeting and general Chief Executive on operational shareholder and dividend information.
The Board is provided with regular updates performance, and from the Group The website also provides a direct link to on the views and issues raised by the Finance Director on the financial Shareview shareview.
co. uk which enables Companys investors.
During the year the performance of the Group as a shareholders to view and manage their Board received external presentations whole and each of the Groups shareholder account online.
from advisors on shareholder and market businesses individually 15 perception of the Groups performance Annual General Meeting the Board receives a presentation and strategy.
Formal written responses Notice of the AGM and related papers are at each of its meetings from either are given to correspondence received sent to shareholders at least 20 working a business Managing Director from shareholders, as well as bilateral days before the meeting.
Last years AGM or a functional head engagement through the Group Chief included a presentation by the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Executive on the progress of the business the Companys investor relations function.
and an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions.
All our Directors were available 14 Analyst coverage formally to answer questions during the The Company is aware of 21 analysts meeting and many circulated and talked to who have published equity research shareholders informally afterwards.
Voting notes covering National Express Group For more information on our strategy, on the resolutions was conducted by poll.
PLC during 2011 and we provide names please go to nationalexpressgroup.
Some 85% of the shares in issue were and contact numbers of their firms on com investors voted and the resolutions were passed.
The results are published on the Groups website shortly after the meeting.
We look forward to welcoming shareholders to our 2012 AGM and updating them on the progress of the business this year.
2011 January 2011 February 2011 March 2011 April 2011 May Governance Corporate governance 53 Key to Board business Group Strategy and Financial and B oard membership, C orporate Review and approval Risk Management internal controls Remuneration and Committees Governance of Group policies Presentation on North American Business Proposal for interim dividend Review of proposal to acquire Review and approval Petermann and approval to proceed 2012 budget Review of potential acquisition, pricing and Review of Spanish fleet replacement due diligence and approval to proceed programme Review of North American Business Review of Non-Executive Director fees excluding Review of Board committee membership Update on Group Staff Pension Plan Review of opportunities in German the Chairman Rail Market Treasury Policy update Review of pre-close statement for half year Review of half-year financial Review of Executive results Review of Group insurances structure statements Directors and senior executives salaries Appointments of Joaqun Ayuso and Lee Sander as Non-Executive Directors 16 Major shareholdings As at 29 February 2012, the Company had been notified of the following interests in its shares which represent 3% or more of the voting rights in the Company: Ordinary Percentage of Nature of shares share capital holding Elliott International LP Liverpool Ltd Partnership 97,269,654 19.07 Direct European Express Enterprises Ltd 87,095,062 17.08 Direct Prudential Plc 61,189,177 11.99 Direct Legal and General Group Plc 18,564,889 3.64 Direct Norges Bank 15,309,775 3.00 Direct The holdings for European Express Enterprises Ltd are included in Jorge Cosmens holdings which are shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 66.
68 Other corporate investors 108 0.78 17,396,066 3.40 13,846 100.00 511,726,026 100.00 2011 January 2011 May 2011 June 2011 July 2011 August 2011 September 2011 October 2011 November Governance 54 Audit Committee overview Tim Score Dear shareholder 2011 has seen the Company continue to build upon the progress made in 2010 as reflected in the results presented to you in this document.
The Audit Committee is confident that the Group has a well-established Given the length of time since the role of external auditor had been put out to governance structure with full control tender, it was agreed that the time was opportune to tender the position early and direction over appropriate in 2011.
An invitation to tender was issued to four major accounting firms and strategic, financial, operational following this process Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Companys auditor on and compliance issues.
14June 2011 following the resignation of Ernst and Young LLP on 10 June 2011.
The Audit Committee, supported by senior management, conducted a rigorous tender process focussing on quality, resources, independence and value.
The tendering firms were invited to put forward a proposal to the Audit Committee, following briefing meetings with key management and the Audit Committee Chairman.
Following the review of these proposals by management and the Main activities during the year Audit Committee Chairman and after careful consideration, the Audit Committee During the year the Committee concluded that the proposal from Deloitte LLP was the best overall in terms of considered the following: quality, resources, independence and value and would better meet the Groups requirements for external audit services going forward.
oversight of the tender and selection process for the role The Audit Committee therefore recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP of external auditor be appointed as the Groups external auditor.
review of compliance with the The Committee has no set policy on the tendering frequency of their external UK Corporate Governance Code auditor or of the tenure of their external auditor but will ensure that good corporate governance is maintained and that the Committee is regularly considering review and update of the the marketplace, benchmarking the current level of service the Company Committees terms of reference receives along with the fees they pay and the value being delivered.
There were approval of the Groups no contractual obligations that acted to restrict the Committees choice of AntiBribery Policy external auditor.
review of the Group Risk Register I would like to take this opportunity to thank Ernst & Young for their many review of UK Data Protection years of excellent service to the Company and to welcome Deloitte as the Act Compliance Companys auditor.
review and update of Policy In 2011 the Committee dealt with its usual programme of business as well as a on Provision of Audit and range of new issues such as the Companys new AntiBribery Policy, envisaged NonAudit Services in my letter to you last year, to ensure compliance with the Bribery Act 2010. consideration of the results of This policy, together with new whistle blowing arrangements, is now in place internal audit compliance testing and compliance with the policy will be monitored going forward.
of financial controls Annual Fitness For the first time in a number of years there has been a change to the membership Checks within the subsidiaries of the Committee following Roger Devlins retirement from the Board.
Chris review of the external auditors fees Muntwyler has joined the Committee bringing it back to full strength and keeping it in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
review of financial accounts and accounting policies Tim Score Audit Committee Chairman 29 February 2012 Governance Committee Reports 55 The Committees agenda reflects the The services that have general preAudit Committee duties delegated to it by its terms of approval are tax, transaction investigation Name of Director Position reference.
There are a number of standing and advisory and corporate finance Tim Score Chairman, Senior items considered during the year such as services.
The fees for these services are Independent Director consideration of the internal and external pre-approved up to 50,000 for each nonRoger Devlin Non-Executive audit reports, review of the Annual Report audit assignment undertaken and subject Director resigned and Accounts, review of the preliminary to an overall limit of 75% of the total fees 28June 2011 and half-year announcements, and review paid to the external auditor.
For services Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive of the Corporate Governance Report.
exceeding this limit specific pre-approval Director is required.
At the invitation of the Committee, and Chris Muntwyler Non-Executive In deciding whether or not to grant Director appointed as appropriate to the matters under 21November 2011 approval for the provision of specific discussion, meetings may be attended by services by the external auditor, the Audit the Executive Directors and internal and Committee includes in its consideration the external auditors.
Full minutes are kept by following factors: the Secretary of the matters considered and decisions taken by the Committee.
i whether the external auditing firm is Outside of the meeting process the best placed to provide an effective and Committee Chairman has regular contact efficient service, given its familiarity with with the Executive Directors, other the Companys processes, systems Committee members and the auditors and people: and The Role of the Audit Committee onavariety of topics.
The duties of the Committee are those ii the level of non-audit fees paid to Review of independence delegated to it by its terms of reference, the external auditor in the year as of external auditor details of which are summarised below: a proportion of the annual external The Audit Committee assesses audit fee.
oversees the process for selecting and reviews on a regular basis the the external auditor, assesses the independence of the external auditor.
The majority of non-audit work undertaken continuing independence of the external As part of their determination the by the external auditor during the year auditor and recommends approval of Audit Committee considers a report relates to advice in respect of tax advisory the audit fee to the Board: by the external auditor on the firms and other regulatory services.
These independence which is required in order items the Committee believes would be responsible for ensuring that provision to carry out their professional duties and impractical and costly to provide through of non-audit services does not impair responsibilities as auditor.
the external auditors independence or objectivity: Policy on auditor providing non-audit work discusses with the external auditor the The Committee has an approved policy nature and scope of the audit and any on the provision of non-audit services by issues or concerns arising from the its auditor for the following types of service: audit process: reviews effectiveness of the services that are considered to have Companys internal control and risk general pre-approval by the Audit management systems, including the Committee, by virtue of the approval internal audit programme and major of the policy: findings identified from internal audit services that require specific preinvestigations and reviews: and approval, on a case-by-case basis, reviews the half-year and annual before any work can commence: and financial statements including services that cannot be supplied by the accounting judgements and policies.
The Committee met four times in 2011.
Governance 56 Nomination Committee overview John Devaney Dear shareholder 2011 has been a busy year for the Nomination Committee.
In the early part of the year, as indicated in my letter to you last year, the Committee reviewed All candidates for Board positions the existing balance of skills and experience on the Board and concluded participate in a proper evaluation that additional expertise of Continental European and North American process managed by the Nomination markets would further strengthen the Board going forward.
Committee to ensure that the best candidates are appointed.
The Committee then undertook an externally facilitated search process to identify suitable candidates.
I am pleased to report to you that the search was successful in identifying three exceptional candidates in Joaqun Ayuso, Chris Muntwyler and Lee Sander, all of whom we have now appointed as independent NonExecutive Directors of your Company.
The Committee has also undertaken further work on reviewing the succession Main activities during the year plans for the senior executive roles within the Companys management together During the year the Committee: with the development plans in place for such executives to seek to ensure that, when the need arises, good internal candidates are available to compete for Board evaluated the balance of skills, and senior management positions.
experience, independence, diversity and knowledge on the Board and We have also considered the issue of diversity this year.
The Committee has then prepared a description of the recommended to the Board that it should retain its existing policy of seeking to find role and capabilities required for the very best candidate for any Board level position, irrespective of the gender of the role of NonExecutive Director that candidate.
However, the Committee recognises that diversity at Board level is a positive thing and so the Board has set an aspirational target that by 2015, 30% appointed search consultants to of its members will be women, in line with the recommendations of the Davies identify a shortlist of candidates Report published in early 2011. for the role of NonExecutive Director and interviewed In 2012 the Committee will continue to assess the balance of skills, experience, candidates, following which three knowledge and expertise of the Board to ensure it continues to meet the needs candidates were recommended of the Company going forward.
for appointment: Joaqun Ayuso, ChrisMuntwyler and Lee Sander considered Lord Davies report on Diversity, published in February 2011 and recommended the Board adopt the aspirational target that by 2015 John Devaney 30% of the Board should be women Nomination Committee Chairman 29 February 2012 the Chairman, as Chairman of the Nomination Committee appointed search consultants to draw up a The Role of the Nomination Committee shortlist of candidates for the role The key responsibilities of the Nomination prepares a description of the role of Group Company Secretary and Committee are summarised below: and requirements for any particular interviewed candidates, following appointment based on its evaluation responsible for identifying and which Michael Hampson was of the Board as a whole.
nominating, for the approval of appointed on 30 January 2012 The terms and conditions of appointment the Board, candidates to fill Board reviewed succession planning of the Non-Executive Directors are available vacancies as and when they arise: across the Group for inspection at the Companys registered gives full consideration to succession office during normal business hours and at planning, and keeps under review the the AGM of the Company and are available Nomination Committee leadership needs of the organisation, on the Companys website.
The Nonboth Executive and Non-Executive: Name of Director Position Executive Directors disclose to the Board reviews the time required from a John Devaney Chairman their other significant commitments.
The Non-Executive Director and uses procedures adopted by the Company in Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director performance evaluation to assess relation to Directors conflicts of interest Jorge Cosmen Non-Executive Director whether the Non-Executive Director are detailed on page 72. is spending enough time on fulfilling External advisors are appointed when their duties: recruiting Board members: they use as leads the process for Board a basis for their search a description of appointments and makes the role and capabilities required for a recommendations to the Board: and particular appointment proposed by the Nomination Committee.
Governance Committee Reports Governance Safety & Environment Committee overview 57 Chris Muntwyler Dear shareholder I have recently taken over the chair of the Safety & Environment Committee and would like to thank Miranda Curtis for overseeing the many initiatives Safety is important in any business that were commenced during her time as Chair of this Committee.
but it is particularly so in this Company.
Seeking to ensure the Safety is important in any business but it is particularly so in this Company.
safety of our employees and Seeking to ensure the safety of our employees and customers is both morally customers is both morally and and financially correct.
It is for this reason that the Board has a special committee financially correct.
In my view it is imperative that leadership from the top is shown in this area if a concern for safety is to be taken seriously within a business, and I would like to commend Dean Finch for the leadership he and his executive team have shown in keeping this issue at the very top of the Companys agenda.
During 2011 the Committee has been monitoring the progress of the Driving Out Main activities during the year Harm programme referred to by Miranda in her letter to you last year.
Excellent During the year the Committee: progress has been made in many areas and the Committee is committed to ensuring that this progress is consolidated and built upon.
approved the launch of the Groups Global Safety Standards The Committee has once again this year been paying particular attention to the Companys operations in Morocco which, in some regards, present the reviewed progress on most challenges from a safety perspective.
I am pleased to report that the implementation of the Groups recommendations of the original Arthur D. Little ADL review referred to last year Driving out Harm Initiative have now been fully implemented and a further review and audit undertaken by commissioned an independent ADL, showed significant progress made by the management team in improving review of safety in Morocco and driver competence.
monitored its recommendations During the year the Committee also approved a new environmental policy for the visited Group locations to review Group and reviewed plans for a new corporate environmental framework.
safety practices and procedures reviewed the Groups Environment Strategy Plan Chris Muntwyler considered the Groups safety KPIs Safety & Environment Committee Chairman 29 February 2012 The Role of the Safety & Environment Committee Safety & Environment Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee reports periodically to the Board its Name of Director Position are summarised below: observations on the safety management Chris Muntwyler Chairman appointed arrangements in place and reviews and responsible for reviewing and 25 July 2011 makes recommendations to the Board challenging constructively the structure, Miranda Curtis Non-Executive on any specific safety management content and operation of the safety Director issues relating to the Group or any management arrangements put Jorge Cosmen Non-Executive subsidiary company: and in place by members of the Director reviews and monitors the Companys executive management of the Roger Devlin Non-Executive environmental performance and targets.
Groups operating companies: Director resigned 28June 2011 John Devaney Non-Executive Director Sir Andrew Foster Non-Executive Director Tim Score Senior Independent Director
