National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 27 Corporate governance statement The Company is required to include within its regulatory Board performance evaluation accounting statements a corporate governance statement The Board of the Company instigated a review of its which describes how the principles of good corporate performance over the year to 31 December 2010. governance have been applied and which has the same content The 2010 process, led by Mark Fairbairn was a formal and as the statement a quoted company is required to prepare.
rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board and the As a wholly owned subsidiary of National Grid plc, the company Directors.
is not subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, A positive set of results was recorded across the survey but operates within National Grids corporate governance indicating the Board is working effectively.
The following statement sets out how this governance framework has been applied to our regulatory DN The Directors agreed that Mark Fairbairn demonstrated effective leadership and performed his responsibilities well, that business.
the Board composition is appropriate and that the operation of National Grids corporate governance policies are described in the Board, in terms of length and frequency of board meetings its annual report and accounts.
Its Board considers that it and the information provided is appropriate.
complied in full with the Combined Code during 2010 11.
Committees Governance framework The Board has established a number of committees and subThe Board of the Company is responsible for its overall committees which assist it in its activities.
These include the management and governance, and for ensuring that it complies Distribution Executive Committee and the Finance Committee.
with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance with It does not have Nomination, Remuneration or Audit its Gas Transporter Licence.
The operational and financial Committees.
These functions are provided by National Grid and management of the Companys businesses is undertaken by their roles relevant to the Company are explained below.
See committees, in compliance with business separation the annual report and accounts of National Grid plc for further obligations.
The Board meets at least 6 times a year on a bi-monthly basis.
Board composition and continuity There are no non-executive or independent directors.
The The Board of the Company will make further appointments in Board does not have an independent Chairman and durng the consultation with its Shareholders as appropriate.
year meetings were normally chaired by Mark Fairbairn.
Board Remuneration Attendance The Directors of the Company are not separately remunerated Attendance at Board meetings during 2010 11, expressed as in that capacity.
The remuneration of any Director, who is also a number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend, is member of the Board of National Grid plc, is determined by the set out below.
Remuneration Committee of the Board of National Grid plc, as Attendance set out in its annual report and accounts.
The remuneration of other Directors is determined in accordance with National Grids Mark Fairbairn resigned March 2011 7 of 8 remuneration policies for employees.
Malcolm Cooper 6 of 8 Stuart Humphreys 7 of 8 Audit Committee of National Grid plc Paul Whittaker 6 of 8 The Audit Committee of the Board of National Grid plc is Adam Wiltshire 7 of 8 responsible for reviewing: the Companys financial reporting Nick Winser 5 of 8 and internal controls and their effectiveness: the procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks: the Board members are required to attend meetings regularly in appropriateness of auditors in carrying out certain non-audit order to ensure they are kept up to date with the business and work: and the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to auditors.
accordingly can contribute to meetings.
Directors are informed The Audit Committee is comprised of independent Nonof proposed meeting dates well in advance.
Directors are sent executive Directors of National Grid plc, meets at least 4 times papers for meetings of the Board and for those committees of annually and considers that both management of National Grid which they are a member.
Guidelines are in place concerning plc and external auditors should attend meetings where the content, timeliness and preferred presentation of papers to possible.
ensure Directors are briefed appropriately.
28 National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Distribution Executive Committee Risk management and internal control The Distribution Executive Committee acts within National The Board of National Grid plc takes overall responsibility for Grids overall corporate governance framework and delegated internal control throughout its group operations and in particular authorities and is responsible for the operational and financial in monitoring its effectiveness within its subsidiary companies.
management of the Distribution business.
Membership of this The system of internal control, and in particular our risk committee and attendance at meetings during 2010 11 is set management policies, has been designed to manage rather out below.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings than eliminate risks to the achievement of our strategic and attended out of number eligible to attend, and includes business objectives.
During the year, the Board of National Grid plc has undertaken Attendance a review of the internal control processes, including those of the Mark Fairbairn Executive Director of National 3 of 3 Company, and their effectiveness.
Chair - resigned Grid March 2011 Risk management John Pettigrew Chief Operating Officer, Gas 9 of 9 The Company has embedded risk management into its Chair Distribution business decision making process.
This risk management Adam Wiltshire Chief Finance Officer, Gas 10 of 12 process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down Distribution assessments of operational, including safety, financial and Jonathan Munsey Acting UK General Counsel & 12 of 12 Karen Clayton Company Secretary other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, business until August 2010 units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture their key Denise Wilson Director of Distribution Customer 5 of 7 risks and the actions being taken to manage them.
These risk Support registers are regularly reviewed and discussed by the executive Jeremy Bending Director, Network Strategy 11 of 12 committees for those business units.
Directors and other senior management are involved at critical stages in the review Jon Butterworth Director, Operations 9 of 12 process.
Their review and debate of the outputs of the bottomup assessment against their top-down views produce an overall Chris Bennett Commercial Manager 5 of 5 evaluation of the risks that are faced by the Company.
In David Salisbury Operate & Maintain Process 4 of 5 addition, the Executive, the Risk & Responsibility and the Audit Manager Committees of National Grid plc review National Grids overall Hilary Buxton Replace & Extend Process 5 of 5 risk profile and any changes.
The Audit Committee also reviews Manager the overall risk management process.
Daniel Davies Emergency Response & Repair 4 of 5 Manager Compliance management Johnny Johnston Customer Operations Manager 5 of 5 Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid wide basis.
This process provides assurance to Directors and Michael Dyke Director of UK Construction 4 of 6 senior management on the effectiveness of control frameworks Andrew McKelvey Head of Gas Distribution Alliances 5 of 6 to manage key internal and external obligations and also highlights instances of significant non-compliance with these Pete Massey Director of Transformation 8 of 12 obligations.
External obligations are driven primarily by key legal and regulatory requirements whereas internal obligations The Distribution Executive Committee has a number of subfocus more on compliance with National Grids own corporate committees dealing with matters such as investment policies and procedures, which included regulatory compliance governance and coordination of operations.
The compliance management process is consistent with and complimentary to the risk management process.
Finance committee The Finance Committee of the Board is responsible for setting Internal audit policy and grants authority for financing decisions, bank The Company does not have a separate internal audit function.
accounts, credit exposure, control mechanisms for hedging and This function is provided by National Grid's corporate audit foreign exchange transactions, guarantees and indemnities and function.
approves, or if appropriate, recommends to the Board other Business separation treasury, tax, pensions and insurance strategies.
Special Condition C20 of our NTS gas transporter licence Group holding company requires that the Company maintains managerial and During the year, two of the Directors, Nick Winser, and Mark operational systems such that: Fairbairn, until his resignation in March 2011, were also the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial Executive Directors of National Grid plc.
Through participation advantage by reason of the way the Company conducts its of these Directors at the Board of both companies, the Board of NTS business, as required by Standard Special Condition National Grid Gas is well placed to identify and facilitate A6: and understanding of the views of its shareholder.
National Grid Gas plc DN Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 29 cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN businesses is avoided, as required by Standard Special Condition A35.
Our policy on business separation is set out in the Companys Compliance Statement.
We have taken the following specific actions to comply with the requirements of Special Condition C20: established separate management for the gas transmission and gas distribution businesses, as described above: appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of the gas transmission business and the gas distribution business.
Each Compliance Committee reports directly to the Board of National Grid Gas and also to the Audit Committee of National Grid: and appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, who reports to the Compliance Committees and twice yearly to the Audit Committee of National Grid.
