National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 27 Corporate governance statement The Company is required to include within its regulatory Board performance evaluation accounting statements a corporate governance statement The Board of the Company instigated a review of its st which describes how the principles of good corporate performance over the year to 31 December 2010. governance have been applied and which has the same content The 2010 process, led by Mark Fairbairn was a formal and as the statement a quoted company is required to prepare.
rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board and the As a wholly owned subsidiary of National Grid plc, the company Directors.
is not subject to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, A positive set of results was recorded across the survey but operates within National Grids corporate governance indicating the Board is working effectively.
The following statement sets out how this governance framework has been applied to our regulatory NTS The Directors agreed that Mark Fairbairn demonstrated effective leadership and performed his responsibilities well, that business.
the Board composition is appropriate and that the operation of National Grids corporate governance policies are described in the Board, in terms of length and frequency of board meetings its annual report and accounts.
Its Board considers that it and the information provided is appropriate.
complied in full with the Combined Code during 2010 11.
Committees Governance framework The Board has established a number of committees and subThe Board of the Company is responsible for its overall committees which assist it in its activities.
These include the management and governance, and for ensuring that it complies Transmission Executive Committee and the Finance with all relevant laws and regulations, including compliance with Committee.
It does not have Nomination, Remuneration or its Gas Transporter Licence.
The operational and financial Audit Committees.
These functions are provided by National management of the Companys businesses is undertaken by Grid and their roles relevant to the Company are explained committees, in compliance with business separation below.
See the annual report and accounts of National Grid plc obligations.
for further information about these committees.
The Board meets at least 6 times a year on a bi-monthly basis.
Board composition and continuity There are no non-executive or independent directors.
The The Board of the Company will make further appointments in Board does not have an independent Chairman and during the consultation with its shareholder as appropriate.
year meetings were normally chaired by Mark Fairbairn.
Board Remuneration Attendance The Directors of the Company are not separately remunerated Attendance at Board meetings during 2010 11, expressed as in that capacity.
The remuneration of any Director, who is also a number of meetings attended out of number eligible to attend, is member of the Board of National Grid plc, is determined by the set out below.
Remuneration Committee of the Board of National Grid plc, as Attendance set out in its annual report and accounts.
The remuneration of other Directors is determined in accordance with National Grids Mark Fairbairn resigned March 2011 7 of 8 remuneration policies for employees.
Malcolm Cooper 6 of 8 Stuart Humphreys 7 of 8 Audit Committee of National Grid plc Paul Whittaker 6 of 8 The Audit Committee of the Board of National Grid plc is Adam Wiltshire 7 of 8 responsible for reviewing: the Companys financial reporting Nick Winser 5 of 8 and internal controls and their effectiveness: the procedures for the identification, assessment and reporting of risks: the Board members are required to attend meetings regularly in appropriateness of auditors in carrying out certain non-audit order to ensure they are kept up to date with the business and work: and the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to auditors.
accordingly can contribute to meetings.
Directors are informed The Audit Committee is comprised of independent Nonof proposed meeting dates well in advance.
Directors are sent executive Directors of National Grid plc, meets at least 4 times papers for meetings of the Board and for those committees of annually and considers that both management of National Grid which they are a member.
Guidelines are in place concerning plc and external auditors should attend meetings where the content, timeliness and preferred presentation of papers to possible.
ensure Directors are briefed appropriately.
28 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 Transmission Executive Committee The system of internal control, and in particular our risk The Transmission Executive Committee acts within National management policies, has been designed to manage rather Grids overall corporate governance framework and delegated than eliminate risks to the achievement of our strategic and authorities and is responsible for the operational and financial business objectives.
management of the Transmission business.
Membership of this During the year, the Board of National Grid plc has undertaken committee and attendance at meetings during 2010 11 is set a review of the internal control processes, including those of the out below.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings Company, and their effectiveness.
attended out of number eligible to attend, and includes attendance by a nominated deputy.
Risk management The Company has embedded risk management into its Attendance business decision making process.
This risk management Nick Winser Executive Director of National Grid 5 of 5 process continues to be based on both bottom-up and top-down Chair assessments of operational, including safety, financial and Jonathan Munsey Acting UK General Counsel & 4 of 4 other business or project risks.
From the bottom-up, business Company Secretary units prepare and maintain risk registers that capture their key Karen Clayton UK General Counsel & Company 1 of 1 risks and the actions being taken to manage them.
These risk Secretary registers are regularly reviewed and discussed by the executive Peter Boreham Director of UK LNG 5 of 5 committees for those business units.
Directors and other senior Bill Russell Director of Britned 5 of 5 management are involved at critical stages in the review Mike Calviou Director of Asset Management UK 4 of 5 process.
Their review and debate of the outputs of the bottomTransmission Stuart Humphreys Finance Director - Transmission 4 of 5 up assessment against their top-down views produce an overall evaluation of the risks that are faced by the Company.
In Alison Kay Commercial Director - Transmission 5 of 5 addition, the Executive, the Risk & Responsibility and the Audit Edward Syson Director of Safety, Health, Environment 5 of 5 and Security Committees of National Grid plc review National Grids overall Paul Renaud Manager of Transmission Asset 5 of 5 risk profile and any changes, the Audit Committee reviews the Strategy overall risk management process.
Michael Dyke Director of UK Construction 5 of 5 Compliance management Ellen Smith Director of US Transmission 4 of 5 Compliance management is undertaken on a National Grid Mary Ellen Vice President for US Transmission 3 of 5 wide basis.
This process provides assurance to Directors and Paravalos Regulation and Commerical senior management on the effectiveness of control frameworks Chris Train Director of Network Operations - UK 5 of 5 to manage key internal and external obligations and also Transmission highlights instances of significant non-compliance with these Paul Whittaker UK Director of Regulation 3 of 5 obligations.
External obligations are driven primarily by key legal and regulatory requirements whereas internal obligations The Transmission Executive Committee has a number of subfocus more on compliance with National Grids own corporate committees dealing with matters such as investment policies and procedures, which included regulatory compliances governance and coordination of operations.
The compliance management process is consistent Finance committee with and complimentary to the risk management process.
The Finance Committee of the Board is responsible for setting Internal audit policy and grants authority for financing decisions, bank The Company does not have a separate internal audit function.
accounts, credit exposure, control mechanisms for hedging and This function is provided by National Grid's corporate audit foreign exchange transactions, guarantees and indemnities and function.
approves, or if appropriate, recommends to the Board other treasury, tax, pensions and insurance strategies.
Business separation Special Condition C20 of our NTS gas transporter licence Group holding company requires that the Company maintains managerial and During the year, two of the Directors, Nick Winser, and Mark operational systems such that: Fairbairn, until his resignation in March 2011, were also Executive Directors of National Grid plc.
Through participation the DN businesses do not gain unfair commercial of these Directors at the Board of both companies, the Board of advantage by reason of the way the Company conducts its National Grid Gas is well placed to identify and facilitate NTS business, as required by Standard Special Condition understanding of the views of its shareholder.
A6: and cross-subsidy between the NTS business and the DN Risk management and internal control businesses is avoided, as required by Standard Special The Board of National Grid plc takes overall responsibility for Condition A35.
internal control throughout its group operations and in particular Our policy on business separation is set out in the Companys in monitoring its effectiveness within its subsidiary companies.
National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory accounting statements 2010 11 29 We have taken the following specific actions to comply with the requirements of Special Condition C20: established separate management for the gas transmission and gas distribution businesses, as described above: appointed separate Compliance Committees for each of the gas transmission business and the gas distribution business.
Each Compliance Committee reports directly to the Board of National Grid Gas and also to the Audit Committee of National Grid: and appointed a Business Separation Compliance Officer, who reports to the Compliance Committees and twice yearly to the Audit Committee of National Grid.
30 National Grid Gas plc NTS Regulatory Accounting Statements 2010 11 This page intentionally left blank.
