82 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information Corporate Governance Rule I.
A member of the supervisory relation to the issuing and buying back by not comply, NWR will explain the reasons board should have appropriate expertise and the Company of its shares, may be found for such non-compliance in the relevant experience and be able to devote the time in the Shareholder Information section on sections of this Annual Report.
Other necessary to perform his or her duties.
A member page 174. than discussed on pages 68, 71, 76, 94 of the supervisory board should take relevant action to ensure that the supervisory board and 98, the Company has complied with is informed about issues significant to the 100 per cent of NWRs B Shares are owned the principles and provisions of the UK Company.
by RPG Property B. V. which is an indirect Corporate Governance Code.
Each member of the supervisory board subsidiary of BXRG.
should act in the interests of the Company and Czech Corporate Governance Code form independent decisions and judgments, and The Board is satisfied that NWR is capable NWR is not obliged by the Czech National in particular: of carrying on its business independently Bank or the Prague Stock Exchange to refuse to accept unreasonable benefits, of BXRM and BXRG and that all comply with the Czech Code of Corporate which could have a negative impact on the transactions and relationships between Governance.
independence of his or her opinions and them are transparent and are carried judgments: and raise explicit objections and separate opinions out independently.
The Board makes its Although NWR does not apply the Czech in any case when he or she deems that the decisions in a manner consistent with Corporate Governance Code directly, the decision of the supervisory board is contrary to its duties to NWR and stakeholders of Code is broadly similar to the UK Corporate the interest of the Company.
NWR and gives equal consideration to Governance Code.
7 do not relate to the Company the potentially divergent interests of the since it has a single-tier Board structure.
holders of both classes of shares in NWR.
Polish Corporate Governance Code However, the requirements of these Rules are The Company observes the majority of substantially similar to those for Non-Executive Directors under the UK Corporate Governance To ensure that all transactions and the principles of corporate governance Code the UK Code which the Company relationships between the Company and contained in the Code of Best Practice for complies with.
BXRM and the wider BXRG group are Warsaw Stock Exchange Listed Companies 1 Rule II.
4 A member of the management board on arms length terms, the Company is the WSE Code.
Certain principles of should provide notification of any conflicts of party to a Relationship Agreement with the WSE Code may only be applied to interest which have arisen or may arise, to the BXRM.
If a conflict arises between BXRM the Company to the extent permitted by management board and should refrain from taking part in the discussion and from voting on and the Company, the Directors with and where compatible with its status the adoption of a resolution on the issue which a conflict of interest will take no part in as a public company, incorporated in gives rise to such a conflict of interest.
the Boards decisions on that matter.
For the United Kingdom, under the laws of further information see the Related Party England and Wales.
In particular, the WSE In order to avoid any conflicts of interest the Company has adopted a Corporate Governance Transactions section on page 84.
Code assumes that a company will have Policy the Policy, enabling the Board to separate supervisory and management perform both its management and supervisory Annual General Meeting of Shareholders boards whereas the Company has a single functions in an effective and transparent manner.
Under the Policy, Directors are required to The AGM provides an opportunity for board consisting of both Executive and report any potential conflict of interest to the shareholders to communicate with the Non-Executive Directors.
Therefore, the Senior Independent Director or to the Board as Board.
The Chairman aims to ensure that Company complies only partially with the case may be.
If there is a conflict between an Executive Director and the Company, the the respective chairmen of the Board Rules I.
19 of the WSE general meeting may appoint another person for committees are present at the AGM to Code concerning the supervisory board decisions relating to the transaction involving answer shareholders questions.
In cases where the the conflict.
Under English company law, the Board is also subject to the statutory directors AGM will be held on 26 April 2012.
Company is unable to comply with certain duties regime under the UK Companies Act principles directly, it endeavors to comply 2006: in particular Section 175 which imposes Compliance with corporate with the spirit of such principles.
a duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest and Section 177 requiring directors to declare governance standards an interest in a proposed transaction or UK Corporate Governance Code 1 The WSE Code requires companies listed on the arrangement.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Warsaw Stock Exchange to publish a detailed statement of any non-compliance or partial Governance Code and the Listing Rules of Rule II.
6 General meetings should be attended by compliance with the WSE Code.
The Company members of the management board who can answer the UK Listing Authority, NWR follows the is also required to indicate the ways in which questions submitted at the general meeting.
comply or explain approach and states it eliminates possible consequences of such non-compliance, or describe steps which the in its Annual Report whether it complied The Board places considerable importance on Company intends to take to mitigate the risk of effective communication with shareholders.
or will comply with the principles of good non-compliance.
During the year under review, However, the presence of Directors at meetings corporate governance set out in the UK the Company complied with the WSE Code is not mandatory under English law and while the Corporate Governance Code and, if it does except in respect of the following rules: Company aims to ensure that the Directors are 83 New World Resources Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business Review Corporate Governance Financials Additional Information present at general meetings of shareholders the independent from the Company and entities with Directors report general meeting, it cannot guarantee that all significant connections with the Company.
The The Directors report, which has been Directors will be present.
independence criteria should be applied under prepared in accordance with the Annex II to the Commission Recommendation of Rule III.
1 In addition to its responsibilities laid down 15 February 2005 the Recommendation on the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, in legal provisions, the supervisory board should: role of non-executive or supervisory directors of comprises the following sections: listed companies and on the committees of the once a year, prepare and present to the supervisory board.
Irrespective of the provisions Strategy annual general meeting of shareholders of point b of the said Annex, a person who is a brief assessment of the Companys standing an employee of the Company or an associated Business Review including an evaluation of the internal control company cannot be deemed to meet the Corporate Governance systems and the significant risk management independence criteria described in the Annex.
Shareholder information systems: In addition, a relationship with a shareholder once a year, prepare and present to the annual precluding the independence of a member of the Ancillary Shareholder Information general meeting of shareholders an evaluation supervisory board as understood in this rule is of its work: and an actual and significant relationship with any and has been signed on behalf of the Board.
review and present opinions on issues subject shareholder who has the right to exercise at least to resolutions of the general meeting.
5 per cent of all votes at the general meeting.
While the Company does not have a supervisory As at the date of this statement, five out of 10 Lucie Vvrov board, the above responsibilities are performed Non-Executive Directors meet the independence by the various committees established by the criteria.
Company Secretary Board, which are intended to assist with the 12 March 2012 performance of its duties regarding internal Rule III.
8 Annex I to the Recommendation on control and risk management mechanisms.
the role of non-executive or supervisory directors of listed companies and on the committees Rule III.
2 A member of the supervisory board of the supervisory board should apply to the should submit to the Companys management tasks and the operation of the committees of the board information on any relationship with supervisory board.
a shareholder who holds shares representing not less than five per cent of all votes at the general Each of the five independent Non-Executive meeting.
This obligation concerns financial, family, Directors of the Company must meet the and other relationships, which may affect the independence criteria contained in the Policy.
position of the member of the supervisory board The criteria are based on the best practice on matters decided by the supervisory board.
requirements contained in the UK Code and are typically more stringent than the requirements The one-tier Board structure means the Company of the Recommendation regarding the role of cannot directly observe Rule III.
3 General meetings should be attended by members of the supervisory board who can answer Rule III.
9 Execution by the Company of an questions submitted at the general meeting.
agreement transaction with a related entity, which meets the conditions of section II.
3 As with the requirement for the management requires the approval of the supervisory board.
board to attend, it is the intention of the Board that Directors attend the general meetings and Any transactions with related entities are answer questions.
monitored by the Audit and Risk Management Committee established by the Board which Rule III.
4 A member of the supervisory board receives reports from the external auditor.
The should notify the supervisory board of all Committee advises the Board and examines such conflicts of interest, which have arisen or may transactions to ensure they comply with the arise, and should refrain from taking part in the arms length requirements of Rule II.
3. discussion and from voting on the adoption of a resolution on the issue, which gives rise to such As required by Resolution No.
1013 2007 of the conflict of interest.
WSE dated 11 December 2007, a description of other relevant information may be found on the The non-compliance with Rule III.
4 is addressed by following pages of this Annual Report: the statement made above in relation to Rule II.
Operations and main powers of the general Rule III.
5 A member of the supervisory board meeting, shareholders rights and the exercise should not resign from this function if this action thereof are described in Shareholder could have a negative impact on the supervisory Information section on page 163. boards capacity to act, including adoption of resolutions by the supervisory board.
Composition and operations of the managing and supervising bodies of the Company and This rule is observed by all members of the their committees are described in the Corporate single-tier Board.
6 At least two members of the Detailed description of the Principal Risks and supervisory board should meet the criteria of being Uncertainties may be found on pages 2427.
