Corporate governance UK Listed Companies are required by the Financial The Companys Articles of Association provide that at each annual Services Authority the designated UK Listing general meeting of the Company all Directors who held office at Authority to include a statement in their annual the time of the two preceding annual general meetings and did accounts on compliance with the principles of not retire by rotation shall be subject to re-election.
In addition, any good corporate governance and code of best Director appointed by the Board during the year is obliged to seek practice set out in the UK Corporate Governance re-election at the next following annual general meeting.
as referred to in the Directors Report, the Board has decided on early adoption of the provision in the new UK Corporate Governance The provisions of the Code applicable to listed companies are Code 'the Code' which will require all Directors of FTSE 350 divided into four parts, as set out below: companies to be subject to annual election.
Accordingly, resolutions to re-appoint all Directors currently in office will be proposed at the 1 Directors Annual General Meeting.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board of Directors, Jan Astrand has now been in office for more than nine years, having currently comprising two executive and four non-executive first been appointed to the Board in February 2001.
In accordance Directors, details of whom are shown on pages 20 and 21.
1.1 of the Code, the Board has reviewed his non-executive Directors are considered to be independent both independence and is satisfied that there are no relationships in the sense outlined in the Code and in terms of the criteria laid or circumstances which are likely to affect his independence down by the National Association of Pension Funds for judging the of judgment.
The Board has established a Nominations Committee, which The offices of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate.
is chaired by Bob Mackenzie.
All the non-executive Directors The division of their responsibilities has been set out in writing, are members.
Its main function is to lead the process for Board approved by the Board and is available on the Companys website.
appointments by selecting and proposing to the Board suitable candidates of appropriate calibre.
The Committee would normally The Board meets regularly to review trading results and has expect to use the services of professional consultants to help in the responsibility for the major areas of Group strategy, the annual search for candidates.
Business Plan, financial reporting to and relationships with shareholders, dividend policy, internal financial and other The Committee has written terms of reference which are available controls, financing and treasury policy, insurance policy, major on the Companys website.
capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals, Board structure, The Committee met formally on one occasion during the year.
remuneration policy, corporate governance and compliance.
During the year, the Chairman led an evaluation process of the The Chairman ensures that all Directors are properly briefed performance of individual Directors, of the Board as a whole and to enable them to discharge their duties.
In particular, detailed of its committees.
The process consisted of a formal and detailed management accounts are prepared and copies sent to all Board questionnaire completed by each Director, one-to-one meetings members every month and, in advance of each Board meeting, with the Chairman and a Board discussion.
Having conducted appropriate documentation on all items to be discussed is circulated.
this evaluation, the Chairman remains of the view that each Directors attendance at Board and Committee meetings during the individual Directors performance continues to be effective and each year is detailed below.
demonstrates commitment to the role.
In addition the non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, have reviewed the Board Audit and risk Remuneration performance of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the No.
RD Mackenzie 10 9 Pursuant to those provisions of the Companies Act 2006 relating AJ Allner 10 4 9 to conflicts of interest and in accordance with the authority contained in the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has JG Astrand 10 4 9 put in place procedures to deal with the notification, authorisation, THP Brown 10 4 9 recording and monitoring of Directors conflicts of interest and these RL Contreras 10 procedures have operated effectively throughout the year and to the date of signing of this report and accounts.
All Directors in office at that time were present at the Annual 2 Directors remuneration General Meeting held in September 2010.
The Companys policy on remuneration and details of the The external auditor and the internal audit manager attended all remuneration of each Director are given in the Remuneration Report Audit and Risk Committee meetings.
Before appointment, non-executive Directors are required to assure the Board that they can give the time commitment necessary to 3 Accountability and audit properly fulfill their duties, both in terms of availability to attend An assessment of the Companys position and prospects is included meetings and discuss matters on the telephone and meeting in the Chairmans Statement and in the Operational Review and preparation time.
Financial Review on pages 2 to 19.
32 Corporate governance Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 Internal control Control procedures Provision C. 2.1 of the Code requires the Directors to conduct an The Board and the Groups management have adopted a schedule annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus controls.
The Turnbull guidance provides relevant guidance for ensuring that it maintains full and effective control over appropriate directors on compliance with the internal control provisions of strategic, financial, organisational and compliance issues.
taken include clearly defined procedures for capital expenditure appraisal and authorisation, physical controls, segregation of duties Corporate governance and routine and ad hoc checks.
The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal Monitoring controls which aims to safeguard Group assets, ensure proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial information The Board has delegated to executive management implementation used within the business and for publication is reliable.
Although no of the system of internal control.
The Board, including the Audit and system of internal controls can provide absolute assurance against Risk Committee, receives reports on the system of control from the material misstatement or loss, the Groups system is designed to external auditor and from management.
An independent internal provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that, should any audit function reports bi-annually to the Audit and Risk Committee problems occur, these are identified on a timely basis and dealt with primarily on the key areas of risk within the business.
The key features of the Groups system of internal confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system controls, which was in place throughout the period covered by the of internal controls covering financial, operational and compliance accounts, are described below: matters and risk management, for the period covered by these accounts in accordance with the Turnbull guidance.
Control environment Audit The Group has a clearly defined organisational structure within which individual responsibilities of line and financial management for An account of the work of the Audit and Risk Committee is given in the maintenance of strong internal controls and the production of the Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 30 to 31. accurate and timely financial management information are identified 4 Relations with shareholders and can be monitored.
Where appropriate, the business is required to comply with the procedures set out in written manuals.
Throughout the year the Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors and brokers analysts, providing them with To demonstrate the Boards commitment to maintaining the such information on the Companys progress and future plans as highest business and ethical standards and to promote a culture of is permitted within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, honesty and integrity amongst all staff, the Board has established a twice a year, at the time of announcing the Companys half and full confidential telephone service, operated by an independent external year results, they are invited to briefings given by the Chief Executive organisation, which may be used by all staff to report any issues of and Group Finance Director.
concern relating to dishonesty or malpractice within the Group.
All issues reported are investigated by senior management.
The Companys major institutional shareholders have been advised by the Chief Executive that, in line with the provisions of the Code, Identification of risks the Senior Independent Director and other non-executives may The Board and the Groups management have a clearly defined attend these briefings and, in any event, would attend if requested responsibility for identifying the major business risks facing the to do so.
Group and for developing systems to mitigate and manage those All shareholders are given the opportunity to raise matters for risks.
The control of key risk is reviewed by the Board and the discussion at the Annual General Meeting, of which more than Groups management at their monthly meetings.
The Board is the recommended minimum 20 working days notice is given.
In therefore able to confirm that there is an ongoing process for compliance with the Transparency Rules, the Company publishes identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Interim Management Statements in March and September the Group, that it has been in place for the year under review and each year.
up to the date of approval of these accounts and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
Details of proxies lodged in respect of the Annual General Meeting Information and communication will be published on the Companys website immediately following the meeting.
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial Compliance with the Code results to the Board.
Each operating unit prepares monthly accounts with a comparison against their business plan and against the The Board considers that the Company complied with the provisions previous year, with regular review by management of variances of the Code throughout the year.
A business plan is prepared by By order of the Board management and approved by the Board annually.
Each operating unit prepares a two year business plan with performance reported D Henderson against key performance indicators on a monthly basis together with Secretary comparisons to plan and prior year.
These are reviewed regularly by 29 June 2011 management.
Forecasts are updated regularly throughout the year.
33 Corporate governance Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
