Report of the audit and risk committee Role Activity The Audit and Risk Committee is appointed by, and reports to, Since May 2010, the Committee has: the Board.
U reviewed the financial statements for the years ended 30 April The Committees terms of reference, which include all matters 2010 and 2011, the half yearly report issued in December 2010 referred to in the UK Corporate Governance Code, are reviewed and Interim Management Statements issued in September annually by the Committee and are available on the Companys 2010 and March 2011.
As part of this review process, the website.
In summary these include: Committee received reports from Deloitte LLP on the full and half year results: U monitoring the integrity of financial reporting: reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management systems: U reviewed and agreed the scope of the audit work to be monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit undertaken by Deloitte LLP and agreed their fees: function: U monitored the Groups risk management process and business U making recommendations to the Board regarding the continuity procedures: appointment of the external auditor and approving its U reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of remuneration and terms of engagement: internal controls: U monitoring the independence and objectivity of the external U reviewed the Groups whistle blowing procedures: auditor and developing a policy for the provision of non-audit U reviewed a report on credit control in Spain: services by the external auditor: and U reviewed the Groups depreciation policy: U monitoring the audit process and any issues arising therefrom.
U reviewed the Groups corporate taxation arrangements: During the year, following a review of the Groups risk management framework, the Board extended the Committees U monitored the progress of a major IT project in the UK: function to specifically include all aspects of Group risk and at U reviewed a report on impairment: the same time changed the Committees title to Audit and Risk Committee.
U monitored the Groups going concern status: and U reviewed its own effectiveness and terms of reference.
Membership As part of the Group's risk management programme, and in The members of the Committee, who are all independent nonanticipation of the Bribery Act 2010 coming into force on 1 executive Directors of the Company, are: July 2011, a training programme for relevant employees was Date of implemented to promote awareness of, and compliance with, the appointment Qualification new legislation, including putting in place a policy on receiving AJ Allner Chairman 26 September 2007 FCA hospitality and a reporting procedure.
JG Astrand 6 June 2001 MBA External auditor THP Brown 8 June 2005 MBA The Boards policy on non-audit services provided by the external auditor, developed and recommended by the Committee, is:- The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that at least one member of the Committee should have recent and relevant financial U Tax compliance and other audit-related work including in experience: currently, the Chairman of the Committee fulfils this particular Corporation Tax : this is work that, in its capacity as requirement.
All members of the Committee are expected to be auditor, it is best placed to carry out and will generally be asked financially literate.
Nevertheless, where appropriate, it will be asked for a fee quote: Meetings U Tax advisory and other non-audit related and general The Committee is required to meet at least three times a year.
consultancy work: this type of work will either be placed on the Details of attendance at meetings held in the year ended 30 April basis of the lowest fee quote or to consultants who are felt to 2011 are given on page 32. be best able to provide the expertise and working relationship required.
In certain instances, such as the appointment of Due to the cyclical nature of its agenda, which is linked to events in consultants to provide external advice and support to the the Groups financial calendar, the Committee will generally meet internal audit department, the auditor will not be invited to four times a year.
The other Directors, together with the head of compete for the work.
internal audit and the external auditor, are normally invited to attend all meetings.
During the year, the Committee reviewed and was satisfied as to the effectiveness and independence of the external auditor, including conducting one-to-one meetings with the audit partner.
Consequently, the Committee has recommended to the Board the reappointment of Deloitte LLP at the Annual General Meeting.
Fees paid and payable to Deloitte LLP in respect of the year under review are as shown in Note 6 on page 51.
30 Report of the audit and risk committee Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011 Internal audit In fulfilling its duty to monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function, the Committee has: U reviewed the adequacy of the resources of the internal audit department for both the UK and Spain: U ensured that the head of internal audit has direct access to the Chairman of the Board and to all members of the Committee: U conducted a one-to-one meeting with the head of internal audit: approved the internal audit programme: and reviewed half-yearly reports by the head of internal audit.
The Chairman of the Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
Andrew Allner Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee 29 June 2011 31 Report of the audit and risk committee Northgate plc annual report and accounts 2011
