58 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Corporate governance statement The Board believes best practice in corporate governance is an important tool in helping it meet its responsibilities.
The Board considers that, during the year and up to the date of this report, it has complied with the main principles and provisions of the Combined Code 2008 the Code.
The Code is available to download from the Financial Reporting Councils FRC website at www.
cfm or, alternatively, printed copies can be obtained free of charge from FRC publications, tel: 020 8247 1264, email: customer.
This statement, together with the directors remuneration report, describes how the Company has applied the principles of the Code during the year.
The board of NWL also maintains high standards of corporate governance and endeavours to comply with the Code, wherever practicable.
In June 2010, the FRC introduced a new UK Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to the Companys financial year ending 31 March 2012.
The Board has considered the requirements of the new code and believes that the Company is well positioned to achieve compliance.
Some of the main principles, such as the annual re-election of all directors, have already been implemented.
The Board has a code of ethics, Our Code of Conduct which is available on the Companys website, covering its relationships with customers, employees, suppliers, local communities, shareholders, other investors and regulators.
Board composition As at 31 March 2011, the directors of the Company were Sir Derek Wanless, Sir Patrick Brown, Heidi Mottram, Chris Green, Claude Lamoureux, Martin Ngre, Alex Scott-Barrett, Margaret Fay and Paul Rew, who all served throughout the year, except for Margaret Fay and Paul Rew who were appointed on 1 June and 1 October 2010, respectively.
Simon Lyster, who has been a Non-executive Director of NWL since 26 September 2006, was appointed as a Non-executive Director of NWG on 1 April 2011.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Articles, Paul Rew and Simon Lyster, having been appointed as directors by the Board since the last AGM, will be eligible for election at this years AGM.
All other directors holding office on the day of the notice convening the AGM will retire from office and offer themselves for re-election, with the exception of Claude Lamoureux who will retire from office at the end of this years AGM.
NWLs Instrument of Appointment usually called its Licence requires NWL to have at least three independent directors with an understanding of the interests of customers and a connection with the areas in which the company operates.
Until 31 March 2011, these roles were held by Anita Frew, Alastair Balls and Simon Lyster, none of whom were directors of NWG.
Prior to the retirement of Anita Frew and Alastair Balls from the NWL board on 31 March 2011, NWL and Ofwat agreed that the independent directors of NWL, for the purposes of the Licence, may also be non-executive directors of NWG.
Ofwat considered that, given NWGs focus on the core business, such crossdirectorships would not create a conflict of interest.
Ofwat will review its position on this if the nature of NWGs business changes significantly.
The directors in question must still, of course, demonstrate the necessary experience and understanding.
Ofwat agreed that Margaret Fay and Alex Scott-Barrett would be suitable for these roles, in addition to Simon Lyster.
Anita Frew and Alastair Balls have, therefore, not been replaced on the NWL board.
Apart from streamlining the work of the two main boards, which now have common non-executive membership, this reduction in the number of non-executive directors brings a significant saving in fees and expenses.
59 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Board responsibilities and processes The Board sets and implements the Companys strategy and ensures compliance with Group policies and legal and regulatory obligations.
The Groups vision, values and strategy are set out in the Chief Executive Officers review.
Board agendas are proposed by the CEO and Company Secretary, with input from NWLs management team, for approval by the Chairman.
The Company has adopted terms of reference which set out the matters reserved to the Board for approval and matters which are, or can be, delegated to the committees and management.
The Company has also adopted financial approval rules which set out the authorisation processes and financial limits to be applied to financial transactions within the Company.
NWL has adopted its own version of these guidelines.
Standing or Executive Committees can take decisions not delegated to specific committees between Board meetings.
All directors receive notice of Standing Committee meetings and may participate if they wish.
Decisions taken by the Standing or Executive Committees are reported at the next Board meeting.
The following table sets out the attendance of directors at Board and committee meetings during 2010 11: Board Nomination Remuneration Audit Number of meetings 6 4 3 3 1 Sir Derek Wanless 6 4 3 3 Sir Patrick Brown 5 4 2 3 2 Margaret Fay 5 3 2 1 Chris Green 6 3 1 Claude Lamoureux 4 1 1 1 Heidi Mottram 6 4 3 3 Martin Ngre 6 4 3 1 3 Paul Rew 4 2 2 Alex Scott-Barrett 6 4 3 3 4 Jenny Williams 1 1 1 Notes: 1.
Not a member, but attended at the invitation of the Committee chairman.
Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010.
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2010.
Retired from the Board on 29 July 2010.
The NWG Board meets at least every two months, usually immediately following meetings of the NWL board.
As NWL is so significant within the Group, it may be helpful to provide an insight as to how the NWL board works.
Typically, the CEO provides an overview of performance since her last report, highlighting issues to which the board needs to pay particular attention.
She also reports on regulatory and other developments affecting the sector.
NWLs performance is captured by means of a balanced scorecard which shows performance against a series of KPIs.
Achievement against this scorecard will also be a key element of NWG and NWL directors bonuses in 2011 12 and future years.
The CEOs overview also contains detailed reports on finance, regulation, operations and human resources.
Reports are provided from chairmen of committees which have met since the last board meeting.
Health and safety performance is addressed at each meeting.
The NWL board considers papers seeking approval of contracts worth over 2.0 million and capital projects which may in time require a series of contracts over 5.0 million.
Papers seeking investment approval are required to contain sections on sustainability and risk.
For example, a paper seeking investment approval for a scheme to alleviate sewer flooding would need to demonstrate that the solution proposed is sustainable.
60 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Corporate governance statement continued As well as the reports described above, the NWL board receives risk reports and approves budgets, financial plans, reports to Ofwat, accounts, dividends payable and a range of other matters.
The NWL board also sets time aside during its meetings to consider forward-looking strategy, and meets on separate strategy days to develop that work.
The papers submitted to the board are used as the basis for discussion, rather than as an end in themselves.
The Chairman ensures that, wherever possible, the board avoids becoming too immersed in detail and that the meetings are used to generate ideas and to constructively challenge the management.
Non-executive directors readily question the assumptions of the management team and bring new perspectives from their experience elsewhere.
Non-executive directors are encouraged to meet employees in order to gain a closer understanding of the issues they face.
On 30 March 2011, six of NWGs non-executive directors and the CEO held an open forum with employees at NWLs offices at Hanningfield, in Essex.
This event was successful and will be repeated at other venues.
The NWG Board works in a very similar way.
The members of the NWG Board all sit on the NWL board, and therefore the NWG Board does not need to become too involved in NWLs operational issues.
The NWG Boards focus is strategic.
It sets the future direction of all Group companies, with a particular emphasis on the medium and long term, including funding.
The NWG Board also oversees the non-NWL businesses, and particularly the PFI contracts in Scotland, the operating contracts in Ireland, AquaGib and Agrer.
During the year, the non-executive directors met formally once without the executive directors and are in regular contact with each other throughout the year.
The non-executive directors also met once without the Chairman but did not consider additional formal meetings to be necessary.
Authorisation of directors conflicts of interest Directors have a statutory duty, under s175 of the Companies Act 2006, to avoid a situation in which they have, or could have, a conflict of interest with the Companys interests.
However, there is no breach of this duty if the Board has authorised the matter in question.
The Articles permit directors other than the director having the interest in question to authorise any situation giving rise to a known or potential conflict.
A register of the interests which have been authorised is maintained by the Company Secretary and is available at every Board meeting.
The Company will follow emerging best practice in line with the General Counsel 100s guidance paper.
Board balance and independence Ten directors served during the year the Chairman, two executive directors, the Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director and six other non-executive directors.
Sir Derek Wanless is the non-executive Chairman.
The executive directors are Heidi Mottram CEO and Chris Green Finance Director.
Sir Patrick Brown is the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other independent non-executive directors who served during the year were Margaret Fay, Martin Ngre, Paul Rew, Alex Scott-Barrett and Jenny Williams.
Claude Lamoureux is also a Non-executive Director but is not independent as he was, until 1 December 2007, President and CEO of OTPP, which holds 27% of the issued share capital of the Company.
Jenny Williams retired from the boards of NWG and NWL on 29 July 2010.
The Company complies with the Codes requirement that half of the directors, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
Biographical details of the directors appear on pages 54 and 55 and details of their service contracts are in the directors remuneration report.
The Chairman and CEO have clearly defined written responsibilities which have been agreed by the Board.
The Chairman leads the Board and creates the conditions for overall Board and individual director effectiveness, both inside and outside the boardroom.
The CEO is responsible for running the Companys business on a day to day basis.
61 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Sir Patrick Brown, as Senior Independent Non-executive Director, is available to shareholders who wish to raise any concerns and leads the non-executive directors in their evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
The non-executive directors bring to the Board many years of business experience as well as financial expertise and the ability and willingness to challenge and support the executive directors.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary, Martin Parker, assists the Board to ensure that good corporate governance compliance is achieved.
He is also Company Secretary of NWL and is secretary to all Board committees.
The NWG Board supports the findings of Lord Davies recent review, Women on Boards.
Over the coming months the Board will review its procedure for the appointment of directors including the impact of the approach taken to management development at a less senior level and consider which of the Davies recommendations should be adopted, whether or not they become formally binding on companies.
Following this years AGM, if Heidi Mottram and Margaret Fay are re-elected, two 22% of the nine directors will be female.
Information and professional development All directors have access to independent professional advice to assist them in the performance of their duties, at the Companys expense, and to the Company Secretary for advice and assistance.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, monitors the induction and training requirements of directors.
All new directors receive an induction information pack and are encouraged to make site visits and to arrange meetings with managers.
Since joining the Company in June 2010, Margaret Fay has visited Birtley sewage treatment works STW, Lumley water treatment works WTW and Bran Sands STW.
Since joining in October 2010, Paul Rew has visited Bran Sands STW, Lumley WTW, Kielder, Hanningfield and Abberton reservoirs and the Pity Me customer contact centre.
Managers from within the Group submit papers or give presentations at Board meetings.
Water industry representatives meet the NWL board to discuss current issues.
The Company Secretary ensures that directors are kept informed and that information flows effectively within the Group by: keeping in regular contact with directors: sending Board papers to directors before each Board meeting: sending briefing packs to directors in the months when Board meetings are not held: and providing a directors team room intranet site containing Board and committee papers, minutes, analysts reports and reference and regulatory documents, to which all directors have access.
Directors attend conferences and seminars where this will help them in the performance of their duties.
Performance evaluation A full evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees was conducted during the year by an external consultant, who observed board meetings of NWG and NWL, and a meeting of the Audit Committee.
Each director completed a detailed questionnaire prior to a one-to-one meeting with the consultant.
The questionnaire was designed to address strategic issues and succession planning, as well as the approach of the Board to operational and financial matters, the role of the non-executive directors and the quality of information received by the Board.
The performance of NWLs board and its committees was evaluated at the same time.
The Chairman used the evaluation to assist with his evaluation of each director.
The results of the external evaluation were generally very positive and a number of actions were agreed, with a view to further improving the performance of the boards.
Although the Board discussions are already lively and vigorous, the consultant encouraged directors to be even more challenging in their approach.
62 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Corporate governance statement continued In relation to Board papers, it was agreed that some could be a little more incisive and state their main points more clearly.
As well as commenting on the contributions from the directors and the processes adopted at Board and committee meetings, the consultant made certain practical observations.
The consultant felt, for example, that a meeting of the Audit Committee was hampered by the fact that some people who were not members of the Committee participated by video conference.
It was agreed that this was not helpful and the schedule of meetings was immediately adjusted to avoid the need for this in future.
It was agreed that the Boards time would be more tightly focused on strategic issues, so that maximum value is added.
The Board has also considered the FRCs Guidance on Board Effectiveness, published in March 2011.
The directors consider that the work of both the NWG and NWL boards and the roles played by the Chairman, the Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other directors are consistent with both the practical content and underlying philosophy of the Guidance.
The Chairmans comments on the evaluation of the directors seeking election and annual re-election at the AGM are provided in the Notice of Meeting.
The comments of the Senior Independent Non-executive Director on the evaluation of the Chairman are also provided in the Notice.
External appointments Executive directors have generally only accepted non-executive positions outside the Group where this would benefit either the Group or the local community.
These positions have tended to be with educational institutions, economic regeneration groups or similar bodies.
The Board has agreed that executive directors of the Company who are appointed to non-executive directorships of a more commercial nature may retain the fees, subject to obtaining the Chairmans consent before an appointment is accepted.
Only one such external appointment per director will generally be permitted.
Board committees The Board has Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees to assist it in the performance of its duties.
The Board sets the terms of reference of the committees and receives regular reports from their chairmen at Board meetings.
The terms of reference of committees are available on the Companys website or from the Company Secretary.
Remuneration Committee The work of the Remuneration Committee, and details of the directors remuneration, are set out in the directors remuneration report.
Nomination Committee The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for approval by the Board.
The Committee also reviews succession planning for the Board, NWL board and senior appointments and will make recommendations to the Board when appropriate.
The Committees usual policy is to use external recruitment consultants or to advertise in order to identify suitable candidates.
63 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk During the year, the Committee recommended to the NWG and NWL boards the appointments of Margaret Fay and Paul Rew, as additional independent non-executive directors.
The Committee felt that an additional nonexecutive with strong business and political contacts, especially in the north east, would be a valuable addition to the boards.
Margaret Fay was regarded by the Committee as an ideal candidate for this role and she was, therefore, approached by the Company to discuss the opportunity.
Paul Rew was appointed for his first class finance skills and experience and particular expertise in sustainability.
The Committee considered that these attributes and Paul Rews all-round understanding of business made him an excellent addition to the two principal boards.
Leading executive search consultants assisted the Committee with Paul Rews appointment.
Simon Lyster, a Non-executive Director of NWL since 26 September 2006, was appointed to the NWG Board on 1 April 2011.
Simon Lyster brings very significant experience of sustainability issues, as well as excellent analytical skills and a first-hand understanding of NWLs Essex operating area.
The Committee also considered extensions to the appointments of non-executive directors on the NWG and NWL boards whose contracts for services expired during the year.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a term of one year and all directors are subject to annual re-election at the AGM.
The members of the Nomination Committee are now Sir Derek Wanless Chairman, Sir Patrick Brown, Margaret Fay, Heidi Mottram, Martin Ngre, Paul Rew, Alex Scott-Barrett and Simon Lyster, and the membership is compliant with the Code.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee members during the year were Sir Patrick Brown Chairman, Martin Ngre, Alex ScottBarrett, Paul Rew from 1 October 2010 and Jenny Williams until 29 July 2010.
Paul Rew and Alex Scott-Barrett are chartered accountants and the Board is satisfied that they both have recent and relevant financial experience.
It is proposed that Paul Rew will take over as Chairman of the Audit Committee on 28 July 2011, following the AGM.
Paul Rew was a senior partner with PwC until March 2010.
The Committees membership complies with the Code.
The Chairman and executive directors are invited to Audit Committee meetings, with the permission of its Chairman, but have no right of attendance.
Managers from within the Group are invited to Audit Committee meetings to discuss issues relating to their areas of the business.
During the year, the Committee met with both the external Audit Partner and Internal Audit Manager to discuss audit business, without the executive directors being present.
The Committee remains satisfied that the internal audit function is able to operate with independence and is not under any pressure from the executive management of the Company to produce particular results.
The Committee members receive regular briefings from the external auditors to enable them to keep up to date on financial reporting standards.
The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist both executive and non-executive directors of NWG to discharge their individual and collective responsibilities in relation to: ensuring the financial and accounting systems of NWG and its subsidiaries are providing accurate and up to date information on their current position: ensuring NWGs published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position: and assessing the scope and effectiveness of the Groups risk management systems and the integrity of its internal financial controls.
64 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Corporate governance statement continued During the year its work included: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company: reviewing the Companys internal controls both financial and information systems by considering reports of both the internal and external auditors, directing questions to management and reviewing the financial risks and controls information provided to them on an annual basis: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function by reviewing the scope of the annual audit plan, the results of those audits and monitoring the completion of actions identified during the audits: monitoring and reviewing the performance and effectiveness of the external auditors, in particular, by reviewing the scope and costs of the audit process: reviewing the external auditors independence by monitoring the extent of the provision of non-audit services and receiving reports from the external auditors: monitoring the potential impact and management of significant risks to the business using a risk methodology meeting the recommendations of the 2005 Turnbull Review Group guidance which sets out and rates all identified risks, including operational, external, financial, environmental, social and governance risks: reviewing the Committees terms of reference: reviewing the Groups financial approval rules: reviewing the Groups tax strategy: reviewing NWLs contract terms: reviewing the Groups accounting and treasury policies: and reviewing the Companys interim management statements, half-yearly and preliminary results announcements and final published annual report and financial statements.
The Committee has now assumed responsibility for the practical work being done to ensure that the Groups procedures designed to prevent bribery are adequate having regard to the provisions of the Bribery Act 2010 and the official guidance published in relation to that Act.
This builds on significant work done by the NWG Board, with advice from the Company Secretary and Internal Audit Manager, to assess the bribery risk faced by the Group, clarify policies and map the procedures to be put in place.
Given the importance of NWL to the Groups business, the Committee works closely with the Audit Committee of NWL.
In particular, both committees review significant regulatory reports for Ofwat and regularly review NWLs debt recovery strategy and performance.
In addition, meetings were held with the Ofwat Reporter during the year to discuss the June Return process.
The Audit Committee Chairman reports to the Board following each meeting of the Committee and Committee minutes are circulated to the Board.
External auditors Ernst & Young LLP have been the Groups auditors since 2003.
The audit engagement partner is subject to change every five years and was last changed in 2008.
Non-audit services The Committee has approved a procedure for the approval of non-audit services to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors, which complies with the requirements of the Auditing Practices Boards revised Ethical Standard No.
The external auditors are not permitted to provide bookkeeping, financial information systems design and implementation, or internal audit outsourcing services.
Permitted services require prior approval, either from the Audit Committee Chairman, if under 50,000, or from the Audit Committee, if over 50,000.
The Company requires the auditors to report annually details of all non-audit services provided.
A breakdown of the cost of audit and non-audit services provided by the auditors is set out in note 4 to the financial statements.
65 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk On 25 May 2011, Ernst & Young LLP confirmed to the Audit Committee, in accordance with ISA 260 Communication of audit matters to those charged with governance, that they have considered their relationship with the Company and that, in their professional judgement, the objectivity of the audit engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
Review of internal control The Board believes that, as explained below, there are effective systems in place to identify and manage significant risks and that it receives sufficient information to enable it to assess these risks.
The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the internal control system are carried out in accordance with the 2005 Turnbull Review Group guidance.
The actions necessary to address weaknesses and otherwise improve the system of internal control are communicated to management.
Internal audit monitors implementation of these actions and reports back to the Audit Committee.
This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the 2010 11 annual report and financial statements.
There are inherent limitations in any system of internal control and even the most effective system can only provide a reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
The use of our standard accounting manual by finance teams throughout the Group ensures that transactions and balances are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting pack by all entities in the Group ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, as follows, during the year.
The internal audit team manages a process whereby all of the financial controls within the Group are identified and certified by the relevant manager as having operated for the full year.
As part of a programme of work, which is agreed with the Audit Committee, these controls are tested throughout the year.
A report detailing any areas of concern is produced after each audit.
As part of the same process all of the key business risks are identified.
Each risk is assessed on an unmanaged basis, the controls in place to mitigate the risks are detailed and the risk is then re-assessed after these controls.
Internal audits findings and recommendations are presented to the Audit Committee along with agreed actions.
Internal audit updates progress against any agreed actions until the control weakness is resolved.
Organisational structure The trading subsidiaries have their own boards of directors the Subsidiary Boards which are responsible for the operational and financial control of their own businesses.
The Subsidiary Boards report to the executive directors and to the Companys Board on matters including major strategic, financial, organisational, compliance and regulatory issues.
The NWL management team manages the major business of the Group and consists of Heidi Mottram CEO, Chris Green Finance Director, Graham Neave Operations Director and on NWL board, Ceri Jones Regulation & Scientific Services Director and on NWL board, John Devall Water Director, Ian Donald Customer Services Director, Sarah Salter HR Director from 4 January 2011, Colin Price Technical Director and Henry Wilson Wastewater Director.
NWLs former HR Director, Diane Morton, resigned on 30 September 2010.
The NWL management team meets monthly to consider and discuss progress against annual and monthly financial and operational targets.
It prepares an annual budget and business plan for consideration and approval by the NWL board.
NWL operates a balanced scorecard which monitors progress against KPIs and which covers all areas of operation of the business.
66 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Corporate governance statement continued The Board is able to monitor the impact of environmental, social and governance matters on the Groups business, to assess the impact of significant risks on the business and to evaluate methods of managing these risks through reports it receives from the Subsidiary Boards and the Audit Committee.
The environmental risks considered to be significant by the Board are described on page 51, together with a summary of how NWL is managing these risks.
For a number of years, the Subsidiary Boards have performed a full annual business risk analysis to meet the recommendations of the 2005 Turnbull Review Group guidance.
This methodology is described above in relation to the work of the Audit Committee.
The results of the risk reviews are reported in detail to the Audit Committee and a summary is reported to the Companys directors.
Accompanying the risk model is a detailed review of each companys internal financial controls along with either confirmation that the controls have operated throughout the year or details of any exceptions.
Action points arising from these reviews are followed up as part of the internal audit process.
Some subsidiaries, such as NWL, consider risks more frequently.
The executive directors consider significant risks in a structured way on a monthly basis, assessing the likelihood and potential impact of the relevant risks both before and after risk management measures have been put in place.
Further details about how risks and uncertainties facing the Group are assessed and managed are included in the directors report business review on pages 50 and 51.
On a monthly basis, the executive directors compare the actual operational and financial performance of each business with its plan and budget.
Targets are set to measure performance and regular forecasts are made.
Information and reporting system Each Subsidiary Board holds a copy of the Companys financial approval rules and terms of reference, which contain full details of the procedures for distribution of information and financial reporting.
Each Subsidiary Board has developed financial control systems appropriate to its activities.
Budgets and business planning The Group prepares detailed medium term business plans and annual budgets which are reviewed by the executive directors and submitted to the Board for approval.
Business plans and budgets include an assessment of the key risks and success factors facing each business unit.
The approval of the Board is required for major investments, including those in new markets, and large capital expenditure programmes.
The treasury strategy, which is approved by the Board, requires that investments are limited to certain money market and treasury instruments, and that the Groups exposure to any single bank, building society or market is controlled, with maximum deposits allowed with any single counterparty.
The Groups investment strategy aims to fix interest rates for part of the Groups borrowings and investments for periods determined by the forecast cash flow of the individual businesses.
This manages the exposure to the risk of changes in short term interest rates.
Foreign currency exposure is also managed as part of the treasury strategy approved by the Board.
67 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Investor relations The Company welcomes constructive communication with all its shareholders.
Our main communication with shareholders is through the publication of the annual report and financial statements, half-yearly financial report, interim management statements and through information on the Companys website.
In addition, the executive directors have regular contact with the Companys large institutional investors, as well as giving presentations to analysts and stockbrokers.
During the year, the executive directors held 36 meetings with a range of institutional investors.
Investor feedback reports from investor meetings, prepared by the Companys advisers, are considered at Board meetings and analysts notes on the Company are made available to all directors on the Boards intranet team room.
The Board believes that these methods of investor feedback provide the Senior Independent Nonexecutive Director and the other non-executive directors with a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is available to shareholders who wish to raise any matters of concern and the Chairman welcomes contact with any shareholders who have matters they wish to discuss.
The Company has not received any requests from institutional shareholders to meet with non-executive directors.
All shareholders are encouraged to contact the Company with queries or suggestions.
A welcome letter is sent to all new non-corporate shareholders, which includes information on services available to shareholders.
AGM Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys AGM at which they can meet and question the directors.
The Company will make a presentation at the AGM to highlight the key business developments and events during the year.
The full Board is expected to be available at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
Voting at the AGM will be on a show of hands but the proxy votes cast on each resolution will be displayed after each resolution has been voted on.
If the voting on a show of hands produces a different result from that which would have been achieved on a poll, the Chairman will call a poll so that the result of the voting on that resolution reflects the wishes of the majority of shareholders.
The proxy votes cast at each AGM are disclosed on our website.
The notice convening the AGM, to be held on 28 July 2011, has been sent to shareholders together with an explanation of the business to be conducted at the meeting and a form of proxy.
Information pursuant to the Takeovers Directive Structure of the Companys share capital As at 31 March 2011, the Company had 518,623,845 ordinary 10 pence shares admitted to trading.
Rights and obligations attaching to the shares The rights attaching to the shares in the Company are set out in the Articles and may be changed with the approval of the shareholders.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, shares may be issued with or have attached thereto such preferred, deferred, qualified or other rights or such restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, voting, return of capital or otherwise, as the Company may by ordinary resolution determine or, if there has not been any such determination, as the Board may determine.
Shareholders are entitled to requisition a general meeting of the Company and to attend, vote and speak at general meetings, in accordance with the Companies Acts and the Articles.
Shareholders have the right to appoint proxies.
68 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Corporate governance statement continued Restrictions on the transfer of shares Any shareholder may transfer a certificated share, as defined in the Articles, by an instrument of transfer in the usual form or in such other form as the Board may approve.
However, the transfer of an uncertificated share, as defined in the Articles, need not be in writing and shall comply with any rules adopted by the Board under Article 13.7.
The Board may, however, in its absolute discretion and without assigning any reason, decline to register any transfer of any share that is not a fully paid up share or on which the Company has a lien, provided that such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The Board may also decline to register any transfer unless: in the case of a certificated share, the instrument of transfer, duly stamped, is lodged with the Company accompanied by the certificate for the shares to which it relates and such other evidence as the Board may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer: in the case of a certificated share, the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of share: and in the case of a transfer to joint holders of a certificated or uncertificated share, the number of joint holders to whom the share is to be transferred does not exceed four.
If the share to be transferred is an uncertificated share, the Board may refuse to register a transfer if the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001 allow it to do so.
Additionally, where a member or other person on whom a Disclosure Notice has been served pursuant to s793 of the Companies Act 2006 and has not, within the period specified, supplied to the Company the information required in respect of any shares, the Board may impose a sanction declining to register any transfer of shares, other than a sale to a bona fide unconnected third party.
Significant shareholdings Details of shareholders with significant holdings in the Companys issued share capital are set out below: Number of Number of shares at % share shares at % share 31.3.
2011 capital Ontario Teachers Pension Plan Board 138,776,864 26.76 138,776,864 26.76 Pictet Asset Management Ltd 38,770,495 7.48 40,787,412 7.86 Artemis Investment Management LLP Below 3% 15,654,522 3.02 Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. UK 16,319,467 3.15 15,573,103 3.00 The holdings include, where applicable, the aggregate of investment management clients interests within the respective asset management companies and may have since changed without triggering a further notification.
Restrictions on voting rights In accordance with the Articles, no member shall, unless the Board otherwise determines, be entitled to be present or to vote, either personally or by proxy, unless all calls or other sums presently payable by him in respect of shares in the Company have been paid.
Additionally, where a member or other person on whom a Disclosure Notice pursuant to s793 of the Companies Act 2006 has been served and has not, within the period specified, supplied to the Company the information required in respect of any shares, the Board may impose a sanction preventing the member from attending and voting at any general meeting.
69 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Shares required to fulfil vested awards made under the Northumbrian Water Group plc Employee Trust are acquired through Northumbrian Water Share Scheme Trustees Limited.
In line with Association of British Insurers ABI Guidelines, dividends and voting rights are waived on these shares.
At 31 March 2011, the Employee Trust held a total of 765,962 shares.
The deadline for delivering either written or electronic proxy voting forms is 48 hours before the appointed time of the meeting.
Appointment and replacement of directors The Company may, by ordinary resolution, appoint any person to be a director.
The Board may also appoint directors, either to fill casual vacancies or as an addition to the Board, but any director so appointed shall hold office only until the next AGM and shall then be eligible for election.
Paul Rew and Simon Lyster, who were appointed to the Board since the last AGM, will be eligible for election at this years AGM.
Additionally, the Articles provide for the annual re-election of all directors.
Details of all the directors seeking re-election at this years AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The main duty of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate candidates to fill Board vacancies for approval by the Board.
The work of the Nomination Committee is described above.
The Company may, by special resolution, or by ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Acts, remove any director before the expiration of his period of office and may, by ordinary resolution, appoint another person in his place.
Any person so appointed shall be subject to retirement at the same time as if he had become a director on the day on which the director in whose place he is appointed was last appointed a director.
Amendments to the Companys Articles The Company may amend its Articles by passing a special resolution of its members.
Powers of the Board The Articles provide that the business of the Company shall be managed by the Board, which may exercise all such powers of the Company as are not required by the Companies Acts or the Articles to be exercised by the Company in general meeting.
Subject to the Companies Acts, the Articles and any directions given by special resolution, the Board may, inter alia: establish local or divisional boards or agencies to manage any of the Companys affairs and appoint any persons to be members of such local or divisional boards, or agents, and fix their remuneration: appoint attorney s for such purposes and with such powers, authorities and discretions, and for such period and subject to such terms and conditions, as it may think fit: delegate its powers to any director: sign, draw, accept, endorse or otherwise execute all cheques, promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange and other instruments and all receipts for moneys paid to the Company in such manner as the Board shall from time to time determine: and exercise all of the powers of the Company to grant and pay pensions, annuities, gratuities, superannuation or other allowances and benefits in favour of any person.
Allotment of shares Subject to the provision of the Companies Acts, the Articles and any authorising resolutions passed in general meeting, the shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the Board, which may offer, allot, grant options over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times, for such consideration and upon such terms and conditions as the Board may determine.
The directors will again be seeking authority from shareholders at this years AGM for the directors to allot shares during the ensuing year although, at present, the Company has no intention of doing so.
70 Directors report governance Northumbrian Water Group plc Annual report and financial statements 2011 www.
co. uk Corporate governance statement continued Purchase of own shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts and the Articles and to any confirmation or consent required by law, the Company may from time to time purchase its own shares.
The Company will again be seeking authority from shareholders at this years AGM to purchase its own shares during the ensuing year although, at present, the Company has no intention of doing so.
Significant agreements As at 31 March 2011, NWL had 344.7 million of loans provided by the EIB and the applicable terms include change of control clauses.
If, after consultation with NWL, the EIB is of the opinion that a change of control has had, or is likely to have, a material adverse effect, then the EIB could give 30 days notice of requesting early repayment of the loans plus, in certain circumstances, a premium depending on prevailing market interest rates.
By order of the Board Martin Parker General Counsel and Company Secretary 31 May 2011 Northumbrian Water Group plc Registered office: Northumbria House, Abbey Road, Pity Me, Durham, DH1 5FJ Registered in England and Wales No.
