30 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Statement of corporate governance mark richardson was appointed to the board on Introduction 23 January 2012 to a newly created board role of Operations the following sections explain how the Company applies the director.
mark was previously Ocados head of technology.
main principles set out in the uK Corporate governance he is now responsible for the day-to-day running of the Code, June 2010 issued by the financial reporting Council Ocado operation, including Customer fulfilment Centres, the 2010 Code, as required by the listing rules of logistics developments, business planning, engineering and the financial services authority and meets the relevant it.
at this time, Jason gissing, one of the co-founders of the information provisions of the disclosure and transparency business and current executive director, and neill abrams, rules of the financial services authority.
this statement of current executive director and legal and business affairs corporate governance covers the following: director assumed changed executive responsibilities.
Jason assumed the new board position of Commercial director, z the role of the board: responsible for Ocados retail activities, including buying, z the boards effectiveness: supplier and customer relationships, marketing and brand z the boards committees: development.
neill assumed responsibility for hr, which was z the groups risk management and internal control previously part of Jasons former role.
framework: and z relations with the Companys shareholders and the agm.
the Company appointed three non-executive directors to the board.
douglas mcCallum joined the board on the Company has applied the principles and complied with 3 October 2011 as a non-executive director.
wendy becker the provisions of the 2010 Code during the period, save as was appointed to the board as a non-executive director, described below.
where the Company has not complied, such appointment to take effect on 30 march 2012.
On the reasons for non-compliance are stated, including the 14 march 2012, the Company announced the appointment period where it has not complied if relevant and the of alex mahon as a new non-executive director, such relevant provisions in the 2010 Code.
recognising that it is appointment to commence on 1 June 2012. a newly listed company with its admission on 26 July 2010 the board has the goal of moving the Company towards full the Company announced on 23 January 2012, that executive compliance with all provisions of the 2010 Code as swiftly as director and Chief financial Officer, andrew bracey, had practicable.
the Company will continue to put in place new tendered his resignation from the board, and that he was governance arrangements in order to meet that objective.
expected to leave following publication of this annual report.
andrew bracey will join michael page international plc as its further information on the 2010 Code can be found at new Chief financial Officer.
a formal process to identify his www.
this separate statement of corporate governance forms the Company also announced on 23 January 2012 the part of the directors report as required by the disclosure retirement of david young, a non-executive director, from and transparency rule 7.2.
1 and accordingly is approved the board, such retirement to take effect on 23 may 2012, by the board and signed on behalf of the board by a being the date of the Companys agm.
Certain parts of this statement of corporate governance have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, the non-executive director, patrick lewis, resigned from  llp, for compliance with the 2010 the board effective on 15 february 2011. as stated in the Code to the extent required, as mandated by listing rule Companys prospectus dated 6 July 2010, the John lewis 9.8.
10r 2. pension fund agreed with the Company that patrick lewis, a non-executive director originally appointed to the board for the Chairmans statement on the Companys corporate in October 2009 by the John lewis pension fund, would governance see the Chairmans letter on page 3. step down from the board if the John lewis pension funds holding of ordinary shares in Ocado fell below 10 per cent.
of The Board the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
On the Company is led by the board.
the names, responsibilities 11 february 2011, the Company announced that the John and details of the current as at the date of this annual lewis pension fund had sold its entire shareholding in the report directors on the board are set out in the board of Company.
accordingly, patrick lewis resigned from the directors section on pages 28 to 29. during the period and board, as agreed.
following period end there were a number of changes to the board, both on the executive and the non-executive sides.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Stock code: OCDO www.
com 31 Director election Senior Independent Director the rules that the Company has about the appointment and david grigson, who joined the board as an independent replacement of directors are described in the directors non-executive director in february 2010, is the boards report on pages 56 to 57. senior independent director.
his biographical details are set out on page 28. the senior independent directors role is to in order to maintain high standards of corporate governance, provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve an the articles require each director to retire at every annual intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
the general meeting each director may offer himself or herself senior independent director is available to shareholders for reappointment by the members at such meeting.
the of the Company to assist in resolving concerns of such directors current at that time were re-elected at the shareholders.
last annual general meeting on 11 may 2011. each current director, including the appointed directors noted above, will Independence seek re-election by shareholders at the Companys agm on the 2010 Code recommends that at least half of the board 23 may 2012, except andrew bracey who has tendered his of directors of a uK listed company, excluding the chairman, resignation, david young who will retire as non-executive should comprise non-executive directors determined by the director and therefore will not be seeking re-election and board to be independent in character and judgement and alex mahon whose appointment is effective on 1 June 2012. free from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or a biography of each current director as at the date of this could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
annual report is set out in the board of directors section on pages 28 to 29. the board, as at the date of this annual report, comprises 12 members.
the directors expect that at the time that Chief Executive Officer the various board appointments and resignations outlined the Companys Chief executive Officer is tim steiner.
his above take effect the board will comprise 13 members, biographical details are set out on page 28. including the Chairman, five independent non-executive directors, five executive directors and two non-executive directors who are not deemed to be independent for The Chairman the purposes of the 2010 Code.
the Company does not lord grade joined the board as an independent nontherefore comply with the relevant requirements of the 2010 executive director and Chairman in 2006. his biographical Code provision b.
1.1 in relation to the balance of executive details are set out on page 28 and indicate the Chairmans and independent non-executive directors.
significant time commitments outside of the Company.
during the period these other commitments changed with the Company expects that as existing members of the lord grades appointments as director of wrg worldwide board step down and new directors are appointed, the limited, a creative agency, and as a member of the press Company will become compliant with the 2010 Code in this Complaints Commission limited.
the board believes that providing some continuity of leadership is important and therefore has taken a measured Division of responsibilities between Chairman approach to transforming the board to one that is compliant and Chief Executive Officer with the independence requirements of the 2010 Code.
in there is a clearly established and long-standing division due course, the re-composed board including the director of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief appointees will comprise eight non-executive directors, of executive Officer which is set out in writing and has been which the Chairman, david grigson, ruth anderson, douglas approved by the board.
the Chairman is responsible for mcCallum, wendy becker and alex mahon are deemed leadership of the board, and ensuring its effectiveness.
lord independent as defined in the 2010 Code.
however in grade was responsible during the period for influencing the respect of the other non-executive directors: direction of the boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time was allocated to discussing agenda items including the z robert gorrie is not deemed independent for the most material business matters, such as strategy.
purposes of the 2010 Code because he was an executive director of Ocado from april 2000 until april the Chief executive Officer is responsible for the day-to-day 2006 and has been a non-executive director since may management, operations and results of the group, executing 2006. he also provides consulting services to the group the strategy once agreed by the board and making proposals under a separate consulting agreement and acts as to the board for the strategic development of the group.
chairman of the Ocado Council: and he creates a framework of strategy, values, organisation and z Jrn rausing is not deemed independent for the objectives to ensure the successful delivery of results, and purposes of the 2010 Code because the apple ii trust allocates decision making and responsibilities accordingly.
he of which he is a beneficiary is a major shareholder of takes a leading role, with the Chairman, in the relationship the Company.
with all external parties and in promoting the Company.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 32 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Statement of corporate governance continued expenditure: the treasury policy: and any governance policies.
Non-Executive Directors the boards role also includes oversight of the groups capital the non-executive directors have wide and varied skills structure including any share issues and share buy backs.
the and commercial experience which they bring to the directors report on pages 60 to 61 includes a description deliberations of the board and the board committees, as of the powers of the directors to issue and buy back the well as their independent judgment on group strategy, risk Companys shares.
the board considers that its size and composition and that its balance of skills and experience is during the period, the boards activities included: appropriate for the requirements of the business.
z receiving reports from senior management on trading, the Chairman seeks to ensure the effective contribution business performance, financing and operational projects: of the non-executive directors and constructive relations z receiving progress reports from senior management on between the non-executive directors and the executive the construction of CfC2 and on the development of directors, particularly during discussions at board meetings.
capacity projects in CfC1: at the boards strategy conference held in June 2011, the z approving the annual budget and the business plan for board discussed the groups medium-term and long-term the group: plans and objectives.
the non-executive directors debated z reviewing and approving the groups results such proposals presented by management and provided announcements, the annual report and notice of input to help develop these plans.
such constructive debates meeting: on group strategy are considered by the directors to z receiving reports on and discussing various business be beneficial in that they assist the Company to focus its development and strategic opportunities: efforts and planning in the most effective areas for delivering z receiving reports on and discussing the groups business growth and to balance the risks associated with marketing and procurement strategy and development those changes.
of the customer offer: z receiving update reports on health and safety, investor as required under the 2010 Code, each non-executive relations and legal and company secretary matters: directors letter of appointment to the board sets out clearly z receiving reports from the chairman of each of the the expected time commitment from them to the Company audit Committee, the nomination Committee and the and at the time of appointment the relevant non-executive remuneration Committee: director confirmed that that he or she is able to devote z discussing risk management and internal control and sufficient time as is necessary to the performance of his reviewing the groups risk matrix: or her duties.
the board is satisfied that each of the nonz discussing succession plans and board re-composition: executive directors has sufficient time available to devote to z approving new governance policies including the groups the Company.
anti-bribery policy: and z approving various new share scheme issues including a the terms and conditions of appointment of the nonsecond issue under the groups JsOs scheme and a new executive directors are available for inspection at the share incentive plan.
Companys registered office during normal business hours and at the Companys agm.
in addition, the board convened its strategy conference at which the board discussed the groups medium and longThe Boards role term strategy and plans.
various papers were presented by the board is collectively responsible for the long-term senior management to the board on potential projects for success of the Company.
subject to the articles, the the growth of the business in future.
some of these plans Companies act and any directions given by special resolution, were prioritised by the board and were progressed over the business of the Company will be managed by the board the period including the groups expansion of its non-food who may exercise all of the powers of the Company.
the board has a number of key responsibilities and formally the board delegates to management the detailed reserved powers, as set out in the schedule of matters implementation of matters approved by the board and reserved for the board.
the board has responsibility for the day-to-day operational aspects of the business.
the the overall management of the group and for setting and executive directors and the management Committee meet reviewing the groups long-term objectives and commercial twice weekly to review operational performance and to strategy, including determination of the nature and extent monitor implementation of certain projects.
a project team of the significant risks that the board is willing to take to meets frequently to monitor progress of development of implement its commercial strategy.
the board has oversight the CfC2 project.
management has authority to undertake of the groups operations, including management and capital expenditure without board approval up to certain planning, sound risk management and internal control systems, pre-approved expenditure thresholds and above which the adequate accounting and other records and compliance expenditure must be elevated to the board for approval.
with statutory and regulatory obligations.
Other reserved matters include approval of: the annual report and half-yearly report: the groups budgets: the authority levels for capital 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Stock code: OCDO www.
com 33 the board delegates certain responsibilities to its principal details concerning the committees of the board are set out committees, namely the audit Committee, the remuneration below, as required by disclosure and transparency rules 7.2.
7 Committee and the nomination Committee.
keep the full board apprised of their work and refer matters requiring resolution to the full board for approval as Attendance appropriate.
the audit Committee monitors the integrity the table below shows the attendance of the directors of financial information and reviews the effectiveness of during the period at scheduled board and board committee the financial controls and the internal control and risk meetings during the period.
the board had scheduled 11 management systems.
the remuneration Committee board meetings during the period and convened three sets the remuneration policy for executive directors and additional ad hoc board meetings.
the composition of two determines their individual remuneration arrangements.
the of the board committees changed during the period, as nomination Committee recommends the appointment of described in the board committees description set out below, directors and has responsibility for evaluating the balance of hence some members of the committees did not attend all the board and for succession planning at board level.
further of the relevant committee meetings during the period.
Board of Directors Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Executive Directors tim steiner 14 14 - - - - - - neill abrams 14 14 - - - - - - andrew bracey 14 14 - - - - - - Jason gissing 13 14 - - - - - - Non-Executive Directors lord grade Chairman 14 14 - - - - 3 3 david grigson 12 14 5 5 - - 3 3 david y oung 13 14 5 5 3 3 3 3 Jrn rausing 11 14 - - 2 3 2 3 ruth anderson 14 14 5 5 3 3 3 3 robert gorrie 14 14 5 5 3 3 3 3 douglas mcCallum 2 2 - - 1 1 - - Former Directors 4 patrick lewis 2 3 - - - - - - notes: as noted above various directors have joined the board since the end of the period, namely mark richardson, wendy becker and alex mahon and so are not listed in the attendance table.
Jrn rausing, david grigson and patrick lewis did not attend the board meeting on 4 february 2011 as the date of board meeting had been changed at short notice and these directors already had prior commitments.
douglas mcCallum joined the board of the Company on 3 October 2011.
4 patrick lewis resigned from the board of the Company effective on 15 february 2011.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 34 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Statement of corporate governance continued Information and professional development Company Secretary the Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors the board is assisted by the Company secretary who is also are properly briefed on issues arising at board meetings and the legal and business affairs director, neill abrams, who that they have full and timely access to relevant information.
reports to the Chairman in respect of his core secretarial the quality and supply of information provided to the board duties to the board.
all directors have access to the advice was reviewed as part of the board evaluation exercise, noted and services of the Company secretary.
for ensuring that board procedures are followed and for governance matters.
the Company secretary, under the non-executive directors appointed to the board during the direction of the Chairman, was responsible for ensuring good period participated in an induction programme including a information flows within the board and its committees, as CfC1 visit, work in CfC1 as a personal shopper and making required under the 2010 Code.
the appointment and removal deliveries accompanying a Cstm on a delivery route.
the of the Company secretary is one of the matters reserved for induction also includes meetings with members of senior the board.
management and receipt of an induction booklet comprising the groups key board and governance documents and policies.
Conflicts of interests the Companies act provides that directors must avoid a the board received reports and presentations from some situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect members of senior management from time-to-time which interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with a help maintain the non-executive directors understanding companys interests.
directors of public companies may of the business and the sector and maintain their links to the authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where appropriate, remainder of the business, on matters such as the non-food if a companys articles of association permit.
business plan, CfC2 planning and progress and succession planning.
during the period a board meeting was held each non-executive directors letter of appointment at CfC1.
this allowed the non-executive directors the sets out the requirement for disclosing conflicts to the opportunity to see the development, testing or operation Chairman and the Company secretary.
as part of his or her of various new capital projects at CfC1.
a board meeting is induction process, a newly appointed director completes a scheduled to be held at CfC2 in 2012. questionnaire which requires them to disclose any conflicts of interests to the Company.
no director has declared to the the need for director training is assessed by the Chairman Company any actual or potential conflicts of interest between from time-to-time.
the Company secretary, neill abrams, any of his duties to the Company and his private interests arranged for newly appointed directors to receive and or other duties, except in the case of an executive information and a presentation on the duties and obligations director who holds the position of director of the Company of a listed company director.
training for directors is available and director of a number of group subsidiary companies.
via various external advisers to the Company, on an ongoing basis to meet any particular needs.
following the end of whenever a director takes on additional external the period, the non-executive directors were invited to responsibilities, the board considers any potential conflicts join a non-executive director network group which provides that may arise.
the board will continue to monitor and access to know-how on current issues relevant to the role of review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
members of the audit Committee receive written know-how and technical updates from the Companys Director insurance and indemnities auditors,  llp, to keep them abreast the Company maintains directors and officers liability of the latest accounting, auditing and tax developments.
insurance cover for its directors and officers as permitted under the Companys articles and the Companies act.
the committees have access to sufficient resources to such insurance policies were renewed during the period discharge their duties, as required by the 2010 Code.
the Company also indemnifies the this regard, remuneration consultants had advised the directors under an indemnity deed with each director which remuneration Committee on executive remuneration contains provisions that are permitted by the director liability during the period.
the Company retained the services of provisions of the Companies act and the Companys articles.
professional services consultants for the recruitment of new an indemnity deed is usually entered into by a director at directors.
members of the board may take independent the time of their appointment to the board.
Qualifying third professional advice at the Companys expense in the party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the furtherance of their duties.
Companies act were in force during the period and remain in force for the benefit of the directors and any officer of the Company or of any associated company.
com 35 the Chairman and the non-executive directors met without Board performance evaluation the executive directors being present, as required by the the effectiveness of the board is important to the success 2010 Code, to discuss the performance of the board and the of the group and accordingly the board considers that executive directors.
the senior independent director and reviewing its own performance is helpful.
the non-executive directors also met without the executive directors or the Chairman being present, as required by the during the period, each of the executive directors was 2010 Code, and subsequently met with the Chairman to subject to a full performance evaluation from each other, the provide feedback.
management Committee and the non-executive directors.
the explanatory notes set out in the notice of meeting in addition, the board carried out a board evaluation in for the agm state the reasons that the board believes which all of the then current directors participated except each director proposed for re-election at the agm those noted below.
this evaluation covered the board, the should be re-appointed.
the board has based, in part, its remuneration Committee, the nomination Committee, the recommendations for re-election on its review of the results audit Committee and each of the non-executive directors from the board evaluation process and the Chairmans individually and was designed to assess how well they review of individual evaluations which concluded that each were performing collectively and individually, and how their directors performance continues to be effective and that performance could be improved.
each director has demonstrated substantial commitment to the role including time for board and committee meetings these evaluations were based on a written questionnaire and other responsibilities.
customised by the Company secretary with support from an external consultant, independent audit limited.
the board various directors did not participate in the board evaluation evaluation questionnaire covered the following key areas: process but are standing for re-election at the agm.
douglas strategy, leadership and accountability, board effectiveness, mcCallum joined the board close to the period end and quality of information presented to the board, board culture, two directors namely mark richardson and wendy becker risk governance and interaction with management.
each joined or expressed their intention to join the board after board committee questionnaire sought to evaluate that the end of the period.
Consequently the board based its committees performance in fulfilling its functions and key recommendation to re-elect these directors on the same responsibilities as set out in the relevant committees terms of reasoned principles and judgments it applied in appointing reference.
the questionnaires were issue based with scoring, the directors to the board at that time.
finally, alex mahon but the directors were encouraged to expand on their who will join the board after the agm on 23 may 2012, is scoring and assessments with additional comments, including expected to stand for re-election at the 2013 annual general with respect to areas for improvement.
the findings of the evaluations were reviewed by the Company during the period, the board agreed to conduct a board secretary and the Chairman and a report summarising the evaluation process facilitated by an independent third party in findings was provided to each director.
the board discussed the a future period, as required by the 2010 Code.
the directors board evaluation report noting areas for improving effectiveness considered that such review would be more valuable to the in future.
the Chairman separately reviewed the individual nonboard at a later point at which the re-composed board had executive director performance evaluation reports.
had sufficient time to settle, given the significant changes to its make-up during the period and intended changes in the in addition the findings of the board committee evaluations short-term.
were reviewed by the Company secretary and each committee chairman and a report summarising the findings was delivered to each committee.
the committees will use these evaluation findings as the basis for formulating plans for improving their effectiveness in future.
the remuneration Committee recommended that individual performance reviews form a formal part of the criteria taken into account in the executive director remuneration.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 36 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Statement of corporate governance continued Independence: the 2010 Code requires that a majority of Board committees members of a nomination committee be independent nonas envisaged by the 2010 Code, the board has established executive directors.
three board committees: the nomination Committee, the remuneration Committee and the audit Committee.
the the nomination Committee, as at the date of this annual Chairman of each committee provides a report or update report, comprises seven members.
the directors expect of each meeting of the respective committee to the board that at the time that the various board appointments and at the subsequent board meeting.
the committees are resignations noted above take effect the nomination described in more detail below, as required by disclosure and Committee will comprise eight members, including the transparency rules 7.1.
Chairman, five independent non-executive directors, and two non-executive directors who are not deemed to be independent for the purposes of the 2010 Code.
accordingly, the Company will comply with the relevant requirements of the 2010 Code.
Nomination Committee Non-Executive Director Appointments: the Company had previously stated its objective to re-balance the board in favour of non-executive directors who are considered independent under the 2010 Code.
the nomination the nomination Committees principal responsibility is to Committees work has resulted in the recruitment of three keep the composition and balance of the board under review, new independent non-executive directors, namely, douglas consider succession planning, lead the process for board mcCallum, wendy becker and alex mahon.
appointments and make recommendations to the board on all new appointments and re-appointments of directors.
in each case of non-executive director appointment, the the nomination Committee also makes recommendations process was led by the chairman of the nomination Committee.
for the membership of the audit Committee and the professional services consultants, lygon group and the Zygos remuneration Committee.
partnership were instructed by the chairman of the nomination Committee in connection with separate recruitment processes.
during the period the nomination Committee met primarily in each case, the nomination Committee considered the skills, to discuss the composition of the board and the recruitment knowledge, background and experience required for the role of new non-executive directors to help with the Companys of the non-executive director, and prepared a job specification objective of moving the composition of the board towards for the role.
a number of directors including the chairman of compliance with the 2010 Code.
subsequent to period end, the nomination Committee, the Chairman, the Chief executive it met to discuss the appointment of two new non-executive Officer and other directors interviewed numerous candidates directors and the process for the recruitment of a new Chief for each role of non-executive director.
the nomination financial Officer of the group.
Committee also specified the time commitment expected of the role and confirmed with candidates that each had sufficient time Meetings: the nomination Committee meets when available to devote to the role.
following extensive searches, necessary and will normally meet no fewer than twice a year.
the chairman of the nomination Committee made separate the nomination Committee met three times during the recommendations to the board to appoint as independent period.
non-executive director douglas mcCallum, wendy becker and alex mahon.
as noted above, the appointments of wendy Members and chairman: the nomination Committee is becker and of alex mahon to the board were made following chaired by the senior independent director, david grigson, the period end.
and all of the other non-executive directors including the Chairman are members of the nomination Committee.
the composition of the nomination Committee changed during the period with the appointment of douglas mcCallum effective on 3 October 2011 and will change subsequent to period end with the appointments of wendy becker and alex mahon.
com 37 Executive Director Appointments: the nomination Diversity: in considering the size and composition of the Committees and boards deliberations during the period board the nomination Committee had taken account of included a discussion about the size and composition of various factors including skills, experience and diversity of the executive director team.
the board felt that additional the existing board.
the nomination Committee remained executive support for the Chief executive Officer would be conscious of the need to address the diversity of the board, needed in overseeing the groups operations.
Consequently, including gender diversity, as part of its plan to recruit new in January 2011, the board approved the appointment of non-executive directors.
as noted above, both of the most mark richardson, previously head of technology and a recent appointments to the board are women.
long-standing member of the management Committee to the position of Operations director.
this new executive director Terms of reference: as described above, the nomination role means that mark richardson has taken responsibility Committee has reviewed its own performance and terms for the day-to-day technical and operating side of the of reference to ensure it is operating effectively and has business, and in turn allows the Chief executive Officer to recommended any changes it considers necessary to spend additional time on the groups strategy and growth the board for approval.
as a result, amendments to the plans.
this appointment was also significant in that it was the nomination Committees terms of reference were made and groups first internal promotion to executive director level.
following the announcement on 23 January 2012 that the nomination Committees revised terms of reference are executive director and the Chief financial Officer, andrew available on the website www.
com corporatebracey, had indicated that he intended to resign from the responsibility corporate-governance.
aspx and set out the board, the nomination Committee commenced a formal nomination Committees responsibilities.
process to identify his successor.
this recruitment process which is being conducted by tim steiner and the Companys director of human resources, under the oversight of the David Grigson nomination Committee, is ongoing as at the date of this Chairman of the nomination Committee annual report.
Reviewing Board composition: the nomination Committee will continue to meet regularly to consider the board size and composition and to ensure that plans are in place for the orderly succession of appointments to the board including executive director roles.
the Company will continue to seek to recruit new non-executive directors so that the board meets the independence requirements of the 2010 Code.
given the large number of changes to the board in the past 12 months the nomination Committee has decided to allow some time for the current board composition to settle before making further appointments.
as part of this process, the nomination Committee expects to reassess in due course the current balance of skills and experience of the re-composed board with the aim that it will highlight areas of skill and experience that could be filled by any new board appointees, in future.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 38 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Statement of corporate governance continued Duties: the remuneration Committees key duties, as set out in its terms of reference, are as follows: z determine and agree with the board the framework or Remuneration broad policy for the remuneration including pension Committee of the Companys Chief executive Officer, the Chairman, the executive directors and the Company secretary, including the need for a significant proportion of executive directors remuneration to be structured so as Role: the role of the remuneration Committee is to to link rewards to corporate and individual performance: determine and recommend to the board the remuneration z review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the policy for the Chairman of the board, the executive directors remuneration policy: and the Company secretary.
this includes base salary, annual z approve the design of, and determine targets for any and long-term incentive entitlements and awards and pension performance related schemes for executive directors arrangements.
in determining the remuneration policy, operated by the group ensuring that the performance the remuneration Committee takes into account many related elements of executive directors remuneration factors including the need for a significant proportion of the are stretching and designed to promote the long-term executive directors remuneration to be structured so as success of the Company and the group and annual to link rewards to business and individual performance, as payments made under such schemes.
in designing such required by the 2010 Code.
schemes, the remuneration Committee should follow the provisions in schedule a to the 2010 Code: Members and chairman: as at the date of this annual report, z review the design of all new long-term schemes as the remuneration Committee is chaired by david young and defined in listing rule lr 9.4 and significant changes to its other members are ruth anderson, robert gorrie, Jrn such schemes for approval, in each case, by the board rausing and douglas mcCallum.
the composition of the and shareholders save in the circumstances permitted remuneration Committee changed during the period with by the listing rules.
for any such schemes, determine the appointment of douglas mcCallum to the remuneration each year whether awards will be made, and if so, the Committee effective on 3 October 2011 and will change overall amount of such awards and the individual awards subsequent to period end with the appointment of wendy to the executive directors and the Company secretary: becker to the remuneration Committee effective 31 march z ensure that contractual terms on termination, and 2012. effective immediately following the Companys agm, any payments made, are fair to the individual, and the wendy becker will assume the role of remuneration Company or the relevant member of the group as Committee chairman when the current chairman, david applicable, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty young, retires from the board.
to mitigate loss is fully recognised: z within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation the director of human resources, the Chief executive with the Chairman and or the Chief executive Officer as Officer and company secretariat attended some or all of the appropriate, determine the total individual remuneration remuneration Committee meetings during the period.
package of each executive director, the Company secretary and the Chairman including bonuses, incentive Independence: the 2010 Code requires a board to establish payments, share options or other share awards and any a remuneration committee of at least three members, all of compensation payments: whom must be independent non-executive directors.
z in determining such packages and arrangements, give due regard to any relevant legal requirements, the provisions the remuneration Committee, as at the date of this annual and recommendations in the 2010 Code and the listing report, comprises five members.
the directors expect rules and associated guidance: that at the time that the various board appointments and z review and note annually the remuneration trends across resignations outlined above take effect the remuneration the group.
the remuneration Committee should also Committee will be re-composed and include three monitor the level and structure of remuneration for independent non-executive directors ruth anderson, senior management: douglas mcCallum and wendy becker, and two nonz oversee any major changes in employee benefits executive directors who are not deemed to be independent structures throughout the Company or the group: for the purposes of the 2010 Code.
accordingly, the z review the policy for authorising claims for expenses Company does not comply with the relevant requirements from the Chief executive Officer and the Chairman: of the 2010 Code in relation to the membership of the z ensure that all provisions regarding disclosure of remuneration Committee.
remuneration, including pensions, are fulfilled: Meetings: the remuneration Committee will normally meet no fewer than two times a year.
during the period, the remuneration Committee met on three occasions.
com 39 z be responsible for establishing the selection criteria, in addition, the Company received advice from bdO llp selecting, appointing and setting the terms of reference who provided tax advice, slaughter and may who provided for any remuneration consultants who advise the tax and schemes advice and appleby trust Jersey limited remuneration Committee: and who advised on the employee benefit trust in connection z obtain reliable, up-to-date information about with the implementation of the groups second issue of remuneration in other companies, with a view to judging shares under the JsOs scheme.
where to position the Company relative to other companies.
the remuneration Committee shall have full since the period end, the remuneration Committee authority to commission any reports or surveys which it had undertaken a competitive tender process for the deems necessary to help it fulfil its obligations.
appointment of new remuneration consultants to advise the remuneration Committee.
this process, which Principal activities of the Remuneration Committee: in line had involved the input from the Chief executive Officer, with its terms of reference, the following key matters were resulted in the appointment of the remuneration advisers, considered by the remuneration Committee during the deloitte llp.
deloitte llp have been appointed by the period and in some cases shortly after period end : remuneration Committee as its independent adviser, such appointment to commence after the date of this annual z approval of the 2010 directors remuneration report: report.
the remuneration Committee is satisfied that there z appointing and receiving a report from remuneration is no connection between the Company and deloitte llp.
consultants concerning the executive director deloitte llp confirmed to the Company that it is a member remuneration and advice on the 2011 annual incentive of the remuneration Consultants group and as such plan: operates under the Code of Conduct in relation to executive z implementation of the 2011 annual incentive plan remuneration Consulting in the uK.
including consideration of the design, selection of performance targets and finalising the plan rules: in addition to the external advice received, the remuneration z review of performance under the 2011 annual incentive Committee consulted and received reports from the plan and consideration of any bonuses payable: Companys Chief executive Officer, the director of human z consideration of the 2012 annual incentive plan: resources and the deputy Company secretary.
z review of the design and scope of proposed new share schemes for all employees including a share incentive Terms of reference: as described above, the remuneration plan and the second share issue under the JsOs scheme: Committee has reviewed its own performance and terms z receiving a report from management on executive of reference to ensure it is operating effectively and has director remuneration benchmarking: recommended any changes it considers necessary to z consulting the Chief executive Officer on performance the board for approval.
as a result, amendments to the and remuneration of the executive directors: remuneration Committees terms of reference were made z receiving a report on group-wide and management and approved by the board.
remuneration for 2011 and 2012: z undertaking a tender process for the appointment of the remuneration Committees revised terms of reference a new remuneration consultant to advise in respect of are available on the website www.
aspx and set z oversight of the proposed new management Committee out the remuneration Committees responsibilities.
contracts: z review of the remuneration Committees performance: and David Y oung z review of and proposed amendment to the terms of Chairman of the remuneration Committee reference.
Directors remuneration report: the remuneration Committee has produced the directors remuneration report see pages 46 to 55 and will put it to the Companys shareholders for consideration at the agm on 23 may 2012.
External Advice: the remuneration Committee appointed and received advice during the period from remuneration consultants, towers perrin now towers watson, on certain remuneration issues.
the remuneration Committee is satisfied that there is no connection between the Company and t owers watson.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 40 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Statement of corporate governance continued Independence: the 2010 Code requires a board to establish an audit committee of at least three independent nonexecutive directors.
from the perspective of the 2010 Code only two of the four members of the audit Committee ruth Audit anderson and david grigson are independent.
therefore Committee the Company does not comply with the 2010 Code in this respect.
when alex mahon joins the audit Committee and david young retires from the board three of the four members of the audit Committee will meet the 2010 Code Role of the Audit Committee: the audit Committee is primarily definition of an independent non-executive director.
responsible for: Meetings and attendance: the audit Committee held five z monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the meetings during the period to coincide with the Companys Company and the financial reporting process: reporting timetable.
attendance at the meetings is shown z monitoring the effectiveness of the Companys internal on page 33. the Chief financial Officer, andrew bracey, financial controls and its internal control and risk and senior members of the finance department, company management systems: secretariat and the auditors regularly attended the audit z reviewing the audit plans of the external auditors and for Committee meetings during the period.
monitoring the conduct of the audit: z reviewing the effectiveness, independence and objectivity the audit Committee met with the auditors during the of the auditors and monitoring the Companys policy period to discuss their remit and any issues arising from on the engagement of the auditors to supply non-audit the audit, without management being present.
the audit services: Committee also met with the groups finance executives z monitoring the need for an internal audit function: and without the auditors present.
z making recommendations to the board for a resolution to be put to shareholders of the Company in relation the external auditors had meetings with the chairman of the to the appointment and remuneration of the external audit Committee without the Companys finance executives auditors.
the audit Committees full terms of reference, which set Principal activities of the Audit Committee out the above responsibilities, are available on the Corporate the audit Committee undertook a number of principal website www.
com  activities during the period as described below.
the following section describes the work of the audit Financial statements and reporting: the audit Committee Committee in discharging these responsibilities.
reviewed the groups financial statements including, prior to the period end, a review of the significant financial reporting Composition of the Audit Committee: the audit Committee issues, estimates and judgements.
the board and the audit is chaired by ruth anderson, and its other members are Committee have reviewed the narrative reporting for this david grigson, david young and robert gorrie.
as required annual report and accounts, as well as the half year report by the 2010 Code, ruth anderson and david grigson are and accounts.
in addition, the board reviewed prior to considered by the board to have competence in accounting publication the various interim management statements and and or auditing and recent and relevant financial experience.
trading statements made by the Company.
the biography of each member of the audit Committee is set out on pages 28 and 29. the audit Committee and the full board reviewed the basis for preparing the group consolidated financial statements on the composition of the audit Committee did not change a going concern basis including in particular the assumptions during the period.
the audit Committees make-up will underlying the going concern statement and the associated change effective on 1 June 2012 when new non-executive risk factor disclosures.
the audit Committees review director, alex mahon joins the board and becomes a included consideration of the reports produced by the member of the audit Committee.
Company in connection with the audit work.
com 41 Internal controls and risk management: the audit Committee Bribery Act: in July 2011, the bribery act 2010 came into received regular reports from management on the force.
Consequently the board approved an anti-bribery Companys risk management plans and processes.
the policy which sets out the Companys approach to dealing Companys internal control and risk management systems are with bribery and corruption and provides guidance for described in more detail below.
employees on when gifts and hospitality given or received during the course of employment are acceptable or the audit Committee also received and considered reports prohibited.
the audit Committee receives a report at each during the period on the work under taken by the auditors, of its meetings concerning the gifts and hospitality register  llp, in reviewing and auditing the which was established during the period and any issues groups control environment and reviewing the financial of non-compliance with the anti-bribery policy.
the audit reporting procedures, which the audit Committee took Committee will continue to monitor compliance with the into account in assessing the quality and effectiveness of the policy and the Companys procedures for the prevention of groups systems of internal control.
bribery and will review the effectiveness of the policy in due course.
the audit Committees terms of reference were amended to reflect this expanded remit.
Internal audit: the group does not have a dedicated internal audit function.
the audit Committee considered the need Review of responsibilities: the audit Committee has reviewed for an internal audit function, as required by the 2010 Code its own performance and terms of reference to ensure it provision C. 3.5 and concluded that, given the groups is operating effectively and has recommended any changes current stage of development and existing monitoring to the terms of reference it considers necessary to the and internal control measures, it was not necessary.
as a result, amendments to the audit audit Committee was satisfied that management had Committees terms of reference were made and approved by given sufficient assurances that other monitoring processes the board.
including internal reviews of the groups operations undertaken periodically by senior finance staff were being External auditors applied and would be developed using the existing expertise the audit Committees work during the period included of the finance department to help ensure that the groups oversight of the engagement of the external auditors, system of internal control was functioning as intended.
board accepted the audit Committees recommendation to not establish an internal audit function.
the need for an internal audit function will be monitored by the audit Auditors independence: the 2010 Code requires that the Committee and subject to an annual review in 2012. board establish formal arrangements for maintaining an appropriate relationship with its auditors and to explain how Whistle blowing and fraud: the audit Committee receives an the auditors objectivity and independence is maintained.
update at each of its meetings from management on whether during the period, the audit Committee developed and there have been any frauds or improprieties including those implemented the Companys policy which restricts the raised through the Companys whistle blowing procedures.
engagement of its auditors in relation to non-audit services the Companys whistle blowing procedure, which allows the to help ensure that the provision of non-audit services by Companys employees to report concerns anonymously, is the Companys auditors does not have an impact on their set out in the employee handbook.
no instances brought to independence and objectivity.
the policy applies the guidance the attention of the audit Committee during the period were set out in the guidance on audit Committees issued by the viewed as material in the context of the group.
however, financial reporting Council in december 2010. as a result of such reporting, measures were considered by the audit Committee and taken by the Company to the majority of the non-audit work undertaken by the improve certain internal controls, including physical security Companys auditors,  llp, during procedures at some of its sites.
the period was: i the review of the Companys half-year accounts: and ii tax and accounting advice provided in relation to the Companys establishment of a subsidiary entity in poland and associated work.
given the auditors knowledge in these areas and the relatively small engagement fees concerned it was concluded that it was in the interests of the Company to utilise the services of the auditors rather than another third party provider for the non-audit work.
the total of non-audit fees and audit fees paid to  llp during the period is set out in the note 2.1.
3 to the consolidated financial statements.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 42 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Statement of corporate governance continued  llp also follows its own ethical set out in the Companys auditors appointment policy which guidelines and the auditing practices boards ethical standard reflects the guidance laid out in the guidance on audit 5 non-audit services provided to audited entities, and Committees published by the financial reporting Council continually reviews its audit team to ensure its independence in december 2010 and confirms that the policy has been is not compromised.
as a result, the audit partner will rotate after the date of this annual report.
the audit Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding the Companys auditors,  llp had Internal control provided non-audit services to the group during the period, Overview: the board has oversight of the system of internal the quantum of such non-audit fees relative to the audit fees controls for the group and for reviewing the effectiveness together with the other measures taken by the Company of such a system.
Certain of these responsibilities have and the auditors to safeguard independence, mean that been delegated to the audit Committee, which reports to  llps independence from the the board.
management is responsible for implementing group was not compromised in the circumstances.
and maintaining the necessary internal control systems and processes.
Auditors re-appointment and remuneration: in relation to Review: the audit Committee has, in the period, reviewed the considering the re-appointment and remuneration of the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls, auditors,  llp, the audit Committee, in line with the Companys policy on auditors re-appointment: including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
as noted above, its review had included z reviewed the proposed terms of engagement and the consideration of reports prepared during the period by the proposed audit fees for the previous audit: Companys auditors.
neither the audit Committees nor z evaluated the effectiveness and performance of the the boards deliberations concerning internal control have  llp audit team on the included a detailed consideration of the turnbull guidance previous audit as noted above : and internal Control: revised guidance for directors on the z made certain assessments about auditors independence Combined Code October 2005 issued by the financial noted above, and received assurances from reporting Council, for reviewing the effectiveness of internal  llp regarding their ongoing control.
there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating independence.
and managing the risks faced by the group and the operational effectiveness of the related controls.
a system of internal the audit Committee was also satisfied as to the adequacy of controls has been in place during the period, up to the date the previous audit plan and that the level of audit fees payable of approval of this annual report.
the audit Committee is in respect of the audit services provided was appropriate and satisfied that the controls in place are appropriate.
however, that an effective audit could be conducted for such a fee.
it is mindful that the internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk in order to achieve the On the basis of this review of the previous audit, the audit groups strategy and business objectives and so can only Committee recommended to the board the re-appointment provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against loss.
of  llp as auditors to the Company and that the remuneration and terms of engagement of IT controls: since its admission in July 2010, the Company  llp as auditors to the Company has continued to make improvements to the groups system be approved as required by the 2010 Code.
the board of internal controls to address issues raised in the full year accepted these recommendations and proposals will be external assessments, including upgrades to the financial put to the shareholders at the agm on 23 may 2012 that systems and strengthening of the finance team.
an important  llp be re-appointed as auditors area of internal control for the group is information of the Company and that the directors be authorised to technology it controls and governance.
the audit determine the level of the auditors remuneration.
the Committee discussed during the period, placing additional existing authority for the directors including the audit attention on formalising it governance structures to respond Committee to determine the current remuneration of the to the changes in the groups risk environment which result auditors is derived from the shareholder approval granted at from the growth and increasing complexity of both the it the Companys annual general meeting in 2011. function and the group.
in addition, the audit Committee determined that further work is needed to refine the risk the audit Committee discussed during the period, the management and control processes used by the group in requirements of the apb ethical standards for auditors for undertaking it system upgrades, given the large number of the rotation of audit partners.
the audit Committee has it changes made to the groups systems during the period, monitored the auditors compliance with this requirement, as several of which resulted in significant albeit very short-term 21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Stock code: OCDO www.
com 43 disruption to the groups operations during the period.
the Treasury: the groups treasury committee reports groups director of technology will report at future audit periodically to the audit Committee on its activities.
these Committee meetings on the progress made to formalise the reports cover various matters set out in the groups treasury groups it governance structures.
policy concerning the groups cash and deposits, investments, foreign exchange and applicable interest rates.
during the Main features of system: the following lists the main features period, the treasury committee monitored the groups of the groups internal control and risk management systems working capital, existing treasury deposits and reinvestment including those relating to the financial reporting process and options for certain bank deposits and oversaw the hedging process for preparing the groups consolidated accounts: of the groups exposure to movements in interest rates and currency in relation to CfC2.
z an organisational structure with clear segregation of duties, control and authority: the treasury policy and treasury committee, headed by z comprehensive management information systems for the director of finance and risk, forms part of the groups providing management with financial and operational measures for financial risk management.
the treasury performance measurement indicators each week.
this committees objectives are to minimise the risks associated information is summarised monthly and reviewed by the with treasury management, to ensure sufficient liquidity to board: meet the groups long and short term requirements, to z formal budgeting and re-forecasting processes.
variances minimise financing costs and to maximise investment returns, from budget and forecasts are monitored and any as well as ensuring compliance with relevant regulatory and significant differences are explained to the board by legal obligations.
the groups policies and strategies for management at each board meeting: managing financial risk to the extent material to assess the z a capital approval policy that controls the groups capital financial performance or position of the group, are discussed expenditure that restricts what can be undertaken in note 4.5 to the consolidated financial statements and in without executive director or board approval: the principal risks and uncertainties description as set out on z monitoring the progress of major projects, including page 21. the CfC2 project, by management and the executive directors and by the board: after the period end, the treasury committee undertook a z a review of key accounting policies by the audit review of the treasury policy which it does from time-to-time Committee each period: and made recommendations to the audit Committee which z monitoring by the audit Committee of the integrity were considered and discussed by the audit Committee.
of the financial statements and the financial reporting process discussed above : z monitoring by the audit Committee of the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls: z a risk committee, which will report to the audit Committee, that will seek to implement risk control processes and embed risk analysis as part of normal business decision-making discussed below : z a review of reports on any whistle blowing, fraudulent activity or bribery by employees by the audit Committee each period: z an it security committee that monitors the groups it security measures: z a treasury policy overseen by the treasury committee that manages financial risk including liquidity and controls the groups cash and deposits, investments, foreign exchange and interest rates outlined in more detail below : and z other control measures outlined elsewhere in this audit Committee report and in the principal risks and uncertainties section.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance 44 Ocado Group plc Annual report and accounts for the 52 weeks ended 27 November 2011 Statement of corporate governance continued the risk register will be reviewed by the risk committee as a Risk management whole with the aim of identifying the key operational risks for the board accepts that risk is an inherent part of the the group and developing a coordinated cross-departmental business.
the groups risk management system is designed approach to improving control measures for the most to identify key risks and provide assurance that these risks significant business risks.
are fully understood and managed within the context of the Company seeking to achieve its strategic objectives.
during the period the board and the audit Committee received reports from management concerning risk as noted above, the board must maintain and have oversight management.
the audit Committee reviewed the risk of the Companys risk management and internal control register, focusing on the process for compiling the risk register system.
the 2010 Code provides that the board should, at an operational level including the mitigating controls and at least annually, conduct a review of the effectiveness of risk ratings applied.
Ocados risk management systems, while the disclosure and transparency rules require that the audit Committee in the context of reviewing the annual budget the board must monitor the effectiveness of Ocados risk management considered the key operational risks to the group achieving systems.
its budget targets for the forthcoming period.
in addition the board discussed from time-to-time during the period some Risk committee: management is responsible for implementing of the significant external risks impacting the business, as set and maintaining the necessary risk management and internal out in the principal risks and uncertainties section of this control systems and processes.
to help management annual report.
undertake this role, following review and discussion by the audit Committee during the period, the Company the audit Committee received a report at most of its established a risk committee.
the risk committee is not a meetings during the period concerning the steps being board committee but rather is comprised of members of taken by management to implement a more formal and senior management and the head of risk management and comprehensive risk management system for the group.
as is chaired by an executive director, the legal and business part of its discussions, the audit Committee though not affairs director.
it will report to the audit Committee and the full board, as required by the 2010 Code provision the board on its responsibilities in order to help them fulfil C. 2.1 considered, during the period, the effectiveness their duties and responsibilities.
the risk committee had its of the groups existing risk management framework and first two meetings after the period end.
the recommendations made by management for evolving that framework.
as a result of such review, one of the key the duties of the risk committee are set out in its terms of outcomes was the establishment of the risk committee, as reference and include monitoring the Companys overall risk noted above.
assessment processes that inform the boards decision making and developing, implementing, testing and reviewing internal control mechanisms and disaster recovery planning for the Ruth Anderson group.
Chairman of the audit Committee the intention is that, in conjunction with the Companys head of risk management, the risk committee will continue to develop and refine the groups risk register, which is a comprehensive register of all risks known to management that affect the business of the group.
com 45 Investor relations The Companys AGM the Company is committed to maintaining constructive shareholders will have the opportunity to meet and question communications with its shareholders.
normal shareholder the board at the agm.
the agm of Ocado group plc will contact is the responsibility of the Chief executive Officer, be held at 11:00 a. m. on 23 may 2012 at One bunhill row, tim steiner, the Chief financial Officer, andrew bracey london eC1y 8yy.
and the head of investor relations.
the Chairman and the senior independent director are available to the Companys a detailed explanation of each item of business to be shareholders to discuss any of their concerns and the larger considered at the agm is included with the notice of shareholders were offered the opportunity to meet with meeting which will be sent to shareholders before the agm.
the Chairman during the period.
the Chairman met with to allow for maximum shareholder input, the Company shareholders during the period.
the senior independent offers electronic proxy voting and voting through the Crest director also met with a large shareholder of the Company electronic proxy appointment service.
the board proposes during the period.
that all resolutions proposed at the agm will be taken on a poll vote.
this follows best practice guidelines and the Company regularly meets with its large investors and enables the Company to count all votes, not just those of institutional shareholders who, along with analysts, are invited shareholders who attend the meeting.
the Company expects to presentations by the Company immediately after the that the Chairman will announce the provisional voting results announcement of the Companys results.
the Chairman at the meeting.
the final voting results will be announced will usually attend such presentations by the Company.
the by the Company immediately following the agm via the board regularly receives feedback from the Companys regulatory news service and will also be available on the brokers and the executive directors on the views of major Companys corporate website www.
shareholders and the investor relations programme and also receives reports at each board meeting on the main changes Share capital, voting rights and significant to the composition of the Companys share register.
One shareholders of the Companys largest shareholders, the apple ii trust has details concerning the Companys share capital, significant Jrn rausing who is a beneficiary of that trust as a director shareholders, special rights, voting rights and other matters on the board.
required by the disclosure and transparency rule 7.2 are set out in the directors report on pages 57 to 62. all shareholders can access the annual report, trading statements, investor presentations and regular Going concern and business model announcements on the Companys corporate website www.
the Companys going concern statement and certain ocadogroup.
all shareholders can choose to receive an related matters required by listing rule 9.8 are set out in annual report in paper or electronic form.
the directors report on page 64. for an explanation of the Companys business model as required by the 2010 Code see the directors report on page 63.
21066-04 08 02 2012 Proof 1 statement of corporate governance Our finanCialS Our reSpOnSibilitieS abOut OCaDO Our perfOrmanCe Governance
