BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 35 Corporate Governance Report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code reviewing financial performance: On 13 July 2011 the Company was admitted to the approving material acquisitions, disposals, premium segment of the UK Listing Authoritys Official contracts and expenditure: List and to trading on the main market of the London Stock appointments to the Board and senior management Exchange.
As a premium listed entity, the Company is appointments, Committee membership and required to either comply with the UK Corporate remuneration for Directors and senior executives: Governance Code a copy of which may be found on the ensuring the effectiveness of the Companys system website of the Financial Reporting Council at www.
co. uk of internal controls including managing risks: or to explain any reason for non-compliance.
approval of health, safety, environmental and other relevant policies: and The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code consists setting the Companys values and standards and of main and supporting principles and provisions in five ensuring good corporate governance practices.
areas: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration and Relations with Shareholders, which Board composition and independence companies should apply and report to their shareholders As at 31 December 2011, the Board of Directors of the on how they have done so.
Company the Board comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company All of the Executive Directors and a majority of Nonhas complied with all the provisions of the Code with the Executive Directors have extensive experience within exception of the requirement to undertake a formal and the oil and gas industry.
rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors Code During the period leading up to the Companys Principle B.
6. admission to trading on the London Stock Exchange, the Directors considered the most appropriate In view of the fact that the new Board has only been in ongoing structure that would facilitate a smooth place since July 2011, the Directors are of the opinion transition to full public ownership from the more that it would be of greater benefit for the first formal entrepreneurial pre-IPO structure.
evaluation to be undertaken during the Companys first full year as a listed entity.
It is therefore proposed that The Board considered a phased succession planning an evaluation be undertaken during the second half of process in relation to the Companys senior executives 2012 and details of the process undertaken, and any and appointed Dr Nicholas Cooper as Managing outcomes reached, will be included in the Annual Report Director in June 2011.
Following this appointment Dr and accounts for the year ended 31 December 2012.
Alan Stein, the previous Managing Director, stepped up to the role of Executive Deputy Chairman as part of a The purpose of this Corporate Governance Report, planned withdrawal from day-to-day management of together with the Directors Report on pages 31 to 34 the Group.
In December 2011, Dr Cooper was formally and the Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 52, is to appointed as the Groups Chief Executive Officer and provide shareholders with details of the Companys Dr Stein notified the Board that, while he would governance policies, processes and structures and to continue to make himself available for advice and explain how compliance with the main principles of guidance, he would not be seeking re-election at the the Code has been achieved.
Role of the Board The Board also acknowledged the need to strengthen The role of the Board is to lead the Company and, either the Companys finance function in the short-term prior directly or through the operation of its Committees and to, and for the purposes of, the IPO.
Ms Yvonne Holm was delegated authority, bring an independent judgement appointed as Chief Financial Officer in February 2011 on all matters of strategy, performance, resources and stepped down from the Board in December 2011. including key appointments and standards of conduct.
The Board considered the Companys requirements The Board is responsible for the strategic aims of the in relation to the roles and responsibilities of its Company, which are then implemented through the Non-Executive Directors.
As a consequence of these approval and regular monitoring of performance against deliberations, the Board accepted the recommendations the budget prepared by the Executive Directors.
The of the Nomination Committee to appoint additional Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters independent Non-Executive Directors and to accept reserved for its approval.
Reserved matters include the resignation of a number of its shareholder Directors setting the Companys strategy and objectives: in July 2011, prior to IPO.
approving annual budgets and operating plans, annual and half year reports and interim The Board considers that the majority of its Non-Executive management statements: Directors, namely Nicholas Smith, Ronald Blakely, John Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 36 Corporate Governance Report continued Lander, Dennis McShane, Lyndon Powell and Patrick However, in line with the provision of the Code which states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should Spink, are independent in character and judgement and free from relationships or circumstances that might be subject to annual re-election by shareholders, and affect their judgement.
The Board has considered the noting the above, the Board has agreed that all cross-directorship Mr Lander has with Dr Stein in Neon continuing Directors will offer themselves for annual Energy Limited, and has satisfied itself that this is an re-election with effect from the 2012 AGM.
immaterial relationship that does not impact on Mr Landers independence.
Dr Stein has informed the Board that he will not stand for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
Dr Stein has Rajan Tandon is not considered to be independent.
Mr confirmed that he will be available to continue his Tandon is an employee of Mittal Investments Sarl Mittal, support for the Company in a consulting capacity after a major shareholder, and was appointed to the Board as he has formally stepped down from the Board.
Mittals representative under the terms of the Relationship Agreement between Mittal and the Company.
Mr Tandon External directorships has appointed Jaroslaw Paczek as his alternate.
Mr The Company had adopted a policy which would Paczek is an employee of the Kulczyk Group, another enable its Executive Directors to accept directorship of major shareholder, and he is therefore also not other quoted companies provided that they have considered to be independent.
obtained the prior permission of the Chairman.
An Executive Director will not however be permitted to Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial take on more than one non-executive directorship in a three year term, with the expectation that a further term FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship of such a will follow, subject to review by the Board.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive no Executive Director held directorships in any other Directors, including the expected time commitment, are London quoted company.
available for inspection at the registered office during normal business hours and at for at least 15 minutes Meetings and Attendance prior to and following the Companys AGM.
The Board met in formal meetings on 14 occasions during 2011 including meetings to consider the Re-election strategic direction of the business.
Details of the The Companys Articles of Association require all attendance at Board meetings by all Directors who Directors to be subject to election by shareholders at served during the year ended 31 December 2011, and the first AGM following their appointment and for serving up to the date of the signing of this report, re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
are shown in the table below: Appointment Date Resignation Date if during the year if relevant Board Meetings Current Directors Nicholas Smith, Chairman 14 14 Alan Stein, Executive Deputy Chairman & Founder Director 11 14 Nicholas Cooper, Chief Executive Officer 1 June 2011 9 9 Jonathon Taylor, Executive Director & Founder Director 14 14 Ron Blakely, Non-Executive Director 7 July 2011 5 7 John Lander, Non-Executive Director 12 14 Dennis McShane, Non-Executive Director 13 14 Lyndon Powell, Non-Executive Director 14 14 Patrick Spink, Non-Executive Director 7 July 2011 6 7 Rajan Tandon, Non-Executive Director 14 14 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 37 Appointment Date Resignation Date if during the year if relevant Board Meetings Former Directors B Yvonne Holm, Chief Financial Officer 24 May 2011 2 December 2011 7 10 Arun Balakrishnan, Non-Executive Director 18 February 2011 7 July 2011 4 8 Harak Chand Banthia, Non-Executive Director 18 February 2011 1 1 Michael Cohen, Non-Executive Director 7 July 2011 7 8 John Morgan, Non-Executive Director 7 July 2011 2 December 2011 6 7 1 Jaroslaw Paczek, Non-Executive Director 7 July 2011 8 8 Mikki Xayiya, Non-Executive Director 7 July 2011 2 8 2 Stefan Krieglstein, Non-Executive Director 10 March 2011 7 July 2011 n a 3 Jacob Ulrich, Non-Executive Director 7 July 2011 6 8 1 Appointed as continuing Alternate Director to Rajan Tandon 7 July 2011.
Following his appointment as an alternate, Jaroslaw Paczek has an invitation to attend all meetings as an observer.
2 Alternate Director to Jaroslaw Paczek with effect from 10 March 2011 and attended all meetings as an observer.
3 Alternate Director to Mikki Xayiya and Michael Cohen.
Detailed biographies of the current Directors together with details of their Committee membership are shown on pages 28 to 29.
Roles and Responsibilities Senior Independent Director There is a clear division of responsibility between the The Board has appointed Mr McShane as the Senior Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairmans key Independent Director.
Mr McShane is charged with responsibilities are the effective running of the Board, maintaining a communication channel between the ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors and for part in the development and determination of the leading the Non-Executive Directors in reviewing the Companys strategy, and acting as guardian of the Boards performance of the Chairman.
In addition, Mr McShane decision-making process.
The key responsibilities of the is the contact point for shareholders who have Chief Executive are managing the day-to-day business concerns that have not, or cannot, be resolved through of the Company, proposing and developing strategy the normal channels of the Chairman or the Chief and overall commercial objectives in consultation with Executive or where such contact is inappropriate.
the Board and, as leader of a strong and experienced executive team, implementing the decisions of the Non-executive Directors Board and its Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a broad range of business skills and experience to the Company, For the period from 1 January to 31 May 2011, providing an independent view on matters of strategy, responsibility for the day-to-day management of the performance, risk and conduct through their Company was delegated to Dr Stein.
Following his contribution at Board and Committee meetings.
appointment as Managing Director on 1 June 2011, Asummary of each Non-Executive Directors and subsequent confirmation as Chief Executive experience and how that experience is relevant to Officer in December, Dr Cooper assumed responsibility their roles on the Board of the Company is given in the for the day-to-day management of the business.
following table: Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 38 Corporate Governance Report continued Director Key biographical details Experience relevant to Board responsibilities board involvement Nicholas Smith Qualified accountant Accountancy Chairman of the Board training with Ernst & Young.
UK capital markets Member of Nomination Investment banker.
Financial experience and Remuneration Holds Far Eastern NED roles.
Committees Member of Audit Committee to 7 July 2011 Ronald Blakely Management Accountant.
Recent and relevant Chairman of the Executive Finance roles financial experience Audit Committee with Royal Dutch Shell.
in major oil and gas NED of Canadian company resource company.
Extensive FTSE 250 oil & Chairman of Boardroom roles in major gas company experience Remuneration oil & gas companies.
HSE experience from Committee Chairman & NED of former operational roles Member of the Audit, resource companies.
Nomination and HSE Committees Dennis McShane Investment banker.
Recent and relevant Senior Independent Senior Executive of iron corporate finance and Director ore resource company.
banking experience Chairman of the International experience.
Insight into emerging Nomination Committee markets & mining Remuneration and Audit practices Committee member Chairman of the latter to 18 August 2011 Lyndon Powell Career in Royal Military Operational and strategic Chairman of the Police and Special Forces.
security advice HSE Committee Worked with Foreign & International experience Member of the Commonwealth Office.
including advisory roles Remuneration Former advisor to Sierra in Africa Committee Leone Armed Forces.
Independent security advisor to corporate sector.
Extensive industry Member of the Exploration and operational knowledge Operational HSE Committee experience in oil & gas environmental, health & companies.
safety experience Upstream investment Knowledge of Africa and consultant.
exploration Rajan Tandon Chartered Accountant.
Insight into views of Extensive experience major shareholders within multi-national General financial and resource group.
accounting experience including internal audit scope BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 39 Board process, induction and training Board Performance Evaluation The Board and its Committees are provided with full and In preparation for the Initial Public Offering of the timely information prior to meetings, including detailed Companys shares in July 2011, the Board undertook financial information.
The Chief Executive, in consultation a review of its membership and that of its principal with the Company Secretary, sets the agenda for Board Committees as well as a review of the terms of reference meetings, which is reviewed by the Chairman prior to of each of those Committees.
Following this review and dissemination to all Board members.
Formal minutes the appointment of further independent Non-executive are prepared to record all decisions made at Board and Directors, a majority of the shareholder appointed Committee meetings.
Minutes of Board meetings are Directors elected to stand down immediately prior circulated to each Director as soon as practicable after to the IPO.
the conclusion of the meeting, prior to their formal acceptance at the next full meeting of the Board.
Minutes In view of the changes to Board and Committee of Committee meetings are reviewed and approved by membership during the year, the Directors have agreed its members and circulated to other Board members as not to undertake an evaluation of their performance for and if appropriate.
If a Director objects to a particular the period.
The first formal evaluation will therefore proposal, this will be recorded in the minutes of the take place during the second half of 2012 and details relevant meeting.
During the year ended 31 December of the process undertaken and outcomes reached will 2011 there were no such objections.
be set out in the 2012 Annual Report.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that an Conflicts of Interest appropriate induction is given to new Board members.
Every Director has a duty to avoid a conflict between The induction programme includes training on the their personal interests and those of the Company.
business and strategy of the Company, copies of The provisions of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 Board policies and procedures, meetings with senior and the Companys articles of association permit the management and site visits, where appropriate.
The Board to authorise situations identified by a Director intention for ongoing training is to ensure that Directors in which he or she has, or may have, a direct or indirect receive sufficient information, both verbally and in interest that conflicts, or may conflict, with the interests written form, to enable them to fully perform their roles of the Company.
Accordingly, each Director, including on the Board and its Committees.
During the Strategy Mr Paczek as alternate for Mr Tandon, has disclosed Day in October, the Board received briefings on the Oil their respective outside positions and interests in and Gas sector of the FTSE as well as the Liquid Natural arrangements with third parties in the form of lists Gas sector in Africa.
There have also been specific the Directors Lists.
The Directors Lists were briefings on the duties of public company directors and considered in detail during the Companys first Board the 2010 Bribery Act.
meeting after Admission when all positions and interests disclosed were authorised.
An annual review All Directors have access to the advice of the Company of the Directors Lists and situational conflicts will be Secretary and the Board has established a procedure undertaken each calendar year.
whereby any Director, may take independent professional advice on any matter in the furtherance Each Director has undertaken to advise the Board if there of their duties, at the Companys expense.
are any material changes to their positions or interests and will not participate in any formal Board discussion The Directors and officers of the Company have the or decisions relating to any matter in which they have benefit of Directors & Officers insurance, the level of or may have a conflict of interests.
In addition, Directors and officers have received an indemnity from the Company Committees of the Board against a any liability incurred by or attaching to the The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Director or officer in connection with any negligence, Committees in line with the provisions of the Code and default, breach of duty or breach of trust by them in to facilitate the business of the Company.
These standing relation to the Company or any associated company: and Committees are the Audit, HSE, Nomination and b any other liability incurred by or attaching to the Remuneration Committees.
Director or officer in the actual or purported execution and or discharge of his duties and or the exercise or purported exercise of his powers and or otherwise in relation to or in connection with his duties, powers or office other than certain excluded liabilities including to the extent that such an indemnity is not permitted by law.
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 40 Corporate Governance Report continued Report of the Audit Committee keeping under review the effectiveness of the Membership, Meetings and Attendance Companys internal financial controls and internal Members of the Audit Committee are appointed by the control and risk management systems together with Board and all of its members are considered to be reviewing and approving statements to be included independent.
The Audit Committee meets at least four in any public document concerning internal controls times each year and otherwise as required.
During the and risk management: year ended 31 December 2011 the Audit Committee reviewing the adequacy and security of the Companys met eight times.
During the year ended 31 December procedures and arrangements for detecting fraud, 2011, the members of the Audit Committee, and their bribery and money laundering and ensuring that individual attendance at meetings, were as follows: employees and contractors are able to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: Meeting monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee Members attendance Companys internal audit processes in the context Dennis McShane Committee Chairman of the Companys overall risk management system: to 18 August 2011 8 8 considering and making recommendations to the Ron Blakely appointed 7 July, Committee Board, to be put to shareholders for approval at the Chairman from 19 August 2011 2 2 AGM, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment John Lander 7 8 and removal of the Companys external auditor, their Nicholas Smith until 7 July 2011 6 6 terms of appointment and remuneration and assessing annually their independence and objectivity: and The Chairman of the Board, Mr Smith, was a member of developing and implementing a policy on the supply the Audit Committee prior to the Companys admission of non-audit services by the external auditor.
to the premium segment of the Official List of the Financial Services Authority and to trading on the main Financial Reporting market of the London Stock Exchange.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved for consideration The Board considers that both Mr McShane and Mr by the Board the financial results for the year ended 31 Blakely have recent and relevant financial experience December 2010 together with the results for the half and competence in accounting as required by sectionyear to 30 June 2011.
The Audit Committee C. 3.1 of the Code and section 7.1.
1 of the Disclosure & considered the appropriateness of preparing accounts Transparency Rules respectively.
on a going concern basis, including reviewing cash forecasts and options for obtaining additional funding.
Members of the Groups Senior Management, including This has been a particular area of scrutiny and review the Chief Financial Officer and the Group Financial for the Audit Committee given that the Company is an Controller, may be invited to attend all or part of the exploration rather than producing entity.
At both full Audit Committees meetings as required.
The external and half-year, the Audit Committee agreed that the auditors attend meetings on a regular basis, both with Companys financial position was such that it and without executive management being present.
continued to be appropriate for accounts to be prepared on a going concern basis.
Role and Responsibilities of the Audit Committee During the year, the Audit Committee undertook a review The Audit Committee also considered the financial of its objectives and terms of reference to ensure that documentation required for the Companys Initial they were appropriate for a UK listed entity.
The Audit Public Offering, including the Long Form Report, Committees full terms of reference are available on the Working Capital Report, Financial Reporting Companys website www.
com but in Procedures Report and the financial statements to summary, following the review, the Audit Committees 28 February 2011. main role and responsibilities were confirmed as: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements Other matters considered by the Audit Committee of the Company, including its annual and half-yearly during the year include the 2011 half-year and fullreports, interim management statements and any year audit plans: well control insurance cover: other formal announcement relating to its financial Directors & Officers insurance: and the Groups risk performance, reviewing significant financial reporting governance framework.
issues and judgements which they contain: BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 41 External Auditor The Group operates a risk management process under Ernst & Young LLP EY has acted as auditor since which key risks are identified, their likelihood and February 2005.
The Board has considered and impact considered and actions taken to manage those approved the Committees recommendation that risks.
The principal risks identified by the Group are EY be reappointed for 2012.
This recommendation set out on pages 26 to 27. was based on a review of the 2011 audit and work undertaken in preparation for the Companys IPO, The Board, supported by the Audit Committee, has both of which demonstrated an overall satisfaction reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control with the performance of EY as the external auditor.
systems in operation during the financial year.
During The Committee has approved a policy to review the the year, the Audit Committee has considered the key tenure of the external auditor every five years.
processes and controls within the business, in particular: Procurement and Contracts The Committee has established a policy to maintain the Cash and Payments independence of the external auditor and its personnel, Payroll governing the provision of audit and non-audit services Information Technology provided by the auditor and its associates.
The policy Health, safety and environment clearly identifies permitted and prohibited services and sets out the procedure to be followed for the approval Focus has been placed on developing the Groups of all audit and non-audit services.
All engagements contractor and procurement processes.
A Contracts with an expected fee in excess of US$100,000 require Committee has been set up to oversee the procedures the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
for procuring major goods and services.
In addition, the Company has developed procedures for monitoring During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Audit third party contractors in response to implementation Committee approved fees for audit services of 292,142 of the UK Bribery Act 2010 the Act.
together with fees for non-audit work of 1,643,173 The nature of the services provided is set out in Note The Audit Committee has reviewed the internal 4 d to the consolidated financial statements.
There is procedures and concluded that that there are no no limitation of liability in the terms of appointment of failings and weaknesses identified as significant EY as auditor to the Company.
Risk Management and Internal Controls Internal Audit The Board is responsible for the Groups system of During the year the Audit Committee reviewed the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on requirement for the Group to establish an internal audit a continual basis.
The Groups system of internal control function.
The Audit Committee was of the opinion, is designed to safeguard the Companys assets and to supported by the Board, that the current size and scale ensure the reliability of financial information for internal of the Company did not warrant the employment of a and external use.
Any system of controls can provide full time internal audit function and that consultants only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that assets would be utilised, where appropriate, to undertake are safeguarded, transactions authorised and correctly specific internal control reviews.
The Audit Committee recorded and that any material errors and irregularities will review this decision at least annually.
are detected within a reasonable timeframe.
The Groups internal controls are therefore designed to manage, Anti-Bribery and Whistleblowing rather than eliminate, risk, recognising that not all risks The Audit Committee undertook a thorough review of can be eliminated and the cost of control procedures the Companys processes and procedures in relation to should not exceed the expected benefits.
Each part of the business provided input on the main ethics and compliance risks they faced which The Audit Committee regularly reviews, on behalf of were then used to update the Groups Code of Conduct the Board, the effectiveness of the Groups system of and Anti-corruption Policies.
An extensive training internal controls.
The review covers financial, operation programme has been undertaken for the Board and all and risk management processes.
An organisational employees and consideration given to the monitoring structure has been put in place with clearly defined of training provided by contractors.
Contracts have lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
been reviewed to ensure compliance with the Act and Procedures include Board approval for all significant a policy put in place to register all corporate hospitality new projects and senior management review and and charitable donations.
approval at appropriate stages of the transaction cycle.
There is a comprehensive annual budgeting and planning process with actual results reported to the Board against budgets.
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 42 Corporate Governance Report continued The Group is committed to the highest standards of review the results of independent audits of the Groups business conduct and has adopted a Whistleblowing performance in regard to health, safety, social, security Policy as a mechanism to support the achievement of or environmental matters, and to review any strategies this goal.
Employees are encouraged to raise genuine and action plans developed by management in concerns which are carefully and thoroughly investigated response to issues raised.
to assess what action, if any, should be taken.
A report is made to the Audit Committee on matters raised in Activities of the HSE Committee during the year accordance with the Whistleblowing Policy although, The principle issue considered by the HSE Committee during the year to 31 December 2011, no such issues during the year ended 31 December 2011 has been were raised.
the review of maritime security in relation to the Groups operations, particularly off Tanzania and Report of the HSE Committee Senegal.
Membership, Meetings and Attendance Members of the HSE Committee are appointed by the A reduction in piracy activity has been seen in Board and a majority of its members are independent Tanzania although support has been provided by the Non-Executive Directors.
Colin Ivory, the Companys Tanzanian Navy for the drilling and seismic study Operations & HSE Manager is invited to attend all surveys undertaken.
In contrast, Senegal had meetings of the HSE Committee and external advisors experienced an increase in security issues and the may be invited to attend as necessary.
Company had developed a maritime security plan for Senegal in conjunction with Salamanca Risk The HSE Committee meets at least twice each year Management and HASSMAR, the Senegalese and otherwise as required.
During the year ended government agency for maritime security and offshore 31 December 2011 the HSE Committee met three times.
Details of HSE Committee membership during the year ended 31 December 2011 and their individual The review of maritime security has led, in turn, to attendance at meetings were as follows: consideration by the HSE Committee of the Groups crisis management and press briefing procedures, although only minor changes were required.
Meeting Committee Members attendance During the year, the HSE Committee has also Lyndon Powell Committee Chairman 3 3 considered reports on health & safety incidents within John Lander 3 3 the Group, including a particular focus on lost time Patrick Spink with effect from injuries, and the results of any investigations 7 July 2011 1 1 undertaken.
The HSE Committee also reviewed the Jonathan Taylor 3 3 results of HSE audits undertaken during the year, which led to an update to the Groups air travel policy, Role and Responsibilities of the HSE Committee and the approval of the 2012 HSE budget for During the year, the HSE Committee reviewed new terms submission to the Board.
of reference in line with those for UK listed entities and recommended to the Board that the new terms of Report of the Nomination Committee reference be adopted by the Board.
The HSE Committees Membership, Meetings and Attendance full terms of reference are available on the Companys Members of the Nomination Committee are appointed website www.
com and its main by the Board and all three of its members are considered responsibilities include to: to be independent.
The Nomination Committee meets evaluate the effectiveness of the Groups policies and at least twice each year and otherwise as required.
systems for identifying and managing health, safety, During the year ended 31 December 2011 the social, security and environmental risks within the Nomination Committee met eight times.
During the Groups operations and assess the performance of the year ended 31 December 2011 the members of the Group with regard to the impact of its HSE decisions: Nomination Committee, and their attendance at receive, on behalf of the Board, reports from meetings, were as follows: management concerning all fatalities and serious accidents within the Group and actions taken by Meeting management as a result: Committee Members attendance review external stakeholder reporting concerning Dennis McShane Committee Chairman 8 8 health, safety, security, social and environmental John Lander 8 8 performance and issues: and Nicholas Smith 8 8 BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 43 Role and responsibilities of the During its deliberations, the Nomination Committee also Nomination Committee considered whether the new Non-Executive Directors During the year, the Nomination Committee reviewed should be appointed to any Board Committees, and if so its terms of reference and recommended to the Board which.
Subsequently, the Nomination Committee minor changes in preparation for the Initial Public reviewed the membership of all Board Committees, Offering in July 2011.
The Nomination Committees full recommending minor changes to allow for a more even terms of reference are available on the Companys distribution of membership between all independent website www.
com and its main Non-Executive Directors.
responsibilities include to: regularly review the structure, size and composition Diversity and the Davies Report: Women on Boards including the skills, knowledge, experience and During the second half of the year the Nomination diversity of the Board and make recommendations Committee considered diversity within the Group, to the Board with regard to any changes: particularly at Board and senior management level, and give full consideration to succession planning for it is supportive of the recommendations of the Davies Directors and other senior executives: Report: Women on Boards to increase gender diversity ensure that on appointment to the Board, in the Boardroom but not the implementation of quotas.
Non-Executive Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out clearly what is expected The Company welcomes the current emphasis on of them in terms of time commitment, Committee diversity in general.
All appointments, whether to the service and involvement outside Board meetings Board, the senior management team or elsewhere in the and review annually the time commitment required business, are made on the basis of merit, irrespective from the Companys Non-Executive Directors: of any gender, racial or other considerations.
The review the results of the Board performance evaluation Company is committed to improving diversity at all levels process that relate to the composition of the Board: of the business and recognises the valuable contribution review the membership of the Audit and Remuneration a more diverse workforce can make by producing the Committees and any other Board Committees as right mix of skills, experience and knowledge.
appropriate, in consultation with the chairmen of those committees: and During its deliberations on Board composition, succession consider the reappointment of any Non-Executive planning and diversity, and as an oil and gas exploration Director at the conclusion of their specified term of company with an extensive portfolio of interests in office, giving due regard to their performance and Africa, the Nomination Committee agreed that the ability to continue to contribute to the Board in the consideration of positive racial diversity could be light of the knowledge, skills and experience required.
merited in any succession planning or appointment process.
The Company is also putting in place a clear Activities of the Nomination Committee during equal opportunities policy which will embrace gender, the year racial and all other types of diversity.
During 2011 the Nomination Committee reviewed the roles and responsibilities of Board members prior to The Company intends to develop its aspirations regarding considering candidates for additional appointments.
racial, gender and other diversity during the coming By identifying the skills, knowledge and experience months, adopting wide diversity targets in its procedures held by the continuing Board members, the for Board and senior executive appointments.
An update Nomination Committee was able to ascertain which on progress will be provided annually.
additional skills any new Director should possess to bring the greatest benefit to the Company.
Succession Planning During the latter part of the year, the Nomination The Nomination Committee recommended to the Board Committee began its consideration of the Companys that Dr Nick Cooper be appointed as Chief Executive succession planning methodology for Executive Officer of the Company from 1 June 2011.
In addition, Directors and senior management.
This will continue the Nomination Committee considered, and made to be a focus for the Nomination Committee during the recommendations to the Board, regarding the early part of 2012 with the expectation that development appointment of Ronald Blakely, John Morgan and plans will be considered by the Board during the Patrick Spink as additional Non-Executive Directors of first quarter for implementation from the second the Company with effect from 7 July 2011.
In each case, quarter onwards.
the Company appointed international executive search agents to assist with the identification of suitable candidates for the Board vacancies.
Ophir Energy plc Annual Report 2011 44 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors Remuneration Details of Directors remuneration during the year and the report of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 45 to 52.
Shareholder Relations Dr Cooper, Chief Executive Officer, is primarily responsible for investor relations within the Group.
Presentations were made to analysts prior to IPO as well as on publication of the Groups half-year results in August 2011.
In addition, a Capital Markets Day was held in London in October 2011 to enhance investor knowledge of the Company and its strategy.
Aside from the above, the Board places a high priority on communication with its major shareholders.
Prior to IPO, the Chairman was responsible for maintaining regular contact with representatives of the Companys substantial shareholders and both he and the Chief Executive Office have continued this engagement through regular dialogue post Admission.
All financial and regulatory announcements, as well as other important business announcements, are published to the Investor Relations section of the Companys website www.
com and stakeholders can subscribe to receive new updates by email by registering online on the website.
The Board also uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Board aims to ensure that the entire Board is available at the AGM to answer shareholder questions on the resolutions put to the meeting and the Companys business where appropriate.
For 2012, the Company will ensure that the Notice of AGM and any related documentation is sent to shareholders at least 20 clear business days before the date of the meeting in accordance with the requirement of the Code.
Other Statutory and Regulatory Information Additional information on substantial shareholdings, voting rights and the appointment and powers of the Companys Directors, amongst other things, can be found on pages 31 to 32 of the Directors Report.
