Governance Board of Directors Chairman Executive Directors Kenneth George Harvey CBE, Colin Irwin John Hamilton David Jeremy Dupont MA, MBA Christopher Loughlin BSc Hons, BSc Drummond MA, MBA, LTCL, Group Director of Finance MICE, CEng, MBA Chairman CCMI Chief Executive, South Committees Chief Executive, Viridor West Water Committees Executive Nomination Chairman Committees Committees Appointed on 2 March 2002.
Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Appointed on 1 March 1997.
David was formerly regulatory Executive Executive Ken was formerly chairman and and finance director of South chief executive of Norweb Plc.
Prior West Water Limited, having joined Appointed on 1 August 2006.
Chris He was chairman of National to joining the Company Colin Pennon Group Plc then South was previously chief operating Grid Holdings in 1995 and was was a divisional chief executive West Water Plc in 1992 as strategic officer with Lloyds Register and previously deputy chairman of of Coats Viyella, having previously planning manager.
Previously earlier in his career was an executive London Electricity and earlier its been corporate development he held business planning and director of British Nuclear Fuels engineering director.
He has also director of Renold plc, a strategy development roles with Gateway Plc and executive chairman of been chairman of a number of consultant with the Boston Corporation.
He is a member Magnox Electric Plc.
He was also limited and private equity funded Consulting Group and an official of the CBI Environmental Affairs a senior diplomat in the British companies.
Currently he is the of the Bank of England.
He is Committee and the CBI South Embassy, Tokyo, working in both senior independent non-executive chairman of the Governments West Regional Council.
the consulting and contracting director of National Grid Plc.
Living with Environmental Change sectors.
Chris started his career Business Advisory Board: of UKTIs as a chartered engineer and Environmental Sector Advisory subsequently held a number Group: and of the Environmental of senior positions with British Sustainability Knowledge Transfer Nuclear Fuels.
He is a senior visiting chairman of Water UK since research fellow in Earth Sciences 1 April 2008 and since the yearat Oxford University: and a Past end has been appointed a nonMaster of the Worshipful Company executive director of the Cornwall of Water Conservators.
36 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Independent Non-executive Directors Company Secretary Martin David Angle BSc Hons, Gerard Dominic Connell MA Dinah Alison Nichols CB, Kenneth David Woodier, Solicitor, FCA Senior Independent BA Hons CMA, DMS, CPE Law Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Committees Committees Committees Audit Audit Chairman Audit Committees Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Chairman Executive Nomination Nomination Nomination Appointed company secretary Remuneration Chairman Remuneration Remuneration to the Board in March 1998.
Appointed on 12 June 2003. was formerly the head of group Martin currently holds nonUntil last year Gerard was group Dinah was formerly Director General legal services at Pennon Group Plc executive directorships with Savills finance director of Wincanton Plc.
Environment at the Department for then South West Water Plc from plc, OAO Severstal, Shuaa Capital Previously he was a director of Hill Environment, Food and Rural Affairs February 1990.
Previously he held PSC and The National Exhibition Samuel and a managing director and previously held various senior senior legal positions with H. P. Centre where he is Chairman.
In of Bankers Trust having trained appointments within Government, Bulmer Holdings Plc, Investors addition he sits on the Advisory originally at Price Waterhouse.
including being head of the water in Industry Plc 3i and Severn Board of the Warwick Business He has held other corporate directorate during the period of Trent Water.
School and the Board of the FIA finance and business development water privatisation.
Formerly he held senior positions in the City and in industry.
Crown Estate Counsellor, a nonpositions with Terra Firma Capital He is also a governor of Kings executive director of Shires Smaller Partners and various of its portfolio College School, Wimbledon.
Companies Plc and a director companies, including the executive of several charitable trusts.
chairmanship of Waste Recycling Group Limited.
Before that he was the group finance director of TI Group plc and held a number of senior investment banking positions with SG Warburg & Co Ltd, Morgan Stanley and Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37
