Governance Corporate governance and internal control the roles of Chairman and the Chief subsidiary boards of South West Water The Board and its Executives of South West Water and and Viridor: to the Executive Directors: Committees Viridor as recorded in the descriptions and to the Group General Counsel & The Board of the roles approved by the Board.
All Company Secretary, as appropriate.
The The Directors, independence Directors are subject to re-election when matters reserved to the Board include and responsibilities they have held office for three years but the approval of financial statements: The Board of Directors at the end of at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, acquisitions and disposals: major items the year comprised the Chairman, regardless of whether the Director has of capital expenditure: authority levels three Executive Directors and three held office for three years, each Director for other expenditure: risk management: Non-executive Directors.
All three Nonwill stand for re-election reflecting the and approval of the strategic plan and executive Directors are considered to be new provision in the updated Code.
independent as none of the relationships or circumstances set out in paragraph The Directors on the Board and their The Board operates by receiving written A.
3.1 of the Combined Code apply to attendance at the 11 scheduled reports circulated in advance of its them.
They are also considered to have meetings of the Board during 2010 11 meetings from the Executive Directors the appropriate skills, experience in their are shown below.
and the Group General Counsel & respective disciplines and personality Company Secretary on matters within All Directors are equally accountable for to bring independent and objective their respective business areas in the the proper stewardship of the Groups judgement to the Boards deliberations.
Under the guidance of the affairs with the Non-executive Directors Their biographies on pages 36 and 37 Chairman, all matters before the Board having a particular responsibility for demonstrate a broad range of business are discussed openly and presentations ensuring that strategies proposed and financial experience.
Gerard Connell and advice are received frequently from for the development of the business is the Senior Independent Non-executive other senior executives within the Group are critically reviewed.
His duties include the annual or from external advisers.
executive Directors also critically evaluation of the performance of the examine the operational and financial Directors have access to the advice and Chairman, deputising for the Chairman performance of the Group and fulfil services of the Group General Counsel when necessary and being available a key role in corporate accountability & Company Secretary and the Board as an additional point of contact on the through their membership of the has established a procedure whereby Board for shareholders.
Gerard is also Committees of the Board.
In addition Directors, in order to fulfil their duties, chairman of the Audit Committee and in the Chairman holds meetings with the may seek independent professional accordance with the Combined Codes Non-executive Directors without the advice at the Companys expense.
principles relating to audit committee Executive Directors present, to discuss The training needs of Directors are membership he has recent and relevant performance and strategic issues.
reviewed as part of the performance financial experience as recently he was evaluation process.
group finance director of Wincanton How the Board operates Plc.
Martin Angle is also a member In accordance with Group policies Performance evaluation of the Audit Committee and he has the Board has a schedule of matters The Board has internal procedures to relevant financial experience as set out reserved for its decision and delegates evaluate the performance of the whole in his biography on page 37.
There is a more detailed consideration of certain Board, each Committee, the Chairman, clear division of responsibilities between matters to Board Committees: to the each individual Director and the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary.
The evaluation procedure relating to the Board and its Committees was Board administered for the year by the Group Members Appointment date Attendance General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Kenneth Harvey Chairman March 1997 11 11 All participants views were sought Non-executive Directors: on a range of questions which were Martin Angle December 2008 10 11 specifically designed to ensure objective Gerard Connell October 2003 11 11 evaluation of performance.
Responses Dinah Nichols June 2003 11 11 were then summarised and evaluated by Executive Directors: 11 11 the Group General Counsel & Company Colin Drummond April 1992 11 11 Secretary for the Board and each David Dupont March 2002 11 11 Committee to consider and determine Christopher Loughlin August 2006 10 11 whether any changes should be made 38 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Gerard Connell Audit Committee Chairman to be more effective.
Overall The Audit Committee performance was considered to be satisfactory but a number of views Members Appointment date Attendance expressed by Directors on the operation Gerard Connell Chairman October 2003 6 6 of the Board and certain Committees were considered with a view to Martin Angle December 2008 6 6 further improving performance Dinah Nichols June 2003 6 6 and governance.
The Chairmans performance was With the significant growth of Viridor refreshed our risk review process this evaluated separately by the Nonover the last few years a particular year and in the coming months will be executive Directors, led by the Senior focus this year has been seeking carrying out a full review of the process Independent Non-executive Director.
to ensure that the business has the with external assistance, bearing in The Chairmans other significant policies, systems and controls in mind that it is over 10 years since commitments outside the Group place to manage a more complex and the Group introduced detailed risk have not changed during the year regionalised business across the UK, management policies and procedures and the Board is satisfied that such whilst maintaining performance and in accordance with the Turnbull commitments do not prejudice the profit growth.
Chairmans performance in relation pleased to note that an additional As part of the Groups risk review to his Group role.
non-executive director was appointed process we have assessed the key to the Viridor board together with Dealing with conflicts of interest areas of sensitivity to the Group and two additional executive directors The Board has in place a procedure these are set out on pages 24 to 27. responsible respectively for corporate for the consideration and authorisation This year we have concentrated on responsibility and regulatory matters: of conflicts or possible conflicts with the high level key risks to the Group and for operations, that there are the Companys interests.
This is in and have provided an indication of plans in place for IT systems to be accordance with the Directors interests how the level of risk has changed enhanced and upgraded: and that provisions of the Companies Act over the past year.
detailed independent reviews had 2006 and the Companys Articles of been carried out into the systems and As reported in previous Annual Reports Association which grants to Directors controls in place, including site selfwe continue to monitor carefully the authority to approve such conflicts assessment questionnaires to assist effectiveness of our external auditors subject to appropriate conditions.
in reinforcing the consistent application as well as their independence, bearing Board committees of company policy at the local level.
in mind that it is recognised there is Group policies allocate the tasks a need to use our auditors firm for In South West Water the emphasis has of giving detailed consideration to non-audit services from time to time.
been on continuing to systematically specified matters, to monitoring We have full regard to the Auditing review and challenge both its risks and executive actions and to assessing Practices Boards Ethical Standards the controls mitigating those risks as reward, to the Board Committees as and note that the revisions to these recorded in a corporate risk register set out in the remaining sections of this standards announced in December which was further enhanced in the governance report and the Directors 2010 required no change to our year.
The Committee was also pleased Remuneration Report on pages 45 existing procedures and safeguards to note that the South West Water and 46. as many of the recommendations had board had appointed a further nonalready been adopted as best practice.
executive director and therefore now has two independent non-executive Periodically a detailed review of directors in addition to the nonthe provision of external auditors is executive chairman.
undertaken in accordance with best practice.
The last such review was We have also recognised the need to undertaken in 2006 when the current continue to ensure that our approach auditors were appointed following a to risk is appropriate, particularly in the comprehensive competitive tender current challenging economic climate process.
In addition the auditors and having regard to the pressures appointment is reviewed annually by faced by the Group.
We have therefore the Committee.
As part of this annual Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Governance Corporate governance and internal control continued The Audit Committee continued review the Committee considers the for audit services, or audit-related external audit reviews focused on key tenure, quality and fees of the auditors.
services and non-audit services risk areas throughout the Group.
The following the guidance proposed by Group Audit Manager reports quarterly Our policy for the engagement of the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical to the Committee on audit reviews the auditors firm for non-audit work Standards Guidance for Auditors.
It undertaken and their findings.
involves the Group Director of Finance is recognised that the level of nonsetting out in a report to the Committee The areas of the business of the Group audit fees payable to the Companys reasons for appointing the auditors which received audit attention over auditors firm in the past year was firm for any material work and obtaining the past year included for example in excess of the audit fee paid.
This the approval of the Committee.
We Group taxation, treasury and pensions was primarily due to fees paid to the carefully review whether it is necessary processes and administration: South corporate finance arm of the auditors for the auditors firm to carry out such West Water payment processes, credit firm in relation to the major new PPP work and we will only grant approval management and debt collection, PFI contract gains by Viridor.
We for their appointment if we are satisfied payroll and related HR procedures, scrutinised carefully the reasons for that the auditors independence and leakage management and IT security the engagement of the auditors firm in objectivity are fully safeguarded.
and network administration: and accordance with the process described Viridor PFI approval processes, The Companys auditors assist in this above.
Of paramount importance was resource management including process by ensuring that the senior the continuing independence of the recyclate trading and foreign exchange partner responsible for the external auditors which the Committee was management, WEEE recycling, power audit of the Group remains responsible satisfied was maintained due to the generation sales, landfill site practices for such audit for no more than five safeguards followed by the auditors and procedures and IS security and years and that there is a Quality Review firm as described above.
Partner who is involved in planning the also satisfied that it was appropriate audit and in the reviewing of the final to appoint the auditors firm to We have considered a range of matters accounts of the Company including undertake such work because during the year in accordance with assessing any critical matters which of the auditors firms specialist our established calendar of business may be identified in the audit.
The knowledge and the limited number and Terms of Reference including auditors have also confirmed to the of consultants with the expertise in particular: Committee that they have complied to undertake such engagements.
reviewing the accounting policies with all relevant guidance issued by The Committee also acknowledged and reporting judgements adopted the Auditing Practices Board and that the absolute level of non-audit by the Group in preparing its financial have implemented appropriate fees payable to the Companys auditors statements.
We were satisfied that safeguards including: is similar to the level of non-audit they were appropriate to provide all non-audit related services, where fees incurred by a number of other a fair assessment of the financial necessary, being performed by comparable companies within performance of the Group personnel independent of the audit the FTSE 350. agreeing the external auditors engagement team strategy for carrying out the audit Another area of particular importance no work being undertaken that during the past financial year to the Committee is the internal audit would require the auditors to act activities of the Group.
The Group has a carrying out a review of the Half Year in a capacity as an advocate long standing and effective centralised Report with the external auditors no aspect of the auditing internal audit function together considering a report from the engagement partners performance with separate reviews undertaken external auditors on the review being assessed on the level of nonwithin both South West Water and of the financial year-end and audit fees charged to the Company Viridor.
A Group Internal Audit Plan is meeting them in the absence of approved in September each year.
It management to discuss their remit the Committee Chairman meeting takes account of the activities to be and any issues arising from the audit, with the auditors Quality Review undertaken by the external auditor and including managements treatment Partner periodically to discuss the also the Groups annual and regular of significant judgements which the scope and performance of their work.
This auditors had confirmed following Set out on page 77 is the level of fees approach seeks to ensure that there is discussion with management were paid to the Companys auditors firm an ongoing programme of internal and considered to be satisfactory.
40 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements Ken Harvey Nomination Committee Chairman considering an internal control The Nomination Committee report from the external auditors Members Appointment date Attendance which reviewed the co-ordination of activities with the Groups Kenneth Harvey Chairman March 1997 2 2 internal audit function Gerard Connell October 2003 2 2 keeping under review the Martin Angle December 2008 2 2 effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, including all Dinah Nichols June 2003 2 2 material financial, operational and compliance controls and The Nomination Committee meets risk management systems as and when required to select and monitoring and reviewing the recommend to the Board suitable effectiveness of the Groups internal candidates for appointment as audit function and approving the executive and non-executive directors annual internal audit plan to the Board and as executive directors to the Viridor and South West Water reviewing the findings of the internal boards, determine the nomination audit function and reviewing process and review succession plans.
and monitoring managements It is the practice of the Committee, responsiveness to such findings led by the Chairman, to appoint an overseeing the relationship with external search consultancy to assist the external auditors including in any Board appointments.
their appointment, remuneration, re-appointment and the monitoring During the year the Committee of their independence and considered the annual performance objectivity particularly having evaluation results for the Committee, regard to the supply of any nonreviewed succession planning for the audit services by the auditors firm Group and considered and approved the appointment of two new executive reviewing the level of audit and directors to the Viridor board.
After consideration of the reports provided by the external auditors, and our assessment of the performance and independence of the auditors during the year in conjunction with the Group Director of Finance, we consider that it is appropriate that the external auditors be re-appointed and will make an appropriate recommendation to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and the Directors remuneration report It is our practice as an additional can be found on pages 45 to 56. assurance, at the end of each meeting of the Committee, to hold separate meetings with the external auditors and the internal Group Audit Manager without management present to discuss their respective areas of activity during the previous period and any issues arising from their audits.
Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 Governance Corporate governance and internal control continued Dinah Nichols Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Board committees terms of reference The Corporate Responsibility Committee The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Members Appointment date Attendance Corporate Responsibility Committees Dinah Nichols Chairman June 2003 5 5 are available upon request to the Group General Counsel & Company Secretary Gerard Connell October 2003 5 5 and are also set out on the Companys Martin Angle December 2008 4 5 website pennon-group.
co. uk Colin Drummond April 1992 5 5 Internal control Christopher Loughlin August 2006 4 5 Wider aspects of internal control The Board is responsible for maintaining The Corporate Responsibility the 2010 11 Corporate Responsibility the Groups system of internal control to Committees duties, in the context Report and the associated Verifiers safeguard shareholders investment and of the requirement for companies to Report the Groups assets and for reviewing its conduct their business in a responsible the South West Water and Viridor effectiveness.
The system is designed manner including in relation to Corporate Responsibility Reports to manage rather than eliminate the risk environmental, social and governance of failure to achieve business objectives health and safety and security plans ESG matters, are to review the and can only provide reasonable and and performance strategies, policies, management, not absolute assurance against material the Verifiers recommendations for the initiatives, targets and performance misstatement or loss.
There is an ongoing next Corporate Responsibility Report of the Pennon Group of companies process for identifying, evaluating and in the areas of occupational health progress against the corporate managing the significant risks faced and safety and security: environment: responsibility targets for 2010 11 by the Group that has been in place workplace policies: non-financial the corporate responsibility targets throughout the financial year 2010 11 regulatory compliance and the role for 2011 12 and up to the date of the approval of the Group in society.
of this Annual Report and Accounts.
the annual review of Group policies During the year the Committee a Group plan for community support.
The Board confirms that it continues considered a wide range of matters to apply procedures in accordance with In reporting on corporate responsibility, in accordance with its Terms of the Combined Code and the Guidance the Company has sought to comply Reference including: on Internal Control The Turnbull with the Association of British Insurers Guidance which suggests means of Guidelines on Responsible Investment applying the internal control part of the Disclosure.
As part of these procedures the on pages 28 to 31 contains the Board has a Group Risk Management Groups 2011 Annual Corporate Policy GRMP which provides for the Responsibility Report.
identification of key risks in relation to the achievement of the business objectives of the Group, monitoring of such risks and annual evaluation of the overall process, as described in more detail below.
The GRMP is applied by all business units within the Group in accordance with an annual timetable.
Risk identification A full risk and control assessment is undertaken annually by the management of each business to identify financial and non-financial risks which are then regularly updated.
Each business compiles as part of regular management reports an enhanced 42 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Financial statements and focused assessment of key risks is reviewed and tested by the to continue in operational existence against corporate objectives.
The Companys internal audit function for the foreseeable future.
For this Board at each meeting receives from reason they continue to adopt the an investment appraisal process for the Executive Directors details of any going concern basis in preparing the evaluating proposals for all major new high-level risks identified and how financial statements.
capital expenditure and acquisitions, they are to be managed, together with with defined levels of approval and Directors responsibilities details of any changes to existing risks a system for monitoring the progress statements and their management.
The subsidiary of capital projects The Directors are responsible for boards of South West Water and Viridor a post-investment evaluation process preparing the Annual Report, the also receive at each meeting similar for major capital expenditure and Directors Remuneration Report and reports in respect of their own areas of acquisitions to assess the success the financial statements in accordance responsibility.
All Executive Directors of the project and learn any lessons with applicable law and regulations.
and senior managers are required to to be applied to future projects.
certify on an annual basis that they have Company law requires the Directors Internal control review effective controls in place to manage to prepare financial statements for An evaluation of the effectiveness of risks and to operate in compliance with each financial year.
Under that law the overall internal control compliance by legislation and Group procedures.
All Directors have prepared the Group the Group is undertaken in respect of of these processes serve to ensure that and Company financial statements in each financial year and subsequently a culture of effective control and risk accordance with International Financial up to the date of this report to assist management is embedded within the Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted the Audit Committee in considering organisation and that the Group is in a by the European Union.
Under company the Group internal audit plan for the position to react appropriately to new law the Directors must not approve the forthcoming financial year and also risks as they arise.
Details of key risks financial statements unless they are the Business review for the Annual affecting the Group are set out in the satisfied that they give a true and fair Report.
The Group General Counsel & Business review on pages 24 to 27. view of the state of affairs of the Group Company Secretary initially carries out and the Company and of the profit or Internal control framework the evaluation with Directors and Senior loss of the Group for the year.
The Group also has a well established Management for consideration by the internal control framework which is Audit Committee and subsequently for In preparing these financial statements operated and which applies in relation final evaluation by the Board.
the Directors are required to: to the process for preparing the In addition the Audit Committee select suitable accounting policies Groups consolidated accounts.
regularly reviews the operation and and then apply them consistently This framework comprises: effectiveness of the internal control make judgements and accounting a clearly defined structure which framework and annually reviews the estimates which are reasonable delegates an appropriate level scope of work, authority and resources and prudent of authority, responsibility and of the Companys internal audit function.
state whether applicable IFRSs as accountability, including responsibility The Committee reports and makes adopted by the European Union have for internal financial control, to recommendations to the Board on been followed, subject to any material management of operating units such reviews.
For 2010 11 and up to departures disclosed and explained in a comprehensive budgeting and the date of the approval of the Annual the financial statements.
reporting function with an annual Report and Accounts, both the Audit budget approved by the Board of Committee and the Board were satisfied The Directors confirm that they have Directors, which also monitors the with the effectiveness of the GRMP and complied with the above requirements financial reporting process, monthly the internal control framework and their in preparing the financial statements.
results and updated forecasts for the operation within the Group.
The Directors are responsible for year against budget Further information on the internal keeping adequate accounting records documented financial control control review is set out on page 39 that are sufficient to show and explain procedures.
Managers of operating in relation to the Audit Committee.
the Companys transactions and units are required to confirm annually disclose with reasonable accuracy that they have adequate financial Going concern at any time the financial position controls in operation and to report The Directors consider, after making of the Group and the Company all material areas of financial risk.
appropriate enquiries, that the Company and enable them to ensure that the Compliance with procedures and the Group have adequate resources financial statements and the Directors Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Governance Corporate governance and internal control continued Remuneration Report comply with the ordinary shares of nominal value 40.7 by UK legislation and the Articles in Companies Act 2006 and, as regards pence each, are set out in note 32 force from time to time.
Changes to the Group financial statements, article 4 to the financial statements on pages the Articles must be approved by the of the International Accounting 99 to 101.
All of the Companys Companys shareholders by passing Standards IAS Regulation.
They are issued shares are fully paid up, rank a special resolution: also responsible for safeguarding the equally in all respects and are listed e the Dir ectors have the power to assets of the Group and the Company on the Official List and traded on make purchases of the Companys and hence for taking reasonable steps the London Stock Exchange.
The own shares in issue as set out in for the prevention and detection of fraud rights and obligations attaching to the Directors report on page 33 and other irregularities.
the Companys shares, in addition Purchase of Own Ordinary Shares.
to those conferred on their holders No such purchases have been made Each of the Directors, whose names by law, are set out in the Companys during the year.
The Directors also and functions are listed on pages 36 Articles of Association Articles, have the authority to allot shares and 37, confirms that, to the best copies of which can be obtained up to an aggregate nominal value of their knowledge: from Companies House in the UK of i 47,958,483 such amount to a the financial statements, which have or by writing to the Group Company be reduced by any shares under ii been prepared in accordance with Secretary at the Companys following allotted or rights granted International Financial Reporting registered office.
in excess of 47,958,483 or ii Standards IFRS as adopted by the The holders of the Companys 95,916,966 by way of rights issue EU, give a true and fair view of the shares are entitled to receive the such amount to be reduced by any assets, liabilities, financial position Companys reports and accounts shares allotted or rights granted and profit of the Group and of the and in relation to general meetings from i which were approved by Company and of the Company they have the right shareholders at the 2010 Annual b the Directors report contained to attend and speak, exercise voting General Meeting AGM.
In addition, on pages 1 to 33 includes a fair rights and appoint proxies: shareholders approved a resolution review of the development and giving the Directors a limited authority b there are no restrictions on the performance of the business and to allot shares for cash other than pro transfer of issued shares of the position of the Company and the rata to existing shareholders.
These Company or on the exercise of Group, together with a description resolutions remain valid until the voting rights attached to them, of the principal risks and conclusion of this years AGM.
Similar except where the Company has uncertainties they face.
resolutions will be proposed at this exercised its right to suspend their years AGM.
The Directors have no The Directors are responsible voting rights or to prohibit their present intention to issue ordinary for the maintenance and integrity transfer following the omission of shares other than pursuant to the of the Companys website their holder or any person interested Companys employee share schemes pennon-group.
co. uk Legislation in in them to provide the Company and Scrip Dividend Alternative: and the United Kingdom governing the with information requested by it preparation and dissemination of in accordance with Part 22 of the f there are a number of agreements financial statements may differ from Companies Act 2006 or where their which take effect, alter or terminate legislation in other jurisdictions.
holder is precluded from exercising upon a change of control of the voting rights by the Financial Company following a takeover bid, Corporate governance Services Authoritys Listing Rules such as bank loan agreements, statements or the City Code on Takeovers Eurobond documentation, private The following disclosures are made and Mergers: placement debt and employees pursuant to Part 6 of Schedule 7 of the share plans.
None of these is c details of significant direct or Large and Medium-sized Companies considered to be significant in terms indirect holdings of securities of and Groups Accounts & Reports of their potential impact on the the Company are set out in the Regulations 2008 and Rule 7.2.
R business of the Group as a whole.
shareholder analysis on page 115: of the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure d the Companys rules about the By Order of the Board and Transparency Rules DTR.
appointment and replacement Ken Woodier As at 31 March 2011: of Directors are contained in the Group General Counsel & Company Articles and accord with usual a details of the Companys issued Secretary English company law provisions.
The share capital, which consists of 22 June 2011 powers of directors are determined 44 Pennon Group Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
