OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance which it considers to be central to the effective management of the business and to maintaining the confidence of investors.
The Group complies with the laws and endeavours to observe the customs and culture in the countries in which it operates and does business.
The Group expects all Directors and employees to drive to achieve the highest standards and to act with respect and integrity.
The Board monitors and keep under review the Company's corporate governanceframework.
"In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, the Company confirms that throughout the period from Listing to 31 December 2011 it complied with the relevant provisions set out in Section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 ""theCode"" with the exception of B."
1.2 of the Code which specifies that at least half the Board, excluding the chairman should comprise non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The Company does not currently comply with this provision.
For the period between Listing and 14 December 2011 it only had two NonExecutive Directors Peter Williams and Marc Brown, excluding the Non-Executive Chairman Paul Walker determined by the Board to be independent.
Jrg Mohaupt is not considered to be independent due to his affiliation with Premium TV Group, the majority shareholder in the Company.
On 14 December 2011 the Company appointed Peter Parmenter as an additional Non-Executive Director.
The Board consider Mr Parmenter to be independent.
The Board will continue to search for an additional independent Non-Executive Director partly to move towards full compliance with the Code.
This report, together with the Remuneration Committee Report on pages 48 to 50 provides details of how the Company has applied theprinciples and complies with the provisions of the Code.
The Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company.
The Board provides leadership for the Group and concentrates its efforts on strategy, performance, governance and internal control.
As at the date of this report, the Board has eight members: the Non-Executive Chairman Paul Walker, the joint Chief Executive Officers Simon Denyer and Oliver Slipper, the Chief Financial Officer David Surtees, three independent Non-Executive Directors Peter Williams, Marc Brown and Peter Parmenter and one Non-Executive Director Jrg Mohaupt.
The biographical details of each of the Directors and details of their membership of the Board's committees are set out on pages 34 to 35.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserve to it for decision and approve which include, but are not limited to: the Group's business strategy: annual budget and operating plans: major capital expenditure and acquisitions: the systems of corporate governance, internal control and risk management: the approval of the interim and annual financial statements and interim management statements: and any interim dividend and the recommendation of any final dividend.
The Board held five scheduled meetings during the period from Listing until the year-end.
The Group's strategy was regularly reviewed.
AllDirectors participate in discussions relating to the Group's strategy, financial and trading performance and risk management.
The Board considers it met sufficiently often to enable the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
The table below gives details of Directors' attendance at Board and Committee meetings between the Group's Listing and 31 December 2011.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Paul Walker 5 5 - 2 2 1 1 Simon Denyer 5 5 Oliver Slipper 5 5 David Surtees 5 5 Peter Williams 5 5 3 3 2 2 1 1 Marc Brown 5 5 3 3 2 2 1 1 Jrg Mohaupt 5 5 1 Peter Parmenter 1 Peter Parmenter was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 14 December 2011 and was appointed to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on that date.
At the request of any Non-Executive Director, the Non-Executive Chairman will arrange meetings consisting of only the Non-Executive Directors to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed.
During the period from Listing to 31 December 2011, the Non-Executive Chairman maintained regular contact and met the Non-Executive Directors.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board is chaired by Paul Walker.
The non-exeuctive Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and its effectiveness.
Simon Denyer and Oliver Slipper are joint Chief Executive Officers and are jointly responsible for the execution of strategy and the day-to-day management of the Group.
Thedivision of roles and responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive Officers are formally set out in writing and agreed bytheBoard.
Board balance and independence Paul Walker, Peter Williams, Marc Brown and Peter Parmenter are, in the opinion of the Board, independent of management and free from anybusiness relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
As set out above the majority of the Board excluding the Chairman do not comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
The board will continue to search for an additional independent Non-Executive Director partly to move towards full compliance with the Code.
Board appointments Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
All Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter to re-election at least once every three years in line with the Company's Articles of Association and provision A.
Information and professional development On appointment, Independent Directors receive a full, formal and tailored induction, including meetings with members of the management team and briefings on particular issues.
As an ongoing process, Directors are briefed and provided with information concerning major developments affecting their roles and responsibilities.
In particular, the Directors' knowledge of the Group's worldwide operations is regularly updated by arranging presentations fromsenior management throughout the Group.
The Non-Executive Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to effectively discharge its duties.
Where there are occasions when Directors are unable to attend a meeting they have the opportunity to review meeting papers and submit comments tothe Non-Executive Chairman.
Directors are also supplied with a monthly Chief Executive Officer report and a monthly financial report which provides theBoard with information on operational and financial performance and the Group's business plans.
All Directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
Directors may obtain, in the furtherance of their duties, independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Group's expense.
In addition, all Directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and all senior management.
Board performance evaluation The Board recognises that it is required to undertake a formal and rigorous review of its performance and that of its committees each financial year.
As the Board, and its committees have been in operation for less than a year at the date of this report no formal review hasyet taken place.
The first formal review of the effectiveness of the Chairman, the Board and its various committees will take place during 2012 and the results ofthis review will be presented in the Company's Annual Report for the year to 31 December 2012.
Committees The Board is supported by a number of committees including the following principal committees: Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
All the independent Non-Executive Directors are members of each of the principal committees ofthe Board.
The terms of reference of each of the principal committees are available on request by writing to the Company Secretary at the Company's registered address and are available on the Group's website: www.
The Committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage with third-party consultants and independent professional advisors and can calluponother resources of the Group to assist them in developing their respective roles.
44 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors: The table below gives details of Directors' attendance at Audit Committee meetings between the Group's Listing and 31December2011.
Audit Committee Peter Williams Chair 3 3 Marc Brown 3 3 1 Peter Parmenter 1 Peter Parmenter was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 14 December 2011 and was appointed to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on that date.
The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference.
The Audit Committee is responsiblefor: reviewing financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Group's performance: reviewing the Group's internal financial controls and risk management systems: assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditors: developing and implementing policies on the engagement of the external auditors for the supply of non-audit services: making recommendations for the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external auditors and approving their remuneration and terms ofengagement: and reviewing arrangements by which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and othermatters.
The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, given the nature of the senior management positions previously held by Peter Williams and Paul Walker seebiographical details onpages 34 to 35.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
The attendance record of Committee members is recorded in the table above.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Joint Chief Executive Officers, the Chief Financial Officer and the Group's external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group's internal control procedures and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee is also responsible for assessing whether the Group requires an internal audit function.
TheGroup does not currently have an internal audit function.
Given that most of the Group's financial functions are currently centralised, such a function isnot considered appropriate.
This will be reconsidered as the Group grows and decentralises its operations.
The Audit Committee was presented by the Group's Management with a presentation of the Group's current internal control procedures and risk management systems and following due consideration the Audit Committee was satisfied that the current arrangements and theGroup's internal controls and risk management systems were appropriate.
"In addition, the Committee reviewed the adequacy of the ""whistle-blowing"" arrangements in place to enable employees to raise, inconfidence, any concerns they may have."
The Committee is satisfied that such arrangements remain appropriate.
Whilst the Audit Committee is satisfied with the qualification, expertise, resources and independence of the external auditors, as the external audit of the Group's results for the year-ended 31 December 2011 was its first since Listing, the Audit Committee has not yet reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Audit Committee intends to review the effectiveness of the external audit process during 2012 and will report its conclusions in the Company's Annual Report for the year to 31 December 2012.
The Committee also reviewed the proposed audit fees and terms of engagement for the year to 31 December 2011 and has recommended to the Board that itpropose to shareholders that Grant Thornton UK LLP be re-appointed as the Group's external auditors.
The Committee recognises that the independence of the auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the assurance that itprovides.
The Committee monitors the types of non-audit work that are undertaken by the external auditors to ensure that their objectivity and independence is not compromised.
Any significant proposed non-audit assignments require prior approval and the Committee receives a report ateachmeeting providing details of non-audit assignments carried out by the external auditors in addition to their normalwork.
Details of the fees paid to the external auditors during the financial year can be found in note 4 to the financial statements.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement continued Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors: The table below gives details of Directors' attendance at Remuneration Committee meetings between the Group's Listing and 31December 2011.
Remuneration Committee Paul Walker 2 2 Peter Williams 2 2 Marc Brown Chair 2 2 1 Peter Parmenter 1 Peter Parmenter was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 14 December 2011 and was appointed to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on that date.
The Remuneration Committee is responsiblefor: Considering and evaluating remuneration arrangements for senior managers and other key employees and making recommendations to the Board.
Its purpose is to support the strategic aims of the business and shareholder interest, by enabling the recruitment, motivation and retention of key employees while complying with the requirements of regulatory and governance bodies.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 48 to 50.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises four independent Non-Executive Directors: The table below gives details of Directors' attendance at Nomination Committee meetings between the Group's Listing and 31December2011.
Nomination Committee Paul Walker Chair 1 1 Peter Williams 1 1 Marc Brown 1 1 1 Peter Parmenter 1 Peter Parmenter was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 14 December 2011 and was appointed to each of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on that date.
The Nomination Committee is responsiblefor: Reviewing the balance and composition of the Board and its committees and for identifying and recommending appointments or renewal of appointments to the Board.
These regular reviews ensure that the Group and the Board are able to draw from a complementary balance of skills and experience and there is in place an appropriate plan for orderly succession tothe Board.
The procedure for appointments is set out in its terms of reference.
During 2012 the Nomination Committee intends to consider and review the Group's succession planning arrangements and the Board's Performance Evaluation.
The Nomination Committee met once during the period from Listing to 31 December 2011.
The table above gives details ofDirectors' attendance at these meetings.
The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Company's registered address.
Corporate Responsibility Details of the Group's approach to Corporate Responsibility are set out on pages 40 to 41.
Accountability and audit The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Group's position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the Directors' Responsibilities Statement on page 51 which includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the Group's status as a going concern, and to the Independent auditor's report on page 52 which includes a statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information required to be presented by law.
46 Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS GOVERNANCE Internal control The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Group's system of internal control and the Audit Committee reviews its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures, which have been established to provide internal control.
As part of the process that the Board has in place to review the effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures designed to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case of those categorised by the Board assignificant, procedures exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
"In accordance with the revised guidance for Directors on internal control ""the Revised Turnball Guidance"", the Board confirms that there isan ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group."
These include those relating tosocial, environmental and ethical matters.
This process was in place throughout the period from Listing to 31 December 2011 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The process will be regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee which will report its findings forconsideration by the Board and is in accordance with the Revised Turnball Guidance.
The key procedures operating within the Group wereasfollows: during the year the Audit Committee met to evaluate risk and consider the appropriateness of the Group's risk assessment systems and internal control policies: the Group consists of a number of divisions each with its own management structure which forms part of the overall management structure ofthe Group.
The senior executives of these units report to the Executive Directors on a monthly basis: the Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary and re-forecasting control, focused on monthly performance reporting which is at anappropriate detailed level.
A summary of reports supported by commentary and performance measures is presented to the board each month.
The performance measures are subject to review to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable indications : the Group has established procedures for the delegation of authority: the Group's divisions operate within a framework of policies and procedures which are laid down in policy and procedure manuals andcover key issues such as authorisation levels: and the Group has established policies and procedures designed to ensure the maintenance of accurate accounting records sufficient to enable the preparation of financial statements, and consolidated financial statements, in accordance with the financial reporting frameworks applicable to the Group.
Relations with shareholders The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good communications with its shareholders and does this through the AnnualReport, preliminary and interim announcements, interim management statements and the Annual General Meeting.
In addition one of the JointChief Executive Officers and the Chief Financial Officer make presentations to institutional shareholders and analysts immediately following the release of the preliminary and interim results.
These presentations are made available on the Company's website: www.
com The Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major shareholders to discuss issues of importance to them, should a meeting berequested.
Annual General Meeting Voting at the 2011 Annual General Meeting will be by way of poll.
The results of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will be announced anddetails of the votes will be available to view on the Company's website www.
com as soon as possible after the meeting.
Perform Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47
