Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement The Board of Directors presents its Directors Report Key actions of the Board incorporating the Corporate Governance Statement for The Board held its annual strategy meeting in October.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director presented their proposed strategy to the Board and the Board received a The Board presentation from their financial advisors.
The proposed new strategy was debated and tested before being finalised Composition inFebruary 2012.
In particular the financial budgets were The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, three stress tested for substantial changes in matters such as house executive Directors and five non-executive Directors.
price movements and mortgage availability.
The Boards Nicholas Wrigley became Chairman at the AGM on approved current strategy is set out in the Chief Executives 21April2011, succeeding the retiring Chairman John White.
Mr Wrigley had been an independent non-executive Director The Board met on seven occasions in 2011, including the for five years prior to his appointment and had previously annual strategy meeting.
There was full attendance by all been Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the member of the Audit Committee.
Mr Wrigley remains an year, except that Jonathan Davie was unable to attend one Executive Vice Chairman of Rothschild London.
Board and one Audit Committee meeting due to prior The executive Directors have extensive experience in the commitments when the date of the meeting was changed.
Mike Farley has been with the The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for Group for 29 years and has served as Chief Executive for the its consideration and decisions.
The schedule includes last four years.
Mike Killoran joined the Group in 1996 and the approval of the Groups strategy, major investments, has been Finance Director for the last 12 years.
Jeff Fairburn annual and half year results, interim management joined the Group in 1989 and was appointed to the Board in statements and trading updates, review of performance, June 2009, having risen through the ranks of the business.
dividend policy, monitoring risk and ensuring adequate The non-executive Directors have complementary skill sets, financial resources are available.
The schedule is reviewed bringing substantial and diverse experience to the Board.
The implementation of the Boards strategy and Nicholas Wrigley and Jonathan Davie have considerable policies aredelegated to the executive Directors and senior experience of the financial markets and capital raising: David management within the Group.
Thompson and Richard Pennycook have extensive retail Board diversity and independence experience in their current roles as Chairman of Marstons plc and Finance Director of Wm Morrison Supermarkets plc During 2011 the Board requested the Nomination respectively: Neil Davidson has extensive experience in the Committee review the succession planning for the Board, regulatory environment, particularly with regard to inparticular non-executive Directors and consider a specific competition law: Mark Preston has extensive experience diversity policy for the Company.
inretail, commercial and residential property as Chief The Company recognises that a diverse workforce can bring Executive of Grosvenor Group Limited.
Further information benefits to the Company and by the same measure, the isprovided in the Directors Biographies on pages 30 and 31.
Board recognises the value of diversity, including gender Together the balance of skills, experience and personal diversity, to the Board and its decision making process.
characteristics of the non-executive Directors result in a When considering the nomination and appointment of new diversity of views and opinions to support the executive Directors the Nomination Committee evaluates nominees Directors and provide excellent advice and judgement on on the basis of skills, knowledge and experience in order theformation and implementation of the Groups strategy.
to appoint new Directors on the basis of merit and overall TheChairman encourages open and honest debate in the suitability.
Before any appointment is finalised, the Board spirit of constructive challenge, which results in high quality will take into account the balance of skills, knowledge, decision making in all areas of strategy, performance, experience and diversity on the Board.
Subject to the above principle, the Directors intend to work In accordance with the principles of the Code, there is a clear towards a meaningful percentage of women on the Board written division of responsibilities between the Chairman inline with the recommendation of Lord Davies Report, and Chief Executive which has been approved by the Board.
taking into account the size of the Board.
The Board has requested that the Nomination Committee considers a further appointment of a non-executive Director in line withits policy on diversity.
Persimmon Plc 32 Annual Report December 2011 Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued During the course of the year the Nomination Committee Performance evaluation and professional development recommended to the Board and the Board approved the The Board undertakes a written self-evaluation of its appointment of Mark Preston, Chief Executive of Grosvenor performance on an annual basis.
The Group Company Group Limited as a non-executive Director.
Mr Preston Secretary provides the Chairman with a report on the wasappointed to the Board on 9 January 2012 and brings Boards self-evaluation responses.
The Chairman makes to the Board a wealth of retail, residential and commercial recommendations to the Board where appropriate to improve property experience, complementing the existing skills of Board procedures and governance.
In the past this led to thenon-executive Directors.
theintroduction of the Boards annual strategy meeting, The Senior Independent Director, David Thompson has together with revised agendas and processes to enhance served on the Board now for 12 years and has informed the themanagement and governance of the Company.
No new Directors that he will retire at the AGM on 19 April2012.
recommendations were made for improvements in the When David Thompson retires, the Board has unanimously Boards procedures during 2011. elected Richard Pennycook to succeed him as Senior The Chairman undertakes annual verbal evaluation of Independent Director.
Mr Thompson retires from the the executive Directors performance.
The non-executive Auditand Remuneration Committees on 27 February 2012, Directors undertake a verbal annual performance evaluation but remains a member of the Nomination Committee.
of the Chairman, taking into account the views of the MrThompson was regarded as independent by the Board executive Directors.
The Chairman undertakes an annual despite his length of service during 2011. verbal evaluation of the non-executive Directors.
The Board considers the Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley The Board will be carrying out an externally assisted wasindependent upon his appointment.
It also considers the Boardevaluation during 2012 in accordance with Code non-executive Directors Richard Pennycook, Neil Davidson, provision B.
Jonathan Davie and Mark Preston to be independent.
The non-executive Directors to be led by the new Senior The Chairman has discussed with all Directors their Independent Director Richard Pennycook have the requirements for professional development and training appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and and where appropriate this has been provided to Directors.
knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their All Directors have access to the advice and services of the respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Group Company Secretary and may also seek independent professional advice and training at the Companys expense, The Company has procedures in place to ensure that if so required to carry out their duties.
Directors disclose any situation in which they may have an interest, direct or indirect which conflicts or may possibly The Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and conflict with the interests of the Company.
No authority to Nomination Committee all undertake a written or verbal authorise a conflict of interest has been required during 2011. self-evaluation of their performance each year and as a result of such evaluations a number of procedural changes Re-election of Directors have been made to Committees agendas and procedures to In accordance with Code provision B.
7.1 all Directors improve the flow of information to Directors.
As an example, will stand for re-election at the forthcoming AGM except Group Head Office Directors in charge of major support David Thompson who is retiring.
The Boards reasons for functions, such as IT and Health and Safety have made supporting the re-election of the non-executive Directors presentations to the Audit Committee during the past year.
Nicholas Wrigley, Richard Pennycook, Neil Davidson and Jonathan Davie are that they have individually produced excellent performance in their duties and shown a high level of commitment to their roles.
Mark Preston having recently been appointed to the Board is also standing for election in accordance with Article 114 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Board considers that Mark Prestons knowledge and experience make him a valuable addition totheBoard.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2011 33 Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued Nomination Committee Audit Committee The current members of the Nomination Committee The current members of the Audit Committee are are Nicholas Wrigley Chairman, David Thompson, RichardPennycook Chairman, Jonathan Davie and Mark NeilDavidson and Richard Pennycook.
John White was Preston, the latter being appointed on 27 February 2012. amember of the Committee in 2011 until his retirement Nicholas Wrigley was a member of the Committee until on 21 April 2011.
The Committee met twice during 2011 the AGM in2011 when he stepped down on becoming toreview and consider the composition of the Board and Chairman.
David Thompson retires as a member of the tomake recommendations for a new diversity policy and Audit Committee on 27 February 2012, having served theappointment of a new non-executive Director.
There was on the Committee throughout 2011.
Richard Pennycook, full attendance by Directors at the Committee meetings.
as Chairman of the Committee has recent relevant financial experience as Finance Director of Wm Morrison The Committee did not use a recruitment agencyoropen Supermarkets plc.
Jonathan Davie and Mark Preston also advertising as it did not consider that this would have have recent relevant financial experience in their current assisted in the recruitment of a high calibre non-executive roles respectively as Chairman of IG Group Holdings Plc Director with the right skills to complement the Board.
andChief Executive of Grosvenor Group Limited.
TheCommittee recommended Mark Preston to the Boardand he was subsequently appointed with effect The role of the Audit Committee is to monitor the integrity from9January 2012.
Mr Preston has undertaken a of the Groups financial reporting process: monitor the comprehensive induction with the Company and has effectiveness of the Groups internal control, Group Risk haddetailed discussions with the Chairman, Group function and risk management systems: review reports from ChiefExecutive, Group Finance Director, Chairman of the Risk Committee and the Group Risk Manager: monitor the AuditCommittee and the Group Company Secretary.
the statutory audit of the annual and consolidated accounts: MrPreston is also undertaking a programme of visits to review and monitor the independence of the Groups external regional operating businesses and their new housing sites.
auditor: the provision of additional services to the Group by the auditor and oversee the Groups relationship with them.
Remuneration Committee The Committee met on four occasions during 2011 and all members were in attendance at each meeting, save that Mr The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting the Davie did not attend one meeting.
The Committee regularly remuneration of the Chairman and executive Directors.
meets the auditor without the presence of the Companys The current members of the Remuneration Committee management.
The Committees Chairman also meets the are Jonathan Davie Chairman, Nicholas Wrigley, Neil Group Risk Manager without the Companys management Davidson and Mark Preston, the latter being appointed being present, at least once each year.
On Mr Wrigleys appointment as Chairman of the Board on 21 April 2011, he stepped down The key actions of the Committee during the year have been: as Chairman of the Committee and Jonathan Davie became oversight of the Groups health and safety strategy Chairman.
David Thompson retires as a member of the andpolicies: Committee on 27 February 2012.
Messrs Davie, Wrigley, Davidson and Thompson served on the Committee assessment of the release of NRV provisions relating to the throughout 2011.
Groups landbank: The Committees key action was to ensure that the executive the review of IT strategy and procedures: Directors remuneration was aligned with the Companys the publication of lead indicator reports bimonthly to strategic objectives, taking into account the current housing monitor the significant risks faced by the Group: market outlook and economic environment.
review of the Group Risk Register: The Committee met three times during 2011 to consider and approve the remuneration arrangements for the executive appointment of new Group Risk Manager.
The Committee members all During 2011 the Committee reviewed and updated the attended each meeting.
Details of the remuneration package Group Risk Register which has been approved by the for each Director serving during 2011 are set out in the Board.
The Groups principal risks are set out on page 25.
Remuneration Report on pages 41 to 49.
The Committee formulates and oversees the Companys The Remuneration Report will be put to shareholders for policy on monitoring external auditor objectivity and approval at the AGM to be held on 19 April 2012. independence in relation to non-audit services.
The auditor is excluded from undertaking a range of work on behalf of the Company to ensure that the nature of non-audit services performed or fee income relative to the audit fees does not compromise or is seen to compromise the Persimmon Plc 34 Annual Report December 2011 Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued auditors independence, objectivity or integrity.
The auditor The Audit Committee reviews the internal control and is therefore not allowed to carry out appraisal or valuation risk management systems in relation to the financial services, management functions and litigation support, reporting process and in relation to the process of preparing actuarial services, legal, accounting or remuneration services consolidated accounts.
From time to time non-audit Senior management from the Finance Department monitor services are put out to tender to a number of suitable firms.
the Groups financial management and reporting systems The Committee has reviewed and is satisfied with the and regularly assess the integrity and effectiveness of the performance of KPMG Audit plc and therefore recommends Groups accounting procedures.
Senior management from their reappointment as auditor.
the Finance and Company Secretarial Departments review financial reports, interim management statements and Details of the audit fee and fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc for trading updates, with appropriate consultation with the non-audit services are on page 66.
Groups auditor, ensuring that such reports and statements The Group has had a whistle-blowing procedure in place for are accurate and complete and comply with all relevant a number of years.
The whistle-blowing telephone hotline legislation and regulations.
Each operating business and is prominently advertised on Group notice boards and is Group function is required to report to the Group to publicised in the Staff Handbook.
All employees may raise ensure that all financial reporting is accurate and that all concerns about malpractice or improper or potentially illegal matters which may be material to the Group as a whole have behaviour in confidence without the concern of victimisation been reported to the Board.
Senior management reports or disciplinary action.
its findings to the Audit Committee and through that Committee to the Board.
Terms of Reference The Group Risk Department has facilitated an update to the Corporate Risk Register during the year to reflect the The Terms of Reference of the Audit, Remuneration and changing risk profile facing the Group.
The results of this Nomination Committees are available on the Companys process have been reported to the Risk Committee and website www.
com or from have been used to drive a risk focused programme of work the Group Company Secretary at the Companys designed to improve business processes and increase internal registered office.
The updated Group Risk Register has been approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
Risk Committee and internal control The Risk Committee met five times during 2011, ensuring Effective risk management is critical to the achievement there has been an ongoing process for the identification, of our objectives and the long term sustainable growth evaluation and management of the significant risks that of our business.
The processes that the Risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys Committee has applied in 2011 in reviewing the effectiveness system of internal control and for the review of its of the system of internal control include the following: effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement review of reports produced by the Group Risk Department the Boards policies on risk control through the design on internal control and management of risk: and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
Allemployees have some responsibility for internal control review of reports from the Corporate Responsibility aspart of their responsibility for achieving objectives.
Committee a sub-committee of the Risk Committee with particular reference to reputational, environmental, The Risk Committee has the delegated task of overseeing sustainability and social risks facing the Group: the Boards responsibilities with regard to risk and internal control.
Specifically this includes determining appropriate review of representations on risk and control from all control procedures and the review of effectiveness of internal managing directors of operating businesses following control.
The members of the Risk Committee during individual reviews of internal control within their 2011 were Mike Farley, Mike Killoran, Jeff Fairburn and operating businesses: Divisional Chief Executives, David Thornton and Nigel review of representations on risk and control from both Greenaway plus John White prior to his retirement.
TheRisk Group and divisional management.
Committee is supported by the Group Risk Manager.
The Risk Committee reports to the Audit Committee which oversees the Risk Committees activities.
The Company has complied with the Code provisions on internal control, having continued to operate procedures necessary to implement the guidance issued by The Turnbull Committee Report revised October 2005 throughout theyear.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2011 35 Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued Members of the Risk Committee completed the following The Chairman and Senior Independent Director maintain tasks which are essential parts of the Groups risk contact with major shareholders to understand their issues control framework: or concerns.
The Company monitors the constituents of its share register to ensure that its investor relations maintaining continuous detailed involvement in communications are appropriately targeted at its shareholder monitoring and controlling work in progress and controls base.
The Board is provided with reports and feedback from over land acquisition assessment: Directors presentations and meetings with both shareholders regular site visits and discussion with site based personnel: and analysts.
All Directors attend the Companys AGM and are available to answer questions at the meeting or privately.
ongoing review of Group performance in comparison to operational forecast and financial budgets: The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 involvement in each operating business board discussions, The Company complied with the Code throughout 2011 and particularly operational board meetings where all aspects continues to review its governance procedures to maintain of operation and performance were analysed.
The Code is available from Upon completion of these processes the Risk Committee the Financial Reporting Council, telephone 0207 492 2300 or formally considers the annual review of the effectiveness of online at www.
the Groups system of internal control.
This review covers all material controls including financial, operational and Other Disclosures compliance controls, as well as the Groups risk management Principal activities system.
The review for 2011 has been completed and approved by both the Risk and Audit Committees.
Persimmon Plc the Company is the holding company of the Persimmon Group of companies the Group and A detailed Group Risk Department programme of is a public company, listed on the London Stock Exchange.
work for 2012 has been approved by both the Risk and Theprincipal activity of the Group is housebuilding, which Audit Committees.
is carried out within the United Kingdom and is unchanged The Companys system of internal control is designed to from last year.
The Groups main trading companies manage rather than eliminate risk, in order to achieve are Persimmon Homes Limited and Charles Church business objectives.
However, the system does not provide Developments Limited.
The Group trades under the brand absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
names of Persimmon Homes, Charles Church, Westbury Partnerships and Space4.
Relations with shareholders The subsidiary undertakings which principally affect the The Directors recognise that it is important to maintain profits and assets of the Group are listed in note 31 to the good relations with the Companys shareholders as they financial statements.
increasingly provide perspective on governance matters, as well as strategy and financial results.
Mike Farley Business review and Corporate Governance Statement and Mike Killoran have responsibility for maintaining In accordance with the requirements of the Companies appropriate communications with institutional investors Act 2006, pages 2 to 28 of this Annual Report form the and analysts, advised by the Groups joint brokers Business Review section of this Directors Report.
This Merrill Lynch and Citigroup and financial PR consultants Business Review contains a review of the development Citigate Dewe Rogerson.
and performance of the Groups business during the year The Company issues regular trading and interim and the position at the end of the year with analysis using management statements to the London Stock Exchange as Key Performance Indicators.
TheBusiness Review is the well as the publication of full and half year financial results.
management report for the purpose of DTR 4.1.
The Company provides shareholders with access to detailed A description of the Groups future prospects, research and presentations of results at its analysts presentations, which development, the principal risks and uncertainties facing can be viewed on a webcast via the Companys website.
the business and details of the Groups use of financial Webcasts are available on the Companys website for a instruments are also contained within the Business Review.
Details of the financial risk management objectives and policies of the Group and associated risk exposure are given in note 22 to the financial statements.
Persimmon Plc 36 Annual Report December 2011 Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued Results and dividend payment Directors and Directors interests The Groups revenue for 2011 was 1,535.0m and its The current Directors of the Company and their biographical consolidated profit before taxation was 147.2m.
details are shown on pages 30 and 31.
John White was also a Director of the Company during 2011 until he retired from An interim dividend of 4.0p per share was paid to the Board on 21 April 2011.
Mark Preston was appointed shareholders on 13 December 2011 and it is proposed to to the Board on 9 January 2012.
None of the Directors have pay a final dividend of 6.0p per share on 15 June 2012 to any contracts of signicance with the Company.
Details of shareholders on the register at the close of business on the executive Directors service contracts are given in the 11May 2012, making a total for the year of 10.0p per share Remuneration Report on page 45.
A dividend reinvestment plan, which enables shareholders to invest their dividend in ordinary The beneficial and non-beneficial interests of the Directors shares, is available in respect of the final dividend and the and their connected persons in the shares of the Company final date for receipt of elections is 23 May 2012.
Further at 31 December 2011 and as at the date of this report are details are available from our Registrars, whose contact disclosed in the Remuneration Report on page 49.
Details details can be found on page 97. ofthe interests of the executive Directors in share options and awards of shares can be found on page 48 within the Going concern same Report.
After completing a full review, the Directors have a Appointment and replacement of Directors reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to fund its operations for the foreseeable future.
Directors shall be no less than two and no more than fifteen For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern in number.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by basis in preparing the accounts.
ordinary resolution or by the Board of Directors.
A Director appointed by the Board of Directors holds office until the Further details are provided in note 2 to the financial next following AGM and is then eligible for election by statements.
The Company may by special resolution Significant shareholdings remove any Director before the expiration of his term ofoffice.
As at 31 December 2011 and as at the date of this report the Company had been notified under the Financial Service At each AGM at least one-third of the Directors shall retire Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5 of the from office and shall be eligible for reappointment.
In any following interests of the voting rights of the Company: event each Director shall retire from office and shall be eligible for reappointment at the AGM held in the third Percentage year following his last reappointment.
In accordance with Number of of total Nature of Name voting rights voting rights holding the Companys Articles of Association Articles and the Code a non-executive Director who has been in office for Allianz SE 18,098,600 6.03 Direct & Indirect more than nine years consecutively shall retire at each AGM and shall be eligible for reappointment.
In accordance with Ameriprise Financial 15,321,191 5.09 Direct & Incand subsidiaries Indirect Code provision B.
7.1 the Board has determined that all Directors will in any event be subject to annual re-election AXA SA 14,923,488 4.97 Direct & Indirect byshareholders.
Templeton Foreign Fund 14,827,805 4.94 Indirect The office of Director shall be vacated if the Director resigns Aberdeen Asset 14,166,097 4.70 Indirect by notice in writing to the Company: or offers in writing Managements to resign and the Directors resolve to accept such offer: subsidiaries or a bankruptcy order or interim order is made against BlackRock Inc 13,818,947 4.59 Indirect the Director or the Director makes any arrangement or Legal & General 11,971,510 3.98 Direct composition with his creditors generally: the Director is, GroupPlc or may be, suffering from mental disorder: is absent from meetings of Directors for six successive months without permission of the Directors: becomes prohibited by law from acting as a Director: or is removed from office by notice in writing served upon him by all co-Directors.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2011 37 Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued Powers of the Directors Votes of members The business of the Company shall be managed by the All issued shares in the Company are fully paid and there Directors who may exercise all the powers of the Company, are currently no restrictions on voting rights.
Votes may subject to the Articles, the Companies Act 2006 and any be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate directions given by the Company in general meetings.
In members by a corporate representative.
The deadline particular the Directors may exercise all the powers of the for delivering either written or electronic proxy forms Company to borrow money, issue and buy back shares with is not lessthan 48 hours before the time for holding the the authority of shareholders, appoint and remove Directors meeting.
Toattend and vote at a meeting a shareholder and recommend and declare dividends.
must be entered on the Register of Members at a time that is not morethan 48 hours before the time of the meeting Capital structure calculatedusing working days only.
The following description summarises certain provisions of On a vote on a show of hands each member being the Articles adopted by special resolution passed on 22 April an individual present in person or a duly authorised 2010 and the Companies Act 2006.
This is only a summary representative of a corporation has one vote.
Each proxy and the relevant provisions of the Companies Act 2006 present in person who has been appointed by one member and Articles should be consulted if further information is entitled to vote on a resolution has one vote.
A copy of the Articles may be obtained by writing been appointed by more than one member and has been to the Group Company Secretary at the registered office.
given the same voting instructions by those members, Amendments to the Articles of the Company may be the proxy has one vote.
If a proxy has been appointed by made by way of special resolution in accordance with the more than one member and has been given conflicting provisions of the Companies Act 2006. instructions, or instructions to vote for or against by one member and discretion by another, the proxy has one vote Share capital for and one vote against a resolution.
On a vote on a poll, The Company has one class of share, being ordinary shares each member present in person or by proxy or by a duly with a nominal value of 10p each, which carry no right to fixed authorised representative has one vote for each share held income.
At 27 February 2012 the issued share capital of the bythe member.
Company was 302,591,431 ordinary shares including shares Details of employee share schemes are set out in note 30 held in Treasury with a nominal value of 30,259,143.
Further of the financial statements.
The Trustee of the Persimmon details are provided in note 24 to the financial statements.
Employee Benefit Trust may vote or abstain as it sees fit.
Shares may be issued with such preferred, deferred or other Dividends and distributions rights or restrictions, whether in regard to dividend, return of capital, or voting or otherwise, as the Company may from The Company may by ordinary resolution declare dividends time to time by ordinary resolution determine or failing not exceeding the amount recommended by the Directors, such determination as the Directors may decide, subject subject to statute.
The Directors may pay interim dividends to the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other and any fixed rate dividend whenever the financial position shareholders rights.
There are no securities carrying special of the Company, in the opinion of the Directors, justifies rights with regard to control of the Company.
The Directors may allot, grant options over, or otherwise All dividends and interest shall be paid subject to any lien dispose of shares in the Company to such persons including of the Company to those members whose names are on the the Directors themselves at such times and on such terms as Register of Members on the record date, notwithstanding the Directors may think proper, subject to the Articles, the any subsequent transfer or transmission of shares.
Companies Act 2006 and shareholders rights.
At the AGM on 21 April 2011, shareholders gave Directors authority to issue up to 33.3% of the issued share capital excluding shares held in Treasury at that date, being an aggregate nominal amount of 10,029,025 and to disapply pre-emption rights on the issue of shares up to 5% of the issued share capital, being an aggregate nominal amount of 1,512,957.
These authorities will expire at the conclusion of the AGM on 19April 2012.
Resolutions to renew these authorities will beput to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Persimmon Plc 38 Annual Report December 2011 Overview Strategy and KPIs Performance Governance Financials Other information Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued Transfer of shares Essential contracts or arrangements There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities in The Company is required to disclose any contractual or other the Company.
Any member may transfer their shares in arrangements which it considers are essential to its business.
writing in any usual or common form or in any other form The Group has a wide range of suppliers for the production acceptable to the Directors and permitted by the Companies of new homes.
Whilst the loss of or disruption to certain of Act 2006 and the UK Listing Authority.
The Company is these arrangements could temporarily affect the Groups not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may business, none are considered to be essential.
The Group result in restrictions on the transfer of shares or that may isnot dependent upon particular customers for the sale result in restrictions on voting rights.
of its products as a significant majority of its sales are to private individuals.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions and qualifying pension scheme indemnity provisions Supplier payment policy The Company has not issued any qualifying third-party It is the Groups policy to agree payment terms with its trade indemnity provision or any qualifying pension scheme creditors and other suppliers on an individual contract indemnity provision.
basis at the time the goods and services are ordered rather than following a standard code.
The policy is to ensure that Significant agreements suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and to One significant agreement contains provisions entitling the abide by the agreed terms once satisfied that the goods or counterparties to exercise termination or other rights in the services have been provided in accordance with the contract event of a change of control of the Company.
The Companys average creditor payment period at 31 December 2011 was 17 days Under the 300 million credit facility dated 1 April 2011 2010: 24 days.
disclosed in note 22 of the financial statements all amounts become due and payable under the terms of the facility if any Employee involvement person or group of persons acting in concert gains control The Group places considerable value on the involvement ofthe Company.
of its employees and has continued to keep them informed Control has the same meaning as section 450 of the on matters affecting them as employees and on the various Corporation Tax Act 2010 and acting in concert has the financial and economic factors affecting the performance meaning given to it in the City Code on Takeovers and of the Group.
Each of the Groups operating businesses Mergers.
Change of control is deemed to occur if at any time maintains employee relations and consults employees as any person, or group of persons acting in concert, acquires appropriate to its own particular needs.
Internal Group control of the Company.
magazines are published twice a year and distributed to allemployees to ensure that they are kept well informed The Company does not have agreements with any employee ofthe Groups operations.
In addition, information including Directors that would provide compensation concerning the financial performance of the Group is for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover, sent toeach operating business for circulation.
Further except that provisions of the Companys share schemes information can be found in our Sustainability Report at may cause options and awards granted to employees under www.
such schemes to vest on a takeover.
Details of compensation payable to Directors if their employment is summarily The Company makes various benefit schemes available terminated in breach of contract are provided in the to employees, including a Savings-Related Share Option Remuneration Report on page 45.
Scheme which encourages the involvement of employees in the Groups performance.
All permanent employees are encouraged to participate, subject to having six months service at the date of grant of options.
Persimmon Plc Annual Report December 2011 39 Directors Report and Corporate Governance Statement continued Equal opportunities Annual General Meeting The Companys policy is to have equal opportunities The AGM will commence at 12 noon on Thursday 19 April for training, career development and promotion for all 2012 at York Racecourse, Knavesmire Road, York YO23 1EX.
employees regardless of race, colour, nationality, ethnic The notice of the meeting and an explanation of the ordinary origin, religion or belief, gender, sexual orientation, political and special business is given in the accompanying circular.
beliefs, marital or civil partnership status, age, pregnancy Auditor or maternity or disability.
Applications for employment by disabled persons are always fully considered with A resolution for the reappointment of the auditor KPMG appropriate regard to the aptitude and abilities of the person Audit Plc will be proposed at the AGM.
In the event of an employee becoming disabled Audit statement every effort is made to ensure that their employment with the Group continues, that appropriate training is arranged The Directors who held ofce at the date of approval and any reasonable adjustments are made to their working of this Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, environment.
It is the Groups policy that the training, career there is no relevant audit information of which the development and promotion of disabled persons should, as Companys auditor is unaware and that each Director far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
hastaken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant Charitable and political donations auditinformation and to establish that the Companys The Group has made donations of 94,000 2010: 93,000 auditor is aware of that information.
This confirmation tocharitable organisations during the year largely to support isgiven and should be interpreted in accordance with the training of apprentice stonemasons at York Minster.
theprovisions of section 418 of the Companies Act 2006.
Further details of the Groups community involvement and Directors responsibility charitable activities can be found in the Sustainability Report on our website at www.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Nopolitical donations were made during the year.
Report and financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Further details are provided Acquisition of own shares on page 50.
At the AGM held on 21 April 2011 shareholders granted By order of the Board the Company authority to purchase up to an aggregate of30,117,192 of its own shares.
No shares have been Neil Francis purchased to date under this authority and therefore at Group Company Secretary 31December 2011 the authority remained outstanding.
27 February 2012 Thisauthority expires on 19 April 2012 and a resolution to renew the authority will be put to shareholders at the Persimmon Plc forthcoming AGM.
Company Registration Number: 1818486 At 1 January 2011, the Company held 1,419,508 shares in treasury 0.47% of the issued ordinary share capital at that date excluding treasury shares which had previously been purchased under authorities granted by shareholders.
During2011 1,017,482 of these shares representing 0.34% of the issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares at 31 December 2011 with a nominal value of 101,748 were transferred to Directors and employees to satisfy the exercise of share options or awards under the Groups various share schemes, for a total cash consideration of 2,414,155.
At31 December 2011 the Company held 402,026 shares in treasury, representing 0.13% of the issued share capital of theCompany at that date, excluding treasury shares.
Persimmon Plc 40 Annual Report December 2011
