Petrofac 86 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Dear shareholder Board Risk Committee report This has been a particularly busy year for the Board Risk Committee.
The UK Code now requires the Board to determine the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in order to achieveits strategic objectives, in addition to which the Group has increased in size and complexity.
TheBoard therefore requested the Board Risk Committee to undertake a review of the Groups risk management framework, in order that it could Stefano Cao be satisfied that the risk management framework Chairman of the Board Risk Committee enabled it to full its governance commitment and furthermore that the systems in place continued to be t for purpose.
This was a large task requiring an Role of the Committee additional Committee meeting outside the normal cycle of meetings and including an extensive review Recommends risk appetite and delegations of authority.
and revision of the Groups system of delegated Approves the annual assurance plan for enterprise risks.
A full report on progress todate is Reviews the Groups compliance system of corporate provided later in this report.
standards and procedures for enterprise risks.
The UK Bribery Act was implemented during the year and Petrofac Recommends any areas of risk management change that appointed Marcelo Cardoso, as Group Head of Compliance with may be required for enterprise risks.
primary responsibility for ensuring that employees comply with the Groups CoBC, which includes compliance with our anti-bribery Reviews the Companys risk transfer strategy, including and corruption standard.
Marcelo provided theCommittee with insurance provision.
both a general update on the CoBC and also managements Reviews the risk management and reporting systems for progress in implementing processes for mitigating risks associated projects and investments.
There was, naturally, an increased focus from both the Committee How the Committee spent its time during the year and the Board on the Groups security arrangements given the Business continuity continuing political and social unrest in the Middle East and Anti-bribery and corruption framework NorthAfrica.
We sought assurance from management about the Insurance Groups project, ofce and country evacuation plans, aswell as Group policies business continuity plans, and we received monthly updates Risk management framework outside scheduled meetings, with follow-up telephone calls Security and travel ifdeemed necessary.
Governance other As in previous years, the Committee reviewed the three Group policies that cover non-financial controls and received general updates on business continuity planning, security and insurancecover.
Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2011 Meetings attended eligible to attend Current members Stefano Cao Chairman 4 4 Roxanne Decyk 2 2 1 Ren Mdori n a Rijnhard van Tets 4 4 Previous members Kjell Almskog 2 2 1 Mr Mdori was appointed a Director and member of the Board Risk Committee in 2012.
Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 87 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 The Committee received a great deal of support from management over the course of the year: all Executive Directors made themselves available to answer the Committees questions and theGroup Director Legal & Commercial Affairs and Group Head ofEnterprise Risk led the overall review of the Groups risk management framework.
In addition, other members of the management team made presentations to the Committee.
The Committee continues to use the revised Turnbull guidance, published by the FRC in 2005, as its main guidance for discharging its risk management obligations.
Turnbull suggested companies follow a principles-based approach and consider the following questions: Do you know and understand your significant risks?
How do you monitor your internal controls and risk managementsystem?
Is your Board receiving information which allows it to identify when delivery of its goals are under threat?
What is your general control environment like?
We continue to believe that these questions are highly pertinent and we look forward to the FRCs limited review of the Turnbull guidance scheduled for 2012.
We welcomed the FRC paper published in September 2011 on how boards might discharge theirrisk obligations.
We agree in particular that there is no universal model for corporate risk management: each company needs to think carefully about its own particular circumstances and devise an appropriate framework.
We also agree that while good processes and reporting are essential, it is equally important to have a culture that promotes personal ownership, openness and trust.
A company needs good processes, talented management and the right values in order to promote truly effective riskmanagement.
I anticipate that 2012 will be another busy year for the Board Risk Committee as our new risk management framework beds down and we focus on assurance and reporting.
Stefano Cao Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 2 March 2012 Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 88 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued delegated below and to whom, and species the extent of Review of the Groups risk management independent review.
framework In August 2011, management presented an initial report to the As a result of the changes implemented by the UK Code there has Committee both in relation to the risk management framework and been an increased emphasis on companies being able to articulate the Groups delegated authorities matrix.
The Committee provided their risk appetite and to determine in advance what sort of risks direction and comment as a consequence of which management they will or will not take.
The introduction of the UK Code in 2010 made various revisions before returning to the Committee in prompted the Board to request the Board Risk Committee October 2011 with final drafts.
The Committee then recommended to undertake a review of the Groups risk management framework to the Board that it approve the revised risk management not only to ensure that the Board complies with the UK Code framework and the revised matrix of delegated authorities which but also that the risk management framework is appropriate given it did at the end of 2011. the Groups recent growth.
As a culmination of the work undertaken during 2011, the new risk At the start of 2011, the Group Head of Enterprise Risk appointed management framework which came into effect from January McKinsey & Company to assist him in this review.
At the same time, 2012 is explained in further detail on page 89 and is set out in the mainly in response to last years Board evaluation exercise, the diagram below: Group Director Legal & Commercial Affairs initiated a review of the Groups delegated authorities.
The two exercises were clearly linked as the Groups delegated authorities matrix sets out which matters are reserved for the Boards consideration and which are Responsible for approval of significant projects and investments Board and approval of enterprise riskregister Provides assurance Provides assurance on framework on framework Board oversight of framework of internal Board Risk Committee Audit Committee controls and risk management Enterprise risk register given to Board Risk Committee for review Senior management consider risk on significant projects and investments for formal Group Risk Committee consideration by the Board.
Oversight of enterprise riskregister Divisional management Divisional Risk Review oversight and review of projects Risk management is embedded within Business Units each business unit Assurance to management and Group Functions Internal Audit the Board Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 89 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 The Board retains ultimate responsibility for setting the Groups risk Risk appetite appetite and approving the enterprise risk register: that is risks As part of the review of our risk management framework, the which the Board considers sufciently significant that might prevent Board Risk Committee considered at length how the Company the delivery of strategy or threaten Petrofacs continued existence.
might articulate its risk appetite, engaging the whole Board in the Details of the key risks facing the business are described on pages discussion.
The Board considered that it should not apply a single, 47 to 49. aggregate risk appetite for the Company as a whole.
It believes, The Board Risk Committee is responsible for making however, that it can go some way to articulating its tolerance recommendations in relation to the Groups risk appetite and for individual types of risks on an aggregated basis, albeit this is matrix of delegated authorities to the Board.
In addition, it reviews unlikely to be of a precise nature, such as might be seen within a the enterprise risk register and is responsible for oversight of risk financial institution.
The Board Risk Committee will continue to management systems and providing the Board with formal consider this matter over the course of 2012 as it understands that assurance that these systems are appropriate and effective.
the Board must have a clear understanding of the Groups risk and Historically, we have talked about the Board Risk Committee tolerance for overall and individual types of risk at any one time so having primary responsibility for operational risk management.
that it is able to exercise appropriate stewardship.
Currently, the Thiscontinues to be the case, but we have broadened Board develops an understanding of the risks facing the business our denition to include Group enterprise risk management by reliance upon the revised delegated authorities matrix: our which includes both operational risks and enterprise risks.
enterprise risk register: our policies and standards and ongoing open dialogue with executive colleagues.
The Audit Committee has a number of roles including responsibility for oversight of the Groups financial and regulatory controls The Board concluded last year that the Groups matrix of delegated and providing the Board with formal assurance that these systems authorities should be revised.
The Group has grown signicantly are appropriate and effective.
since the Company was initially listed while the matrix of delegated authorities had remained largely unchanged.
This had resulted in The Group Risk Committee is a management committee and the Board spending too much time considering relatively minor hasbeen formed by the amalgamation of the former Group operational matters.
The Board believed that there was an RiskReview Committee and the Enterprise Risk Committee.
opportunity for management to deal with more routine matters Thiscommittee provides reports directly to both the Board and sothat the Board could spend more time considering strategy, tothe Board Risk Committee.
The committee reviews the risks significant risks and succession planning.
The Group Director Legal forallmaterial new business opportunities or projects after which & Commercial Affairs worked with the Board Risk Committee over management will bring these matters to the Board for its formal a number of months to develop a revised matrix, taking account of consideration provided the committee has concluded that the risk the Groups increased size and evolving shape.
The revised matrix associated with the investment or project has been appropriately sets out clearly what requires Board approval and what may be addressed.
This committee also has primary responsibility for dealt with by management.
For any matter that must go to the drawing up and maintaining the Group enterprise risk register and Board, the risk associated with the business opportunity both bringing it to the Board Risk Committee for its initial review as well inisolation and from a Group perspective will be considered.
as to the Board for its further review and approval.
Its members TheBoard does not therefore pre-judge whether or not it are Ayman Asfari, Maroun Semaan, Andy Inglis, Marwan Chedid, willundertake a particular business opportunity but it has TimWeller and Richard Milne.
determinedwhich types of business it would wish to consider.
Divisional Risk Review Each division has a Risk Review Committee While the revisedmatrix of delegated authorities has generally chaired by its Chief Executive which provides peer review increased managements authority with regard to routine business, of proposed projects and investments.
theBoardhas increased its oversight of business in any new territory: joint venture arrangements: contracts with novel Each of our individual businesses has its own business technology, services or terms.
management system that incorporates policies and procedures that assist with the business risk management.
Each business Our enterprise risk register continues to evolve.
Management has produces its own risk matrix or register.
Each business units sought to identify the key risks facing Petrofac and the register will management team meets regularly and monitors the risk matrix be revisited regularly by the Group Risk Committee during 2012 as a matter of course.
They note any change in risk assessment and beyond.
It will be reviewed by the Board Risk Committee at an individual and aggregate level and seek to take appropriate before being submitted to the Board for its consideration mitigating action should they believe it necessary.
for each business are formally reviewed each month by Ayman and Executive Directors and selected members of senior management his immediate management team.
If a situation occurs which local are invited to the Board Risk Committee as a matter of course.
management judges to be serious, it will be reported up the chain They respond to the Committees questions in a very open way, of command immediately.
which provides the Committee with reassurance that the Groups overall culture is one where risk management standards and processes are embedded and respected within the organisation.
Itis essential that a company has the right kind of management and behaviours as well as the right kind of standards and processes if it is to manage risk appropriately.
Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 90 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Assurance and reporting Security The Board Risk Committee will continue its work in relation to the The Board Risk Committee has followed events in the Middle East Groups risk management framework in 2012.
Its primary areas and North Africa MENA during 2011.
The majority of our work is, of focus will be in relation to further developing the assurance of course, in the MENA region, but to date the Group has suffered programme for the Groups enterprise risk management and minimal disruption to its activities.
Our Group Head of Security ensuring that our reporting on risk through the chain of command provided the Board Risk Committee with a full update is meaningful.
on our security policies and procedures during our meeting in May.
Whilereviewing our security framework is important, the Board It is likely that Group Internal Audit will focus on providing assurance wasalso concerned about the potential immediate impact on the for financial and regulatory controls and therefore continue to report Group.
It therefore requested that the Group Head of HSSEIA solely to the Audit Committee, while the relevant Group functions provide a full additional update to the Board at the start of 2011 will report to the Board Risk Committee on the range of enterprise andregular updates on each country from then on.
risks that fall within its remit.
Policies Interface between the Board Risk Committee During the year, the Board Risk Committee reviewed our three and Audit Committee Group policies, as listed in the table below.
The reviews considered The Board Risk Committee and Audit Committee both revised whether the policies required any amendment and assurance that theirrespective terms of reference during 2011.
As a result, the they are being adhered to across the Group and were revised Board Risk Committee will now take responsibility for assurance as appropriate.
and oversight of enterprise risk management while the Audit Committee takes responsibility for assurance and oversight of Policy Articulates our attitude to risks related to: financial and regulatory controls.
Whilst the Board has delegated Sovereign and Financial Country, ination, commodity, currency, the detailed work to these two committees, it retains overall Market Risk Policy credit and counterparty risk responsibility for ensuring that the Group has effective internal Ethical, Social and Ethics, non-compliance with a countrys controls and risk management and therefore relies upon Regulatory Risk Policy local laws and regulations assurances from both committees that this is the case.
In addition, Operational and Project performance, business continuity, the Board retains ultimate responsibility for the Group enterprise Contractual Risk Policy leadership change and HSSEIA risk register.
The Group Head of Treasury provided a full report at the start Rijnhard, Roxanne and now Ren are members of both the Board of2011 about the Sovereign and Financial Market Risk Policy Risk Committee and Audit Committee, thus helping to ensure that which, given the continued global financial insecurity, was timely.
each committee is aware of the others activities.
The Board Risk Committee approved a number of standards supporting one or other of the above policies: the community Bribery standard regarding our in-country CR activities: and our The UK Bribery Act came into force in July 2011 and created a new securitystandard.
corporate offence of failing to prevent bribery.
Our CoBC is clear that Petrofac does not permit the giving or receiving of bribes.
Business continuity Nevertheless, we have to ensure that we have in place adequate We made good progress at the start of the year in relation to our procedures, designed to prevent bribery in our value chain.
Management has reported that its Theprimary remit of our newly appointed Group Head of hub ofces in Sharjah, Aberdeen, Mumbai, Chennai, London, Compliance is to ensure that employees are aware of and adhere Woking and Kuala Lumpur now have business recovery plans to the CoBC.
He has initially focused on rolling out Petrofacs andthat testing these plans has been completed for three standard for prevention of bribery and corruption, including ofces.
The remaining ofces will be tested in due course.
the implementation of an extensive educational and training OurAberdeen and Woking ofces have each been awarded programme and raising awareness of our whistle blowing process.
Online training, designed to communicate the existence of our standard and its key principles was rolled out to an initial targetedpopulation of 3,000 in July 2011.
At the end of the year, Insurance 2,003employees across the Group had completed the anti-bribery The Board Risk Committee received two insurance updates during training, with new employees being required to undertake the year, which covered both a general insurance update and a thetraining within 90 days of joining the Group.
The anti-bribery catastrophe insurance update.
training has been delivered to teams from Iraq, Turkmenistan andAlgeria and there has been engagement with project teams inNigeria and Mexico.
