Petrofac 82 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Dear shareholder Audit Committee report The Audit Committee held three meetings during the year and it was very much business as usual.
The Committee has responsibility for overseeing our financial reporting and has a structured agenda of matters to consider which coincide with key events in our financial reporting cycle.
Following on from our 2010 commitment to review the interface between this Committee and that of the Board Risk Committee, the terms of reference for both committees were reviewed and Rijnhard van Tets updated during the year.
While the Audit Committee continues to Chairman of the Audit Committee concentrate on all financial and regulatory compliance internal controls, the remit of the Board Risk Committee is to consider the Groups system of enterprise risk management.
As Chairman of Role of the Committee theAudit Committee, I also serve on the Board Risk Committee.
Inaddition, two of my fellow members Roxanne and Ren also Monitors the integrity of the Companys financial statements serve on both Committees.
The Board considers it very important and reviews significant financial reporting judgements.
that there is a shared dialogue between committee members notwithstanding the split in responsibilities.
Reviews the effectiveness of financial and regulatory In December 2010, the FRC published revised guidance on audit compliance controls and systems.
committees which resulted in the Committee revising the non-audit Monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit services policy, details of which are provided later in this report.
function and reviews its material findings.
An important aspect of the Committees role is the continuing Oversees the relationship with the external auditors, review of the effectiveness of the Companys financial and includingagreeing their fee and assessing their independence regulatory compliance internal control process.
As the Group and effectiveness.
continues to grow and expand, the introduction of our Integrated Energy Services IES division is one example of how the Group is evolving.
Itisparticularly important for the Committee to be satisfied How the Committee spent its time during the year that oursystems of internal controls appropriately reect the Whistle blowing change inthe size and shape of the Group, as well as being Finance and tax reviews updates embedded into each of ourbusinesses.
Internal audit External audit Results review Training Other Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2011 Meetings attended eligible to attend Current members Rijnhard van Tets Chairman 3 3 Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 Roxanne Decyk 2 2 1 Ren Mdori n a Previous members Kjell Almskog 1 1 1 Mr Mdori was appointed a Director and member of the Audit Committee in January 2012.
Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 83 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 In line with the UK Code, we have encouraged committee members to ensure that they keep up to date with technical developments throughout the year.
During 2011, I arranged for our auditors, Ernst& Young, and the Finance Director of IES to provide four training seminars to the Committee, albeit all Directors were invited.
Furtherdetails of the seminars are provided within this report.
I am delighted that Ren Mdori joined the Committee following hisappointment in January 2012.
I consider that the Committee has an appropriate balance between those individuals with finance or accounting training and those from an oil & gas background.
BothRen and I have recent and relevant financial experience andI have made considerable efforts during the year to ensure thatweand the rest of the Committee are kept up to date with nancialdevelopments.
Looking ahead to 2012, we will continue to concentrate on ensuring that the Group produces financial statements of an appropriate standard and will monitor the framework of financial and regulatory compliance controls.
We will, in particular, look to ensure that thedetail of the interface between the Audit and Board Risk Committees is developed so that the risk of any matter falling between the two committees is minimised.
Rijnhard van Tets Chairman of the Audit Committee 2 March 2012 Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements Petrofac 84 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Financial reporting Internal controls systems The Committee assists the Board in the effective discharge of its The Committee took partial responsibility for reviewing the Groups responsibilities for financial reporting and internal control.
As set out internal controls primarily through its engagement with our internal in our Directors statements on page 106, Directors are responsible audit function and the Board Risk Committee.
Our Group Head of for the preparation of Group financial statements, in accordance Internal Audit, Ajit Nair, is responsible for providing assurances on with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS, and for the adequacy of internal control functions throughout the Group being satisfied that they give a true and fair view.
The Group has and attends each Committee meeting.
At the start of the year the aninternal control and risk management framework in place Committee agrees the annual internal audit plan, which is drawn up whichpermits the Company to prepare consolidated accounts.
Any significant findings from internal Thisincludes policies and procedures to ensure that adequate control audits undertaken during the year have been appropriately accounting records are maintained and transactions accurately investigated and the necessary actions taken to address and rectify recorded to ensure the Companys financial reports and any weaknesses that may have been identied.
Ajit provides a communications to the market give a clear and balanced progress report part way through the year as a consequence of assessment of the Companys position.
which the plan may be revised.
A final report on the achievement of the plan is given at the end of each year and in February 2012 the During the year, the Committee considered and reviewed: internal audit department confirmed it had completed 78 2010 full-year and 2011 half-year financial statements, including assignments across abroad cross-section of the Groups activities all requirements for financial reporting during 2011.
TheCommittee has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function and KPIs relating to the activity of the 2010 annual final results and half year results announcements department.
In September 2011, Ajit gave a presentation to the made to the London Stock Exchange senior management team on internal audit matters.
Action plans Companys Interim Management Statements and all proposed with the managing director of each business unit were agreed and announcements to be made by the Company to the extent that as a result the Committee is encouraged that management is they contained material financial information giving its full attention to any outstanding issues.
revised accounting policies Training operation of the Companys whistle blowing policy At the end of last year, I considered whether the Committee might effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk benefit from some formal training.
As a result, the following topics management procedures were identied and representatives of Ernst & Young as well as recommendations that the Board approve the new Group management led these sessions outside formal committee reporting segments and the restating of historical numbers to meetings.
All Directors were invited to attend these seminars themarket andnearly all Directors chose to do so: updating the terms of reference following the review of the risk March 2011 Accounting for We are often required to management framework variation orders account for variation orders In addition, we reviewed the 2011 full-year results and the Annual andhave a number of Accounting for Report and Accounts at the start of 2012. investments and joint venture acquisitions arrangements which must be As part of these reviews, we discussed with the Chief Financial correctly treated.
officer and the external auditors all significant accounting policies, August 2011 Accounting for Given that the scope of our estimates and judgements that had been adopted.
contracts in IES business is changing, particularly given the growing prominence of IES, it is important that the Board understands the basic accounting framework to be adopted for PEC, RSC and equity investment contracts.
October 2011 Financial focus Management demonstrated the for IES process by which IES assesses both the commercial case and the accounting treatment to be adopted for aproject.
November 2011 Revenue When to recognise revenue is recognition afundamental accounting thenew judgement for any business and Exposure Draft of particular relevance to Petrofac given the possible impact in relation to accounting for lump-sum EPC contracts.
Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 85 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 Whistle blowing process Non-audit services policy The Companys whistle blowing policy is communicated to We have a non-audit services policy that sets out the employees through the Companys Code of Business Conduct circumstances where we may appoint our external auditors to CoBC and is highlighted in employee induction packs.
69% of the undertake additional non-audit work.
Management regularly employees who completed the 2011 employee survey confirmed provide the Committee with reports on the extent of non-audit that they were aware of the policy.
Further education and publicity services provided by our external auditors.
These reports are programmes are being planned for 2012.
Employees who know or reviewed at each Committee meeting and challenged, where have genuine suspicions of any breaches of the CoBC can report necessary, to ensure such services fall within the agreed policy the matter to a manager or contact an independent helpline anddo not impair the objectivity or independence of the auditors.
Our international external facility has been available Themajority of the non-audit work carried out by the auditors for a number of years and this service operates 24 hours a day, during the year related to tax compliance services in overseas seven days a week.
All matters, however reported, are reviewed jurisdictions and the Committee believes that given their and investigated by our Group Head of Compliance to assess experience, Ernst & Young were the most appropriate supplier whether further investigation is warranted and to ensure that of this work.
There were no breaches during the year of the appropriate action is taken.
At each meeting, the Committee US$300,000 threshold requiring prior approval by the Committee.
received a detailed analysis of the issues reported together with Details of non-audit work carried out by Ernst & Young during2011 details of any action being taken.
In future, the Committee are provided in note 4e to the financial statements.
willcontinue to review alleged breaches of the CoBC relating to Following the review of the FRC report in December 2010, financial compliance matters and the Board Risk Committee will theCommittee reviewed the existing policy and agreed to: review all other matters.
revise the wording in relation to work from which the auditors are excluded to make reference to the guidance provided in Ethical Effectiveness of Group external auditors Standards 5: and Ernst & Young who have been the Companys auditor since initial increase the fee level from US$200,000 to US$300,000 for listing, provide the Committee with relevant reports, reviews, whichthe Committee be requested to give prior approval, as it information and advice throughout the year as set out intheir was felt this limit would more accurately reect the current size engagement letter.
Their performance was formally assessed and ofthe Group the Committee judged that they remained effective.
In making its The current policy, a copy of which can be found on the assessment of the external auditors, the Committee had due Companys website, is summarised below: regard to their expertise, resourcing and independence.
The Committee remains satisfied of their effectiveness and it does not the external auditors are automatically prohibited from carrying consider it necessary to conduct a tender process this year.
out work which might impair their objectivity Inaccordance with UK regulations, our auditors adhere to a Tim Weller, as Chief Financial officer, will seek approval from the rotation policy based on best practice and accounting standards.
Committee before appointing the external auditors to carry out a Accordingly, a new lead audit partner will take over at the end of the piece of non-audit work where: 2012 audit.
the fee is above US$300,000 total non-audit fees for the year are approaching 50% of the annual audit fee the external auditors would ordinarily be prohibited from carrying out the work under the Companys non-audit services policy but not prohibited under Ethical Standard 5 and the Chief Financial officer wants to appoint them due to exceptional circumstances the Chief Financial officer may appoint the external auditors to do other types of non-audit work as listed in the policy Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
