Petrofac 80 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Dear shareholder Nominations Committee report This year proved to be another busy one for the Nominations Committee and for the second consecutive year there have been several changes to the Board.
Roxanne Decyk, Andy Inglis and I all joined the Board in March 2011 and I took over the role as Chairman of the Board and the Nominations Committee after the AGM in May 2011.
Following the decision by Keith Roberts to retire, in early 2011, theCommittee initiated an extensive selection process to identify Norman Murray suitable candidates to succeed him as Chief Financial officer.
Chairman of the Nominations Committee Withthe assistance of specialist recruitment consultants, Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, a planned succession exercise was undertaken, involving a mapping phase against agreed key criteria Role of the Committee for the role.
A long list of internal and external candidates was initially identied from which five candidates were shortlisted.
Regularly reviews the composition and structure of the Eachof the Committee members met with the final candidates Boardand its committees.
andfollowing this rigorous process, Tim Wellers appointment as Chief Financial officer was recommended to the Board by the Identies and recommends for Board approval suitable Committee.
Tim joined the Group in September 2011 and following candidates to be appointed to the Board.
a handover period, joined the Board in October 2011 at the same Considers succession planning for Directors and other senior time as Keith stepped down.
The Committee believes that Tim will executives and in doing this considers diversity, experience, bring tremendous value to the Group and thanks Keith for his knowledge and skills.
enormous contribution over the past ten years.
We regularly review the composition and balance of the Board How the Committee spent its time during the year toensure that we have the right structure, skills, knowledge andexperience in place to deliver our strategy in an organisation Search for Directors Chairman, Non-executive Directors which continues to grow and expand.
We believe that our 50% and Executive Directors splitbetween Executive and Non-executive Directors, while less Board and committee composition common than a few years ago, continues to be right for Petrofac.
Governance We do not have a traditional executive committee as a Other consequence of which our Board has a high operational focus andwe believe that our debate is enhanced by a strong executive presence.
In order to ensure, however, that we leave sufficient time for other matters, our Board meetings last a wholeday.
Membership and attendance at meetings held in 2011 Meetings attended eligible to attend Current members Norman Murray Chairman 3 4 Ayman Asfari 5 6 Thomas Thune Andersen 6 6 Stefano Cao 6 6 Roxanne Decyk 4 4 1 Ren Mdori n a Rijnhard van Tets 6 6 Previous members Rodney Chase 1 2 Kjell Almskog 2 2 1 Mr Mdori was appointed a Director and member of the Nominations Committee in January 2012.
Directors information Petrofac Corporate governance report Annual report and accounts 2011 81 Nominations Committee report Audit Committee report Board Risk Committee report Directors remuneration report Directors statements 01 22 41 50 10 1 1 7 153 In the second half of 2011, the Committee engaged Egon Zehnder International to assist with the search for an additional Nonexecutive Director.
Rijnhard van Tets, our Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee, has served on theBoard for five years and so identifying individuals who were qualied to serve on the Audit Committee was highlighted as very important.
After a considerable search process, twocandidates were shortlisted and then interviewed by the full Committee.
Iamvery pleased that Ren Mdori, who has excellent international and financial experience across a number of industries was recommended by the Committee to the Board for appointment as a Non-executive Director.
At the same time that the Committee recommended Ren for appointment to the Board, it also recommended Marwan Chedid be appointed a Director.
Marwan, who is now responsible for our Engineering, Construction, Operations & Maintenance ECOM division, has been with the Company for 20 years.
He is a very experienced leader having enjoyed almost 30 years working in theoil & gas industry.
With his in-depth knowledge of both the business and industry, theCommittee had no hesitation in recommending his appointment.
Both Marwan and Ren were appointed to the Boardin January 2012.
Notwithstanding that our two most recent appointments to the Board have been men, we remain committed to our aspiration thatexcluding me, 15% and 25% of our Board should be female by 2013 and 2015, respectively.
We requested both search consultants to ensure that women were included on our long and short lists when looking for Tim and Ren but ultimately we concluded that the best candidates for each role were male.
We will continue to press our search consultants to include more female candidates inany future external searches.
The Committee will be monitoring diversity for the Group as a whole in future.
During the year we reviewed our terms of reference.
We agreed that they conform with best practice and as a result, they remain unchanged from last year.
Norman Murray Chairman of the Nominations Committee 2 March 2012 Overview ReRi view of f operat tiions Financial Fina Financia nciall performance and risk Corpora Corp Corpora orat t te e e responsibility Go G vernance Gr Gr Gro o ou up up p financial statements Comp Com Compa pa an n ny y y financial statements
