Petrofac 68 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance report Your Board is committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and is responsible for promoting long-term shareholder value in a responsible manner that takes account of all our various stakeholders.
Norman Murray Chairman Dear shareholder How have we responded to recent ?
Following my appointment to the Board in March and my appointment as Chairman in May, I am pleased to present During 2010 and 2011 numerous reviews and consultations were myrstcorporate governance report for 2011. issued, partly in response to various corporate failures and the continuing economic and financial difficulties facing the UK.
Since joining the Board, I have sought to understand the views of TheUK Financial Reporting Council FRC published a number of numerous stakeholders to ensure that we continue to seek ways such reports during 2011, commencing with the Lord Sharman led toimprove our processes.
We will continue to strive to build on inquiry in March to identify lessons for companies and auditors theprogress achieved by my predecessor in this area and I can addressing going concerns and liquidity risks.
The UK Government confirm that our Board maintains its commitment to achieving the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS also published highest standards of corporate governance.
a number of consultation papers during the year including papers The fundamental value of good governance is that it seeks to relating to executive remuneration and narrative reporting and ensure that a company is well run.
As well as promoting challenge, nally, the Association of British Insurers ABI produced a accountability and transparency it provides a framework that report Report on Board Effectiveness, drawing together articulates a companys goals and objectives and allows decisions recommendations to maximise the performance of company to be taken by the right people at the right time.
It is not just about boards.
Petrofac took the opportunity to comment either directly making decisions in the right way: it is about making better or indirectly on these and other consultations, where we feltit decisions.
Throughout this report we have endeavoured to build appropriate.
on our 2010 report to provide clear and engaging information for As Chairman, I take responsibility for providing our Board with the all stakeholders.
We believe that we continue to strengthen opportunity to consider all governance developments and for and deepen our governance framework and will aim to improve ensuring that Directors receive appropriate training and education this further in 2012. on relevant issues, so that we can maintain our high standards ofcorporate governance.
Have we complied with the UK Corporate GovernanceCode?
As a Jersey incorporated company with a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, Petrofac is required to report against the 1 UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code, meeting the UKs highest standards of regulation and corporate governance.
We confirm that throughout the financial year, the Company applied all of the principles set out in sections A to E of the UK Code for the period under review.
The Companys auditors, Ernst & Young LLP Ernst & Young, are required to review whether the corporate governance report reects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the UK Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
1 A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly available at www.
