About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Audit Committee Report F or the year ended 31 December 2011 Dear shareholder, met two times during the year The Groups governance, As Chairman of the Audit with the Groups external auditor, Committee the Committee, without management, to discuss risk management and financial I would like to give you an overview matters relating to their remit and reporting processes continue to of the operation and scope of the any issues arising from the audit.
Committee and report on its work The Committee maintains an open evolve and improve as the Company over the past year.
dialogue with the external auditor.
Following each meeting I report the follows its growth strategy through During 2011, Dr Graham Birch, findings of the Committee to the Mr Charles McVeigh and Mr Peter Board, focusing on matters where exploration and new technologies Hill-Wood were my colleagues on the Committee believes that action necessitating a more sophisticated the Committee.
Mr Peter Hill-Wood or improvement is needed and stepped down from the Committee making recommendations as to control framework.
on 19 May 2011 and I would like to the steps to be taken.
extend my thanks to Peter for his Sir Malcolm Field considerable contribution to the Our principal role is to ensure that Committee.
the Group maintains sound internal Chairman of the Audit Committee control systems ensuring the Mr Charlie McVeigh and I are integrity of its financial statements.
considered by the Company as The Committee is satis ed that the being members with the requisite Board maintains such risk recent and relevant financial management and internal controls.
experience due to our past Key to giving us con dence in the employment experience in finance Groups approach to controls and or comparable experience in risk is the effectiveness of our corporate activities.
Dr Graham external auditor, Deloitte LLP Birchs background in commodity Deloitte.
We judge them on fund management and his PhD the quality of their audit findings in Mining Geology enable him to and managements response.
bring mining expertise to our Their independence is displayed deliberations.
through their challenge on management.
Their effectiveness We held four meetings during the enables us to recommend their year scheduled to coincide with reappointment in 2012. the Groups financial reporting and The Committee also works closely audit cycle.
These were also with the Companys Risk attended by invitation for all or part Committee, identifying financial of any meeting by the external risks and developing mechanisms auditor, the Companys Chairman, for avoiding or mitigating these risks.
the Chief Executive Of cer, the Chief Financial Of cer, the Finance Director - Russia, the Internal Auditor, Group Head Financial Reporting and the Company Secretary.
Preparatory meetings were also held with the internal and external auditors and the Chief Financial Of cer.
The Committee Attendance at meetings Members Date of appointment during 2011 Sir Malcolm Field 22 April 2009 4 4 Graham Birch 12 February 2010 4 4 Charles McVeigh III 25 June 2009 4 4 Peter Hill-Wood 25 June 2009 1 1 Retired on 19 May 2011.
121 Audit Committee Report con tinued F or the year ended 31 December 2011 Summary of activities governance, risk management and requirements of the Bribery Act One of the principal responsibilities undertaken by the Committee financial reporting process is a 2010.
In addition to the above of the Committee is to consider during the year and focus journey, and consequently this Group policy, all staff have the the internal audit function of the for 2012: area remains of enhanced focus opportunity to raise concerns Group to ensure that it is adequately for both the Committee and the regarding occupational health and resourced and has appropriate Financial reporting executive management team.
safety with senior management, standing within the Group.
In 2011, the Committee continued Further detailed information on as outlined in labour protection During the year the current Group to focus on issues to coincide with our internal control framework is policies.
Additional initiatives Head of Internal Audit resigned to provided on page 124. have included the installation accept another position and key events of the annual financial of a telephone hotline which progress his career.
The Committee reporting and audit cycle.
Bribery Act 2010 employees can use to report took this opportunity to review the This included reviewing the financial statements for the year During the year the Committee any violations and suggest structure of the Groups internal ended 31 December 2010 and the received a report from the improvements.
audit function to ensure that it is 2011 interim results.
During our Chairman of the Anti-Bribery adequately resourced, relevant to review we considered signi cant Committee, which was established Training the size, complexity and culture of in response to the Bribery Act 2010, During the year the Committee the Group and provides the required accounting policies, any changes in order to assess the Groups received updates regarding level of assurance to the Committee.
to them and signi cant accounting compliance with this new changes in accounting standards The Committee considered the judgements discussing any issues with executive management and legislation.
The Company has and corporate governance from options available together with the the external auditor.
Members of the Chairman, Chief Executive Of cer approach to bribery and corruption Committee are able to attend, at and Chief Financial Of cer.
We met Following the 2010 year-end audit matters and this issue is monitored the Companys expense, relevant with, and had a presentation from, Deloitte detailed its findings to the by the Board, with the Chairman courses and seminars to assist an external provider to outsource taking ultimate responsibility for them in undertaking their duties on the internal audit function.
Committee, highlighting areas ensuring that the necessary the Committee.
Their performance Other options under consideration where controls and financial policies and procedures are as a member of the Committee is by the Committee were to use the processes could be further improved.
The Committee also considered during the Board services of an external provider in in detail and as a consequence a is satis ed with the steps that performance evaluation process.
conjunction with the current series of actions were agreed to have been undertaken by the in-house internal auditor or retain the improve the controls, ow and Anti-Bribery Committee to date in Internal audit function existing internal audit function only, ensuring the Groups compliance Prior to the commencement of the recruiting a new Group Head of quality of information which has with the applicable legislation and year the Committee reviewed and Internal Audit.
The Committee already led to better decision the training of our employees is agreed the proposed internal audit concluded together with the making by the executive management team and the Board.
The Committee has executive that it is appropriate for The Committee will continue to will remain a key focus for the Board received and reviewed reports on the internal audit function to remain monitor progress made against and the Audit and Risk Committees the internal audits undertaken in-house to ensure consistency in these actions as part of its remit during 2012 and beyond.
during the year, including details the approach adopted and in order during 2012.
The Committee of recommendations and that the Group Head of Internal Audit The Board has adopted a policy managements response.
and his team can establish a strong recognises that the Groups under which its employees can relationship with the Committee governance, risk management and raise concerns in con dence, and with management.
A new financial reporting processes will continue to evolve and improve as about possible wrongdoing.
Group Head of Internal Audit has the Company follows its growth The Committee intends to review now been appointed to lead and strategy through exploration and these procedures to ensure that develop this function.
new technologies, necessitating they are appropriate given the a more sophisticated control framework.
Given the recent growth of the Group to a more complex multi-mine operator, the evolution of the Groups The Committees terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, most recently in October 2011, are available for inspection on the Companys website at www.
net 122 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information External auditor During the year we reviewed Deloitte was appointed as external address these and has reported The Committee monitored the Deloittes proposed audit fee auditor to the Company in April its findings to the Risk Committee.
Groups policy on external audit.
for the 2011 interim and year-end 2009 at the time of the Companys The system of controls is This included assessing the audits and after consideration move to the Main Board of the designed to manage, but may objectivity, independence and recommended these to the Board London Stock Exchange.
not eliminate, the risks of failure effectiveness of the Companys for approval.
We also reviewed the Mr Doug King, the lead audit to achieve the Groups objectives.
This assessment non-audit work carried out by partner, is in his third year of tenure.
Oversight is provided by the included reviewing Deloittes Deloitte, to ensure that such The Committee is satis ed that the Executive Committee, which meets ful lment of the agreed audit services do not impair their current tenure of Deloitte and of regularly to review the results of the plan for the year ended independence or objectivity.
Mr King is not such as to affect Groups operations.
31 December 2010 and any Non-audit services provided by their independence or objectivity.
variations from this and their Deloitte in 2011 principally related Accordingly the Committee does For IRC, Petropavlovsk operates robustness and perceptiveness in to technical accounting advice and not consider it appropriate to controls over the inclusion of its their handling of key accounting and advice on the structure of the undertake a tender for the financial data but places reliance audit judgements.
The Committee Companys employee bene t provision of external auditor to the upon the systems of internal also considered Deloittes trust to ensure full compliance control operating within IRC and Company at the present time.
publication entitled Brie ng on with new legislation.
We are satis ed that Deloitte the obligations upon its Board audit matters which provided remain independent and objective relating to the effectiveness of its details of the safeguards and The technical accounting advice and that they have been effective in own systems.
procedures Deloitte has in place given by Deloitte was closely related their duties.
As referred to above, to ensure their independence and to the work performed in the audit the Committee has recommended The Board and the Committee pay objectivity.
In addition the and thus it was thought appropriate Deloittes re-appointment as careful attention to ensuring that all Committee reviewed Deloittes that it was undertaken by them.
external auditor of the Company documents released by the Group 2011 Audit Transparency Report Accordingly the Committee did not to the Board.
and the Company, including the in respect of the year ended consider that this would affect the Annual Report and Financial 31 May 2011.
The report sets out independence of Deloitte as auditor.
Assurance financial Statements, present an accurate, the steps taken by Deloitte to The advisory services provided in and internal controls balanced and understandable achieve audit quality by reference to respect of the employee bene t and risk management assessment of the Group and the the audit quality framework issued trust related principally to tax issues, We operate within the assurance Companys position and prospects.
by the Professional Oversight Board given Deloittes historical framework established by the The Company has also established of the Financial Reporting Council.
knowledge of the Groups a Disclosure Committee comprising Board and under which the Board employee bene t trust it was Executive Directors, Non-Executive has delegated authority to the Risk, considered more ef cient for them Directors, the Group Head of Legal HSE and Executive Committees in to undertake this work.
However a Affairs and the Company Secretary, addition to the Audit Committee, separate tax team at Deloitte was details of which are as follows.
which reviews financial statements engaged on this matter to ensure prior to their release to ensure that their independence as auditor was The Board which receives advice they comply with the Listing Rules not compromised.
from the Audit, Risk and HSE and applicable legislation.
Any two members of the Disclosure Committees has overall Non-audit services provided by Committee constitute a quorum.
responsibility for the system Deloitte were in line with the of internal control and risk Companys policy on the provision management in the Group.
of non-audit services which was On behalf of the Board, the approved by the Committee last Committee has considered the year.
A breakdown of non-audit effectiveness of the Groups system fees paid in 2011 is set out in note 7 of internal control.
The Committee on page 149 of this Report.
Deloitte has also considered and reviewed LLP are auditors of IRC Limited, the the Groups financial risks and the Companys 65.6% owned Hong mitigating action being taken to Kong listed subsidiary.
The Companys policy on the provision of non-audit services is available for inspection on the Companys website at www.
net 123 Audit Committee Report con tinued F or the year ended 31 December 2011 Internal controls a centrally directed treasury The Board has delegated The framework for the Companys function which manages the authority to the Risk Committee, internal control system is Companys cash and debt on which currently comprises documented in a Governance and a daily basis, with a full analysis four independent Non-Executive Control Policy and Procedures of the Companys cash and debt Directors and one Manual the GCCP which has positions circulated weekly to Executive Director, to make been approved by the Board and management: recommendations to the Board the Audit Committee.
The GCCP on the Groups risk appetite.
the Group internal audit function is reviewed annually by the Board performs a programme of audits and the Audit Committee.
In 2011, The Committee retains throughout the year: the GCCP was amended to re ect responsibility for reviewing financial the newly established Strategic, review of Group-wide risks risks and we receive reports on Technical and Anti-Bribery by the Executive Committee financial risk from the Chief Committees.
and financial risks by the Audit Financial Of cer.
In turn, these reports back on its findings and Committees report through to the recommendations on the financial Some key features of the internal Risk Committee on all signi cant risks and their management to the control system are: risks, which are then considered Risk Committee, who in turn report a fide ned management structure by the Risk Committee: to the Board.
The Report of the with clear accountabilities.
Risk Committee including details of There is a fide ned delegation speci c approval procedures the principal risks of the Group are of authorities, which covers all for all related party transactions.
on pages 76 to 87. expenditure: A Committee of independent Directors reviews the details of Board approval of a detailed Overview all transactions and approves As a result of our work during annual budget, with monthly all signi cant transactions as re-forecasts being made the year, the Committee has appropriate: and subsequently: concluded that it has acted in Audit Committee approval accordance with its terms of formal review by the Executive sought to all key judgements reference.
Committee of detailed monthly made in preparation of the management accounts including interim and annual accounts.
This years Annual General variance analysis against the Meeting of the Company will be approved annual budget.
Risk management held on 31 May 2012 during which A summary of the most recent The Company has adopted I will be pleased to answer any monthly accounts are provided to a formal risk management questions about the work of the the Board highlighting key issues: framework with the Board having Audit Committee.
appropriate segregation of ultimate responsibility for setting duties throughout the Group, in the Groups risk appetite and Sir Malcolm Field the executive team having particular separating the Chairman of the Audit responsibility for on-going risk purchasing ordering function Committee from the processing payments review and management.
27 March 2012 function: The system is designed to ensure that the key risks taken by the Company in the conduct of its business and which may affect its ability to deliver its strategy effectively, are identi ed and evaluated, and that the appropriate controls are put in place to manage these risks.
124 Petropavlovsk Annual Report 2011 About us Operations and performance Exploration review Governance Financial statements and information Financial Statements and Shareholder Information Statement of Directors Responsibilities 126 Independent Auditors Report to the Members of Petropavlovsk PLC 127 Consolidated Income Statement 128 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income 129 Consolidated Balance Sheet 130 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 131 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement 132 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 133 Company Balance Sheet 176 Notes to the Company Financial Statements 177 Appendix, Glossary and fide nitions 182 125 125
