Statement on Corporate Governance The board The Company is led by a strong and experienced board of directors the board which brings a depth and diversity of expertise to the leadership of the Company.
During the year, the board comprised four executive directors and up to five non-executive directors.
Brief biographical details of the directors are set out on page 45.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of responsibilities between those roles.
The Chairman leads the board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all non-executive and executive directors.
The Chief Executive has responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated from the board.
The board considers that J. S. Espey was independent throughout the year to 29 January 2011, notwithstanding the fact that he has served on the board for more than nine years.
The board does not consider that a directors tenure necessarily reduces his ability to act independently and, following performance evaluations, believes that J. S. Espey was independent in character and judgement and that there were no relationships or circumstances which were likely to affect his judgement in the year to 29 January 2011.
J. S. Espey retired from the board on 31 January 2011.
The board considers that J. Warburton and M. A. Griffiths are independent for the purposes of provision A.
3.1 of the revised Combined Code on Corporate Governance as issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Code and that the relationships and circumstances set out in that provision which may appear relevant to the determination of independence do not apply.
The board considers that, on appointment, the chairman was independent for the purposes of provision A.
J. S. Espey was the senior independent director during the year to 29 January 2011.
R. G. Hanna holds directorships with a number of companies.
In addition to his role as chairman of the Company, he is chairman of Bowleven plc and Troy Income & Growth Trust plc, and a director of Peatallan plc.
The board does not consider that R. G. Hannas other commitments have any impact on his ability to discharge his duties as chairman of the Company effectively.
The Articles require directors to retire and submit themselves for election at the first AGM following appointment and to retire no later than the third AGM after the AGM at which they were last elected or re-elected.
Details of directors remuneration and interests in shares of the Company are given in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 62.
Role of the board The board determines the strategic direction of the Group and reviews operating, financial and risk performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the board, including approval of the Groups annual business plan, the Groups strategy, acquisitions, disposals and capital expenditure projects above certain thresholds, all guarantees, treasury policies, the financial statements, the Companys dividend policy, transactions involving the issue or purchase of Company shares, borrowing powers, appointments to the board, alterations to the memorandum and articles of association, legal actions brought by or against the Group above certain thresholds, and the scope of delegations to board committees, subsidiary boards and the management committee.
Responsibility for the development of policy and strategy and operational management is delegated to the executive directors and a management committee, which includes the executive directors and six senior managers as at the date of this report.
Board performance evaluation During the year, the Chairman carried out a performance evaluation of the board, the board committees and each of the directors.
As in previous years, this was an internal exercise led by the Chairman of the board, who conducted a detailed and comprehensive evaluation process by a combination of written survey questionnaires followed by a series of one to one discussions.
The outcome of these evaluations showed that directors were positive about the performance and process of the board and the board committees.
The practice of separate Company strategy discussions outwith the normal board meeting schedule has continued in the current year.
The Chairman is pleased to confirm that, following formal performance evaluation of the directors, all of the directors performances continue to be effective and the directors offering themselves for re-election at the AGM continue to demonstrate commitment to the role of director, including commitment of time for board meetings and committee meetings and any other relevant duties.
Independent professional advice Directors can obtain independent professional advice at the Companys expense in performance of their duties as directors.
None of the directors obtained independent professional advice in the period under review.
All directors have access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary.
The non-executive directors have access to senior management of the business.
50 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Training and development On appointment to the board, directors are provided with a full, formal and tailored programme of induction, to familiarise them with the Groups businesses, the risks and strategic challenges the Group faces, and the economic, competitive, legal and regulatory environments in which the Group operates.
A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with other training provided during the year, ensures that directors continually update their skills, their knowledge and familiarity with the Groups businesses, and their awareness of sector, risk, regulatory, legal, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil effectively their role on the board and committees of the board.
Meetings and attendance Board meetings are scheduled to be held twelve times each year.
Between these meetings, as required, additional board meetings may be held to progress the Companys business.
In advance of all board meetings the directors are supplied with detailed and comprehensive papers covering the Groups operating functions.
Members of the management team attend and make presentations as appropriate at meetings of the board.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the board for the timeliness and quality of information provided to it.
The Chairman holds meetings with the non-executive directors during the year without the executive directors being present.
The attendance of directors at board and committee meetings in the year to 29 January 2011 was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Maximum 13 Maximum 4 Maximum 2 Maximum 1 Executive R. A.
B. C. Short 12 J. D. Kemp 13 A. L. Memmott 13 Non-executive R. G. Hanna 13 2 1 W. R. G. Barr 13 4 2 1 J. S. Espey 12 2 2 1 J. Warburton 9 3 1 1 M. A. Griffiths 5 1 M. A. Griffiths was appointed to the board on 1 September 2010, chair of the Audit Committee on 23 September 2010, and to the Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 31 January 2011.
M. A. Griffiths could have attended a maximum of 5 board meetings, 1 Audit Committee meeting, and no Remuneration or Nomination Committee meetings.
J. S. Espey resigned from the board on 31 January 2011, from the Audit Committee on 23 September 2010, and from the Remuneration and Nomination Committees on 31 January 2011.
J. S. Espey could have attended a maximum of 13 board meetings, 3 Audit Committee meetings, 2 Remuneration Committee meetings, and 1 Nomination Committee meeting.
Conflicts of interest The Articles were amended at the 2009 AGM to allow the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise from time to time, subject to certain conditions.
The Company has established appropriate conflicts authorisation procedures, whereby actual or potential conflicts are regularly reviewed and authorisations sought as appropriate.
During the year, no such conflicts arose and no such authorisations were sought.
Committees of the board The terms of reference of the principal committees of the board Audit, Remuneration and Nomination are available on request from the Company secretarial department.
Those terms of reference have been reviewed in the current year and are reviewed at least annually.
The work carried out by the Audit and Nomination Committees in discharging their responsibilities is summarised below.
The work carried out by the Remuneration Committee is described within the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 62.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee During the year, the Audit Committee consisted of four non-executive directors: W. R. G. Barr, J. Warburton, J. S. Espey who resigned on 23 September 2010, and M. A. Griffiths who joined on the same date.
J. S. Espey resigned as chair of the Audit Committee on 23 September 2010 and M. A. Griffiths was appointed chair in his place on the same date.
The Audit Committee meets with executive directors and management, as well as privately with the external and internal auditors.
In the current year the Audit Committee has: t monitored the financial reporting process: t monitored the statutory audit of the Groups accounts: t reviewed and advised the board on the integrity of the Groups interim and annual financial statements and announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: t reviewed the control of the Groups financial and business risks: t discussed and agreed the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external auditors and internal auditors: t reviewed the results of this audit work and the response of management to matters raised: t reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls and the appropriateness of the Groups whistle-blowing procedures: t monitored and reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit activities: t made recommendations to the board on the reappointment and remuneration of the external auditors and monitored the performance of the auditors: t made a recommendation to the board on the appointment of the internal auditors: and t reviewed the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditors and monitored and assessed the independence of both the external and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee has ensured that both the board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to prevent the compromise of the auditors independence and objectivity.
The external auditors also reported regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
The Audit Committee reviews the external auditors independence annually and ensures that they comply with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards.
At the year end meeting to review the annual report and accounts, the Audit Committee formally considers the nature and level of non-audit services and fees provided by the Groups external auditors.
The detail and level of fees are fully discussed and the Audit Committee is satisfied that there is no risk to the objectivity and independence of the external audit arising from the level of non-audit fees.
Any services to be provided by the external auditors above a level set by the Audit Committee must be approved in advance by the Audit Committee.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year for audit and other services are set out in note 2 to the financial statements.
The external auditors report their audit results to the Audit Committee, including a summary of any significant accounting and auditing issues, internal control findings and a summary of any audit differences identified.
The Audit Committee would consider any disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the external auditors, should any arise.
At the beginning of each year, an internal control plan is developed by the internal auditors following meetings with directors and senior managers within the business and with reference to the significant risks contained within the Company risk register and identified controls.
The Audit Committee receives updates on progress delivered against the internal control work plan throughout the year.
In addition to the standing members of the Audit Committee and representatives from the external and internal auditors, A.
B. C. Short, the Finance Director, routinely attends.
52 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Nomination Committee During the year, the Nomination Committee consisted of R. G. Hanna, W. R. G. Barr, J. Warburton and J. S. Espey who resigned on 31 January 2011.
M. A. Griffiths joined the Committee on 31 January 2011.
The Committee is chaired by R. G. Hanna.
The Committee leads the process for making appointments to the board, ensures that there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the board, reviews the composition of the board through a full evaluation of the skills, knowledge and experience of directors, and ensures plans are in place for orderly succession for appointments to the board.
No external search consultancy or open advertising process was used in the appointment of M. A. Griffiths, who was identified by the Nomination Committee as a candidate who had significant breadth of commercial experience.
Treasury Committee The Treasury Committee consists of R. A.
B. C. Short and senior members of the finance and purchasing departments.
The Treasury Committee reviews purchase requirements in foreign currencies and implements strategies, including the use of foreign exchange hedges, in order to reduce the risk of foreign exchange exposure and provide certainty over the value of non-domestic purchases in the short to medium term.
The Treasury Committees remit also includes the ability to utilise financial instruments in order to hedge the Groups exposure to interest rate fluctuations.
Further details of the work carried out by the Treasury Committee are contained within the Financial Review on pages 18 to 25.
Internal control The board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and annually reviews their effectiveness, including a review of financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls.
The implementation and maintenance of the risk management and internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and other senior management.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control systems, including controls related to financial, operational and reputational risks identified by the Group, in accordance with the Code for the period from 30 January 2010 to the date of approval of this annual report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during this review.
Had any failings or weaknesses been identified then the board would have taken the action required to remedy them.
At the Audit Committee meeting on 19 January 2011, following a review and evaluation of the controls and systems in place, the Audit Committee concluded that the Group has a sound system of internal controls in place.
The board confirms that there is an ongoing process, embedded in the Groups integrated internal control systems, allowing for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks, as well as a reporting process to the board.
The board requires the departments within the Company to undertake at least an annual review to identify new or potentially under-managed risks.
The results of these reviews are reported to the board via the Audit Committee.
This process has been in place throughout the current year and up to the date of the approval of this annual report and it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The three main elements of the Groups internal control system, including risk identification, are as follows: The board The board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control systems and exercises this through an organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility and authority as well as appropriate reporting procedures.
The board has a schedule of matters that are brought to it, or its duly authorised committees, for decision, aimed at maintaining effective control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
This structure includes the Audit Committee which, with the Finance Director, reviews the effectiveness of the internal financial and operating control environment.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive strategic planning, budgeting and forecasting system with an annual operating plan approved by the board.
Monthly financial information, including trading results, cash flow statements, statement of financial position and indebtedness, is reported.
The board and the management committee review their business and financial performance against the prior year and against annual plans approved by the board.
A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53 Statement on Corporate Governance continued Audits and reviews The key internal risks identified in the Group are subject to regular audits or reviews by the internal auditors.
This role is fulfilled by an external professional services firm which is independent from the board and the Company.
The review of the internal auditors work by the Audit Committee and monitoring procedures in place ensure that the findings of the audits are acted upon and subsequent reviews confirm compliance with any agreed action plans.
The board confirms that there has been an independent internal audit function in place for the year.
Combined Code compliance The Company is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the Code.
A copy of the Code is available on the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
Each of the provisions of the Code has been reviewed and, where necessary, steps have been taken to ensure that the Company is in compliance with all of those provisions as at the date of this report.
The directors consider that the Company has complied throughout the year ended 29 January 2011 with the provisions set out in section 1 of the Code, except in relation to provisions A.
During the period to the appointment of M. A. Griffiths on 1 September 2010, the board included three independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
During the period from M. A. Griffiths appointment to 29 January 2011, the board included four independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
In addition, W. R. G. Barr was a non-executive director during the year although he is not considered by the board to be independent.
Therefore, during the year to 29 January 2011 the composition of the board did not comply with provision A.
The composition of the Companys Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee did not comply with provisions B.
2.1 and C. 3.1 of the Code during the year to 29 January 2011 due to the fact that these Committees did not comprise at least three independent non-executive directors.
Following a performance evaluation during the year, the directors believe that the board, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee are currently able to discharge their respective duties and obligations successfully.
The board is mindful of its obligations under the Code and regularly reviews the composition of the board and its committees to ensure that each is able to effectively and successfully discharge its duties.
1.6 of the Code recommends that executive directors contracts contain a maximum notice period of one year.
As disclosed in the Directors Remuneration Report, in the event of a takeover of or by the Company or a Company reconstruction the notice period of the executive directors reverts to two years in certain circumstances.
The Remuneration Committee considers that, given the shareholding structure of the Company, this condition is appropriate in order to attract and retain high calibre executive directors.
A copy of the financial statements has been placed on the Companys website, www.
The maintenance and integrity of this website is the responsibility of the directors.
Legislation in the U. K. governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
A. Barr Company Secretary 28 March 2011 54 A. G. BARR p. l. c. Annual Report and Accounts 2011
