66 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Compliance with the UK on both participation and performance at Board meeting attendance Corporate governance Corporate Governance Code Board and committee meetings.
There are The table below shows directors attendance at scheduled Board meetings and conference calls or ad hoc meetings which they were eligible 2010 UK and the Sarbanes-Oxley no relationships or circumstances which are This section and the to attend during the 2011 financial year: Act 2002 US likely to affect the judgement of any of them.
Remuneration report detail Scheduled Conference The Chairman was regarded as independent how the Group has applied The Group has complied with the provisions Board calls ad hoc at the time of his appointment.
meetings meetings of the UK Corporate Governance Code the principles of good 2010 throughout 2011 with the following Kathleen ODonovan became the Senior Number 6 6 governance contained minor exception: Independent Director upon the retirement Doug Dunn 6 6 5 6 in the UK Corporate of Jeremy Scudamore on 31 January 2011.
1.2 Between August 2010 when Governance Code 2010.
Tudor Brown 6 6 2 6 The Senior Independent Director provides John Scarisbrick completed nine years Andy Green appointed 25 February 2011 5 5 4 6 a communication channel between the service as an independent non-executive Larry Hirst appointed 25 January 2011 6 6 5 6 Chairman and the non-executive directors director and the appointment of Janice Mike Inglis 6 6 4 6 and is available to discuss matters with Roberts and Larry Hirst in January 2011, Mike Muller 6 6 4 6 shareholders, if required.
Janice Roberts there were four independent non-executive Kathleen ODonovan 5 6 4 6 and Larry Hirst who joined the Board on directors and six executive directors.
Janice Roberts appointed 25 January 2011 6 6 5 6 25 January 2011, Andy Green who joined Philip Rowley 6 6 6 6 The Group achieved full compliance with the the Board on 25 February 2011 and Young John Scarisbrick retired 12 May 2011 3 3 2 2 requirements of s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Sohn all have a broad understanding of the Tim Score 6 6 5 6 Act 2002 for the sixth successive year.
Groups technology and the practices of Jeremy Scudamore retired 31 January 2011 1 1 major US-based technology companies.
Composition and operation Simon Segars 6 6 5 6 Philip Rowley and Kathleen ODonovan are of the Board Young Sohn 6 6 3 6 both financial experts with strong financial The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 backgrounds.
The beneficial interests of the requires that at least half of the Board, directors in the share capital of the Company The directors have the benefit of directors ensuring that there is effective Information and communication excluding the Chairman, should comprise are set out in the Remuneration report.
In and officers liability insurance and there communication with shareholders and with shareholders and other independent non-executive directors.
the opinion of the Board, these shareholdings is an established procedure for individual that members of the Board develop an stakeholders The Board currently comprises six executive do not detract from the non-executive directors, who consider it necessary in understanding of the views of the major Before each meeting, the Board is provided directors, six independent non-executive directors independent status.
the furtherance of their duties, to obtain investors in the Company: with information concerning the state of the directors and the Chairman.
The number independent legal or other professional The Chairman is a non-executive director promoting the highest standards business and its performance in a form and of executive directors will reduce to five advice at the Groups expense.
In addition, of four other companies STMicroelectronics of integrity, probity and corporate of a quality appropriate for it to discharge when the President, Tudor Brown, retires all members of the Board have access N. V. Soitec S. A. TomTom N. V. and B E governance throughout the Group, its duties.
The ultimate responsibility for in May 2012. to the advice of the Company Secretary.
Semiconductor Industries N. V. and he particularly at Board level: and reviewing and approving the annual report The executive directors are the Chief The Company Secretary acts as secretary does not chair any other board.
and accounts and the quarterly reports, and ensuring that the performance of the Executive Officer, the President, the Chief to all of the Board committees.
for ensuring that they present a balanced Non-executive directors are encouraged to Board as a whole, its committees, and Financial Officer, the Chief Technology Main responsibilities of the assessment of the Groups position, lies with suggest matters for Board discussions and in individual directors is formally and Officer and the EVPs and General Managers Chairman include: the Board.
The Board delegates day-to-day 2011 they were active in contributing to the rigorously evaluated at least once a year.
of the Processor and Physical IP Divisions, responsibility for managing the Group to the agenda for the strategic review and ensuring leadership of the Board and creating all of whom play significant roles in the Main responsibilities of the Chief Executive Committee and has a number of the amount of time spent on strategic and the conditions for overall Board and day-to-day management of the business.
Executive Officer include: other committees, details of which are set operational issues was appropriately individual director effectiveness and The Board has considered the overall balance out on the following pages.
In the event that directors are proposing and developing the Groups a constructive relationship with good between executive and non-executive unable to attend a meeting or a conference strategy and overall commercial objectives communications between the executive The Board makes considerable efforts to directors and believes that the number of call they receive and read the papers for in conjunction with the Executive and non-executive directors: establish and maintain good relationships executive directors is fully justified by the consideration at that meeting and have the Committee: with shareholders.
There is regular dialogue contribution made by each of them.
ensuring that the Board as a whole opportunity to relay their comments and, with institutional investors during the year All directors have completed conflicts of day-to-day management of the Group: plays a full and constructive part in the if necessary, to follow up with the Chairman other than during close periods.
The main interest questionnaires and any planned development of strategy and overall or the Chief Executive Officer after the managing the Executive Committee: channel of communication continues to be changes in their directorships outside the commercial objectives: meeting.
During 2011, the Chairman held at through the Chief Executive Officer, the Group are subject to prior approval by the leading the communication programme least three meetings with the non-executive chairing the Nomination Committee Chief Financial Officer and the VP of Board.
No conflicts of interest arose in 2011 with shareholders and analysts: and directors without the executives present and which initiates succession planning Investor Relations.
The Chairman, the Senior or to date in 2012 and no situations were or the non-executive directors met on at least fostering good relationships with to retain and build an effective and Independent Director and the other directors have since been identified that might lead to one occasion without the Chairman key stakeholders.
complementary Board: are available to engage in dialogue with a conflict of interest.
The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors on appointment and at appropriate intervals and considers the six non-executive directors to be independent in character, judgement and behaviour, based 014617 AR11 PITSTOP.
indd 66 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 67 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Compliance with the UK on both participation and performance at Board meeting attendance Corporate governance Corporate Governance Code Board and committee meetings.
indd 67 28 02 2012 19:16 6688 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The Board also encourages communication Members of the Board develop an The overall conclusion was that individual Executive Committee Variations from the budget and changes with private investors and part of the understanding of the views of major Board members are satisfied that the Board in strategy require approval from the The Executive Committee is responsible for Groups website is dedicated to providing shareholders through any direct contact that works well and operates effectively in an main Board of the Group.
The Executive developing and implementing the strategy accurate and timely information for all may be initiated by shareholders, or through environment where there is constructive Committee, which meets monthly, approved by the Board.
In particular, the investors including frequently asked analysts and brokers briefings.
The Board challenge from the non-executive directors.
comprises the Chief Executive Officer, Chief committee is responsible for ensuring questions, the investment case, product also receives feedback from the Groups They are also satisfied with the contribution Financial Officer, the President, the Chief that the Groups budget and forecasts are information, press releases, RNS and brokers and financial PR advisers, who made by their colleagues and that Board Operating Officer, the Chief Technology properly prepared, that targets are met and Securities and Exchange Commission SEC in turn obtain feedback from analysts committees operate properly and efficiently.
Officer, the EVPs and General Managers of for generally managing and developing the announcements.
During 2011, an Investor and brokers following investor roadshows.
the Processor, Physical IP and System Design A full, formal induction programme is business within the overall budget.
It provides All shareholders may register to receive Divisions, the EVPs of Human Resources, arranged for new directors, tailored to their answers to topical questions and details of the Groups press releases via the internet.
Strategy, Corporate Development, Sales and specific requirements, the aim of which developments within the business.
Marketing, the General Counsel and the The Board actively encourages participation is to introduce them to key executives Company Secretary and meetings are ARMs University Programme is an at the AGM, scheduled for 3 May 2012, across the business and to enhance their attended by other senior operational important initiative for the future of the which is the principal forum for dialogue knowledge and understanding of the personnel, as appropriate.
Biographies of the business and our relationships with business with private shareholders.
A presentation is Group and its activities.
members of the Executive Committee appear partners.
We engage with universities made outlining recent developments in the The new non-executive directors have spent on the Groups website at www.
around the world, developing the next business and an open question-and-answer time outside Board meetings with members generation of ARM engineers, donating session follows to enable shareholders to ask of the Executive Committee and the equipment and software, helping to design questions about the business in general.
management team as part of their formal Management structure courses and textbooks, and providing All resolutions proposed at the 2012 induction process.
All members of the Board The Group has a traditional UK board technical support and training to students AGM will be decided on a poll and the are invited to attend our Annual Partner structure with a unitary Group board and faculties.
In 2011, the programme voting results will be published via RNS Meeting which is our key customer event comprising the Chairman, executive and furthered its commitment to institutions and the SEC and will be available on the of the year and also the Analyst and Investor non-executive directors.
The Audit and in India and China by adding dedicated Groups website.
These events offer the opportunity Remuneration Committees are made up programme managers in those regions.
to understand more about the business, Board evaluation, induction of independent non-executive directors Some new undergraduate programmes products, technology development roadmap, and training and they, together with the Nomination in the US plan to migrate entirely to ARM customer base and investor perspective.
Committee, report to the Board.
The technology-based courses in 2012 and some The Board undertakes an annual board In addition, during 2011 a strategy meeting divisions and functions report to the will manufacture test chips in conjunction evaluation.
During 2011, this exercise was was held in Beijing.
This enabled Board Executive Committee.
The Risk Review with a leading foundry.
Both ARM and conducted internally, facilitated by the members to meet the local ARM team, Committee reports periodically to the our Partners are seeing the benefit of our Company Secretary.
An external evaluation customers and Government officials and to Executive Committee, Audit Committee University Programme as students graduate last took place in 2010 and the Board plans develop their knowledge and understanding and the Board.
The VP Business Assurance with experience in designing with ARM to continue with a cycle of external of ARMs business and objectives in China.
Head of Internal Audit also has a separate products and as university engineering evaluations every three years and internal Board members receive guidance on reporting arrangement to the Chairman departments base their own research evaluations in between.
the regulatory regimes and corporate of the Audit Committee.
The 2011 evaluation covered: governance framework that the Group At present, over 30 sell-side analysts write operates under.
In particular, during 2011 strategic development, execution research reports on the Group and their the Board received an update from the and monitoring: details appear on the Groups website.
Company Secretary on the UK Bribery Shareholders can also obtain telephone risk management and control: Act 2010.
The Group has a commitment numbers from the website, enabling them to training and all directors, executive leadership development and to listen to earnings presentations and audio or non-executive, are encouraged to succession planning: conference calls with analysts.
In addition, attend suitable training courses at the webcasts or audiocasts of key presentations shareholder and stakeholder Groups expense.
are made available through the website.
communication: The terms of reference of the Audit, performance management: Remuneration and Nomination Committees are published on the Groups website at Board structure, committees and www.
their operation: induction and development: and assessment of the performance of individual committees and the Chairman.
indd 68 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 69 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 The Board also encourages communication Members of the Board develop an The overall conclusion was that individual Executive Committee Variations from the budget and changes with private investors and part of the understanding of the views of major Board members are satisfied that the Board in strategy require approval from the The Executive Committee is responsible for Groups website is dedicated to providing shareholders through any direct contact that works well and operates effectively in an main Board of the Group.
All members of the Board The Group has a traditional UK board technical support and training to students ARM Holdings plc Board AGM will be decided on a poll and the are invited to attend our Annual Partner Audit Committee structure with a unitary Group board and faculties.
The Audit and in India and China by adding dedicated Remuneration Committee Groups website.
to understand more about the business, Board evaluation, induction of independent non-executive directors Some new undergraduate programmes products, technology development roadmap, and training and they, together with the Nomination Executive Committee Nomination Committee in the US plan to migrate entirely to ARM customer base and investor perspective.
Both ARM and conducted internally, facilitated by the members to meet the local ARM team, Committee reports periodically to the Compliance Business Information Corporate Risk Review our Partners are seeing the benefit of our Divisions Company Secretary.
An external evaluation customers and Government officials and to Committee Assurance Systems Responsibility Committee Executive Committee, Audit Committee University Programme as students graduate last took place in 2010 and the Board plans develop their knowledge and understanding and the Board.
Head of Internal Audit also has a separate products and as university engineering evaluations every three years and internal Internal Board members receive guidance on reporting arrangement to the Chairman departments base their own research Audit evaluations in between.
indd 69 28 02 2012 19:16 7700 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Audit Committee  LLP have been Auditor independence by the auditors, which sets out arrangements the Groups auditors since it listed on the for approving: The challenging economic climate continued during 2011 and, as planned, the Board spent more time reviewing The auditors are required to communicate London Stock Exchange in April 1998. its appetite for and approach to risk.
with us at least annually whether there are services that have general pre-approval The external auditors are required to rotate any threats to their independence and by the Audit Committee: Kathleen ODonovan, Committee Chairman the audit partner responsible for the Group objectivity and, if there are, what safeguards services that require specific pre-approval and subsidiary audits every fifth year-end.
The Committee has also by the Audit Committee before work The audit partner rotation took place in Name of director Position Meetings attended reviewed the auditors Transparency Report, commences: and accordance with this timetable after the Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent Director paying particular attention to the sections conclusion of the 2011 year-end audit.
Committee Chairman from 26 January 2011 5 5 services that cannot be provided by covering internal controls, independence The Audit Committee considers that the Larry Hirst Independent non-executive director the auditors.
policies and the results of external regulator relationship with the auditors is working well appointed 25 January 2011 4 5 reviews.
Having reviewed the safeguards in The Groups tax advisory work is carried out and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
Janice Roberts Independent non-executive director place, and the contents of the Transparency by the auditors only in cases where they are This view was supported by a review of the appointed 25 January 2011 5 5 Report, as well as noting the regular rotation deemed to be best suited to perform the effectiveness of the external audit process Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director of the audit partner, the Committee is work in a cost effective manner, given their Committee Chairman until 26 January 2011 5 5 which was undertaken early in 2012 satisfied that the auditors procedures are familiarity with the Groups business.
In Jeremy Scudamore Independent non-executive director involving the Audit Committee, the sufficient to maintain their independence retired 31 January 2011 0 1 other cases, the Group has engaged another executive team and senior managers who and objectivity.
The Committee has also Young Sohn Independent non-executive director independent firm of accountants to perform interact with the auditors.
It looked at the considered the level of non-audit fees and ceased Committee membership 31 January 2011 1 1 tax advisory work.
The Group does not robustness of audit, quality of delivery and believes that these are at a level which does normally award general consulting work to quality of people and service and concluded not compromise their independence in the auditors.
From time to time, however, the that the services provided by the auditors Kathleen ODonovan assumed the During the year, the activities of the The Committees other responsibilities any way.
Group will engage the auditors to perform and their mode of delivery are effective.
chairmanship of the Committee on Committee included: include: work on matters relating to benchmarking of There are no contractual obligations Accordingly, the Audit Committee has not 26 January 2011.
She is qualified as the further work to enhance the Corporate monitoring the integrity of the financial the internal audit function, human resources, restricting the Groups choice of external considered it necessary to date to require the financial expert as defined in the Risk Register including linkage to statements of the Group and any formal and royalty audits.
A breakdown of fees paid auditor.
The Committee also keeps under firm to tender for the audit work.
Philip Operational and Internal Audit Plans, announcements relating to the Groups to the auditors can be found in note 5 to the review the value for money of the audit.
Rowley is also qualified to fulfil this role.
giving the Board greater visibility of risk financial performance and reviewing any financial statements.
Both have recent and relevant financial Policy on auditors providing assessment and mitigation within the significant financial reporting judgements expertise.
The external auditors, Chief non-audit services Group.
This further enhanced the Boards contained therein: Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, understanding of the level of residual risk To avoid the possibility of the auditors reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups the VP Finance ARM Group, the VP and gave a greater level of assurance.
It also objectivity and independence being internal controls over financial reporting: Business Assurance Head of Internal Audit, enabled a better comparison with the risks compromised, there is an agreed policy in the Head of Tax and the Company Secretary providing oversight of the Groups risk that are applicable to comparable place on the provision of non-audit services attend all meetings in order to ensure that management systems: companies.
The Board was able to Nomination Committee all the information required by the Audit conclude from this that the steps being making recommendations to the Board in Committee for it to operate effectively is Having refreshed the non-executive director presence on the Board early in 2011, the focus in the second half taken to mitigate risk are appropriate relation to the appointment, remuneration available.
Representatives of the Groups of the year was on defining the skills and attributes required for the new Chairman and in interviewing prospective and that the level of residual risk is at and resignation or dismissal of the external auditors meet with the Audit candidates.
Doug Dunn, Committee Chairman an acceptable level: Groups external auditors: Committee at least once a year without reviewing the 2011 internal and external any executive directors being present.
assessing the external auditors Name of director Position Meetings attended audit plans and reports including overseas independence and objectivity and the As part of the process to refresh the Board Doug Dunn Chairman 4 5 subsidiaries: effectiveness of the audit process: and its committees, Janice Roberts and Kathleen ODonovan Senior Independent Director 5 5 considering and approving the Larry Hirst joined and Young Sohn and Philip Rowley Independent non-executive director 5 5 developing and implementing policy assumptions in the annual impairment Jeremy Scudamore stepped down from John Scarisbrick Non-executive director retired 12 May 2011 1 1 on the engagement of the external auditors review, prior to approval by the full Board: the Audit Committee in January 2011.
Young Sohn Independent non-executive director 5 5 to supply non-audit services and assessing their nature, extent and cost effectiveness: reviewing the status of Sarbanes-Oxley and compliance and testing: During the year, the activities of the engaging an external search firm to seek Kathleen ODonovan, in her capacity as Committee included: and introduce suitable candidates to take the Senior Independent Director, is leading considering compliance with legal approval of the non-audit services policy: over as Chairman and conducting the process for the appointment of a new requirements, accounting standards, successfully achieving our objective of reviewing the external auditors interviews with a number of prospective Chairman and chaired relevant meetings the Listing Rules of the Financial identifying three suitable new independent performance, effectiveness, independence candidates: and of the Nomination Committee.
The Services Authority and the requirements non-executive directors Janice Roberts, and fees: and recruitment process involved a review by the of the SEC.
Larry Hirst and Andy Green and reviewing succession plans for the Board of all aspects of the role of Chairman, undertaking an assessment of the recommending their appointment executive team.
its requirements, board dynamics and how effectiveness of the Audit Committee to the Board: best the new Chairman should interact which took place early in 2012. with the Board, the Executive Committee, shareholders and other stakeholders.
indd 70 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 71 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Audit Committee  LLP have been Auditor independence by the auditors, which sets out arrangements the Groups auditors since it listed on the for approving: The challenging economic climate continued during 2011 and, as planned, the Board spent more time reviewing The auditors are required to communicate London Stock Exchange in April 1998. its appetite for and approach to risk.
indd 71 28 02 2012 19:16 7722 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The Nomination Committees general Internal control risk management to provide a sustainable solution for This gives the Board greater visibility of the Operational meetings To demonstrate compliance with the responsibilities include: ongoing compliance.
range of risks, the ways in which such risks Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the internal audit The Group fully complies with the UK In addition, there is a series of are mitigated and an assessment of the level function also maintains the documented leading the process for Board Corporate Governance Code 2010s The ARM Management System, which interconnected meetings that span the of residual risk.
controls over financial reporting and appointments and making provisions on internal control, having covers financial, compliance and operational Group including the weekly executive team confirms the operation of them either recommendations to the Board in relation established procedures to implement the controls, is fully documented and The Committee is responsible for identifying meeting chaired by the Chief Executive by direct testing or through a monitored to new appointments of executive and Turnbull Guidance 2005.
The Board has compliance is monitored through periodic and evaluating all risks which may impact Officer and the weekly business review self-assessment programme.
non-executive directors: established a continuous process for controls testing during each year.
the Groups strategic and business objectives meeting chaired by the Chief Operating The management system is audited identifying, evaluating and managing the The effectiveness of individual controls and for monitoring the progress of actions Officer, the purpose of which is to monitor reviewing succession planning, Board externally by Lloyds Register Quality significant risks faced by the Group.
The is also reviewed with their owners within designed to mitigate such risks.
and control all main business activities, composition and balance: and Assurance for compliance with Board confirms that the necessary actions the divisions and functions to ensure efficacy The committee reports formally on the CRR revenue forecasts and other matters ISO9001:2008 and as part of its Business considering the roles and capabilities have been or are being taken to remedy any and relevance.
The Business Assurance to the Executive Committee twice a year requiring approval.
There are regular Assurance scheme supports the required for each new appointment, significant failings or weaknesses identified function reports on the status of the ARM where its findings are considered and Operations and Customer Satisfaction Sarbanes-Oxley compliance activity.
based on an evaluation of the skills and from this process.
Management System to the Audit challenged.
It also reports to the Board and Meetings where management reviews experience of the existing directors.
Committee at least twice each year.
to the Audit Committee at least once a year.
with representation from the divisions and Any significant control failings identified The Board has overall responsibility The Compliance and Audit Committees functions: revenues, orders booked, costs, through the internal audit function or the Remuneration Committee for ensuring that the Group maintains The Board reviewed its risk appetite during also monitor the satisfactory remediation product and project delivery dates and levels independent auditors are brought to the an adequate system of internal control 2011 and confirmed that the level of residual A description of the composition, of any identified control issues with Group of defects found in products in development.
attention of the Compliance Committee and risk management and for reviewing risk is regarded as acceptable and within responsibilities and operation of the level significance.
The outputs of these meetings are reviewed and undergo a detailed process of evaluation its effectiveness, while implementation of normal parameters for a company operating Remuneration Committee is set out by the Executive Committee which, in turn, of both the failing and the steps taken internal control systems is the responsibility The Board has reviewed and approved the within ARMs sphere of business.
raises relevant issues with the Board of to remedy it.
There is then a process for of management.
The Group has system of internal control, including internal Compliance Committee the Group.
communication of any significant control implemented an internal control controls over the consolidation process and failures to the Audit Committee.
There were The Compliance Committee consists of system designed to help ensure: financial reporting, which have been in place Internal audit function no significant control failures during 2011 the General Counsel, the Chief Operating for the year under review and up to the date the effective and efficient operation of The Group has an internal audit function or up to 27 February 2012, being the latest Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the of approval of the Annual Report and the Group and its divisions by enabling that meets criteria set out in the key practice practicable date before the printing of EVP, Human Resources, the VP Business financial statements.
These controls consist management to respond appropriately standards prescribed by the Institute of this report.
Assurance Head of Internal Audit, the of extensive reviews by qualified and to significant risks to achieving the Internal Auditors.
The internal audit Chief Information Officer and the experienced individuals underpinned by Whistleblowing procedures Groups business objectives: function undertook a range of financial Company Secretary.
It oversees compliance a system of checklists that ensures that all and operational audits in line with the The Group operates a whistleblowing the safeguarding of assets from throughout the business with all relevant elements of the financial statements and plan agreed with the Audit Committee.
policy which provides for employees to inappropriate use or from loss and fraud international regulations, trading appropriate disclosures are considered Additional resource was provided by Ernst & report concerns about any unethical business and ensuring that liabilities are identified requirements and standards, including and accurately stated.
Young in 2011 and this will continue in 2012. practices to senior management in strict and managed: direct oversight of financial, employment, Control systems are designed to manage confidence or, if they prefer, anonymously environmental and security processes During 2011, the Group worked towards the quality of internal and external rather than eliminate the risks inherent in through an independent third-party and policies.
obtaining certification for ISO 27001, the reporting: a fast-moving, high-technology business and telephone line.
They can do so without international standard for Information Disclosure Committee can, therefore, provide only reasonable and fear of recrimination.
The Audit Committee compliance with applicable laws and Security Management Systems.
This was not absolute assurance against material receives any such confidential reports from regulations and with internal policies on The Disclosure Committee comprises the achieved early in 2012. misstatement or loss.
There were the conduct of the Groups business: and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial The Groups Management System no whistleblowing reports in 2011 and none Officer, the VP Finance, ARM Group, The Group has a number of other the ability to recover in a timely manner documents processes and responsibilities up to 27 February 2012, being the latest the General Counsel, the VP Investor committees and bodies which contribute from the effects of disasters or major across all business functions and operations.
practicable date before the printing of this Relations and the Company Secretary.
to the overall control environment.
accidents which originate outside the As an autonomous part of this system, report.
The third-party telephone line is It is responsible for ensuring that disclosures These include: Groups direct control.
the internal audit function carries out regularly tested to ensure that employees made by the Group to its shareholders and Risk Review Committee a programme of audits to assess its can use it if they have occasion to.
Compliance with section 404 of the the investment community are accurate, effectiveness and efficiency, resulting in Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 US has been The Risk Review Committee consists of complete and fairly present the Groups continuous maintenance and improvement successfully achieved for each financial year the Chief Technology Officer, the Chief financial condition in all material respects.
of the system, adapting to changes since it became effective for foreign private Financial Officer, the VP Finance, ARM in business operations as necessary.
This is reported on in more Group, the VP Business Assurance Head detail in the annual report on Form 20-F of Internal Audit and the Company that is filed with the SEC.
It receives and reviews quarterly and procedures for identifying, evaluating reports from the divisions and corporate and managing the significant business, functions.
The Committee has established operational, financial, compliance and other a Corporate Risk Register CRR setting risks facing the Group have been successfully out details of the principal risks faced by integrated into day-to-day business the Group.
operations through our internal control system.
This is known as the ARM Management System and is proven 014617 AR11 PITSTOP.
indd 72 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 73 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 The Nomination Committees general Internal control risk management to provide a sustainable solution for This gives the Board greater visibility of the Operational meetings To demonstrate compliance with the responsibilities include: ongoing compliance.
indd 73 28 02 2012 19:16 7744 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The directors present their annual report and audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2011 Environmental, social, corporate The Groups premises are composed entirely Health and safety Description of operations, The Group intends to enter into licence Directors report governance and ethical policies of offices since it has no manufacturing principal activities and review agreements with new customers and Although ARM operates in an industry and activities.
Staff make use of computer-aided of business to increase the range of new technology The following additional While the Group is accountable to its in environments which are considered low design tools to generate IP.
This involves supplied to existing customers.
Relationships disclosures are made shareholders, it also endeavours to take into risk from a health and safety perspective, the The principal operations and activities of the neither hazardous substances nor complex will continue to be established with account the interests of all its stakeholders, safety of employees, contractors and visitors in compliance with the Group and its subsidiaries are the licensing, waste emissions.
With the exception of third-party tools and software vendors including employees, customers and is a priority in all ARM workplaces marketing, research and development of Companies Act 2006, development systems products, the majority to ensure that their products will operate suppliers and the local communities world-wide.
Continual improvement in RISC-based microprocessors, fabric IP, the Disclosure and of products sold by the Group comprise with the Groups products.
As a result of its and environments in which it operates.
safety management systems is achieved graphics processors, physical IP and microprocessor core and physical IP designs Transparency Rules position in the semiconductor industry, the The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief through detailed risk assessments to identify associated systems IP, software and tools.
that are delivered electronically to customers.
Group is presented with many opportunities and the UK Corporate Financial Officer take responsibility for these and eliminate potential hazards and through The nature of the global semiconductor to acquire complementary technology or Governance Code 2010. matters, which are considered at Board level.
A number of environmental initiatives occupational health assessments for industry is such that most of the Groups resources and it intends to continue to make A Corporate Responsibility CR summary have continued in 2011.
More detail about the Groups business originates overseas and, to serve its appropriate investments and acquisitions is included in this report and a more detailed environmental policy is published on approach to environmental matters and customers better, the Group has sales offices from time to time.
report is available via the Groups website its website within the CR report.
An health and safety is included in the around the world.
These include six offices www.
The Group environmental action plan is in place, CR Report.
in the US and offices in Shanghai, Shenzhen Going concern regularly monitors employees awareness including monitoring energy usage, resource and Beijing, PR China: Shin-Yokohama, Business model After dividend payments of 42.2 million of Group policies and procedures, including consumption and waste creation so that Japan: Seoul, South Korea: Taipei, Taiwan: in 2011, the highly cash generative nature For a detailed description of ARMs business its conduct and ethical policies.
Employees targets set for improvement are realistic Kfar Saba, Israel: Paris, France: Munich, of the business enabled the Group to increase model refer to page 14. and temporary contractors reconfirm their and meaningful, ensuring existing controls Germany and Bangalore, India.
Design its cash, cash equivalents and deposits understanding of key policies each year to continue to operate satisfactorily and offices are based in Cambridge, Sheffield to 424.0 million net of accrued interest help reinforce awareness.
The Groups Code working with suppliers to improve and Blackburn, UK: Sophia Antipolis and of 5.0 million at the end of 2011 from By order of the Board of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is environmental management.
Grenoble, France: Grasbrunn, Germany: 290.1 million net of accrued interest available on the Groups website, and the Trondheim, Norway: Sentjernej, Slovenia: In line with the Companies Act 2006, the of 1.7 million at the start of the year.
Company Rules have been updated in Lund, Sweden: Austin, Texas, Olympia, articles of association enable the Group After reviewing the 2012 budget and response to the UK Bribery Act 2010.
Washington and San Jose, California to send information to shareholders longer-term plans, and considering any A training and communication programme in the US and Bangalore, India.
electronically and make documents available reasonably likely scenarios that may occur, is in place to ensure that employees through the website rather than in hard copy, More information about the business, its the directors are satisfied that, at the time Patricia Alsop understand the requirements, particularly which provide both environmental and cost Company Secretary operations and key performance indicators of approving the financial statements, it is those in roles or working in countries that benefits.
Shareholders can opt to continue are set out in the Overview and business appropriate to adopt the going concern basis are regarded as higher risk.
Arrangements receiving a printed copy of the Annual review on pages 11 to 34, the Financial in preparing the financial statements of both with contractors and suppliers have been and Report, subject to availability.
review incorporating a section on principal the Group and the parent Company.
will continue to be reviewed and updated to risks and uncertainties on pages 50 to 58, the Dividends reflect the requirements of the Act.
Chairmans statement on pages 60 to 62 The directors recommend payment of As a Group whose primary business is the and in the Corporate responsibility summary a final dividend in respect of the year to licensing of IP, employees are highly valued on pages 45 to 49.
The Groups statement 31 December 2011 of 2.09 pence per share and their rights and dignity are respected.
on corporate governance can be found in which, subject to approval at the AGM on The Group strives for equal opportunities the Corporate governance report on pages 3 May 2012, will be paid on 18 May 2012 to for all its employees and does not tolerate 66 to 74 of these financial statements.
shareholders on the register on 4 May 2012. any harassment of, or discrimination against, The Risks and risk management section This final dividend, combined with the its staff.
The Group endeavours to be honest of the Financial review and the Corporate interim dividend of 1.39 pence per share paid and fair in its relationships with its customers governance report form part of this section in October 2011, makes a total of 3.48 pence and suppliers and to be a good corporate and are incorporated into it by cross per share for the year, an increase of 20% citizen respecting the laws of the countries reference.
on the total dividend of 2.90 pence per in which it operates.
The Groups stated objective is to establish Share buyback programme a global standard for its RISC architecture, No share buybacks were undertaken in 2011 physical IP and other products in the and no shares have been re-purchased to embedded microprocessor and date in 2012.
The rolling authority to buy semiconductor markets.
The directors back shares given by the shareholders at the believe that, in order to achieve this goal, it is AGM in May 2011 remains in place and a important to expand the number and range resolution to authorise the directors to make of potential customers for its technology.
purchases in appropriate circumstances will be proposed at the 2012 AGM.
indd 74 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 75 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 The directors present their annual report and audited Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 consolidated financial statements for the year ended Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 31 December 2011 Financial statements 95 Environmental, social, corporate The Groups premises are composed entirely Health and safety Description of operations, The Group intends to enter into licence Directors report governance and ethical policies of offices since it has no manufacturing principal activities and review agreements with new customers and Although ARM operates in an industry and activities.
indd 75 28 02 2012 19:16 7766 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Research and development R&D Donations Andy Green independent non-executive Share capital The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines Substantial shareholdings director appointed 25 February 2011 for exercising voting rights and appointing R&D is of major importance and, as part of During the year the Group made donations As at 31 December 2011, ARMs share The directors are aware of the Larry Hirst CBE independent a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to its research activities, the Group collaborates for charitable purposes of 108,546 capital comprised a single class of ordinary following substantial interests in the non-executive director resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
All closely with universities world-wide and 2010: 37,834.
The total amounts given shares of 0.05 pence each and there were issued share capital of the Company appointed 25 January 2011 proxy votes are counted and the numbers plans to continue its successful engagement for each such purpose were: 1,351,315,597 ordinary shares in issue, none as at 27 February 2012: Kathleen ODonovan independent for, against or withheld in relation to each with Michigan University.
Key areas of of which were held in treasury Percentage non-executive director, financial expert resolution are announced at the AGM product development for 2012 include 2010: 1,344,055,696 of which 21, 624,158 of issued Medical research 31,035 and Senior Independent Director from and published on ARMs website after ordinary the development of further energy-efficient, were held in treasury.
The rights attached Local charities 12,781 31 January 2011 the meeting.
share capital high-performance processors such as ARM to treasury shares are restricted in Relief of poverty 33,390 Janice Roberts independent non-executive Capital Research and cores based on symmetric multicore and accordance with the Companies Act.
There are no restrictions on the transfer Promotion of education 20,464 director appointed 25 January 2011 Management Company 6.0% superscalar technology.
The Group is of ordinary shares in ARM other than: Other 10,876 The rights attached to ordinary shares are Philip Rowley independent non-executive Thornburg Investment investing in future physical IP development as follows: restrictions that may from time to time Management 5.0% director and financial expert including low-power, low-leakage ARMs investment of 2.5 million in be imposed by laws and regulations Fidelity Management and Young Sohn independent 1.
On a show of hands at a general meeting, technologies for both bulk CMOS an interest-free charitable bond in Future Research Corporation 5.0% for example, those relating to market non-executive director every shareholder present in person or, complementary metal oxide Business, made in 2010, remains in place.
Legal and General Investment abuse and insider dealing : Jeremy Scudamore independent in the case of a corporation, present at the semiconductor and SOI silicon on Future Business is a Cambridge-based social Management 3.8% non-executive director meeting by way of a representative and restrictions that may be imposed pursuant insulator processes to ensure leadership enterprise, which provides business advice, Janus Capital Management retired 31 January 2011 entitled to vote shall have one vote and every to the Listing Rules of the Financial in this market.
In addition, the Group LLC 3.6% coaching and affordable workspace John Scarisbrick non-executive director proxy present who has been duly appointed Services Authority under which certain will continue to develop and deliver tools, to entrepreneurs, start-up businesses, retired 12 May 2011 Save for the above, the Company has by a shareholder entitled to vote on the employees of ARM require the approval graphics processors and fabric IP to enable its charities and voluntary organisations.
not been notified, as at 27 February 2012, resolution shall have one vote: of the Company to deal in shares: customers to design and programme SoCs.
Re-election of directors ARM employees are encouraged to offer of any material interest of 3% or more or any 2.
On a poll, every shareholder present restrictions on the transfer of shares The Group incurred R&D expenses of As previously announced, Doug Dunn their time and expertise to help charities non-material interest exceeding 10% of the in person or in the case of a corporation, that may be imposed under article 61.2 165.4 million in 2011, representing 34% of intends to retire as Chairman and as a and other groups in need.
The Group issued share capital of the Company.
present at the meeting by way of a of ARMs articles of association or under revenues, compared with 139.8 million in director immediately following the AGM operates a Matching Gift Donation Appointment of directors representative or by proxy and entitled Part 22 of the Companies Act 2006, in 2010, representing 34% of revenues.
R&D on 3 May 2012 and Tudor Brown is also programme for individual employees to vote shall have one vote for every either case following a failure to supply expenses have been charged to the income retiring from the Board and is not seeking ARM shareholders may by ordinary fundraising efforts.
The Group does ordinary share held: information required to be disclosed statement since the requirements for re-election.
resolution appoint any person to be a not make any political donations.
following service of a request under capitalisation were not met.
ARM must have not less than two 3.
Shareholders are entitled to a dividend All of the continuing directors will be Directors in the year section 793 of the Companies The requirements for capitalisation are and no more than 16 directors holding office where declared or paid out of profits standing for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
Act 2006: and considered in more detail in note 1 The following served as directors of at all times.
ARM may by ordinary resolution available for such purposes: and In line with the provisions of the UK to the financial statements.
the Company during the year ended from time to time vary the minimum and or restrictions on transfer of shares held Corporate Governance Code 2010, all 4.
Shareholders are entitled to participate 31 December 2011: maximum number of directors.
under certain of the Companys employee directors will stand for election or in a return of capital on a winding-up.
share plans while they remain subject to Doug Dunn OBE Chairman re-election annually.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance the plan.
Warren East Chief Executive Officer Code 2010, at the 2012 AGM and future See pages 63 to 65 for the biographies Tim Score Chief Financial Officer AGMs all directors will present themselves of the directors at the date of this report.
Tudor Brown President for re-election if eligible unless the directors The interests of the directors in the Mike Muller Chief Technology Officer have agreed otherwise.
Companys ordinary shares of 0.05 pence, all Mike Inglis EVP and General Manager, of which were beneficially held, are disclosed Processor Division in the Remuneration report.
indd 76 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 77 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 Research and development R&D Donations Andy Green independent non-executive Share capital The notice of the AGM specifies deadlines Substantial shareholdings director appointed 25 February 2011 for exercising voting rights and appointing R&D is of major importance and, as part of During the year the Group made donations As at 31 December 2011, ARMs share The directors are aware of the Larry Hirst CBE independent a proxy or proxies to vote in relation to its research activities, the Group collaborates for charitable purposes of 108,546 capital comprised a single class of ordinary following substantial interests in the non-executive director resolutions to be passed at the AGM.
Simon Segars EVP and General Manager, Physical IP Division Geographical spread Charitable donations of shareholders Medical US 55% research 31,035 UK 26% Rest of Europe 8% Local charities 12,781 Rest of the World 3% Relief of Other 8% poverty 33,390 Promotion of education 20,464 Other 10,876 014617 AR11 PITSTOP.
indd 77 28 02 2012 19:16 7788 ARM Holdings plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 The directors may appoint a director to fill as defined in resolution 17.
Further, Employee involvement Annual General Meeting AGM Accounting Standards have been followed, Disclosure of information a casual vacancy or as an additional director resolution 18 will authorise the directors to subject to any material departures to auditors As the Group is an IP enterprise, it is vital The AGM will be held at 110 Fulbourn Road, to hold office until the next AGM, who shall allot ordinary shares or sell treasury shares disclosed and explained in the Group that all levels of staff are consulted and Cambridge, CB1 9NJ, UK, on 3 May 2012 at In the case of each director in office at the then be eligible for election.
for cash i otherwise than in connection and parent Company financial statements involved in its decision-making processes.
A presentation will be made at this date the Directors report is approved, that: with a pre-emptive offer as defined in respectively: and Articles of association To this end, internal conferences and meeting outlining recent developments in a so far as the director is aware, there is resolution 18 up to an aggregate nominal communications meetings are held regularly the business.
All voting at the meeting will be prepare the financial statements on ARMs articles of association may be no relevant audit information of which the amount of 34,395 or ii in connection which involve employees from all parts of the conducted on a poll where every shareholder the going concern basis unless it is amended only by a special resolution Companys auditors are unaware: and with a pre-emptive offer up to an aggregate Group in discussions on future strategy and present in person or by proxy will have one inappropriate to presume that the at a general meeting of shareholders.
nominal amount of 34,395, or iii in b the director has taken all the steps that developments.
Furthermore, employee share vote for each share of which they are the Company will continue in business.
connection with a rights issue up to a further Directors authority he or she ought to have taken as a director ownership is encouraged and all employees owner.
The Group will convey the results The directors are responsible for keeping nominal amount of 34,395, in each case as in order to make themselves aware of any are able to participate in one of the Groups of the poll on the website after the AGM.
The directors are responsible for the adequate accounting records that are if section 561 1 of the Companies Act 2006 relevant audit information and to establish schemes to encourage share ownership.
Shareholders are invited to submit written management of the business of ARM and sufficient to show and explain the did not apply to such allotment or sale.
that the Companys auditors are aware The Group has an informal and delegated questions in advance of the meeting.
may exercise all powers of ARM subject Companys transactions and disclose with The period of authorisation will in each of that information.
It does not presently Questions should be sent to The Company to applicable legislation and regulation reasonable accuracy at any time the financial case expire at the earlier of the conclusion operate any collective agreements with any Secretary, ARM Holdings plc, 110 Fulbourn and the articles of association.
position of the Company and the Group of the 2013 AGM or on 30 June 2013. trade unions.
and enable them to ensure that the financial At the 2011 AGM, the directors were given Signed on behalf of the Board of directors Qualifying indemnity provision Information about the Groups A resolution to reappoint statements and the Remuneration report authority to buy back a maximum number Article 139 of the Companys articles of employees and policies are contained  LLP as auditors comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, of 134,508,636 ordinary shares at a association provides for the indemnification in the Remuneration report, the Our to the Group will be proposed at the AGM.
as regards the Group financial statements, minimum price of 0.05 pence each.
of directors of the Company against liability commitment section and the Corporate Details of other resolutions to be proposed Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also The maximum price was an amount equal incurred by them in certain situations, governance report.
Information about at the meeting are set out in the Circular responsible for safeguarding the assets of the to 105% of the average of the closing mid and is a qualifying indemnity provision environmental matters, social and and Notice of AGM 2012 which will be Company and the Group and hence for market prices of ARMs ordinary shares as within the meaning of section 236 of the community policies and their effectiveness made available to all shareholders together taking reasonable steps for the prevention derived from the London Stock Exchange Patricia Alsop Companies Act 2006. is contained in the Our commitment with a proxy card.
and detection of fraud and other Daily Official List for the five business days Company Secretary section and in the full Corporate irregularities.
immediately preceding the day on which The qualifying indemnity was in force during Statement of directors ARM Holdings plc Responsibility Report available such ordinary shares are contracted to be the financial year and at 31 December 2011. responsibilities The directors are responsible for the Company Number: 2548782 on our website.
This authority will expire at the maintenance and integrity of the Annual Change of control The directors are responsible for preparing earlier of the conclusion of the 2012 AGM Policy on payment of creditors Report included on the Groups website the Annual Report, the Remuneration report or 30 June 2012.
All of ARMs equity-based plans contain in accordance with the United Kingdom The Groups policy is to pay suppliers before and the financial statements in accordance provisions relating to a change of control.
legislation governing the preparation and Accordingly, resolution 19 will be proposed the end of the month following the month of with applicable law and regulations.
Outstanding awards and options would dissemination of financial statements.
as a special resolution at the 2012 AGM receipt of the invoice, unless alternative terms normally vest and become exercisable on a Company law requires the directors to Legislation in the United Kingdom to give ARM authority to acquire up to have been specifically agreed in advance.
change of control, subject to the satisfaction prepare financial statements for each governing the preparation and dissemination 137,579,000 ordinary shares following expiry This policy and any specific terms agreed of any performance conditions at that time.
Under that law the directors of financial statements may differ from of the current authority.
The directors will with suppliers are made known to the have prepared the Group financial legislation in other jurisdictions.
use this authority only after careful There are no significant agreements to appropriate staff and to suppliers on request.
statements in accordance with International consideration, taking into account market which ARM is a party that take effect, alter Trade creditors of the Group at 31 December Each of the directors, whose names and Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as conditions prevailing at the time, other or terminate upon a change of control.
2011 were equivalent to 27 days purchases functions are listed in the biographies adopted by the European Union, and the investment opportunities, appropriate for the Group 2010: 16 days and nil days on pages 63 to 65 confirm that, to the Disabled persons parent Company financial statements in gearing levels and the overall position of for the Company 2010: nil.
best of their knowledge: accordance with United Kingdom Generally The Group has a strong demand for highly ARM.
In particular, this authority will be Financial instruments Accepted Accounting Practice United the Group financial statements, which qualified staff and disability is not seen to exercised only if the directors believe that it is Kingdom Accounting Standards and have been prepared in accordance with be an inhibitor to employment or career The Groups financial risk management and in the best interests of shareholders generally applicable law.
Under company law the IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true development.
In the event of any staff policies and exposure to risks in relation to and will increase earnings per share.
directors must not approve the financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, becoming disabled while with the Group, financial instruments are detailed in note 1c.
Resolution 17 to be proposed at the 2012 statements unless they are satisfied that they financial position and profit of the their needs and abilities would be assessed Essential contracts AGM will authorise the directors generally give a true and fair view of the state of affairs Group: and and the Group would, where possible, seek to allot up to 229,299 in nominal amount of the Group and the Company and of the There are a large number of contracts in to offer alternative employment to them if this Directors report on pages 75 to 79 of ordinary shares and, in addition, will profit or loss of the Group for that period.
place with the Groups Partners, some of they were no longer able to continue in their and the financial review on pages 51 to 58 authorise the directors to allot up to a further In preparing these financial statements, which are described in more detail in the current role.
includes a fair review of the development 229,299 in nominal amount of ordinary the directors are required to: Our Partnership approach section starting and performance of the business and the shares in connection with a rights issue on page 26.
There are no parties with whom select suitable accounting policies and position of the Group, together with the Group has contractual or other then apply them consistently: a description of the principal risks and arrangements which are essential uncertainties that it faces.
make judgements and accounting to the business of the Group.
estimates that are reasonable and prudent: There is one Company which accounted state whether IFRSs as adopted by the for 11% of Group revenues in 2011, which European Union and applicable UK is referred to in note 2 on page 121.
indd 78 28 02 2012 19:16 Overview 11 79 Strategy and performance 16 Our partnership approach 25 Our marketplace 35 Our commitment 44 Financials and risk 50 Governance 59 Financial statements 95 The directors may appoint a director to fill as defined in resolution 17.
