Governance Corporate Governance Dear Shareholders This was a very exciting year for us with the listing on the London Stock Exchange and entry to the FTSE 100 index.
I was excited to join the Board as Chairman, committing my time and experience to create sustainable value to the Companys stakeholders.
I will do my best to ensure that the work of the Board and overall governance system we operate at Polymetal International will be conducted to the highest international standards.
It is important that we build trust and reputation through our commitment to stringent governance practices and accountability.
We are complying with the majority of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 with adequate provisions made to ensure compliance in 2012 see details opposite.
Our belief is that effective governance is realised through leadership and collaboration.
We have a renewed Board with the balance of skills and experience needed to support and enhance the work of the Executives.
In my role as Chairman I will also ensure that we collaborate and operate with due diligence and discipline across the whole Group.
It is important that we encourage dialogue with stakeholders in order to guide and define our approach to governance and risk management now and in the future.
As a Board we are responsible for defining the long-term direction and strategic aims of the Company.
We have a robust business model and a focused strategy that will deliver sustainable value, underpinned by our commitment to high standards of governance, enabling us to achieve our vision of being a world-class mining company.
Bobby Godsell Chairman 74 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Statement of compliance with UK Corporate Role and structure of the Board Governance Code The Companys Board comprises one executive Director, The Directors are committed to maintaining high standards non-executive Chairman and seven non-executive Directors of corporate governance.
As a premium listed company, half of whom are independent non-executives refer to the Polymetal International is required to comply with the UK schedule below for the structure of the Board and Committees, Code of Corporate Governance published in June 2010 showing this status of each Director.
the UK Code and, where the provisions of the UK Code have not been complied with, to provide appropriate Non-executive Directors are determined by the Board to explanations.
In 2011, the Company has complied with be independent in character and judgement and to be free the provisions of the UK Code, except for the following: from relationships or circumstances, which may affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgement.
6.1 Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and its individual Directors: The role of independent Directors at the Board is to challenge Schedule A of the UK Code recommends share options the strategy and scrutinise the performance of management, and awards should not vest in less than three years.
monitor performance of the Company, review the integrity of financial information and review the appropriateness The reason for non-compliance was the short period between of the Companys internal controls and risk management the formation of the Group and the year end B.
existence of share option arrangements prior to admission Schedule A.
Directors interests are disclosed in annual declarations and the Company Secretary is notified promptly of any Following the admission of the Company to trading on the changes.
Before each Board meeting Directors confirm their London Stock Exchange in November 2011, certain planned independence and all Directors disclose whether they hold any improvements relating to corporate governance remained interests in any matters to be reviewed at the Board meeting.
incomplete by the end of the year.
However, arrangements have already been made by the Board to ensure compliance Mr Yanakov is a representative of Powerboom Investments in 2012 in these respects.
All matters subject to review and or Limited, Ms Grnberg is a representative of Vitalbond Limited, approval by the Board and its committees were included into A&NN and Capital Management Fund Limited and Mr Duvieusart the Boards and respective committees agenda.
The schedule is a representative of PPF Group BV.
Mr Nesis is the brother of and number of meetings planned for 2012 meets the the beneficial owner of Powerboom Investments Limited.
Save requirements of the UK Code.
for the potential conflicts inherent in these relationships, there are no potential conflicts of interest between any duties owed The UK Code recommends that share options and awards by the Directors or senior management to the Company and should not vest in fewer than three years.
During 2010, prior their private interests or other duties.
to the UK Code becoming applicable to the Company options were awarded to certain employees that could, subject to the The Company considers that the Board and its Committees meeting of specific performance criteria, vest in fewer than have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, three years.
This was considered appropriate to align employee independence and knowledge of the Company to enable incentives with the Companys objectives.
them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Board composition Audit &Risk Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee member member member Board member Appointed Executive Non-executive Independent chairman chairman chairman Bobby Godsell 29 September 2011 Chairman 1 Vitaly Nesis 29 September 2011 2 Jonathan Best 29 September 2011 Chairman Member 3 Russell Skirrow 29 September 2011 Member 4 Leonard Homeniuk 29 September 2011 Chairman Member 5 Charles Balfour 29 September 2011 Member Member Member 6 Konstantin Yanakov 29 September 2011 7 Marina Grnberg 29 September 2011 Jean-Pascal Duvieusart 29 September 2011 1 Mr Nesis was appointed CEO of JSC Polymetal, the previous parent and reporting entity of the Group, on 30 June 2004.
2 Mr Best was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 28 December 2006.
3 Dr Skirrow was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 25 September 2008.
4 Mr Homeniuk was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 29 June 2010.
5 Senior Independent Director 6 Mr Yanakov was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 25 September 2008.
7 Ms Grnberg was appointed non-executive Director of JSC Polymetal on 25 September 2008.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 75 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance Corporate Governance continued Board meetings In August 2011 Mr Godsell resigned from the board of In 2011, the Board met twice.
Following the listing in November African Barrick Gold to be able to commit sufficient time to 2011, the Board meets at least quarterly.
There are seven his role as non-executive Chairman of Polymetal International.
Mr Godsells other significant commitments are as the Chair of the board of Optimum Coal Holdings, a Johannesburg listed Role of the Board medium size coal mining company, and membership of the The Board is responsible for: South African National Planning Commission, a government commission.
In January 2012 he also accepted a non-executive defining the commercial strategy and long-term objectives Directorship in the South African state owned Industrial of the Group: Development Corporation, however, the additional time approving annual operating and capital expenditure budgets commitment required by this additional role will be more than and any material changes to them: offset by the expected termination of his role on the board of overseeing the Groups operations, ensuring: competent Optimum Coal Holdings, which is in the process of being and prudent management: sound planning: a strong system acquired by Glencore plc.
This process should be complete of internal control: and compliance with all statutory and by July 2012. regulatory obligations: The CEO is responsible for the day-to-day management reviewing the performance of the Group in the light of of the Group and developing the Groups business strategy, its business strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets objectives, budget and forecasts and, once approved by the and ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken: Board, overseeing their successful implementation.
The Chief approving any material extension of the Groups activities into Executive Officer reports to the Chairman and to the Board new businesses or geographic areas and any decision to directly.
All members of executive management report directly cease to operate all or any material part of the Groups to the Chief Executive Officer.
His responsibilities include: business: and development and proposal of Group strategy, including ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives and communicating annual plans and commercial objectives maintaining constructive dialogue with shareholders.
to the Board: upholding the Groups responsibilities to its shareholders, The schedule of matters reserved for the Board is reviewed customers, employees and other stakeholders: at least annually.
identifying and executing strategic opportunities: Roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and regularly reviewing the operational performance and strategic Senior Independent Director direction of the Group: The Board has approved division of responsibilities between making recommendations on remuneration policies, the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer CEO and the executive remuneration and terms of employment for role of the Senior Independent Director SID.
senior employees: ensuring the development needs of the executive Directors The Chairman reports to the Board and is responsible for the and senior management are identified and met and ensuring leadership and overall effectiveness of the Board and setting effective succession planning: and the Boards agenda.
His responsibilities include: ensuring effective communication with shareholders and that effective running of the Board: appropriate, timely and accurate information is disclosed to ensuring there is appropriate delegation of authority from the market, with issues escalated promptly to the executive the Board to executive management: management and the Board.
promoting a culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive Directors in Senior Independent Director particular and ensuring constructive relations between Charles Balfour acts as the Boards Senior Independent executive and non-executive Directors: Director.
Mr Balfour is available to shareholders and as an facilitating the effective contribution of non-executive intermediary for the other directors if necessary.
He attends Directors and encouraging active engagement by all meetings with a range of major shareholders to listen to members of the Board: their views in order to help develop a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Meetings ensuring constructive relations between the executive between independent Directors, including Mr Balfour, and and non-executive Directors: and major shareholders took place in 2011 prior to the admission ensuring that the views of the shareholders are of the Company on the LSE and year end.
Arrangements have communicated to the Board as a whole so that all been made for such meetings to take place in 2012.
Directors develop an understanding of their views.
76 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Board and Committee meetings attendance During the process of identifying the Chairman and the additional non-executive Directors to form the Board of Audit Remuneration Nomination Company and in the two months period since admission Board Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings the Company has not employed external search consultants.
two two nil nil Bobby Godsell all n a n a n a In accordance with the Articles of Association of the Company, at every Annual General Meeting one third of the Directors Jonathan Best all all n a n a on the Board must retire or, if the number of Directors is not Russell Skirrow all all n a n a divisible by three, the number of Directors nearest to one Leonard third shall retire from office but if any Directors who has held Homeniuk all n a n a n a office for three years or more since he or she was last Charles Balfour all all n a n a appointed or re-appointed at the date fixed for the annual Konstantin general meeting, must retire.
In accordance with the Yanakov all n a n a n a UK Code all Directors are subject to annual re-election.
Marina Grnberg all n a n a n a The biographical details are set out on pages 72 to 73 Jean-Pascal Duvieusart all n a n a n a and the Board considers that each of the Directors will be an effective contributor to the success of the Group.
Note 1: Business conducted since formation of the Remuneration Committee on 29 September 2011 was approved by written resolutions of the Remuneration Committee.
Upon appointment Directors receive a full induction, including Note 2: Nomination Committee did not meet since its formation on 29 September information about the Company, an outline of the role of a to 31 December 2011.
Director and a summary of his or her responsibilities and Note 3: C ertain pre-IPO matters were dealt with by an IPO committee of the Board, comprising Bobby Godsell, Vitaly Nesis, Charles Balfour and Jonathan Best.
ongoing obligations under legislation, regulation and best practice, a Copy of UK Listing Authority UKLA Model Code, Evaluation and re-election policies and details of the Companys procedure regarding Directors Nomination Committee share dealings and the disclosure of price sensitive information, The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr Godsell and the Companys guidelines on matters reserved for the its other members are Mr Homenuik and Mr Balfour.
The Board: terms of reference of the Board committees and Committee has responsibility for making recommendations other governing documents of the Company.
A field trip to the Board on the composition of the Board and its to some of the Groups major assets is scheduled in 2012 Committees, including appointments of additional and for non-executive Directors.
The Committee: There were no meetings of the Nomination Committee from the leads the process for Board appointments and makes date of admission to trading to the year end.
Two meetings are recommendations to the Board: scheduled in 2012.
No evaluation of performance of the Board, regularly reviews the Board structure, size and composition its Committees and individual Directors was performed in 2011 including the skills, knowledge, independence, experience due to the short time from admission to the year end as and diversity and makes recommendations to the Board required under B.
6.1. about any changes that the Committee considers necessary: considers plans and makes recommendations to the Full terms of reference of the Nomination Committee Board for orderly succession to the Board and to senior are available at the Companys website: management, so as to maintain an appropriate balance of www.
com skills and experience within the Company and on the Board and to ensure progressive refreshing of the Board, taking The Board considers that the composition of the Board and into account the challenges and opportunities facing the the Nomination Committee complies with the requirements Company: of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
keeps under review the leadership needs of the Group, Audit and Risk Committee both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Mr Best and the continued ability of the Group to compete effectively in its other members are Mr Skirrow and Mr Balfour, all the marketplace: independent non-executive Directors.
The Directors consider before any appointment is made by the Board, evaluate the that Mr Best has recent and relevant financial experience balance of skills, knowledge, experience, independence refer to page 73 for details of Mr Bests experience.
and diversity of the Board, and in the light of this evaluation In addition, the other members of the Committee have prepares a description of the role and capabilities required a wide range of financial and other relevant experience.
for a particular appointment and the expected time commitment.
In identifying suitable candidates the Committee shall: and reviews the results of the Boards performance evaluation process that relate to the composition of the Board and whether non-executive Directors are spending enough time to fulfil their duties.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 77 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Governance Corporate Governance continued The responsibilities of the Audit and Risk Committee comprise: The Audit and Risk Committee monitors the Companys relationship with external auditors relating to the provision monitoring the integrity of the Groups consolidated financial of non-audit services to ensure that auditor objectivity and statements and reviewing its annual and interim financial independence is safeguarded.
This is achieved by disclosure statements, including, but not limited to the consistency of, of the extent and nature of non-audit services see note 14 and any changes to, accounting and treasury policies across to the consolidated financial statements and the prohibition of the Company and the Group: the methods used to account selected services being provided by the external auditor.
for significant or unusual transactions: the reasonableness of The Audit and Risk Committee has considered information significant estimates and judgements, taking into account the pertaining to the balance between fees for audit and non-audit views of the external auditor: and the clarity and completeness work for the Company in 2011 and concluded that the nature of disclosure in the consolidated financial statements: and extent of non-audit fees do not present a threat to the considering and making recommendations to the Board, to external auditors objectivity or independence.
be put to the shareholders to consider at the annual general meeting, in relation to the appointment, re-appointment, The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external resignation or removal of the Groups external auditors: auditors following the listing in 2011 with Deloitte CIS having overseeing the Groups relationship with its external auditors been auditors of JSC Polymetal since the last tendering and reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process: process in 2008 is kept under annual review by the Audit The Committee meets with the external auditors at least and Risk Committee.
once a year without management being present, to discuss their remit and any issues arising from the audit: The Committees assessment of the external auditors performance and independence underpins its reviewing the independence of external auditors and recommendation to the Board to propose to shareholders the the appropriateness of the provision of any non-audit re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as auditors until the conclusion services by the external auditor: of the AGM in 2013.
Resolutions to authorise the Board to reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal re-appoint and determine their remuneration will be proposed controls and risk management systems: at the AGM on 13 June 2012. monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function in the context of the Groups overall The Board considers that the Audit and Risk Committee risk management system: and complies with the requirements of the UK Code.
reviewing the Groups policies and procedures for preventing and detecting fraud, the systems and controls in place for Internal control and risk management preventing bribery, and its policies for ensuring that the The Company aims to ensure that all its activities are Group complies with relevant regulatory and legal adequately controlled to mitigate risk and support the requirements.
achievement of its objectives, while avoiding the creation of excessive bureaucracy.
The system of internal controls Full terms of reference of the Audit and Risk Committee is designed to manage rather than completely eliminate are available at the Companys website: the risk to achieve the Companys business objectives www.
com in order to bring the residual risk to an acceptable level.
The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving In conducting its annual review of the effectiveness of risk the interim and annual financial statements remains with the management, the Board considers the key findings from the Board.
The Committee gives due consideration to applicable ongoing monitoring and reporting processes, management laws and regulations, the provisions of the UK Code and the assertions and independent assurance reports.
The Board requirements of the Listing Rules.
In 2011 the Audit and Risk also takes account of material changes and trends in the risk Committee dealt with the following matters: profile and considers whether the control system, including reporting, adequately supports the Board in achieving its risk reviewed and approved financial and risk information management objectives.
included in the prospectus, working capital model, Financial Reporting Procedures and Long Form Report: During the course of the year the Board considered the Groups reviewed JSC Polymetals results for the six months responsiveness to changes within its business environment.
to 30 June 2011: The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process, which discussed and approved the Committee work plan: has been operational during the year, and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, for identifying, evaluating and approved Deloitte LLP as external auditors: managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
discussed and recommended for approval by the Board policies for compliance with the UK Bribery Act: reviewed the Groups internal audit plan: reviewed the Groups external audit plan.
78 Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 Internal audit The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary The internal audit function supports this aim by providing have been or are being taken to remedy any failings or the Directors, through the Audit and Risk Committee, with weaknesses in the Groups system of internal controls, an objective evaluation of the Companys and the Groups which it has determined to be significant from its review governance framework.
The internal audit function also aims of that system.
This has involved considering the matters to raise levels of understanding and awareness of risk and reported to it and developing plans and programmes that control throughout the Group.
it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
The head of internal audit reports to the CEO and, through UK Bribery Act 2010 the Audit and Risk Committee, to the Board of Directors.
Where The Company and Directors are committed to ensuring relevant, the internal audit function will additionally report its adherence to the highest legal and ethical standards.
findings to members of the Companys executive management.
This must be reflected in every aspect of the way in which the Group operates.
Bribery is a criminal offence in the countries The internal audits annual work plan is designed to focus in which the Group operates, and corrupt acts expose the on matters arising from the operational risk matrix and is Group and its employees to the risk of prosecution, fines approved by the Audit and Risk Committee in advance.
and imprisonment, as well as endangering the Companys reputation.
The Group has adopted anti-bribery policies, which The internal audit function uses an annual self-certification extend across all of Groups business dealings in all countries process, which requires managers throughout the Group and territories in which the Group operates and apply to to personally confirm the testing of internal controls and employees of the Group as well as relevant business partners compliance with Group policies within their business or and other necessary individuals and entities.
The Board function and the steps taken to address actual or potential attaches the utmost importance to this policy and applies issues that are identified.
a zero tolerance approach to acts of bribery and corruption by any of the Groups employees or by business partners working Management provides a timely response to issues raised on the Groups behalf and prohibits the payment, offer or by internal audit.
Where possible, the issues are resolved authorisation of bribes, the receipt or acceptance of a bribe, and within one reporting period.
the payment, offer or promise to pay any facilitating payments.
Any breach of this policy is regarded as a serious matter by the Internal control framework and activities Company and is likely to result in disciplinary action.
The management structure of the Group and internal policies and procedures are aimed at maintaining a robust control As part of implementation of internal procedures to comply with framework within the Group which will result in achievement the UK Bribery Act, the Group has implemented a formalised of strategic objectives within the set risk tolerance levels.
whistle-blowing policy which describes processes in place for This framework includes: staff to communicate, in confidence, concerns about possible improprieties, unethical or illegal activities and ensures that appropriate tone set from the top from the Board level, arrangements are in place for independent investigation of aimed at building the appropriate control environment: such matters.
proper risk identification and management system for more detail please refer to page 60 : Copies of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and the strict division of responsibilities and adequate whistle-blowing policy are available on request from the delegation of authority: Companys offices.
specific control activities implemented at all levels of the Group: and periodic review of effectiveness of controls.
The governance framework reflects the specific structure and management of the Group, where authority and control are delegated by the Board to different levels, from the Chief Executive to the managers of the Groups operating entities and then downward to business and project managers as appropriate.
Within this framework, authority is delegated within clearly prescribed limits and decisions are escalated where either project size or risk profile require a higher level of authority.
Polymetal International plc Annual Report 2011 79 Appendices Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
