Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 64 The Premier Farnell Leadership Council learningexperience, it also gave them the opportunity to facing or not, with the chance to talk to customers The Premier Farnell Leadership Council PFLC express their opinion on subjects being discussed, which onaregular basis.
Employees spend time listening to is a leadership body which was formed when isoften an invaluable and fresh perspective.
Such a breadth theircustomer buddy feedback on our service, which we began our strategic transformation in 2007. of involvement ensures that decisions are well guided, well subsequently helps the employee understand what we are The PFLC comprises the direct reports of the formed and always in touch with the needs of the business.
doing well for our customers and where we need to improve.
This innovative programme is allowing our people to learn Chief Executive Officer CEO and Chief The PFLCs activities include the evaluation of the risks firsthand what we need to do to move our business forward.
Operating Officer COO the individual andopportunities to both our strategy and the business.
business leaders and functional heads.
Thelast 12 months has seen the enterprising way in As part of our commitment to embrace high performance whichthePFLC and many other employees from around tobecome an even more customer-focused market-leader This bringing together of Premier Farnells senior leaders in theorganisation have been able to approach such activities.
weare forever looking to push the boundaries of high such a way was originally designed to help provide the wider The global villages held at the PFLC are good example of serviceexcellence.
To this end this year we launched our organisation with clear and cohesive communications on this.
These global villages are held in three locations across global service excellence awards.
These recognise the current business performance.
Four years on and this is the globe during the PFLC and facilitate a review of progress outstanding contribution of high performing employees who exactly what the PFLC does.
Through reviewing, researching in the Groups 1,000 day programmes, like services beyond have contributed to the business in an extraordinary manner and developing the Groups strategy, attendees of this global product and green technology.
The programme members which has consequently further enhanced the level of service forum ensure the Group is able to execute and deliver on the driving these initiatives are invited to the PFLC to present we provide to our customers.
commitments made to our customers, suppliers, shareholders tothe attendees on the programmes progress, which in turn and employees.
Employees and managers are encouraged to submit details of drives response, input and guidance from those listening.
an individual or team that they feel has gone above and beyond Embracing technology in communication is something Through innovative thinking and transparent communication, their required duties to deliver a really high level of service, either Premier Farnell does at every opportunity.
This, together the PFLC breathes life into these programmes and our core internally or externally.
All these nominations are then reviewed withall employees and business leaders constantly working strategy, constantly invigorating the organisations focus.
by the regional senior management team who will select towards a sustainable future, means that three out of the four Customer buddying and service excellence which of their regional nominations they believe have delivered PFLC meetings this year were virtual events.
Leaders and The senior leadership team at Premier Farnell spearheads something exceptional.
Those selected in this regional senior managers used the latest telecommunication tools theGroups quest to become a high performing company.
process are then sent to the PFLC for review.
thatallow the PFLC to communicate simultaneously from Building such a culture ensures that every employee is three global locations.
The PFLC members vote for one individual or one team from constantly placing customers at the very heart of the Groups each category who they feel have exhibited true desire and The flexibility of the PFLC often allows it to draw on the proposition, delivering service excellence wherever we determination to meet our customer needs in that quarter.
participation of professional external experts and talented operate throughout the globe.
Allof the global winners are invited to the quarters global performers from across the Group.
This year speakers from This year the PFLC was instrumental in launching a PFLC meeting to receive special recognition and an award outside of the Group joined the PFLC to provide learnings revolutionary new internal scheme to take our customer presented by Harriet Green.
In the event of very tough onhow our investors think, what inspirational leadership focusto the next level.
The aptly named voluntary customer competition, highly commended awards may be presented cando for a business and the importance of customer buddying programme is aimed at giving employees the locally by the business leaders.
This year, Premier Farnell loyalty.
Thecouncil also saw a number of the Groups opportunity to buddy a customer.
This programme provides recognised 80 individuals and teams from around the globe talentedperformers in attendance throughout the year.
all employees in the organisation, whether they are customer through its global service excellence awards.
Thisnot onlyprovided these talented individuals with a unique
