Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Our extremely strong performance in this years survey led We understand that the diversity of our employees, Employees and business relationships toPremier Farnell being accepted into the Towers Watson underpinned by our high performance attributes, will drive Employees HighPerformance Company Elite Group characterised thefurther success for the business and that sustaining Premier Farnell is a high service distributor and it is a byindustry leading levels of return on invested capital and ourleading market position depends on unlocking the company which is constantly embracing a high performing employee engagement.
However, we continue to believe that innovation and potential of each and every one of our culture.
This culture runs throughout the business at every we can improve in many areas of our engagement drivers and employees.
Premier Farnells success depends on the level.
With 99.6% of all customer orders delivered the same that this improvement is crucial to our business performance.
qualityand performance of all our people worldwide and day or next day it is integral to the business ability to achieve wevalue the individuality, diversity and creativity that every Through using workplace research on demographics, service excellence.
employee brings to our business.
diversity and why people want to work, or stay working Each year we run an all-employee survey to give the Groups forPremier Farnell we have significantly enhanced our Careful talent management as well as attracting new talent employees the chance to share their opinions with the senior ownemployee value proposition.
The research has helped iscritical to a business future success.
This is something management team.
The survey is designed to provide all usfirst to understand the differences between employees Premier Farnell embraces and in addition to external talent employees with the chance to respond to Groups leaders workplace desires and professional development ideals.
acquisition and employee value proposition enhancement, with their thoughts, views and ideas on Premier Farnell as a Forexample, the research undertaken highlighted four key theGroup is constantly looking to advance the careers company and as an employer.
The responses to the survey reasons as to why employees choose to be employed by ofthose employees already within the organisation.
give the senior leadership team a unique insight into their Premier Farnell.
These included the Group being a high Thisapproach, combined with the recognition that an colleagues opinions and consequently the chance to be performance organisation, the opportunity for continuous organisations people plan is ever-changing, means that proactive in driving change aligned to employee sentiment.
development, a strong collaborative working environment bi-monthly internal forums are held regionally to review key This year was the fourth year we ran our all-employee andexposure to diverse people and cultures.
In addition, three times a year survey.
The feedback we received from our employees theChief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Chief around the globe told us that we have improved significantly Having identified these themes we have been able to Operating Officer and Chief People Officer attend global in the key engagement drivers at Premier Farnell which are strengthen our employee value proposition.
We have talent meetings to review these pools of talented employees leadership, social responsibility, training and development.
launched initiatives such as making Premier Farnell a great that are intrinsic to the Groups future.
The improvement here was so significant that in all these place to work that sees the Group embrace employees areas of engagement our performance was above the ideas, such as the introduction of contemplation rooms for highperformance benchmark set by Towers Watson.
prayer and meditation, that improve working environments forpeople.
Part of the research helped hone our focus aroundcreating a business that reflects the communities itoperates in and which can support our goal to create a diverse, empowered and engaged workforce.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 52 Financial Review continued Not only does this level of internal talent review ensure The recognition of achievement and success is an imperative thatmany of Premier Farnells future leaders receive when ensuring employees remained motivated.
As a business theopportunities that they can use to grow and develop, that relies much on service levels and with such a fast paced italsostrengthens the Groups succession plans.
Using culture, our embracing of employee recognition is even thesuccessful 360 degree feedback programme for self moreimportant.
This year our own innovation led to us development, promoting the use of the one hour a week for introducing the iCan recognition programme.
iCan is an online personal development time within their teams and embracing interactive peer-to-peer recognition portal which allowsevery eLife, our initiative to build an internal e-culture, have brought employee to celebrate, recognise and reward those in the forward inspiration to both current and future leaders at organisation who contributed in an exceptional way in driving Premier Farnell.
The coming year will see this inspirational our businessforward and helping us achieve our goals for the leadership continue as the Group looks to blend innovation next 1,000 days.
and internal collaboration as well as drive customer focus throughout the organisation.
Creating a tight employee network within an organisation canlead to helping employees perform better while improving morale.
One approach we have taken is to fully embed ourmentoring scheme which we started last year to promote interaction and experience sharing on a one-to-one basis between employees.
Employees actively partaking in mentoring across our organisation has encouraged an opendialogue throughout the business.
Since extending thereach of our mentoring scheme we have seen those whoare mentoring become stimulated by the active need fortheir skills, while the mentees have benefited from a solidand transparent relationship with a more experienced colleague.
The success of our mentoring programme has helped boost internal communication levels, inject new ideasto take our organisation forwards and promote a satisfying, more open work environment all of which have undoubtedly contributed to the engagement levels across our organisation as well as our overall performance as a business.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53 Employee engagement at Premier Farnell has continually improved year after year your voice Driving Engagement toNew Highs In September 2010, Premier Farnell ran its fourth global Your Leadership scored 78% for 2010 which was a 5% increase Voice all-employee survey.
93.1% of the Groups employees over the leadership result from the 2009 survey.
This year was responded to the survey which represents a significant considered the Year of Inspirational Leadership at Premier Farnell improvement on the response rate of 87.1% for the Group in and these results underpin its importance.
Business leaders the prior year.
According to Towers Watson this indicates that are viewed as doing the right thing for employees and for the Premier Farnells employees believe the organisation responds to business.
Response rates show that within the organisation there the feedback that employees provide as part of the survey.
The is a clear sense of direction being provided as well as continued Towers Watson 2010 average response rate for high performance improvement in perceptions of internal integrity.
organisations was 81.4%, meaning that as an organisation we also The organisations social responsibility score for 2010 was outperformed our high performing peers by 11.7 percentage points.
89%, which is 3% higher than the Towers Watson Global High Employee engagement at Premier Farnell has continually improved Performance Companies average, and a 3% increase from 2009. year after year as you can see on page 15 of this report, a testament Premier Farnell is setting a global standard with respect to social to the Companys commitment to put people first.
This year the and environmental responsibility.
survey results demonstrated that the number of employees within Note.
2009, 2010 and 2011 refer to calendar years in this case study.
the organisation who are engaged has increased 3% from last year, to 80%.
The survey also told us that the top three drivers of engagement for Premier Farnells employees are training and development, leadership, and social responsibility.
As an organisation that promotes career progression, talent development and succession the Group was delighted that the2010 training and development engagement results showed improvement in this area over last year, with a 5% increase in positive responses.
This year the Company noticed significant improvement in perceptions related to training and development, aswell as retention.
See more case studies online: http: annualreport2011.
