Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 65 Corporate Governance Premier Farnell is committed to good corporate governance Corporate governance framework Boardthroughout 2011.
He was also appointed to across the Group, for which the Board is accountable.
The Group operates within a clear governance framework, HMGovernments Efficiency Board during the year.
Thisreport describes how the principles of the 2008 which is outlined in the diagram below and set out in the report More details on our Board members are on pages 62 and 63.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code that follows.
The Groups risk management framework is havebeen appliedduring the year ended 30 January 2011. described in the risk management section on pages 76 and 77.
Role of the Board The 2010 UKCorporate Governance Code the 2010 Code UK company law requires Directors to act in a way they comes into effect for the Company during the 2012 financial consider, in good faith, would promote the success of the Group Board year and any reference in this report to events taking place Company for the benefit of shareholders as a whole.
In doing Web Advisory in2012 reflects the requirements of the 2010 Code.
The so, the Directors must have regard among other things to: Board Company willreport on its compliance with the 2010 Code The likely consequences of any decision in the long term: inthe Companys annual report for the financial year 2012.
Remuneration Nomination The interests of Premier Farnell employees: Audit Committee Chairmans overview Committee Committee The Chairmans views on corporate governance at Premier The need to foster Premier Farnell business relationships Farnell are included in the Chairmans Statement set out on with suppliers, customers and others: Disclosure pages 2 and 3.
Committee The impact of Premier Farnell operations on the Compliance with the Combined Code communityand the environment: Indicates reporting line only not a formal committee of the Board.
Throughout the year ended 30 January 2011 we have Board size and composition The desirability of Premier Farnell maintaining a complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the There are currently eight Directors on the Board: the reputationfor high standards of business conduct: and Codeand applied the principles of the Code in the manner Chairman, four other Non-Executive Directors and three described in this report, save in relation to code provision The need to act fairly as between shareholders Executive Directors.
The size and composition of the Board D. 1.1 regarding the senior independent directors attendance ofPremierFarnell.
isregularly reviewed by the Board and, in particular, the at meetings with a range of major shareholders.
This point Nominations Committee to ensure that there is an appropriate In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must isexplained further on page 78. and diverse mix of skills and experience.
ensurethat the Board focuses effectively on all its Also the Board has approved its Chief Executive Officer, accountabilities.
The Board provides entrepreneurial During the year, the following changes were made: Harriet Green, taking on an appointment as Non-Executive leadership, determines and monitors performance of Director of BAE Systems plc, a FTSE 100 listed company, William Korb retired from the Board as a Non-Executive theGroups strategic aims, values and standards, inaddition to her role as a Non-Executive Director of Emerson Director at our AGM on 15 June 2010. ensuresadequate succession planning for senior Electric Co.
There is more on this appointment and the management and monitors policies and performance Thomas Reddin was appointed to the Board as a Boards reasons for agreeing to it below.
Our Chairman, Sir Peter Gershon, maintained his Non-Executive Chairmanships of Tate & Lyle plc, General Healthcare Group Limited and Vertex Group Limited and hismembership of the UK Defence Academy Advisory Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 66 Corporate Governance continued The Board is collectively responsible for the success of Summary of matters reserved for the Board B oard appointments and removals.
theGroup: the Executive Directors are directly responsible Approval of the annual report, interim, preliminary A ppointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
forrunning the business operations and the Non-Executive andquarterly financial statements.
Directors are responsible for constructively challenging A pproval of terms of reference and membership of Approval of the Groups interim dividend and proposals on strategy, scrutinising the performance of Boardcommittees.
management, determining levels of remuneration and A pproval of the division of responsibilities between forsuccession planning for the Executive Directors.
Approval of and monitoring delivery of the Groups theChairman and Chief Executive.
TheNon-Executive Directors must also satisfy themselves strategicplans and annual business plans.
onthe integrity of financial information and that financial A ppointment or removal of the auditors and Maintenance of a system of internal control and controls and systems of risk management are robust.
The Board reviews strategic issues on a regular basis and A pproval of all circulars, prospectuses and other Approval of policies in respect of corporate governance, exercises control over the performance of each operating documents issued to shareholders governed by the treasury, corporate social responsibility, code of ethics, company within the Group by agreeing budgetary targets FSAsListing Rules, Disclosure Rules or Transparency investor relations and political donations.
andmonitoring performance against those targets.
Certain Rules or the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers.
matters are reserved for approval by the Board and the Board Major acquisitions, mergers or disposals, being 1 million R ules and procedures for dealing in Premier Farnell plc has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal and over for an acquisition or disposal of a company securities.
controls and risk management, as described below on pages and3million and over for an acquisition or disposal 76 and 77.
Following presentation by executive management ofabusiness.
M ajor changes in employee share schemes or and adisciplined process of review and challenge by the pensionschemes.
Accounting policies and procedures or any matter Board, clear decisions on the policy and strategy are adopted havingamaterial impact on future financial performance and the executive management are fully empowered to Board activities in 2011 ofthe business.
At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive reported totheBoard on the businesses within the Group and Decision on matters to be addressed in the business review.
The powers of the Board are set out in a formal schedule theperformance of the Group as a whole.
Reports were ofmatters reserved for Board approval.
These matters are Considering and, where appropriate, approving Directors alsomade by each of the principal Board Committees significant to the Group as a whole due to their strategic, conflicts of interest.
andCompany Secretary on governance matters, where financial or reputational implications.
The schedule of matters relevant.
The diagram below illustrates the areas of focus Ensuring adequate succession plans are in place.
reserved for the Board is reviewed and updated regularly.
andexamples of the related activity of the Board in 2011.
Asummary of those matters is below.
c c ii g g e e t t s s a a m m r r t t ii S S A A t t e e S S ll a a ii r r p p u u ii e e h h n n s s e e r r r r e e p p d d e e a a r r e e t t ll n n C C E E R R o o r r e e p p s s o o p p r r o o a a n n t t Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 67 Role of the Chairman Key actions we have taken this year include: The role of the Chairman is to lead the Board to ensure effectiveness in all aspects of its role and, in conjunction Entrepreneurial leadership Succession Planning withthe Chief Executive and Company Secretary, plan Reviewed performance against strategy Board meeting held in Singapore where the KPIs at every meeting Board also spent time with local managers agenda items and timings for Board meetings.
The Chairman Appointed Thomas Reddin as our Non-Executive Director visits to Germany, ensures that the membership of the Board is appropriate new Non-Executive Director bringing the USA, Malaysia and China ofces to a wealth of knowledge and experience meet management and talented performers tothe needs of the business, that Board committees carry of eCommerce and the web Held all employee engagement survey with outtheir duties, including reporting back to the Board, and Evaluated the Boards performance outstanding results with the dened actions and regular Launch of global Horizons long term incentive that appropriate personal objectives are established for the review of achievements against actions plan and employee share option plan for ChiefExecutive, then advising her towards their achievement.
Consulted with major shareholders employees globally TheChairman also ensures that Directors are kept well on areas of remuneration policy Reviewed Leadership succession planning Established web advisory board for the Groups senior roles informed, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, with Received regular reports on eCommerce Refreshed remuneration structure across P Pr re em miie er r whomhe meets at least annually without the Executive initiatives across the Group and the Group, introducing deferred share bonus customer-based training on the plan to align further the interests of the Directors present, so that Board members have the F Fa ar rn ne ellll p pllc c Groups eCommerce functionality employees and share holders information necessary to take afull and constructive part Dened our collective risk appetite Mentoring programmes whereby board members at Board level act as trusted mentors to senior managers inBoard discussions.
Set Strategic Aims Framework of controls Role of the Chief Executive Successful launch of element14 brand Assessed the effectiveness of our financial The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are clearly and proposition in AsiaPacic reporting controls, internal controls and Regular review of progress of the Next assurance processes defined, separate and approved by the Board and one of the 1,000 day strategic initiatives Set the governance framework underpinning outcomes of the Board performance evaluation undertaken Disposal of non-core business, TPC Wire the Board, including the Board policies, matters & Cable reserved for Board approval and interaction this year is a review of the written role statements of the Review of the success of strategic acquisitions, between the Board and its committees Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer to ensure that such as acquisition of CadSoft Computer Regularly reviewed any situational conicts theyfully reflect their ways of working.
Dened and reviewed success criteria for of Board members the business Held regular condential discussions with Periodic reviews of market conditions the Groups Head of Internal and External The role of the Chief Executive is to lead the delivery and business performance, including Audit and reviewed their effectiveness ofstrategy and the executive management of the Group.
reviews of new and existing competitors TheChief Executive is responsible, among other things, Corporate Social Responsibility forthe development and implementation of strategy Planning in anticipation of anti-bribery and andprocesses which enable the Group to meet the corruption legislation Reviewed the Groups CSR policy and received requirements of its shareholders, for meeting the Groups regular updates on progress budget and for providing the appropriate environment to Platinum ranked Company in the Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility Index recruit, engage, retain and develop the personnel needed Promoted green ways of working by piloting todeliver the strategy.
with electronic tablets to provide for easy access to board papers regardless of location s s e e ii b b S S ii o o ll ii c c t t ii y y a a ll k k s s r r ll o o o o r r w w t t e e n n o o m m c c a a r r f f F F o o n n o o g g ii n n s s ii s s n n e e n n c c a a c c ll u u P P S S Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 68 Corporate Governance continued Role of the Company Secretary Further details of the external appointments held by the Length of service of Non-Executive Directors The Company Secretary and his team provide dedicated Executive Directors including their related remuneration The respective periods of service of our Non-Executive support to the Board.
Their services are available to areincluded in the Remuneration Report on pages 86 and 87.
Directors including our Chairman are represented as follows: allDirectors, particularly the Non-Executive Directors, in Non-Executive Directors are required to obtain the approval 03 years ordertoensure they receive timely and accurate information ofthe Chairman before taking on any further appointments to fulfiltheir duties.
Directors may also take independent and the Chairman requires the approval of the Board before 36 years professional advice on request at the Companys expense.
In all cases Directors must 69 years External appointments and Non-Executive Directors ensure that their external appointments do not involve time commitments excessive time commitment or cause a conflict of interest.
Premier Farnell recognises that there are significant The letters of appointment set out the time commitment advantages to individuals and to the Board as a whole expected of the Non-Executive Directors in performing their ofourDirectors serving on the Boards of other companies.
Following a review during the year of the time taken Inline with the Code recommendation, the Companys tofulfil their duties, the expected number of days required policyis that Executive Directors are permitted to hold one ofeach Non-Executive Director excluding travel has been Non-Executive Directorship with another company, with increased from 15 days to 22 days for the Chairman of each allexternal appointments being approved by the Board.
ofthe Audit and Remuneration Committees and from 10 days Conflicts of interest Throughout the year, Harriet Green was and remains a to 18 days for each other Non-Executive Director.
This reflects Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation Non-Executive Director of Emerson Electric Co and, on the additional time our Non-Executive Directors now spend in before taking up any position that conflicts, or may possibly 1November 2010, was appointed to the Board of BAE site visits, mentoring and training activities.
conflict, with the interests of Premier Farnell.
In approving this further appointment, the ofAssociation contain provision to allow the Directors to Non-Executive Director independence Boardrecognised the importance and benefits of this authorise situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a The Code sets out the circumstances that should be relevant roleforHarriets ongoing development and the benefits Director is not in breach of his or her duty under company law.
to the Board in determining whether each Non-Executive totheCompany of promoting Harriets development for All existing external appointments for each Director have been Director is independent.
The Board consider Non-Executive thepurposes of retaining her services within the Group.
authorised by the Board and a register of such appointments is Director independence on an annual basis as part of each Indoing so the Board was satisfied that the time kept, noted at each Board meeting and reviewed on an annual Non-Executive Directors performance evaluation.
The Board commitments required for these appointments did not basis.
All Directors are aware of the need to consult with the undertook this review in early 2011 and concluded that all the represent an issue for the Group in light of the overall Company Secretary regarding any further conflicts which Non-Executive Directors who had served in 2011 other than strengthand commitment of the senior management team.
mayarise so that prior consideration can be given by the the Chairman for whom this is not relevant under the Code Board as to whether or not such conflict should be approved.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 69 Re-election of Directors Induction, business awareness and development in this region and see the results of the rebranding to In line with the Code, all Directors seek re-election every A formal and comprehensive induction process is in place element14 there.
While in Singapore, the Directors received threeyears and any Director appointed during the year also fornew Directors, which includes an information pack and training on the Companys latest eCommerce initiatives, seeks re-election at the next AGM.
In compliance with the personalised induction programme.
This programme is asthey will be experienced from the viewpoint of our 2010 Code, which applies to our 2012 financial year, all of tailored to the needs of each Director and agreed with him customers, and a presentation from Professor Anil Gupta, ourDirectors will retire at the 2011 AGM and offer themselves orher so that he or she can gain a better understanding of INSEAD Professor in Strategy, on current issues for for re-election, save that: theGroup and its businesses.
It includes an overview of the businesses in key territories in Asia.
These visits, training and Group and its functions and governance.
It also encompasses presentations were in addition to the frequent presentations As announced on 1 February 2011, Sir Peter Gershon will detailed reviews of the strategic projects and initiatives and updates to the Board on current issues made to the retire from the Board at the next AGM and will not therefore underway, one-on-one meetings with the senior managers Board at other Board meetings throughout the year.
responsible for their implementation and for the relevant As a further aspect of their ongoing development, each functions and site visits, as well as access to and guidance As announced on 1 March 2011, Mark Whiteling will retire Director receives feedback on his or her performance through Board policies, prior papers and minutes.
from the Board and leave the Company in August 2011. following the Boards performance evaluation in each year.
Mark will therefore not stand for re-election.
In order to ensure that Directors continue to further their Directors also act as mentors to senior management, understanding of the issues facing the Group, the NonAs a newly appointed Director, Thomas Reddin will stand whichincreases exposure for senior management to Executive Directors are encouraged to visit various Group forelection, in accordance with our Articles of Association.
theDirectors and allows them to take advantage of our locations and have made a number of such visits this year.
The Company has initiated searches for successors to Normally, at least one Board meeting each year is held at SirPeter Gershon and Mark Whiteling in order to ensure aPremier Farnell site other than its corporate head office.
Performance evaluation smooth and effective transitions of responsibilities.
InDecember 2010, the Board held its meeting in Singapore The Code recommends that an evaluation of the and all Directors other than Tom Reddin who was unable effectivenessof the Board and its Committees is conducted toattend due to other commitments made prior to his annually and the 2010 Code further recommends that the appointment to the Board were involved in a number of process is externally facilitated at least every third year.
In training sessions, management presentations and visits 2011 we carried out an internal performance evaluation of the todifferent areas of the business.
This enabled these Board and its Committees and each individual Director on an Directors to improve their knowledge and understanding annualbasis and in March 2011 the Board held an externally ofour Asia Pacific business, get to know senior management facilitated evaluation in accordance with the 2010 Code.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 70 Corporate Governance continued The main outcomes of the 2009 10 evaluation and actions taken are summarised below: 2010 Performance Review OutCOmE ACtION tAkEN DuRINg thE yEAR With increased focus on eCommerce and the web, the Board would Knowledge and experience of eCommerce and the web included in criteria for appointment of new Non-Executive Director.
Thomas Reddin, benefit from additional knowledge and experience in this area.
who has substantial experience in these areas, was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
Thomas Reddin also chairs the Groups Web Advisory Committee.
Non-Executive Directors wouldbenefit from further opportunities Non-Executive Directors are invited to all results presentations and the annual investor day held in June 2010.
The Group Chairman and to understand the views of major shareholders, potential investors  Committee held meetings, together and separately, duringthe year with our top 12 shareholders and each andanalysts.
reported back to theBoard on the outcome of those meetings.
Define collective risk appetite toalign with recommendations made The Board undertook a detailed exercise to consider their risk appetite in anumber of key areas and discussed these in detail during several by the Financial Reporting Council as a resultofits review ofthe Board meetings in 2010.
The results of the review have supported decision making in 2010 11 and the Board intends to review the appetite Combined Code.
annually in light of changes to the economic environment, strategic progress and performance of the business.
In view of importance PremierFarnell attachesto corporate Annual election of the Chairman commenced at June 2010 AGM.
governance and the accountability of the Chairman for effective leadership of the Board, the Chairman should stand for annual re-election byshareholders.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 71 The performance evaluation this year consisted of a one-to-one discussion between the Chairman and each of the other Directors and a questionnaire.
The results of these evaluations were collated by the Company Secretary andthendiscussed in sessions held in December 2010 andJanuary 2011.
The main points raised by this years evaluationand the actions arising are summarised below: 2011 Performance Review OutCOmE ACtION tAkEN DuRINg thE yEAR In order to ensure clarity is fully and effectively maintained A review of the current process for quarterly results announcements was undertaken by the Senior Independent Director as to the roles of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors and Chief Finance Officer and successfully applied to the preliminary results announcements for the year ended in preparing and agreeing Group Financial Statements, the 30 January 2011. processfor approval of quarterly results announcements shouldbereviewed.
In light of the changes to the Board envisaged in June 2011, The role statements for the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer were reviewed by the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Company it would be beneficial to confirm that the written role statements Secretary to ensure that the division of responsibilities is clear and that ways of working are adequately reflected.
Changes to the role ofthe Chairman and Chief Executive fully and effectively reflect statements were proposed andthese were approved at the Boards March 2011 meeting.
The Board should hold an externally facilitated discussion The Board held an externally facilitated evaluation in March 2011. on Board performance.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 72 Corporate Governance continued Board Committees Audit Committee Audit Committee Terms of Reference summary Certain responsibilities of the Board are delegated to the During the year, the Committee comprised: R eviews accounting policies and the integrity and content Board Committees to assist the Board in carrying out its of the financial statements.
Dennis Millard Chairman functions and to ensure independent oversight of internal Andrew Dougal M onitors disclosure controls and procedures and the control and risk management.
The three principal Board William Korb Retired 15 June 2010 internal controls.
Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nominations play Paul Withers anessential role in supporting the Board in fulfilling its C onsiders the adequacy and scope of external and Secretary responsibilities and ensuring that the highest standards internalaudits.
Steven Webb ofcorporate governance are maintained throughout the O versees the relationship with and appointment of the Group.
The minutes of each Board Committee meeting are Dennis Millard as Chairman, brings significant recent external auditors.
circulated and noted by the Board.
This section of the report andrelevant financial expertise, which is augmented by sets out how the Board and its Committees work within the theconsiderable financial expertise and experience of M onitors the independence and effectiveness of the governance framework and corporate governance guidelines.
theother members of the Committee.
external auditor, particularly with regard to the scope andexpenditure on non-audit work.
Each Committees terms of reference set out the specific In addition to Committee members, there are a number matters for which delegated authority has been given by ofregular attendees at each meeting.
The Chief Executive, R eviews and approves the statements to be included in theBoard.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually theChairman, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer, theannual report on internal control and risk management.
andare available on the Governance section of our website Headof Internal Audit and lead external audit partner normally M onitors the financial reporting process.
A summary of the terms of attend all scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
The Audit reference for each committee is included in the committee Committee members regularly schedule time before or The independence and objectivity of the external auditors summaries below.
afterameeting, without any Executive Directors or senior areconsidered on a regular basis.
The external auditors management present, to raise any questions and discuss appointment is subject to regular review and the lead audit issues with the external auditors or Head of Internal Audit.
partner is rotated at least once every five years.
Particular TheChairman ofthe Audit Committee meets each of the regard isalso given to the level of non-audit fees.
A formal Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor separately policy ismaintained on the provision of non-audit services toreview current issues and developments prior to each which prohibits the provision of services such as financial meeting of the Audit Committee.
The Head of Internal information systems design and implementation, internal Auditreports directly to the Chief Executive Officer for line auditoutsourcing or legal services, although tax compliance management purposes and functionally to the Chairman services are allowed within defined monetary limits.
All other ofthe Audit Committee.
permitted non-audit services are considered on a case by case basis bythe Chairman on behalf of the Audit Committee.
This policy has been reviewed by the Committee in light of the Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 73 FRC Guidance on Audit Committees and from March 2011 Remuneration Committee Terms of Reference summary Nominations Committee will alsoallow certain audit-related services to be provided by Determines remuneration for Executive Directors.
The composition of the Nominations Committee during theauditor within defined monetary limits.
At each meeting, theyear was: Recommends and monitors the level and structure of the Audit Committee receives a report on all non-audit remuneration for senior executives across the Group Sir Peter Gershon Chairman services provided and the estimated cost since the last thefirst layer of management below Board level.
Andrew Dougal Appointed 14 December 2010 meeting.
The Audit Committee monitor these costs in the Harriet Green Appointed 14 December 2010 context of the audit fee for the year, in order to ensure that Approves design of and targets for performance-related William Korb Retired 15 June 2010 thepotential to affect auditor independence and objectivity pay for Executive Directors, approving any payments to Dennis Millard does not arise.
The split between audit and non-audit fees bemade based on performance.
Thomas Reddin Appointed 14 December 2010 forthe year to 30 January 2011 and information on the nature Paul Withers Appointed 14 December 2010 Determines the fees of the Chairman.
of the non-audit fees incurred is detailed on page 105 of the Secretary Consolidated Financial Statements.
Approves contracts of employment with Executive Directors.
Steven Webb The Audit Committee has adopted and implemented a Approves the design of and governs employee As part of its role is to review the composition of the Board, Group-wide policy restricting the employment by the Group shareschemes.
the Nominations Committee recommended the appointment offormer employees of the external auditor.
In line with our policy on Approves the policy for expense claims by Directors.
Remuneration Committee theappointment of Non-Executive Directors, a detailed Oversees changes to employee benefit structures.
During the year, the Remuneration Committee comprised: candidate specification was prepared which defined the criteria for the new appointee.
That specification was agreed Considers risks to the Group as a result of Paul Withers Chairman with Chief Executive Officer and approved by the Nominations remunerationplans.
In accordance with the requirements of that William Korb Resigned 15 June 2010 Full details of Directors remuneration and a statement specification, a US-based search agency was sought and Dennis Millard ofourremuneration policy are detailed on pages 85 to 95 retained to assist with the search for suitable candidates.
Ashort-list of potential appointees was produced.
The Steven Webb short-listed candidates were interviewed by the Chairman andChief Executive Officer.
Following those interviews, In addition to the Committee members, there are a number thefinal candidates were selected and interviewed by all ofregular attendees at each meeting.
Including the Chief members of the Nominations Committee.
Executive, the Chairman, Chief Financial Officer, Chief Operating Officer and Chief People Officer.
Each Executive Nominations Committee Terms of Reference summary and the Chairman abstain from any discussion and from Reviews the composition of the Board.
voting in relation to aspects of their own remuneration package or fees.
Recommends appointment of new Directors.
Considers succession plans for senior and executivepositions.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 74 Corporate Governance continued key activities for the Committees in 2011 AuDIt COmmIttEE REmuNERAtION COmmIttEE NOmINAtIONS COmmIttEE Met five times.
Reviewed financial statements in annual report, half year Reviewed employee share plans and recommended The Committee meets as necessary.
results and quarterly results statements.
to the Board approval of Horizons 2010 share option and Led the search for a new Non-Executive Director.
performance share plans, which were subsequently Reviewed scope and effectiveness of internal and external approved at the AGM.
Recommended the appointment ofThomas Reddin audit functions.
Engaged with major investors regarding Executive Director Reviewed provision of non-audit services by the external remuneration and the Directors Remuneration Report.
Reviewed Board and Board Committee composition auditors.
to ensure correct mix of skills and experience.
Reviewed executive compensation including salaries, Monitored effectiveness of the systemof internal controls bonuses, the performance against objectives in theprior Made recommendations to the Boardon the and riskmanagement.
year and the adequacy ofobjectives for 2010 11. reappointment of Non-Executive Directors.
Received reports from external and internal audit on the Reviewed terms of reference in line with ICSA guidance major findings oftheir work.
Reviewed terms of reference in line with ICSA guidance and model terms.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 75 Other committees inthe first half.
The additional Board meeting, which was Board and Committee attendance These committees form part of the Corporate Governance called at short notice, had 100% attendance.
The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Framework, but are not formally appointed committees of Group Board and its Committees during 2011 and individual Scheduled Board and Committee meetings are arranged theBoard.
attendance by Board and Committee members atthose atleast one year in advance and all Directors are expected meetings.
Web Advisory Board toattend each meeting.
All Directors are provided with the Audit Remuneration Nominations The Web Advisory Boards primary function is to offer papers and relevant information in advance of each meeting Board Committee Committee Committee counselto the Board and the Chief Executive Officer on and, if a Director is unable to attend a meeting due to 3 Name of Director meetings meetings meetings meetings matters relating to the web and eCommerce.
It brings exceptional circumstances, he or she will still receive the A B A B A B A B together internal and external expertise and capabilities supporting papers and will usually discuss any matters incore areas of our eCommerce strategy, enabling these theywish to raise with the Chairman of the meeting, in Chairman experts to bring challenge, insight and to accelerate orderto ensure his or her views are given consideration.
Sir Peter Gershon 6 6 1 1 furtherour progress in these important strategic areas.
TheChairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary Executive Directors worktogether to ensure that the Directors receive relevant The Chairman of the Web Advisory Board is Thomas Reddin.
information for them to discharge their duties and that such Harriet Green 6 6 0 0 The Web Advisory Board meets four times a year and information is accurate, timely and clear.
The communication Laurence Bain 6 6 provides a brief overview of progress to date at each of information applies to all scheduled Board meetings, but PremierFarnell Board meeting.
Mark Whiteling 6 6 isparticularly important in exceptional circumstances where the Board needs to respond to changing market conditions.
Disclosure Committee Non-Executive We provide all our Directors with an electronic tablet for easy The Disclosure Committee is made up of the Executive Directors access to papers regardless of location and secure access Directors, the Company Secretary, the Group Financial Andrew Dougal 6 6 5 5 5 5 0 0 toelectronic copies of meeting papers and other key Controller, the Head of Internal Audit and our Investor 1 William Korb 3 3 2 2 3 3 1 1 documents via a dedicated website.
The documents include Relations Manager.
It meets four times a year to review SID past and current Board and Committee papers, reports, allresults announcements, following certification from Dennis Millard 6 6 5 5 5 5 1 1 minutes, policies, press coverage, analyst reports and individual executive managers which together cover all 2 Thomas Reddin 2 1 0 0 material from briefing sessions.
An overview of activity is Paul Withers 6 6 5 5 5 5 0 0 providedto the Audit Committee, along with the minutes Meeting attendance for 2011 is set out in the table below.
In2011, all Directors committed an appropriate amount A Maximum number of meetings Director could have attended.
B Number of meetings Director actually attended.
oftime to fulfil their duties and responsibilities to the Board.
Board meetings SID Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
Any instances of non-attendance were related to prior The Board has five Board meetings scheduled each year.
1 William Korb retired from the Board and all committees on 15 June 2010. business commitments.
2 Thomas Reddin was appointed to the Board on 30 September 2010.
He was unable Inaddition to the five scheduled meetings in 2011, there to attend the Board meeting on 14 December 2010 due to business commitments wasone additional Board meeting held to consider the made prior to his appointment.
implementation of a new warehouse management system 3 Harriet Green, Andrew Dougal, Thomas Reddin and Paul Withers were appointed to the Nominations Committee on 14 December 2010.
No meetings of the Nominations and to review the Companys budget for the second half Committee have taken place between this date and the year-end.
ofthe year in light of market conditions and performance Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 76 Corporate Governance continued Non-Executive Director Board briefings Effective internal control or are being, taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses The Chief Executive meets on a one-to-one basis with the One of the Boards key responsibilities is to ensure that identified from the review of effectiveness of internal controls.
Non-Executive Directors in between Board meetings and management maintains a system of internal control which The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and ahead of each scheduled Board meeting to brief them on provides assurance of effective and efficient operations, consolidation processes are designed under the supervision thebusiness of the meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors internal financial controls and compliance with law and of the Chief Financial Officer to provide reasonable assurance usethese meetings as an opportunity to advise the Chief regulation.
The Boards consideration of the materiality regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the Executive whether they have any specific questions they offinancial and other risks to the Groups business and preparation and fair presentation of the Groups published would like to raise about the business of the meeting.
The reputation ensures that appropriate controls are in place.
financial statements for external reporting purposes in Chief Executive, Chairman and Company Secretary are Consideration is also given to the relative costs and accordance with IFRS.
always available for the Directors to discuss any issues benefitsof implementing specific controls.
concerning Board meetings or other matters.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over Assurance financial reporting cannot provide absolute assurance, governance framework On behalf of the Board, the Audit Committee examines the andmay not prevent or detect all misstatements whether Premier Farnell aims to build a sustainable business effectiveness of the: caused by error or fraud.
throughconsistent, profitable growth and to make sure Systems of internal control, primarily through approving thatour customers and wider stakeholders can trust us.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting and the theinternal audit plan and reviewing its findings, reviews Werecognise that creating shareholder value is the reward preparation of consolidated financial information includes ofthe financial controls for financial reporting of the annual, fortaking acceptable risks.
policies and procedures that provide reasonable assurance half year and quarterly financial statements and a review that transactions have been recorded and presented The Board has overall accountability for running the business ofthe nature, scope and reports of external audit.
Chief Financial Officers of subsidiaries of the effectively by making sure all risks are appropriately managed.
Management of risk by reviewing evidence of risk Group are required to certify that the financial information they Internal controls and risk management are designed to limit assessment activity and internal audit reports on the process.
have provided as part of the annual consolidation process has the chance of failure to achieve corporate objectives.
been properly prepared and reviewed in accordance with Independent assurance is provided by the external and Action taken to manage critical risks or to remedy any instructions from the Group Finance Department.
internal auditors who present their findings regularly to the control failings or weaknesses identified.
The system includes an ongoing process Management regularly conducts reviews of the internal The Audit Committee has completed its review of the for identifying, evaluating and managing significant business controls in place in respect of the processes of preparing effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control during risks.
However, any system can provide only reasonable and consolidated financial information and financial reporting.
the year, which are in compliance with the Turnbull Guidance not absolute assurance of meeting internal control objectives on Internal Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the During the year, there were no changes to the internal controls and is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of Combined Code 2005.
It confirms that the necessary action over the processes of financial reporting and preparation theCompany failing to meet its business objectives.
plans to remedy identified weaknesses in internal control are ofconsolidated financial information that have affected, or in place and have been throughout the year.
The Board also, arereasonably likely to affect materially the level of assurance where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been, provided over the reliability of the financial statements.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 77 Risk identification Disclosure Committee meetings which are held at least The Code of Ethics which clearly defines expected As well as the risks that management identifies through fourtimes a year to review all financial statements.
The standards of business behaviour.
The Code of Ethics is theongoing processes of reporting and comparing actual Disclosure Committee reports into the Audit Committee widely publicised and included as part of the employee performance against detailed financial and operating andrequires certification from individual executive managers induction programme.
plans, analysing significant variances and scrutinising key onthe relevant sections of all financial statements.
The control of key financial risks through clear performance indicators, the Audit Committee has additional A quarterly process to collate all contingent liabilities authorisationlevels and proper segregation of duties.
risk identification processes, which include: identified by the business units and function heads.
This Our comprehensive financial review cycle.
The annual risks and controls process for identifying, evaluating and report is tabled at the Disclosure Committee and then budget is approved by the Board and monthly variances managing major business risks.
During the year, business reviewed by the Audit Committee.
arereviewed against detailed financial and operating plans.
and function leaders have operated the process, which The Board has also implemented an annual process to hasbeen co-ordinated by the Head of Internal Audit.
The quarter end controls checklist and Disclosure reviewthe Groups risk appetite, considering the key factors Committee, which requires sign off from the Chief Executive Assurance framework summary, developed to identify underpinning delivery of the Group strategy and supporting and Chief Financial Officers of each business unit, covering strategic issues on which assurance is required, external sustainable operational and financial performance.
The internal controls, legal and regulatory compliance, Code of and internal sources from which assurance is obtained and exercise was undertaken through detailed interviews Ethics, tax issues and financial controls.
any ways in which that assurance may need to be enhanced.
conducted with each Director around specific risks and discussed in detail at a number of Board meetings during A process of internal control self-assessment co-ordinated Internal and external audit reports, which comment oncontrols 2011.
This exercise is in addition to the evaluation of major by the Internal Audit team.
to manage identified risks and also identify newones.
business risks and controls referred to above.
The statement of Directors responsibilities in relation Our Code of Ethics, that encourages employees to report Controls tothepreparation of the accounts is on page 84 of the any areas of concern regarding compliance with controls, Defined organisational structure with authorities Directors Report.
combined with a confidential whistle-blowing helpline.
Inaddition, employees are encouraged to raise comments, questions and concerns confidentially and directly with Formal authorisation process for investments.
theChief Executive using the askharriet email function.
Clearly defined responsibilities for financial management onmaintenance of financial controls and the production and review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management information.
The reporting line of the Head of Internal Audit to the ChiefExecutive Officer and to the Audit Committee.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 78 Corporate Governance continued Relations with stakeholders shareholders Shareholder engagement activities Relations with stakeholders employees, Engagement with our shareholders is essential to ensure a The Chairman and Paul Withers held individual meetings  greater understanding of and confidence in the medium and withour top 12 shareholders.
We give a high priority to employee communications.
longer term strategy of Premier Farnell and in the Boards Aswellas the formal structures, considerable time is Three major shareholders were invited to attend a PFLC ability to oversee its implementation.
The Chairman giventoother forms of employee communication.
session in November to present, give their views and take supported by the Senior Independent Director and by the part in a Q&A session.
Premier Farnell also communicates with suppliers and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on matters relating customers, individually and at group events.
We are very to Executive Director remuneration is primarily responsible Our Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers held active in our local communities as described in some detail for ensuring that the Board is accessible to major shareholders manymeetings with investors throughout the year.
inthe Summary Sustainability Report section of the Business and that channels for communication are open.
He also has Review onpages 56 to 60 and the online version of the The Chairman met with a number of major shareholders principal responsibility for ensuring that the Board is aware Sustainability Report http: annualreport2011.
com towards the end of the year to discuss matters such as ofany concerns raised by major shareholders and that their sustainabilityreport strategy and succession planning.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officers also have regular dialogue with institutional E mployee briefings including our annual Kick-Off event, Our Non-Executive Directors are invited to attend shareholders.
All other ordinary shareholders have the regular town halls and green days conducted by the Chief andseveral have attended certain of our quarterly opportunity to ask questions at our AGM where all Directors Executive and other senior management given quarterly resultspresentations.
are expected to be available to take questions.
The Chairman attended our annual investor day.
attended the 2010 AGM and were available to shareholders.
G roup-wide Intranet which is accessible to all employees All Directors attend and have dialogue with our During the year our Senior Independent Director, Dennis through their work computer or local cyber caf and which shareholders at our AGM.
Millard, had considerable exposure to the views of our major gives a wide range of Group information, news and the shareholders, having been kept fully informed by our ability to post real-time comments.
Chairman, Paul Withers as Chairman of the Remuneration A nnual Kick-Off meetings to involve employees in the Committee and our Executive Directors of their respective strategic priorities for the coming year.
This has been sufficient toenable Dennis to develop a balanced understanding of the T he askharriet email facility for employees.
issues and concerns of major shareholders, although Dennis O ur annual employee engagement survey.
remains available for meetings with major shareholders if any is requested.
C ustomer buddy programme, whereby employees choosea customer to work closely with.
Premier Farnell Annual Report and Accounts 2011 79 Initiatives such as our Net Promoter Score, an innovative Agm framework enabling us to measure customer satisfaction We propose separate resolutions for each issue and proxy and drive customer-focused change throughout Premier forms allow shareholders to vote for or against or withhold Farnell.
We are committed to creating a complete lifecycle their vote on each resolution.
The results of all proxy voting is experience for our customers so that at every contact published on our website after the meeting and at the meeting pointwe treat and suitably reward customers to earn their itself to the shareholders that attend.
The notice of AGM is sent lifetime loyalty.
to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Customer councils, focus groups and surveys to gain going concern customer insight on planned initiatives, receive feedback The Groups business activities and financial position: and pulse views on our proposition and service.
thefactors likely to affect its future development and performance: and its objectives and policies in managing Social media for suppliers and customers, using twitter thefinancial risks to which it is exposed and its capital are andfacebook to provide real-time immediate connections.
discussed in the Business Review.
Maintain and secure relationships with top suppliers, driving The Directors have assessed, in the light of current and excellence in overall supplier management and engagement.
anticipated economic conditions, the Groups ability to continue as a going concern.
Our annual eSupplier summit at which our key suppliers come together with leaders from our eCommerce and The Directors confirm they are satisfied that the Company and Innovation teams to review plans and proposals for the the Group have adequate resources to continue in business enhancement of our proposition and to define the key part for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue that our suppliers play in that.
toadopt the going concern basis for preparing accounts.
Share capital and control Details are included on page 81 of the Directors Report.
