36 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Premier measures its performance in line with strategic objectives of continuous growth and creating significant value for shareholders.
Key performance indicators KPIs are the primary measures used to track progress against set targets in the areas of safe, responsible and sustainable operations: growth through exploration, development, production and acquisitions: and maintaining financial strength.
There are a series of detailed KPIs around all of these areas which link to senior managements remuneration.
Operating safely, responsibly and sustainably Premier is committed to operating responsibly in every part of the business.
Success in these areas inherently protects our assets, our revenue streams and our reputation.
Health and Safety performance is measured using total recordable injury frequency TRIF per million man-hours and near miss high potential incidents HIPOs.
Safety performance data includes both Premier employees and contractors.
TRIF performance, whilst improved on 2010, was short of the 2.0 target.
Premier is working to improve performance by reinforcing procedures and standards and through continued training and ongoing communication.
Premiers TRIF target for 2012 remains at less than 2.0 injuries per million man-hours.
Total recordable injury frequency TRIF High potential incident HIPO frequency per million man-hours per million man-hours 4 6 2.84 3 4 2.36 2 2 1 1.59 0.83 0 0 08 09 10 08 09 10 11 11 Actual Actual As part of its safety performance management process, Premier tracks HIPOs, which include any event that might lead to significant injury, environmental damage, property damage or security breaches.
Premier ensures that key lessons are learned and disseminated for all HIPOs and company-wide safety alerts are issued, citing key causes and preventative actions required.
In 2011, there was a continued improvement in performance with six HIPOs, a frequency rate of 0.83 per million man-hours and below the 2.0 target.
The target for 2012 is a HIPO frequency of below 2.0 per million man-hours.
Building the strong production base Part of Premiers strategy is to build on the existing production base in order to sustain and continue to deliver growth.
This is measured using daily average production and the number of development projects being brought through to sanction.
While average production was slightly lower in 2011 due to reported maintenance activity, the successful delivery of Chim So and Gajah Baru increased the year-end run-rate to 60 kboepd.
Premier is targeting a 2012 year-end exit rate of 75 kboepd and 100 kboepd in the medium-term.
Premiers production goal is underpinned by the pipeline of development projects being progressed across the portfolio, and the ability to commercialise these projects is key to the companys success.
07 07 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 37 Working interest Reserves and resources Delivering growth production Premier looks to create future growth through exploration in focused geologies and value-led acquisitions in core areas.
Proven and probable reserves Progress towards this growth ambition is measured by reserves Contingent resources replacement, risked prospective resource added and finding costs.
kboepd mmboe 50 600 527 42.8 40.4 488 Premier also undertakes acquisitions to access additional 500 40 resources.
The company delivered on five acquisitions in 2011, 400 30 which were EnCore Oil plc, increased equity in Wytch Farm, 300 Nexen Norways exploration acreage and equities in the Solan 20 200 and Fyne pre-development assets.
10 100 Proforma reserves and resources increased to 527 mmboe giving 0 0 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 the company a reserve replacement ratio of 333 per cent, demonstrating Premiers ability to replace production and deliver future growth.
Premier added reserves and resources through exploration at an average cost of around US$5.0 bbl and through acquisitions at an average cost of US$8.0 bbl.
Realised oil price Realised gas price Maintaining financial strength One of Premiers strategic objectives is to maintain financial strength in order to invest in the future of the business and deliver significant returns to shareholders.
2011 was another strong year $ bbl $ mscf 140 10 8.51 with record profit after tax of US$171.2 million, an increase of 111.9 9 120 8 32 per cent, and operating cash flow of US$485.9 million, an 100 7 6.26 increase of 11 per cent.
79.7 6 80 5 60 Premiers portfolio of crudes was sold at an average of US$1.5 bbl 4 3 40 premium to Brent and realised oil prices pre-hedge were 40 per 2 20 cent higher in 2011.
Realised average gas prices, a significant 1 0 0 portion of which tracks oil price movement, were 36 per cent 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 higher in 2011.
Operating costs increased in 2011 to US$15.9 boe, reflecting higher unit costs in the UK as production levels declined and the Cash flow from Operating costs inclusion of Vietnam operating costs in the last quarter.
operating activities Rising cash flows, along with successful bank and bond market transactions, provide Premier with the funding required for $ million $ boe 600 18 15.9 future growth.
Ability to add new capital and sufficient covenant 485.9 16 500 13.9 436.0 headroom are measured to ensure the company has the funds 14 400 12 to meet forecast cash requirements and maintain liquidity 10 300 throughout the cycle.
8 200 6 4 100 2 0 0 08 09 10 11 08 09 10 11 07 07 07 07 07 07 38 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements SOCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW Premier is committed to applying the high ethical standards necessary to maintain our reputation as a world-class operator in oil and gas.
Our reputation for doing the right thing enables us to access new licences, enter new countries, build lasting relationships with local communities and ultimately secure the licence to operate.
We have policies and procedures in place to ensure that our investment and operational decisions take appropriate account of the impacts that might arise from our activities.
Premier carries out independent audits of its policies to ensure compliance with the requirements of the following bodies: the Global Reporting Initiative: the International Petroleum Industry Environmental Conservation Association IPIECA Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting 2010: the Carbon Disclosure Project: FTSE4Good: and the United Nations Global Compact of which Premier is a signatory.
Our last report identified areas for improvement relating to the continued improvement of our social investment programmes, implementation of an employee engagement survey and the roll-out of our code of conduct training.
It also highlighted the need for additional process safety procedures and disclosures as well as more structured reporting on greenhouse gas emissions.
Steps were taken in 2011 to address each of these areas and to further strengthen our underlying management systems in line with emerging global standards.
Disclosure of our performance in this area and for all of the commitments made in 2011 is presented in our Social Performance Report 2011.
We report below on how we have evolved, applied and delivered on our stated policies in 2011, and we explain any areas where we have not complied.
Further details on our policies and procedures are available on our website www.
Social responsibility Social responsibility is primarily about how we engage, assess and manage our community and societal issues and risks.
Our corporate social responsibility and human rights policies are applicable to all Premier-operated entities and may be adapted to address local priorities.
Our code of conduct and employment policy are managed through the legal and human resources functions respectively.
All policies are compliant with relevant legislation and take due account of appropriate initiatives and standards, industry guidance and relevant best practice.
Corporate social responsibility policy We recognise that we have responsibilities to a diverse group of stakeholders including shareholders, customers, employees, business partners, local communities and society at large, including special interest groups that represent public interest concerns.
Our investment decisions take account of economic, environmental and social impacts and their management.
In all its operations, Premier will always comply with local laws and regulatory requirements as a minimum, and make representations to the relevant authorities if we believe that policies and practices of host governments undermine our policies.
We complete environmental and social impact assessments prior to undertaking any new investment and evaluate these impacts regularly to ensure that they are responsibly managed on an ongoing basis.
We expect our contractors, suppliers, joint venture and alliance partners to respect our policies.
Their concurrence with the principles upheld by our policies is an important factor in our decision to form or remain in a relationship with them.
It is our policy to support social investment that contributes to the sustainable development goals of the communities and countries where we operate.
This means working in partnership with professional social development organisations, government agencies and local non-governmental organisations, to ensure our investment addresses relevant and material issues in a rigorous manner with positive impacts on society.
There were no reported non-compliances with this policy in the review period.
Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 39 Human rights policy Our human rights policy is based on the fundamental rights pronounced in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is guided by those rights enshrined in the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organisation.
These rights are to be protected and promoted throughout Premiers business operations and in our relations with both business and local community partners.
The scope of our policy includes the rights of our employees and their health and safety as well as their security arrangements and working conditions and the development rights of our external stakeholders, in particular local communities.
Where appropriate, we will also use our legitimate influence to promote the protection of human rights outside of our areas of operation.
There were no reported violations of this policy in the review period.
Employment policy and social justice in the work place Premier is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in employment and to the establishment of a fair and non-discriminatory work environment.
When recruiting, developing and dealing with employees and service providers people will be treated fairly, equally and without prejudice.
Our equal employment opportunities policy applies to all permanent, contractual and temporary staff as well as all job applicants.
Equal employment opportunity means having a commitment to equality of opportunity in all employment practices, policies and procedures.
No employee or potential employee is treated less favourably due to their race, creed, colour, nationality, ethnic origin, age, religion or belief, gender, sexual orientation, marital status, gender re-assignment status or disability.
Any employee who has a concern regarding the application of this policy is able to make use of the companys grievance policy.
All employees must: co-operate with any measures introduced to ensure equal opportunity: report any suspected discriminatory acts or practices: not induce or attempt to induce others to practice unlawful discrimination: not victimise anyone as a result of them having reported or provided evidence of discrimination: not harass, abuse or intimidate others on account of their race, creed, colour etc.
: and not canvass job applicants in an attempt to discourage them from applying or taking up a post.
Where there has been a clear breach of the equal employment opportunities policy, disciplinary procedures will follow.
Serious offences will be dealt with as gross misconduct.
There were no reported violations of our employment policy in 2011.
There were also no reported incidents of discrimination or formal grievance procedures reported in 2011.
Our global code of conduct Integrity, honesty and fairness are fundamental to the way we conduct our business.
We are committed to transparency in all our dealings.
As part of this commitment, we will not engage in any activities that undermine the legitimate business environment, including bribery or corruption in any form.
40 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements SOCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW continued Premier has developed and implemented a global code of conduct.
The new code of conduct is informed by and compliant with the Bribery Act 2010 and its evolving guidance in the United Kingdom.
It applies to all employees at every level in the business and all those associated with Premier, all of whom are required to behave ethically and with personal integrity.
This includes adhering to laws in the countries where we operate, performing our duties in accordance with the code of conduct and disclosing all potential and actual conflicts between personal interests and those of Premier.
The code of conduct covers the following key issue areas: anti-bribery: gifts and hospitality: charitable and political donations: intermediaries: and facilitation payments.
Premier prohibits bribery and corruption in any form by all employees and by those working for and or connected with the business.
Premier avoids accepting hospitality or gifts that might place it under an obligation.
All business transactions must be properly recorded and accounted for.
We expect the same ethical standards to be applied in all our business relationships in all areas of operation and we promote our code of conduct and associated anti-bribery policy with all our business associates.
Employees are expected to report bribery or attempted bribery to their line managers, even if only suspected or attempted.
Premier encourages employees, contractors and agency workers to voice their concerns to line managers if they feel the company or anyone working on behalf of the company has not acted in accordance with our code of conduct and associated policies.
Premier provides a confidential third party reporting hotline for employees that feel unable to raise concerns in the normal way.
This hotline is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week.
No reports were made through this service in 2011 or at any point over the last three years.
No incidents of corruption or non-compliance with these policies were identified in 2011.
Health, safety and environment policy Premier is committed to operating responsibly and will never knowingly compromise our health, safety or environmental standards to meet our operational objectives.
Our goals are to ensure the safety of everyone involved with our operations and to protect the environment.
To achieve this we will: encourage open and honest communication: seek ways to continually improve our performance: assess and manage risks: provide appropriate resources: maintain clean, safe and healthy workplaces: investigate and learn from any incidents: plan and prepare for potential emergencies: maintain high-quality documented systems and processes: seek external certification of key management systems: and meet or surpass statutory requirements.
In 2011, Premier implemented and communicated a set of Golden Rules on health and safety.
The Golden Rules reinforce our existing health, safety and environment HSE policy, procedures and standards and have been established to help prevent the most common causes of serious incidents in our industry.
Every employee is accountable and has a shared personal responsibility for HSE.
Employees are also expected to stop the job if they see or believe something is unsafe or can be better controlled.
Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements 41 Occupational health and safety performance In 2011, we worked 7.2 million man-hours 2010: 8.8 million man-hours.
This represents an 18.2 per cent decrease on the previous year mainly due to the completion of construction at our Gajah Baru and Chim So facilities in Indonesia and Vietnam respectively.
Most of these man-hours 5.9 million vs. 7.7 million in 2010 were worked by contractors on our operations.
There was, however, a significant increase in development drilling.
In 2011, we drilled more than 20 wells making it our busiest year ever.
Key safety parameters and indicators 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Fatalities 1 1 1 Lost time injuries LTI 8 52 12 Restricted workday cases RWDC 3 9 4 LTI RWDC frequency 1.67 1.70 0.55 0.40 1.86 Total recordable injury frequency TRIF 2.36 2.84 1.10 0.80 3.40 High potential incident HIPO frequency 0.83 1.59 2.10 2.00 5.50 per million man-hours worked.
Note: All safety statistics include both Premier employees and contractors.
Total recordable injuries Our overall TRIF performance improved significantly from 2.84 in 2010 to 2.36 in 2011, but did not meet our 2.0 target.
TRIF performance at our drilling operations was exceptional at 0.00, excellent in construction at 1.80, but poor in our production operations at 6.10.
The overall higher than anticipated TRIF score was attributed to mostly minor accidents including slips, falls and finger injuries in our production operations.
Many of these occurred at our Balmoral operation in the North Sea with a frequency of 9.42 where performance is subject to new site-specific safety initiatives.
Facilities in Asia performed much better with a TRIF score of 1.48.
The continued roll-out of our Golden Rules programme, that re-enforces personal responsibility and the ability to stop the job if employees feel unsafe or that work can be better controlled, is anticipated to help reduce similar future incidents.
This last year also saw one very unfortunate and unrelated diving fatality at Balmoral in the North Sea.
At the date of signing this report, the incident was still under investigation by Premier diving contractor, the police and the Health and Safety Executive.
Premier has been certified to OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 since 2004 for global drilling and since 2006 for our Indonesian production operations.
In 2011, we completed a number of OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 surveillance audits on our production and drilling operations.
Drilling, Anoa and Balmoral production retained their certifications.
Our new production operations in Vietnam Chim So and Indonesia Gajah Baru are working towards OHSAS 18001 and ISO 14001 certification.
Gajah Baru has now completed its stage one audit and is on track to achieve certification in 2012.
Process safety performance Process safety focuses on the design and engineering of facilities to prevent fires, explosions or accidental chemical releases, as well as maintenance and operation.
This includes the prevention, detection, control and mitigation of hydrocarbon and other leaks, oil spills, equipment malfunction, over-pressures, over-temperatures, corrosion, metal fatigue and similar conditions.
Managing these risks requires a robust planning process, effective safety cases and the ongoing monitoring and management of asset integrity.
Premier has integrated process safety protocols into the project safety reviews PSRs of all its projects.
These reviews provide assurance that material HSE issues have been identified and are being effectively managed throughout the project lifecycle.
A typical project lifecycle will require six strategic reviews as a project moves from concept to construction and then to operation.
These PSRs align closely with our project approval gates, at which time strategic decisions are made to either progress a project further towards the operations stage or to delay or divest.
In 2011, we implemented a structured PSR procedure to ensure consistent and clear application of these gates at all operations.
