48 Premier Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Delegated authorities continued The number of meetings of the Board and its committees during 2011, and individual attendance by directors, is shown below: Audit Board and Risk Remuneration Nomination 1 Number of meetings 946 2 Attendance: R A Allan 9 9 J Darby 8 9 4 4 5 6 2 2 A R C Durrant 9 9 N Hawkings 9 9 I J Hinkley 8 9 6 6 2 2 D C Lindsell 9 9 4 4 5 6 2 2 S C Lockett 9 9 2 2 A G Lodge 9 9 2 J R W Orange 3 3 2 2 4 4 1 1 Professor D G Roberts 9 9 5 6 2 2 M Romieu 9 9 4 4 2 2 M W Welton 9 9 2 2 Notes: 1 There were five scheduled meetings of the Remuneration Committee during the year.
The remaining meeting only attended by Ms I J Hinkley and Mr J R W Orange was called to approve the detail of arrangements approved in principle by a prior scheduled meeting of the Remuneration Committee.
2 Mr J R W Orange resigned from the Board and the Audit and Risk, Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 20 May 2011.
Executive Committee and management structure The Board has delegated the day-to-day running of the group to the Chief Executive who has established an Executive Committee to assist him in this role.
The Executive Committee is made up of each of the executive directors and the Company Secretary.
Each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs.
The Executive Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and normally meets weekly.
The responsibilities of the Executive Committee include the development of group strategy for approval by the Board, portfolio management and the delivery of performance against the targets set by the Board.
At its meetings it reviews health, safety, environmental and security performance and operational business performance reports.
Three regional business units North Sea, Asia and Middle East, Africa and Pakistan manage the geographical spread of business in the group.
Each business unit is headed by a regional business unit manager who delivers against specific strategies and performance targets set by the Executive Committee.
Delegation of authority Responsibility levels are communicated throughout the group as part of corporate accounting and through an authorisation manual which sets out, inter alia, delegated authority levels, segregation of duties and other control procedures.
Board performance evaluation The Board believes that there is benefit in the periodic involvement of an independent external facilitator in the annual Board evaluation process, as this brings independent perspective to the process.
It is the Boards current practice to engage such an external facilitator every two years.
During 2010, the Board worked with an external facilitator to conduct the annual evaluation review.
During 2011, the Board and committee evaluations were facilitated by the Chairman.
The evaluation comprised a written questionnaire and a series of one-to-one interviews by the Chairman with all directors.
The questionnaire and interviews covered a number of key areas including strategy, succession planning, Board size and composition, the roles and responsibilities of the Board and its committees, risk management and the relationship between the Board and management.
The results of the reviews were considered by the Chairman and the committee chairmen and were then discussed with the relevant committees and collectively by the Board as a whole.
The performance of individual non-executive directors was evaluated by the Chairman, with input from the committee chairmen and the other directors.
The performance of the Chief Executive and other executive directors was evaluated by the Chairman and non-executive directors.
No major issues arose from the evaluation process and the directors have concluded that the Board and its committees operate effectively.
Recommendations were made to further enhance the performance and effectiveness of the Board and a process of continuous improvement is now being led by the Chairman.
