Corporate governance Corporate governance report The Board sees high standards of corporate governance as Composition of the Board essential to building value in our business and to the ongoing The Board currently has nine members: the Non-executive management of change.
Chairman: six other Non-executive Directors: and two Executive Directors, namely the CEO and the Chief Financial Officer CFO : The Board considers that QinetiQ has promoted strong with the objective of achieving a balance of Executive and Nongovernance throughout the Group by applying the principles executive Directors.
of the UK Financial Reporting Councils Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The Board considers that QinetiQ has complied with the provisions of the Combined Code throughout the last financial year.
In 2010 a new UK Corporate Governance Code was published.
This will come 2 into effect over the coming financial year and bring a number of important changes to corporate governance practice.
The Board 9 Board welcomes these changes as a positive reflection of the evolving nature of good business governance.
The Board is in the process Directors of reviewing the new UK Code and will be taking action to ensure that what QinetiQ does fully reflects its principles and that we 7 comply with its provisions.
Some steps have already been taken Execuve Directors to update our practices and policies and these are highlighted in Non-execuve Directors the next few pages.
The Board governance, processes and systems Executive and Non-executive Board composition Board objectives Mark Elliott has been the Non-executive Chairman of QinetiQ Demonstrate the highest standards of corporate governance per since 1 March 2010, having first joined the Board as a Nonthe UK code to: executive Director on 1 June 2009.
During the year the Board ensure the continuing evolution and implementation of the welcomed Paul Murray, who joined as a Non-executive Director Group strategy which delivers value to all stakeholders: on 25 October 2010.
The Board would like to express its thanks to customers, employees and shareholders: Nick Luff and David Langstaff, both of whom stepped down during develop challenging objectives for the business and monitor the year, for their dedication and valuable contributions during management performance against those goals: their time of service on the Board.
provide a framework of effective controls to assess and manage The Board considers its overall size and composition to be risks, with clear expectations for conduct to the highest appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence standards of ethics: of character and integrity of all the Directors and the experience provide support and constructive challenges to the Chief and skills which they bring to their duties, which prevents Executive Officer CEO to promote the Groups success: any individual or small group from dominating the Boards demonstrate leadership in management systems around decision-making.
Health, Safety and Environment: and manage succession planning for the Board and the Groups The Board considers that the skills and experience of its individual executive management.
members, particularly in the areas of UK US defence and security, the commercialisation of innovative technologies, corporate finance, mergers and acquisitions and risk management, have been fundamental in the pursuit of QinetiQs strategic initiatives as described in the Chief Executive Officers Review section of this Annual Report in the past year.
In addition, the quoted company experience available to members of the Board in a variety of industry sectors and international markets has also been invaluable to the Group as it seeks to consolidate its position in its core markets and geographic territories.
28 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Roles and responsibilities Performance of the Board The Board is responsible for overseeing the Executive Directors In accordance with the Combined Code, QinetiQ continues each management of the Groups operations and, in this capacity, year to evaluate the performance of the Board and its Committees.
determines the Groups strategic and investment policies.
The The Chairman used the core conclusions arising out of the prior Board also monitors the performance of the Groups senior years evaluation exercise as a reference point for a series of management team and organises its business to have regular questions focused on best practice areas of corporate governance.
interaction with key members of the Group, including those based This was supplemented by meetings held with the Directors at in North America.
The Directors are responsible for overseeing the which the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual management of the business of the Group, and their powers are Board members was discussed.
Sir David Lees, in his capacity as the subject to the Articles of Association and any applicable legislation Senior Independent Non-executive Director, met with individual and regulation.
members of the Board to evaluate the performance of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Chairman.
The roles of Chairman and CEO are separate, with their The evaluation process revealed that the operation of the Board responsibilities having been clearly articulated by the Board in was conducted in an open and transparent manner, with the Board writing.
The Chairman, Mark Elliott, is responsible for the effective possessing an appropriate range of skills which were well matched operation of the Board and ensuring that all Directors are enabled to QinetiQs business and having devoted increased attention to and encouraged to play their full part in Board activities.
The CEO, strategic planning, succession and risk management in the year.
Leo Quinn, is responsible to the Board for directing and promoting the profitable operation and development of the Group consistent As a result of the evaluation exercise, the Board agreed to maintain with enhancing long-term stakeholder value.
This includes the dayits focus on these key issues in the coming year.
As a separate to-day management of the Group: formulating, communicating exercise, the Chairman held meetings with the Non-executive and executing Group strategy: and the implementation of Board Directors in the last financial year, without the Executive Directors policies.
present, in order to review both the operation of the Board and to appraise the performance of the Executive Directors.
Senior Independent Director The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Sir David Lees.
Directors induction, on-going training and information Sir David is also Deputy Chairman of the Board and serves as an All newly-appointed Directors participate in an induction additional point of contact for shareholders should they feel programme, which is tailored to meet their specific needs in that their concerns are not being addressed through the normal relation to information on the Group.
Further, a series of visits to channels.
Sir David is available to fellow Non-executive Directors, Group sites giving the opportunity to meet senior management, is either individually or collectively, should they wish to discuss provided to new Directors for them to gain a strong understanding matters of concern in a forum that does not include the Chairman, of the business.
The induction programme includes an induction the Executive Directors or the senior management of QinetiQ.
pack, which is refreshed to ensure it contains the most up-to-date information available on the Group.
Training is also available to the Independence of Non-executive Directors Board on key business issues or developments in policy, regulation Of the current Directors of the Company, the Board considers or legislation on an as needed basis.
The Company provides Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Noreen Doyle, Mark Elliott, business-wide computer based training CBT for employees and Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani, Sir David Lees and Paul Murray the Board relating to compliance with its business ethics policies to be independent of QinetiQs executive management and free and practices.
from any business or other relationships that could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Of the remaining Non-executive Directors, the Board considers that Colin Balmer is not independent for Combined Code purposes, on the basis that he was until MOD sold its entire ordinary shareholding in the Company on 9 September 2008 the MODs nominated director.
Based on the above, the Board considers that over half of its members were independent Non-executive Directors throughout the last financial year.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued All Directors are encouraged to visit QinetiQs principal sites and Re-election of Directors Rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Directors to meet a wide cross-section of the employee base.
During the of the Company are contained in the Articles of Association and last financial year, the Board held two of its meetings at QinetiQs changes to these articles must be submitted to shareholders for facility in Washington and one of its meetings at QinetiQs approval.
According to the Articles of Association, all Directors Farnborough site.
This provided members of the Board with a are subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General greater opportunity to experience and understand the operational Meeting AGM following their appointment, and to re-election dynamics and technical offerings of the US and UK business at thereafter at intervals of no more than three years.
line with best practice reflected in the new UK Governance Code, As part of the corporate planning process, the Board has the the Company requires each serving member of the Board to be put opportunity to question the Sector Managing Directors and the forward for election or re-election on an annual basis at each AGM.
Executive Directors in relation to the formulation of the corporate Board meetings and attendance plan at Sector level and the impact of these plans on the Group The Board has regular scheduled meetings.
Nine scheduled Board strategy as a whole.
meetings were held in the last financial year.
Members of the The Non-executive Directors also have an opportunity to meet Board were also invited to attend a dinner on the occasion of each with other employees within the Group including other members scheduled Board meeting, to assist in the process of relationship of the senior management team at lunchtime evening events, building and to ensure that key strategic initiatives were which are scheduled to coincide with Board meetings.
Each of the Directors has access to the services of the Company The following table shows the number of meetings of the Board Secretary, and there is also an agreed procedure for the Directors and its committees held during the last financial year, and the to seek independent advice at the Companys expense.
Attendance at meetings of Board and its Committees April 2010 to March 2011 Committee Members BoardAudit Remuneration Compliance Colin Balmer 9 9 7 7 5 5 1 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent 9 9 6 6 5 5 Noreen Doyle 7 9 5 5 7 7 Mark Elliott 9 9 7 7 5 5 Admiral Edmund P. Giambastiani 8 9 5 5 2 David Langstaff 9 9 5 5 7 7 Sir David Lees 9 9 5 5 5 5 3 Nick Luff 6 6 4 4 3 4 David Mellors 9 9 4 Paul Murray 5 5 2 2 Leo Quinn 9 9 5 5 1 Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent was appointed to the Board on 28 April 2010.
2 David Langstaff resigned from the Board on 18 April 2011.
3 Nick Luff resigned from the Board on 31 December 2010.
4 Paul Murray was appointed to the Board on 25 October 2010.
Matters reserved to the Board throughout the year.
The Board also has a clearly articulated set The Board operates through a comprehensive set of processes, of matters which are specifically reserved to it for consideration, which define the schedule of matters to be considered by the which include reviewing the annual budgets, raising indebtedness, Board and its Committees during the annual business cycle, the granting security over Group assets, approving Group strategy and level of delegated authorities both financial and non-financial the corporate plan, approval of the annual and interim report and available to both Executive Directors and other layers of accounts, approval of significant investment, bid, acquisition and management within the business, and QinetiQs Business divestment transactions, approval of Human Resources policies Ethics, Risk Management, and Health, Safety and Environmental including pension arrangements, reviewing material litigation and processes.
The Board devotes one entire meeting each year to monitoring the overall system of internal controls, including risk consider strategy and planning issues which have an impact on management.
the Group, from which the five-year corporate plan is generated, and it is also regularly kept up to date on strategic issues 30 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Operation of the Board three UK business Sectors.
The QET meets on a monthly basis, The Board receives written reports from the CEO and CFO each and receives weekly updates on key operational issues by way month, together with a separate report on investor relations, of pre-scheduled conference calls.
The activities of the QET are which is prepared in consultation with QinetiQs brokers, and supplemented by the Proxy Board and the Executive Management a report produced by the Company Secretary on key legal and Team in QNA.
A Global Products Steering Committee was formed regulatory issues affecting the Group.
The Board also considers in the year to accelerate the development of the Global Products reports from the Chairs of the Committees of the Board at the business, its products, and its exploitation of QinetiQs intellectual next scheduled Board meeting following the date on which each property.
Board Committees The CEOs monthly report addresses the key strategic initiatives The Board has established five principal committees: the Audit which have had an impact on the Group since the previous Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations meeting of the Board, and focuses, in particular, on the progress Committee, the Compliance Committee and the Security of each of the Sectors.
Other key areas of focus include health, Committee.
Each operates within written terms of reference safety and environmental matters, employee and organisational approved by the Board, details of which are set out in the Investor issues, corporate responsibility, the status of key account Relations section of QinetiQs website www.
management customer relationship initiatives, the pipeline of Each Chairman of a Board Committee reports on the key issues potential bids, acquisitions, disposals and investments, and the discussed, and decisions taken, at the next meeting of the Board post-acquisition performance of recently acquired businesses.
following the Committee meeting in question.
Details of each of these Committees are summarised below.
Details of each The Board also receives updates from the CEOs key functional Committee members attendance at Committee meetings reports on an as needed basis, on issues such as Human are set out in the table on page 30.
Resources, Treasury, Corporate Responsibility, Real Estate, Audit Committee Security, Trade Controls and Pensions.
Key issues considered by The Audit Committee is chaired by Paul Murray.
The Board the Board in the past year included succession planning, which considers him to have recent and relevant financial experience, culminated in some changes to Board membership, strategy given his former roles as Group Finance Director of Carlton in particular the effective operation of the UK Services, US Communications plc and LASMO plc, and through his current role Services and Global Products businesses and the Companys as Audit Committee Chairman at Royal Mail Holdings plc.
The ongoing improvement to business processes in response to Committee is made up of three Non-executive Directors four until the key findings of the Haddon-Cave report.
the resignation of David Langstaff as a Director of the company on Conflicts of interest 18 April 2011, all of whom the Board considers to be independent.
The Company requires Directors to disclose proposed outside The Audit Committee monitors the Groups integrity in financial business interests before they are entered into.
This enables prior reporting and reviews the effectiveness of the risk management assessment of any conflict, or potential conflict, of interest and any framework.
The other members are Noreen Doyle and Sir David impact on time commitment.
An annual review of all external Lees.
The members bring extensive experience of corporate interests is carried out by the Board.
management in senior executive positions to the Company.
Directors responsibilities The Audit Committee meets as necessary and at least four Statements explaining the Directors responsibilities for preparing times a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2011, the Groups financial statements and the auditors responsibilities the Committee met on five occasions.
The external auditor has for reporting on those statements are set out on pages 48 and 49. the right to request that a meeting of the Audit Committee be Other Directors information convened.
During the past financial year, the Committee met Details of Executive Directors service contracts and the Nonwith QinetiQs external auditor on two separate occasions, executive Directors letters of appointment are set out in the without Executive Directors present, to discuss the audit process.
Report of the Remuneration Committee.
Copies of Directors The Committee also met with the Group Internal Audit Manager service contracts and letters of appointment will be available on the same basis.
for inspection at the Companys AGM.
The CEO, CFO, Group Financial Controller, Group Internal Audit Other Management Committees Manager, the QNA Internal Audit Manager and a representative of Responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Groups the external auditor, normally attend Audit Committee meetings, activities, with the exception of QinetiQs North American except where not appropriate.
operations which are managed through the Proxy Board, as This year the Committees particular focus was on QNA risks, described in the section below headed Management and control issues and mitigating actions, and on the development of a more of US subsidiaries, is conducted through the QinetiQ Executive robust review process for the businesss self-assessment and Team QET.
The QET comprises the Group CEO, Group CFO, certification exercise.
Functional Directors and the Managing Directors of each of the QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued Consideration of the audit process for the full-year and interim for the Group.
The other Committee members are Colin Balmer, results was the principal areas of focus for the Audit Committee.
Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent and Mark Elliott.
The Committee The Committee also assessed the effectiveness of the Internal meets as necessary although normally not less than three times a Audit function and adequacy of resourcing levels.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2011, the review of internal controls, the Committee focused in particular Remuneration Committee met on seven occasions.
Although not on those matters which had failed to achieve at least a members of the Committee, the CEO, the HR Director and the satisfactory audit rating in the year, and the management plans Group Reward Director normally attended meetings to provide to address the issues raised by the Internal Audit function.
information and advice to the Committee.
In the context of the Groups North American business, the During the year, the Committee received advice from its appointed Committee undertook two in-depth reviews of the internal independent advisors, Towers Watson, and from Kepler Associates.
controls environment across QNA, which included contract Towers Watson provided other consulting services during the year administration, cost accounting and billing.
The Committee also to QinetiQ but did not provide advice on executive remuneration reviewed the activities of the tax, insurance and treasury functions matters other than to the Committee.
Market data was provided in detail, as well as overseeing the level of KPMGs audit fees.
by Towers Watson and Hewitt New Bridge Street who also The Committee confirms its view that it has received sufficient, provided advice to assist the Committee to determine whether reliable and timely information from management in the last performance targets had been met.
financial year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
No employee of QinetiQ is permitted to participate in discussions In order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the about their own remuneration.
Committee ensures that any other advisory and or consulting The Committee has reviewed the changes in the new UK services provided by the external auditor do not conflict with their Governance Code relating to the remuneration and rewards of statutory audit responsibilities and are conducted through entirely the Companys Executive Directors and senior management.
As separate working teams: such advisory and or consulting services a result the Committee has taken steps to update its processes generally only cover regulatory reporting, tax and mergers and to ensure that: acquisitions work.
Any non-audit services conducted by the auditor require the consent of the CFO or the Chairman of the Audit the level of reward given to the Executive Directors and senior Committee before being initiated, with any such services management is stretching and designed to promote the longexceeding 50,000 in value requiring the consent of the Audit term success of the company: and Committee as a whole.
In the last financial year, the non-audit remuneration incentives remain consistent with the Companys activity conducted by KPMG, on behalf of QinetiQ, which exceeded risk management policies and systems.
this 50,000 threshold, related to the provision of support to the Executive Directors are not present when their own remuneration US Services business in relation to the acquisition of Cyveillance is being discussed.
Further information on the activities of the Inc. in the previous year.
The Committee concluded that this Remuneration Committee during the last financial year are set out service did not create any conflict of interest that might in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 36 to 44. compromise the independence of KPMG audit work.
Nominations Committee It is also QinetiQs policy that no KPMG employee may be The Nominations Committee is chaired by Sir David Lees.
appointed into a senior position within the QinetiQ Group without The Committee ensures that the composition of the Board and the prior approval of the CFO.
The cost and nature of non-audit Committees has the optimum balance of skills, knowledge and work undertaken by the auditor was reviewed by the Committee experience.
The other Committee members are Colin Balmer, on several occasions during the last financial year.
This process Mark Elliott and Leo Quinn, and David Langstaff until his departure.
enables the Committee to take corrective action if it believes that The Committee meets as necessary and when called by its Chair.
there is a risk of the auditors independence being undermined During the financial year ended 31 March 2011, the Committee through the award of such work.
met and consulted informally on a number of occasions around KPMG has been the Companys auditor since 2003.
The members Board meetings, as required.
of the Audit Committee have declared themselves satisfied with The principal focus of the Committees activities during the the performance of KPMG as the Companys auditor in the last financial year ended 31 March 2011 was to review QinetiQs financial year.
A rotation of KPMGs lead audit partner was last succession planning processes at both the Executive and Nonundertaken during 2008.
It is anticipated that he will continue in executive Director levels.
this role for a maximum term of five years.
The Committee also oversaw the appointment of one new NonRemuneration Committee executive Director, which culminated in the appointment of Paul The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Noreen Doyle.
The Committee sets remuneration and incentives for Executive Directors: approves and monitors remuneration and incentives 32 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Compliance Committee The Board nominates two senior executives to act as Compliance The Compliance Committee is chaired by Sir David Lees.
The Implementation Director and Compliance Audit Director.
It Committees primary purpose is to monitor adherence to the MOD receives a bi-annual report on the compliance areas that it Compliance Regime.
In addition, it keeps a watching brief over monitors from the Internal Audit function.
In respect of the those areas of risk where the principal impact is not financial, Compliance Regime, the Committee receives a report from the including security, trade controls, ethics and health, safety and Companys Compliance Implementation Director which describes environment.
The other Committee members are Colin Balmer, the permissions which have been sought and granted since the last Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, Mark Elliott, Admiral Edmund meeting of the Committee, and the status of projects where the P. Giambastiani Jr, Paul Murray and Leo Quinn.
The Committee potential conflicts of interest are being managed.
The Committee meets as necessary although normally not less than four times also receives, from the Compliance Audit Director, a report on the a year.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2011, the effectiveness of the controls that are in place to ensure that the Compliance Committee met on four occasions.
This financial Regime is operated correctly.
The Committee is the forum that year the Committee has focused on ethics, the QNA Proxy Regime, would address any issues arising out of QinetiQs failure to comply Health, Safety and the Environment, Trade Controls, Security and with the requirements of the Regime.
The Committee reviews the trials involving human subjects that fall within the scope of the systems that support the Compliance Regime and those that may Helsinki Protocol.
In addition, the Committee is providing oversight have an impact on it, directing changes, if appropriate.
A for 12 project areas established to address the recommendations computer-based training package continues to be used to ensure of the Sir Robert Nelson Report completed as a result of the that all relevant employees have a satisfactory knowledge of the Haddon-Cave Review.
These projects include specific activities operation of the Regime.
For key roles, competence is relating to aerospace assurances and safety work in addition to the demonstrated by passing an annual mandatory test.
governance of advice services, general projects seeking to simplify During the year, a total of eight new permissions were sought from QinetiQs Competency and Assurance Frameworks and the the MOD under the Compliance Regime, where potential conflicts processes of QinetiQs Business Management System.
of interest were identified by QinetiQ.
Of these eight requests, The Committee continues to monitor the Compliance Regime, seven were approved and one remained outstanding at the end which is designed to give MOD customers confidence that QinetiQ of March 2011.
At the end of the year, 12 firewalls were in place.
is able to provide impartial advice during any competitive Since vesting in 2001, a total of 130 firewalls have operated with evaluation of a procurement where QinetiQ wishes to operate on 118 now closed.
A firewall is a series of rules and procedures both the buy and the supply sides.
QinetiQ is required by its governing written and oral communication between employees Articles of Association to implement a Compliance Regime, which contributing to products in an MOD competition with industry was established on its creation out of The Defence Evaluation and outside the wall and employees assessing those products for Research Agency DERA.
Central to this Regime is the requirement MOD inside the wall.
No breaches of the MOD Compliance for QinetiQ to seek permission from the MOD prior to providing Regime were noted during the year.
This year, the Committee commercial defence services to others where there is potential has continued to have oversight, through quarterly reporting, for a conflict of interest with the services that QinetiQ provides on Health, Safety and Environment, Trade Controls, Ethics and to the MOD.
Security from the heads of those functions within the business.
A summary of the key focus and activities of the Health, Safety In designing the Compliance Regime, the MOD and QinetiQ and Environment and Ethics functions is set out in the Corporate sought to achieve a balance between meeting the needs of the Responsibility Review on page 24. procurement customers within the MOD principally Defence Equipment and Support and the need to allow QinetiQ flexibility Security Committee to exploit research into the supply chain and pursue its planned The Security Committee is chaired by Colin Balmer.
The other commercial activities, without compromising the defence or Committee members are Admiral Sir James Burnell-Nugent, security interests of the UK.
The Compliance Regime is largely Sir David Lees, David Mellors, Paul Murray and Leo Quinn.
The self-policing, in that it is applied by QinetiQ in respect of its Committee was established in June 2009 to enable UK nationals on activities without extensive intervention or oversight by the MOD.
the Board to consider matters of a UK national security dimension Since the inception of the Compliance Regime, over 97% of the which have an impact on QinetiQs UK business.
requests to the MOD to allow QinetiQ to operate on the supply Risk Management and Internal controls side of the commercial defence market have been approved.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of Oversight of the operation of the Regime is provided by the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness in safeguarding Compliance Committee.
shareholders interests and the Companys assets.
Such a system is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate the risk of The MOD reviews the operation and effectiveness of the failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only Compliance Regime, through its right to have an observer reasonable and not absolute assurance against material at the Compliance Committee meetings.
QinetiQ managers are responsible for the QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 Corporate governance Corporate governance report continued identification and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their QinetiQ has in place internal procedures which are designed areas of business, together with the design and operation of to comply with international best practice in relation to the suitable internal controls to ensure effective mitigation.
During this year QinetiQ has undertaken risks, which are related to the achievement of business objectives, significant activity to review and update its business processes are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a relating to its ethics and anti-corruption policies and procedures, variety of internal and external events, including control particularly in response to the new UK Bribery Act.
This activity breakdowns, competition, disruption, regulatory requirements has included: and natural and other catastrophes.
The Board and the Audit continuing to provide computer based training for all Committee regularly review significant risks to the business.
employees: An annual process of hierarchical self-certification has been providing more in depth training on business ethics and risk established within the organisation which provides a documented management best practice for employees who are involved and auditable trail of accountability for the operation of the system in overseas business: and of internal control.
This self-certification process is informed by a developing a new Group-wide Code of Conduct dealing with rigorous and structured self-assessment that addresses all the ethical best practice and compliance with the regulatory guidance cited in the Combined Code and compliance with environments within which the Company operates.
The process provides for successive assurances Compliance with anti-corruption legislation is further facilitated to be given at increasingly higher levels of management and, by the engagement of independent, internationally recognised finally, to the Board.
The process is informed by the Internal organisations, such as TRACE, who conduct anti-corruption due Audit function, which also provides a degree of assurance as diligence reviews of all third-party agents overseas.
to the operation and validity of the system of internal control.
Going concern The centrally provided internal audit programme is prioritised The Groups activities, combined with the factors that are likely to according to risks identified by the Company and is integrated affect its future development and performance, are set out in the across all business and functional dimensions, thereby reducing CEOs Review on pages 4 to 11.
The CFOs Review on pages 12 to issues of overlap or gaps in coverage.
These risks are identified 17 sets out details on the financial position of the Group, the cash dynamically and the Board is involved in this process as well as flows, committed borrowing facilities, liquidity and the Groups the QET and the QNA Executive Team.
policies and processes for managing both its capital and financial The Audit Committee reviews, on behalf of the Board, the risk risks.
Note 28 to the financial statements also provides details of management process and the system of internal control necessary the Groups hedging activities, financial instruments and its to manage risks and presents its findings to the Board.
Internal exposure to liquidity and credit risk.
Audit independently reviews the risk identification and control The market conditions in which the Group operates have been, processes implemented by management and reports to the and are expected to continue to be, challenging as spending from Audit Committee.
Where areas for improvement in the system the Groups key customers in its primary markets in the UK and US of internal control are identified, the Board considers the remains under pressure.
Despite these challenges, the Directors recommendations made by the QET, the QNA Executive Team, believe that the Group is well positioned to manage its overall the Audit Committee and the Compliance Committee.
The Audit Committee also reviews the assurance process, ensuring After making the appropriate enquiries, including a review of the that an appropriate mix of techniques is used to obtain the level latest two-year budget for cash flow and results, the Directors have of assurance required by the Board.
It presents its findings to the a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources Board on a regular basis.
The Board reviewed the effectiveness to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
of the system of internal control that was in operation during the financial year ended 31 March 2011.
The Board also routinely Consequently, the Annual Report and Accounts have been challenges the management to ensure that the systems of internal prepared on a going concern basis.
control are constantly improving to maintain their continuing effectiveness.
34 QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Communication with shareholders Management and control of US subsidiaries The Company attaches significant importance to the effectiveness QinetiQs principal US subsidiaries are currently required by the of its communications with shareholders.
During the last financial US National Industrial Security Program to maintain facility security year, the Company has maintained regular dialogue with clearances and to be insulated from foreign ownership, control institutional shareholders and the financial community, which or influence.
To comply with these requirements, QinetiQ North has included presentations of the full-year and interim results, America, Inc. QNA formerly known as QinetiQ North America including investor road shows held in the UK and US and regular Operations, LLC a wholly-owned subsidiary of QinetiQ in the US meetings with major shareholders and industry analysts.
In and the holding company for the substantive part of QinetiQs addition, each member of the Board attended the Companys North American operations, and the US DoD, have entered into a AGM in July 2010 and Interim Results and were available to take proxy agreement that regulates the ownership, management and questions.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and operation of these companies.
Pursuant to this proxy agreement, Non-executive Directors make themselves available to meet with QinetiQ has appointed four US citizens Peter Marino, Riley shareholders as required.
All shareholders and potential Mixson, John Currier and Vince Vitto holding requisite US security shareholders can gain access to the Annual Report, presentations clearances as proxy holders to exercise the voting rights of QNAs to investors and other significant information about QinetiQ on shares in the US subsidiaries.
The proxy holders are also appointed the Companys website, www.
com as directors of the relevant US subsidiaries and, in addition to their powers as directors, have power under the proxy arrangements to Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at exercise all prerogatives of share ownership of QNA.
The proxy which the Company highlights key business developments during holders have a fiduciary duty to, and agree to perform their role in the year and at which shareholders have an opportunity to ask the best interests of shareholders, and consistent with the national questions.
The Chairs of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, security interests of the US.
Compliance and Security Committees are available at that meeting to answer any questions on the work of the Committees.
The QinetiQ plc does not have any representation on the boards of the Company confirms that it will send the AGM Notice and relevant subsidiaries covered by the proxy agreement and does not have documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the right to attend board meetings.
QinetiQ plc may not remove the date of the AGM.
the proxy holders except for acts of gross negligence or wilful misconduct or for breach of the proxy agreement with the For those shareholders who have elected to receive consent of the US Defense Security Service.
communications electronically, notice is given of the availability of documents on the Investor Relations Section of the Groups In terms of the power to govern, the proxy agreement vests certain website.
All shareholders will be entitled to vote on the resolutions powers solely with the proxy holders and certain powers solely put to the AGM and, to ensure that all votes are counted, a poll with QinetiQ.
For example, QinetiQ can, at its sole discretion, will be taken on all the resolutions in the Notice of Meeting.
The direct the proxy holders to: results of the votes on the resolutions will be published on the sell or dispose, in any manner, capital assets or the business Groups website.
of QNA: Responsibility for maintaining regular communications with pledge, mortgage or encumber assets of QNA for purposes shareholders rests with the Executive Team, led by the CEO, other than obtaining working capital or funds for capital assisted by an investor relations function which reports to the CFO.
improvements: The Board is informed on a regular basis of key shareholder issues, merge, consolidate, reorganise or dissolve QNA: and including share price performance, the composition of the file or make any petition under the federal bankruptcy laws shareholder register and City expectations.
or similar law or statute of any state or any foreign country.
During the coming year the Company will be looking to continue The proxy holders cannot carry out any of the above actions to improve the quality of its engagement with shareholders and without the express approval of QinetiQ.
Unlike minority interest explore with investors any additional practical means by which it holders with protective veto rights, QinetiQ can unilaterally require can give effect to the requirements of the Stewardship Code and the above to be carried out and these are therefore considered the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
In addition, QinetiQ can require the payment of dividends, and the pay down of parent company loans, from QNA.
QinetiQ Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 35
