Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 Randgold Resources Limited is incorporated in Jersey, Channel Islands.
The company applies the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The company has been in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code throughout the year.
In relation to Mr RI Israels independence, the necessary explanation is provided on page 109 of this report.
Details of the remuneration paid by the group are contained in the Remuneration Report which can be found on page 125 of this report.
In addition, reference to the Audit Committee Report and the Report of the Governance and Nomination Committee can be found on pages 113 and 140 respectively.
The board acknowledges that to continue to be successful in the long term the company must be led by an effective board, with appropriate skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the activities of the company.
The board adopted a revised board charter in March 2012, as updated in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, which clearly defines its duties and a copy of this charter and the UK Corporate Governance Code are available on the companys website www.
Every company should be headed by an effective board which is collectively responsible for the long term success of the company.
The board remains committed to guiding the strategic development of the group and supports the principle of collective responsibility for the success of the company.
The board has reserved for its sole discretion: the finalisation and adoption of the groups strategic plan: the approval of the annual operating budget, and monitoring performance against budget: the approval of interim and final financial statements: the dividend policy: the approval of any significant change in the accounting policies and practices: fiscal policies including treasury and hedging policies: approval of all financial, legal and ethical controls of the company to ensure the appropriate compliance procedures are in place: significant mergers and acquisitions and other 106 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 material transactions: approval of all mining developments: new mine, major project and activity along with sections covering the issues of long term debt: capital issues, any material changes financial, legal, technical, human resources, environmental and to the companys capital structure: remuneration of executive communications activities.
directors: nominating candidates for election by the general meeting of shareholders to membership of the board: approval During the year the board met four times in person.
Board of all circulars, prospectuses and listing particulars: approval of meetings usually take place over a two day period with the first the Annual Report and accounts, including the Remuneration day allocated to committee meetings and the second for the board Report, Audit Committee Report, Report of the Governance and meeting.
The intervening evening allows the board to engage in Nomination Committee and the Corporate Governance Report informal discussions concerning the activities of the group.
The and the approval of the 20-F. January 2011 board meeting, which took place over four days, enabled members to visit the Loulo mine complex, including the In order to facilitate its supervision of the company and the group, Gounkoto mine, in Mali.
Dr K Dagdelen also paid a visit to the the board has established three board committees: The audit Massawa and Bambadji projects in Senegal.
The chairman joined committee, the remuneration committee and the governance management in January in visiting the new Tongon mine in Cte and nomination committee.
Details of the terms of reference dIvoire.
In addition, the board paid a three day visit to the Tongon of each committee are available on the companys website mine in October 2011, holding its board meeting in conjunction www.
with the official opening of the mine by the President of Cte dIvoire, Alassane Ouattara.
In January 2012, the board meeting Day to day management of the company has been delegated to and evaluation session took place at the Kibali gold project in the CEO.
An executive committee has been established by the the Democratic Republic of Congo, enabling the board to pay its CEO and membership is made up of the CEO as the chairman, second visit to this project ahead of its decision to approve the the financial director and senior executives of the company who construction of the new mine.
Details of the 100% attendance at include the chief operating officer COO for West Africa, the COO the board meetings and board visits are tabled below.
for Central and East Africa and the general managers of each of the companys operations.
In addition, the CEO chairs the companys At both the January 2011 and January 2012 board meetings, the environmental committee, details of which can be found in the chairman presided over a session of the non-executive directors Sustainability Report on pages 76 to 104 of this Annual Report.
without the presence of the executive directors.
Management provides the board, ahead of each quarterly board meeting, with a detailed quarterly pack which covers an overview Appropriate directors and officers insurance cover has been of the company and group, and includes reports from each obtained by the company.
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of board Directors Designation meetings attended P Litard Non-executive chairman 4 4 DM Bristow Chief executive officer 4 4 GP Shuttleworth Chief financial officer 4 4 NP Cole Jr Senior independent director 4 4 CL Coleman Independent non-executive director 4 4 K Dagdelen Independent non-executive director 4 4 RI Israel Non-executive director 4 4 AJ Quinn Independent non-executive director K Voltaire Independent non-executive director 4 4 Mr AJ Quinn was appointed to the board on 1 November 2011.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 107 Corporate Governance Report continued There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the is sufficient to allow them to effectively verify the performance of head of the company between the running of the board and management in achieving set goals and objectives.
The members the executive responsibility for the running of the companys of the audit committee believe that their discussions, under the business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers direction of the audit committee terms of reference, provide of decision.
assurance regarding the integrity of the financial information and In accordance with clearly defined parameters, the chairman that the financial controls and the systems of risk management are is responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring both robust and defensible.
Likewise the remuneration committee, effective communication exists between the executive and noncomprising three independent non-executive directors, has executive directors.
actively been involved in the determination of the levels of remuneration for the executive directors.
The governance and The CEO has been delegated the authority to manage the daynomination committee has continued its involvement with regards to-day administration of the group.
A formal job description is in to succession planning and gender diversity and has been active existence and this is reviewed annually by the board and the CEO.
in the appointment of a new director.
The board charter, which is available on the companys website, Issues relating to financial performance are addressed both by the clearly sets out those powers which are reserved solely for its audit committee and at the main board meetings.
discretion and consideration, while listing separately those issues for which the CEO would be accountable and be monitored.
For several years the company has had the position of a senior independent director and Mr NP Cole Jr continues to serve in this The chairman is responsible for the leadership of the board role and is available to shareholders should they wish to contact and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
During the first and fourth quarters of 2011, Mr Cole Jr in his The chairman, in conjunction with the CEO and the company capacity as chairman of the remuneration committee had several secretary, sets the agenda of each meeting and has ensured meetings with representatives of the companys major investors throughout the year that time is provided for discussion regarding and shareholders and voting guidance services.
The usual practice of board and committee meetings taking place over two days allows on each occasion the The non-executive directors under the leadership of the chairman board meets in person for active debate among all members of have continued to meet in session without the presence of the the board.
The directors also meet without the presence of the chairman.
In addition, the audit committee has likewise met As required, at the time of his appointment as chairman in with the companys external audit partner without the presence of November 2004, Mr P Litard still meets the requirement of the CFO or CEO.
The board and its committees should have the appropriate As part of their role as members of a unitary board, nonbalance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge executive directors should constructively challenge and help of the company to enable them to discharge their respective develop proposals on strategy.
An atmosphere of open debate exists at the companys board duties and responsibilities effectively.
meetings allowing for any single director to engage executive The board comprised eight members, two executive and six nonmanagement on key aspects of policy and performance.
executive directors from 1 January 2011 to 31 October 2011, where after Mr AJ Quinn joined the board as a non-executive director.
The non-executive directors believe that the format of the board, Following the appointment of Mr Quinn, the board restructured in conjunction with the activities of the three board committees, the composition of the committees, with Dr K Dagdelen being 108 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 appointed to the governance and nomination committee and Currently Mr Israel has served as a director for more than 14 years.
Mr Quinn joining the audit committee.
The governance and The board has considered his objectivity and contribution and nomination committee continues to be charged with the duty of believes that these are still independent in character and judgement.
Since 2009, Mr Israel has been considered for re-election annually.
identifying the needs of the board regarding suitable candidates.
Mr Israel is, however, retiring from the board at the conclusion of Mr P Litard continues to act as chairman of the committee, the AGM to be held on 30 April 2012.
This change is in accordance and since the appointment of Dr Dagdelen membership now with the boards succession plans.
In addition, given the length of comprises a majority of independent non-executive directors.
The service of the chairman, since his initial appointment to the board, committee continues to consider the optimal balance of skills as succession to this position is being evaluated.
well as an appropriate gender and geographic representation.
In addition to possessing the expertise required for the strategic Disclosures in respect of all related party transactions are included direction of a major international mining company, as well as the in Note 22 of the Annual Financial Statements.
time to commit to their responsibilities including field visits to the operations, candidates are expected to combine a strongly There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure independent perspective with the ability to share a cohesive vision for the appointment of new directors to the board.
This is dealt with in the Report of the Governance and Nomination Committee.
In accordance with the companys articles, Mr Quinn, as a newly appointed director, will stand for re-election to the board at the All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the AGM on 30 April 2012.
Details of Mr Quinns qualifications can be company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
found on page 5 of this Annual Report.
The board believes that all its members have sufficient time to devote to the company.
Details of any candidates existing board The board believes that mining is a long-gestation business and commitments are disclosed at the time of consideration of their as such justifies a longer period of service for non-executive respective appointment and the board does not believe that any directors than many industries and that reasonable periods of other board commitments affect the members contribution to the service are therefore needed for the stability of the board but that company.
No current director, whether executive or non-executive, new appointments are needed from time to time to add a fresh is a director of another FTSE 100 company.
Besides the chairman, the CEO and Mr RI Israel, the remainder of the board have served for periods of six years All directors should receive induction on joining the board or less.
The board believes that the changes made to the various and should regularly update and refresh their skills and board committees will ensure that a fresh approach is given to their knowledge.
Other than the two executive directors, no other director The board continues to operate in a field which is technically serves on any of the groups subsidiary boards.
complex and directors are provided with information, including in relation to environmental, social and governance issues, No director serves as a representative of a significant shareholder which enables them to fulfil their duties effectively.
Visits to the of the company.
mines, branch offices and technical presentations provided by management are used to further their knowledge in various areas The board monitors compliance with the independence criteria of specialisation.
To facilitate Mr AJ Quinns induction he visited included in the UK Corporate Governance Code and considers Tongon, ahead of his appointment to the board, and Kibali in all except one of the non-executive directors to be independent January 2012.
A comprehensive pack of corporate documents, for the purposes of the Code.
Consideration in respect of one including a memorandum of the role and responsibility of a director of the directors is set out alongside.
All of the directors and their prepared by the companys legal counsel, were shared with biographies are set out on pages 4 to 5 of this Annual Report.
Mr Quinn to facilitate his induction.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 109 Corporate Governance Report continued Dr K Dagdelen and his team from the Colorado School of Mines Accordingly, the board is recommending that shareholders vote in have continued to work closely with the companys exploration and favour of the re-election of each director proposed in the Notice of mineral resources departments to facilitate mine optimisations and Annual General Meeting 2012. geological knowledge.
The board continues to believe that the evaluation exercise is As detailed elsewhere in this Annual Report, the members of the beneficial.
remuneration committee have continued to liaise closely with consultants, Towers Watson and Ashurst, in regards to executive A formal session of the directors, under the leadership of the senior and non-executive remuneration.
independent director, also assessed the chairmans performance.
The board should be supplied in a timely manner with All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
At its meeting in November 2010, the board agreed in accordance Under the guidance of the chairman, it is the duty of the company with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code that secretary to ensure an effective flow of information between the all directors would stand for re-election annually.
Any newly board, its committees and the management of the company.
The appointed director is subject to election by shareholders after process is electronic allowing the board to access all current and his her appointment.
The Articles of Association specify neither historical board and committee packs as well as key corporate an age limit for directors nor any restriction about the period of documentation though a secure site.
At the 2011 annual general meeting AGM all directors ensures that the board is appraised on all governance matters.
At stood for re-election and shareholders voted in favour of their reits October board meeting, the companys US legal counsel was election.
All directors, including Mr AJ Quinn, will stand for rein attendance and briefed the members of the current legislative position in the United States, and in particular provided an update election at the 2012 AGM.
Biographies can be found on pages 4 on the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act and its related and 5 of this Annual Report.
In accordance with the provisions of Article 85.1 and in The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual accordance with Article 90.1 of the companys previous Articles evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees of Association, Dr DM Bristow and Mr GP Shuttleworth retired and individual directors.
by rotation and were re-elected to the board at the 2011 AGM.
This is dealt with in the Report of the Governance and Nomination In compliance with Article 33.2 of the companys new Articles Committee.
of Association, Mr CL Coleman will retire by rotation and being eligible has offered himself for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
In As part of its evaluation process, the board has engaged terms of Article 29 of the Articles of Association Mr Quinn, who consultants, IAOS, intermediary and alignment specialist, as was appointed to the board on 1 November 2011, is subject facilitators.
IAOS were engaged by the companys executive to election as a director of the company and being eligible has management to direct the 2011 strategic planning.
The process, offered himself for election.
after consultation with the chairman and CEO, started with each director completing a detailed questionnaire followed by a one-onCopies of the letters of appointment of the non-executive directors one conference call with the facilitator.
The board then spent a are available for inspection at the companys registered office.
day together ahead of its meeting at Kibali, in the DRC, discussing the outcomes of this process.
The evaluation process, while Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain differing in approach from the previous year, remained rigorous and motivate directors of the quality required to run the in its effort to monitor the performance of each director.
No areas company successfully, but a company should avoid paying of weakness in individual directors performances were identified.
110 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | Annual Report 2011 more than is necessary for this purpose.
A significant consultants prepare a quarterly report for the board detailing the proportion of executive directors remuneration should be activities and presentations given to shareholders.
In addition, structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual since September 2004 the company has employed international performance.
market intelligence experts to provide a global shareholder This is dealt with in the Remuneration Report on page 125. identification service which has greatly enhanced the focus of the companys communication message.
There should be a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing the While in general corporate communication with shareholders remuneration packages of individual directors.
No director is conducted by the CEO, the chairman, at least quarterly, should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
participates in an open forum with shareholders and stakeholders.
This is dealt with in the Remuneration Report on page 125.
Besides attendance at various industry conferences, a minimum The board should present a balanced and understandable of two roadshows during the year are undertaken to enable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
company representatives to interact directly with shareholders and This is dealt with in the Audit Committee Report on page 113. interested parties.
Where possible, the CEO asks non-executive directors to join him at presentations made to shareholders and The board is responsible for determining the nature and institutional investors.
During their January 2011, October 2011 and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving January 2012 board visits to Loulo, Tongon and Kibali respectively, its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain sound the board had the opportunity to interact with fund managers risk management and internal control systems.
who were then touring the companys operations.
In addition, the This is dealt with in the Audit Committee Report on page 113. chairman attended the Mining Indaba in Cape Town, having the opportunity to interact with various investors and fund managers in The board should establish formal and transparent attendance.
The board continues to use the internet for publication arrangements for considering how they should apply the of announcements and to file these on the companys website to corporate reporting and risk management and internal control assist with communication with shareholders.
In addition, the principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship board encourages shareholders to access the Annual Report from with the companys auditors.
the website rather than having it sent by post in printed form.
Our This is dealt with in the Audit Committee Report.
The companys public relations department monitors and responds to all feedback audit committee has been set up to review the companys financial received through our website.
The structure and accessibility of reports, internal control principles and risk management systems, our website is regularly monitored through a process of internal review significant financial reporting judgements and for dealing with and external reviews.
the appointment of the auditors and monitoring their relationship with the company and its management.
A copy of the audit In March 2011, ahead of the publication of our previous Annual committees terms of reference is available on the companys website Report, the chairman and another member of the remuneration www.
committee held a series of meetings with major shareholders and voting guidance services to discuss the proposed changes to the There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the companys remuneration policies.
Various suggestions made mutual understanding of objectives.
The board as a whole by shareholders were taken on board and these were reflected has responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue in the final documents tabled for shareholder consideration at with shareholders takes place.
In the latter months of 2011, the chairman and The board acknowledges responsibility for maintaining effective another member of the remuneration committee has again held communication with all shareholders.
The CEO, corporate meetings with shareholders ahead of the preparation of the communications manager and the companys investor relations 2011 Remuneration Report.
Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 111 Corporate Governance Report continued The board should use the AGM to communicate with investors Location Conference and to encourage their participation.
The board believes that the annual general meeting continues New York, USA Hard Assets Investment Conference to be an appropriate forum for contact with shareholders and San Francisco, USA Hard Assets Investment encourages their attendance and participation.
In terms of the Conference Articles of Association approved at the 2011 AGM, Article 19.10 Barcelona, SPAIN Bank of America Merrill Lynch provides that for so long as the shares of the company are admitted Metals and Mining Conference for trading on the London Stock Exchange or the Nasdaq Stock Denver, USA Denver Gold Forum Exchange at any general meeting all resolutions put to the meeting Zurich, SWITZERLAND European Gold Forum shall be decided on a poll.
The number of proxies received is London, UK Deutsche BRICS Metals and disclosed to members in attendance at each AGM.
At each AGM, Mining Conference all committee chairmen as well as other non-executive directors RBC Capital Markets Gold are present to address any queries raised by shareholders.
Conference Results of the AGM are published on the day of the meeting to Mines and Money inform shareholders not present of the results of the voting.
Cape Town, SA Mining Indaba Dakar, SENEGAL Senegalese Mining Conference It has been the policy of the company that twice a year lengthy and Exhibition roadshows are conducted by the CEO accompanied by various Kinshasa, DRC Infrastructure Partnerships for senior management where meetings are held with most of the African Development IPAD companys major institutional shareholders to brief them on the Hollywood Florida, USA BMO Capital Markets Global Metals and Mining activities of the company.
In addition, after the publication of each Toronto, CANADA PDAC set of quarterly results the chairman and CEO follow up with a conference call available for interested shareholders and investors, brief UK and other international media and conduct meetings The companys share capital is detailed in Note 5 to the financial with many of the institutional shareholders.
The roadshows are in statements and the details of key shareholders are provided on addition to the companys attendance at several key international page 182.
There are no special rights attached to the companys gold mining conferences around the world.
Investor conferences attended in the last year are shown in the following table.
shares or restrictions on voting rights.
Details relating to the companys Articles of Association and the powers of directors in respect of share capital are set out in the Notice of Annual General Institutional shareholders have a responsibility to make considered use of their votes.
The company is pleased to see the increasing Meeting 2012. trend of institutional shareholders now exercising their rights to vote at general meetings.
In the past three years the percentage of shareholders present and voting has increased.
