However, the audit committee noted that Internal control continued investment is required in the internal audit function to The group maintains a sound system of internal control which is ensure its development matches the groups expansion.
The audit embedded in all operations, as part of the commitment to the long committee, chief financial officer and the head of internal audit term success of the company and the protection of the value of concluded that a co-source relationship was required to support its reputation and assets in order to safeguard the interests of our the internal audit function and during the year a tender process shareholders.
An effective system of operational and financial was performed to engage an external assurance advisory firm to controls, including the maintenance of qualitative financial records, provide a co-sourcing relationship and resource as required by the is an important element of the groups internal control.
The head of internal audit to satisfy the approved 2012 internal audit system of internal control provides reasonable rather than absolute plan.
assurance that the groups business objectives will be achieved within the risk tolerance levels defined by the board.
The board notes that no cost effective system will preclude all errors and irregularities and so the groups system of internal The audit committee reviews the internal control process, including controls provides reasonable, but not absolute assurance, against financial reporting, and its effectiveness on an annual basis to material misstatement or loss.
ensure it remains robust in identifying control weaknesses as well as to comply with Sox requirements.
The group is focused Whistleblowing programme on maintaining a sound system of internal control, based on the The group has had in place, for a number of years, a whistleblowing groups policies, procedures and guidelines, in all operations.
programme at all its operations to allow staff to confidentially raise any concerns about business practices.
The programme, which This review includes quarterly reports from the head of internal is monitored by the audit committee, makes available a selection audit in respect of findings from internal control reviews and of telephonic, email and mail communication channels to any testing, assurance obtained in relation to the certifications required person across the operations who has information about unethical under the Sox Act 2002 as a results of the companys Nasdaq practice in the company and its managed operations.
Any reports listing, and other assurances from regular management reviews received by the general counsel and secretary are referred to as appropriate.
an appropriate line manager or the internal audit function for investigation and resolution.
The committee considers the whistleThe group also carried out an assessment of its internal control over blowing procedures in place to be appropriate for the company.
consolidated financial reporting pursuant to Section 404 of the Sox To date, while the programme has been used in several instances, Act 2002 and the US Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
none has resulted in a fraudulent incident being identified.
The management of the company, which is responsible under the Sox Act 2002 for establishing and maintaining an adequate system In addition the company has adopted a policy in accordance with of internal control over consolidated financial reporting, evaluated the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK Bribery Act and all the effectiveness of that system using the COSO framework.
operations, key employees, customers, major suppliers, managers Based on that evaluation, the management of the company and other key stakeholders have been briefed concerning the expects to conclude in its Annual Report on Form 20-F filing implication of the Acts, particularly in the light of the provisions of with the US Securities and Exchange Commission that the system the Dodd-Frank Act.
The company has continued to work with its of internal control over consolidated financial reporting was US legal counsel regarding the effects of the Dodd-Frank Act and effective as at 31 December 2011. any applicable regulations which have been published.
