Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 The function of the audit committee is to support the board by monitoring the decisions and processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial reporting and robust systems of internal control and risk management.
The audit committees responsibilities include: Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance and reviewing significant reporting judgements.
Reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices which have been adopted by the group in the preparation of the Annual Financial Statements, financial reporting issues and disclosures in financial reports.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management systems, including reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and reporting key risks and control activities.
Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular reports from the head of internal audit on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Making recommendations to the board on the appointment, re-appointment or change of the groups external auditors and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors.
Overseeing the boards relationship with the external auditors and ensuring the groups external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process is monitored and reviewed.
Developing, implementing and maintaining a policy on the engagement of the Karl Voltaire groups external auditors supply of non-audit services.
Chairman, Audit Reporting to the board any matters which have been identified that the committee committee consider need to be considered, actioned or improved upon.
Monitoring the groups compliance with legal and regulatory requirements including ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure is in place.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of meetings Members Appointed Resigned attended K Voltaire 1 August 2006 6 6 CL Coleman 11 May 2009 6 6 K Dagdelen 29 January 2010 1 November 2011 6 6 AJ Quinn 1 November 2011 Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 113 Audit Committee Report continued The audit committee comprises three independent non-executive The audit committee reviews the companys published results, the directors and oversees the groups financial reporting and internal effectiveness of its system of internal control, legal and regulatory controls and provides a formal link with the external auditors.
compliance including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Sox and the services provided by the external auditors.
To ensure the audit committee discharges its responsibilities, the audit committee met six times during the year.
Attendance of The board acknowledges that pursuant to the Companies members during 2011 is shown in the previous table.
Jersey Law, 1991, and the UK Corporate Governance Code it has a responsibility to present a balanced and understandable Mr AJ Quinn was appointed to the committee at the time of assessment of the companys and the groups position and appointment to the board on 1 November 2011.
This extends to the preparation and publication resigned the same day following his appointment to the of the annual report and any other release of information, price governance and nomination committee.
For reasons described sensitive or otherwise.
The board also acknowledges that the UK in the Corporate Governance Report, the board considers all Corporate Governance Code provisions include the requirement members of the audit committee to be independent.
for an explanation of the basis on which the group generates or preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering In terms of the directors remuneration policy, for service to the the objectives of the group.
audit committee for the year, Mr CL Coleman was paid US$35 000, Dr Dagdelen US$29 167, Mr Quinn US$5 833 and Dr K Voltaire The directors are required to prepare Annual Financial Statements US$50 000. for the group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union.
The directors The audit committee is regularly updated on new legislation and have chosen to also prepare Annual Financial Statements for the other information pertinent to its role, relevant information and company in accordance with IFRS as issued by the International reports are presented to the committee as required, usually by Accounting Standards Board.
The directors are responsible for the internal staff, legal counsel, or external consultants.
To assist maintenance of proper accounting records and the preparation, management in providing the information to allow the audit integrity and fair presentation of the Annual Financial Statements committee to discharge its responsibilities the groups chief of the company and the group.
financial officer, other executive management, external auditors and the head of internal audit regularly attend meetings.
The directors have also prepared the other information included in the Annual Report and are responsible for both its accuracy and its The chairman of the audit committee has a PhD in finance and consistency with the Annual Financial Statements.
two of the members have considerable years of experience in the financial services sector as detailed in the biographies on The directors have general responsibility for selecting suitable pages 4 and 5 of this Annual Report.
The board believes that this accounting policies and applying them consistently, and for level of experience continues to be sufficient to meet the standards taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard set by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
In the event that any the assets of the group and prevent and detect fraud and other issues should arise which would be deemed outside the areas of expertise of the members, independent professional advice would irregularities.
The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the Annual Financial Statements.
The directors have no be sought.
