Audit Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 The function of the audit committee is to support the board by monitoring the decisions and processes designed to ensure the integrity of financial reporting and robust systems of internal control and risk management.
The audit committees responsibilities include: Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the groups financial performance and reviewing significant reporting judgements.
Reviewing the accounting principles, policies and practices which have been adopted by the group in the preparation of the Annual Financial Statements, financial reporting issues and disclosures in financial reports.
Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk management systems, including reviewing the process for identifying, assessing and reporting key risks and control activities.
Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular reports from the head of internal audit on the effectiveness of the internal control system.
Making recommendations to the board on the appointment, re-appointment or change of the groups external auditors and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement of the groups external auditors.
Overseeing the boards relationship with the external auditors and ensuring the groups external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process is monitored and reviewed.
Developing, implementing and maintaining a policy on the engagement of the Karl Voltaire groups external auditors supply of non-audit services.
Chairman, Audit Reporting to the board any matters which have been identified that the committee committee consider need to be considered, actioned or improved upon.
Monitoring the groups compliance with legal and regulatory requirements including ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure is in place.
AUDIT COMMITTEE MEETING ATTENDANCE Number of meetings Members Appointed Resigned attended K Voltaire 1 August 2006 6 6 CL Coleman 11 May 2009 6 6 K Dagdelen 29 January 2010 1 November 2011 6 6 AJ Quinn 1 November 2011 Annual Report 2011 | RANDGOLD RESOURCES | 113
