Corporate Governance Report The Company enjoys a premium listing Review and approval of recommendations A.
2: DIVISION OF RESPONSIBILITIES on the London Stock Exchange and is from the Committees of the Board.
There is a clear division of responsibilities therefore required to produce a Corporate between the Chairman and the CEO.
The The annual review of this schedule was Governance Statement containing the Chairman is responsible for the overall undertaken in November 2011 as part of the information set out in this Report.
The operation, leadership and governance of performance evaluations conducted for the Company is subject to the Financial Reporting the Board.
Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the The CEO is responsible for the executive Code in effect for the financial periods The principal activities undertaken by the Board management of Reckitt Benckisers business, beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
This are set out in the Business Review on pages 10 consistent with the strategy and commercial Report sets out how the Company has applied to 17. objectives agreed by the Board.
The CEO chairs the Main Principles of the Code throughout the Meetings the Executive Committee and, together with year ended 31 December 2011.
Board meetings are structured to allow open the CFO, certain Group functional heads and discussion.
The Board meets a minimum of five Area EVPs he appoints to the Committee, times a year and constitutes additional provides the day-to-day management of the A: Leadership meetings including by telephone or written Company.
Biographical details of the members A.
1: THE ROLE OF THE BOARD resolution to consider specific matters which it of the Executive Committee are set out on The Board leads and controls Reckitt Benckisers has reserved to itself for decision.
The matters delegated to the CEO by business with a Board structure similar to that the Board include: In 2011, there were five regular and two of its key international competitor companies additional Board meetings.
There were four Power to delegate the day-to-day the majority of which are based in the USA.
Audit Committee meetings, three management of the business of the The Board approves strategy, carries out an Remuneration Committee meetings plus two Company to each of the officers of the advisory and supervisory role and accepts additional meetings and two Nomination Executive Committee, acting individually or ultimate responsibility for the conduct of Committee meetings.
The table below sets out as a group or sub-committee: Reckitt Benckisers business.
The schedule the attendance by individual Directors at of matters reserved for the Boards decision Power to acquire and dispose of businesses scheduled Board and Committee meetings.
includes: and to approve unbudgeted capital Directors Insurance and Indemnities expenditure projects subject, in each case, to Takeover offers and the response to any The Directors benefit from the indemnity a 50m limit: and takeover approach: provision in the Companys Articles of Power to instruct advisers and to instigate Significant acquisitions, disposals and capital Association.
Each individual, who is an officer legal proceedings on behalf of the Company expenditure projects: of the Company and or of any company within in respect of matters for which no further Reckitt Benckiser at any time on or after 28 July Final approval of annual budgets and Board authority is required.
2009, benefits from a deed poll of indemnity in corporate plans: respect of the costs of defending claims against A.
3: THE CHAIRMAN Approval of financial statements and him or her and third party liabilities.
Directors The Chairman, who was independent on Shareholder communications: and Officers liability insurance cover was appointment, is responsible for leading the maintained throughout the year at the Board and enabling the Directors to operate Treasury policies and risk management Companys expense.
effectively as one unit to determine the policies: strategy, risk appetite and governance structure Significant changes to borrowing facilities necessary to deliver Shareholder value in a or foreign currency transactions: and transparent and responsible manner.
His responsibilities include: Number of Scheduled Meetings Attended during 2011 Note Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Adrian Bellamy 5 3 2 Bart Becht a 3 1 Richard Cousins 5 3 Colin Day b 0 Liz Doherty 5 Peter Harf c 3 1 Kenneth Hydon 5 4 1 Rakesh Kapoor d 2 1 Andr Lacroix 5 4 Graham Mackay e 5 3 Judith Sprieser 5 3 2 Warren Tucker 5 4 Notes a Bart Becht attended the three Board and one Nomination Committee meetings held before his retirement on 1 September 2011. b Colin Day resigned as a Director of the Company on 8 February 2011 and did not attend the meeting held on the day he resigned.
c Peter Harf was unable to attend one meeting due to illness and was unavoidably absent from one other meeting.
d Rakesh Kapoor joined the Board as CEO on 1 September 2011 and attended the two Board and one Nomination Committee meetings that were held after his appointment.
e There were no Nomination Committee meetings following Graham Mackays appointment to the Committee in November 2011.
2011 23 Corporate Governance Report continued Chairing and ensuring that Board meetings with extensive experience of Reckitt Benckiser B: Effectiveness provide a forum that encourages open across categories, geographies and functional B.
1: BOARD COMPOSITION debate and effective contributions from areas, clearly ingrained in the unique culture of The Board comprises eight Non-Executive individual directors with sufficient time the organisation was preferred.
Considerable Directors including Adrian Bellamy, the allocated to key issues: work goes into succession planning and Chairman, and two Executive Directors, Bart personal development within Reckitt Benckiser Developing an effective working relationship Becht, the CEO until 1 September 2011 and and this gives Reckitt Benckiser a strong bench with the CEO whilst recognising the need to Rakesh Kapoor, CEO from 1 September 2011, of talent at senior management level.
An maintain the balance between critical and Colin Day, the CFO until 8 February 2011 internal candidate provides a better opportunity friendship and executive responsibility: and Liz Doherty, CFO from 8 February 2011. for a smooth transition and effective handover.
Information regarding the Directors serving at Finalising the Board meeting agenda When coupled with the calibre of the candidate the date of this Report is set out on page 18. initially developed by the CEO and the and the relevance of his experience, the Board Additional biographical details are available Company Secretary: was unanimous in the choice of Rakesh Kapoor from the Companys website.
as the ideal next CEO for the Company.
Sponsoring and promoting governance and The Board has identified Graham Mackay ethical practices: Diversity and Business Success as the SID.
The majority of Non-Executive The Board is confident that diversity contributes Encouraging dialogue between the Company Directors excluding the Chairman are to the profitability of any business.
It enables and its Shareholders and other stakeholders independent as recommended by the Code.
the business to better understand opportunities and facilitating the Boards understanding of The Chairman, Adrian Bellamy, was and risks and to develop robust solutions to Shareholders concerns: independent on appointment.
Furthermore, the Board believes and acts Deputy Chairman, is not independent by virtue Overseeing the induction, information and on the basis that: of being a  Director.
The support provisions for Directors: and Diversity is clearly much broader than gender Shareholder Agreement between the Company Leading the annual performance evaluation and should also not be a Board only issue.
and JAB Holdings B. V. JAB at the time of the of the Board and its Committees.
It incorporates diversity of race, thought, merger in 1999 entitled JAB to nominate Board experience, skills, understanding, perspective Directors.
A holding in excess of 20% or 10% A.
4: NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS and age, and implementation should occur at of the Companys ordinary shares entitles JAB The Non-Executive Directors are independent of all management levels: to nominate two Directors or one Director management and therefore able to provide respectively.
JABs current holding is critical input into Board decisions through their Successful companies sell their goods and approximately 15%.
contributions to Board discussions and their services to customers regardless of gender, roles on, and Chairmanship of, the three main race, ethnic group or religion and a diverse B.
2: NOMINATION COMMITTEE AND Board Committees.
They: workforce should reflect the customers.
A BOARD APPOINTMENTS diverse management is more in touch with its Contribute international and operational Nomination Committee customers demands, investors expectations experience and a knowledge and The Nomination Committee comprises the and staff concerns and provides a forum for understanding of global financial issues, the Chairman, who also chairs the Committee, the these different perspectives to come together sectors in which Reckitt Benckiser operates CEO, the Deputy Chairman, the SID and the in devising successful business strategies: and and the health and safety, environmental and Chairs of both the Audit and Remuneration community challenges it faces: Diversity is a matter of organisational culture Committees.
The Board has delegated authority largely set by example from the top.
A Board to the Committee through its terms of Monitor management performance against that actively considers diversity is better able reference, a copy of which is available on the strategy and provide reasoned input and to support diversity efforts in the rest of the Companys website.
constructive challenge to ensure objectives organisation and is equipped to identify the are met: and The primary focus of the Committee is to make organisations requirements.
recommendations on: Assess and monitor the integrity of financial Directors Conflicts of Interest information and the systems of risk The composition and performance of the The Nomination Committee is responsible for management and internal control.
Board and its Committees: the Companys procedures for dealing with The Chairman holds a session with other Directors conflicts of interest and these Appointments and re-elections to the Board Non-Executive Directors at the conclusion of procedures have operated effectively during the and its Committees: and each formal Board meeting without the year.
A register of Directors conflicts is Succession plans for the Chairman, and Executive Directors present.
maintained by the Company Secretary and other Directors.
reviewed by the Board at least annually.
The Senior Independent Director SID provides a The Board is aware of the other commitments The principal activities of the Nomination sounding board for the Chairman and is of its Directors and any changes to these Committee during the year were the: available to the other Directors and Shareholders commitments are reported to the Board.
who have concerns that cannot be addressed Consideration of the future composition of through the Chairman, CEO or CFO.
3: COMMITMENT the Board: and All new Non-Executive Directors confirm in Appointment of an internal candidate, writing that they are able to allocate sufficient Rakesh Kapoor, as the new CEO.
time to meet the expectations of the role.
The Board has adopted a letter of appointment that Board Appointments contains the terms on which Non-Executive In respect of the appointment of Liz Doherty as Directors will be appointed including: CFO and Executive Director, a detailed role profile was prepared before an external search Confirmation that the appointment is a consultant was engaged to prepare a shortlist contract for services and details of any of potential candidates.
Only after a rigorous Committee appointments: interview process was the appointment Confirmation of the initial appointment term recommended to the Board.
of three years terminable on one months Although considered, no formal external search written notice and the expectation that the was commissioned in respect of Rakesh appointment will usually last for more than Kapoors appointment as CEO.
The Board was one term: and firmly of the view that an internal candidate, 24 2011 Report of the Directors The requirement to seek the agreement of to the Company Secretary.
Her appointment Directors at the 2012 AGM.
The date each the Chairman before accepting additional and removal are matters reserved to the Board.
Director was originally appointed to the Board commitments including other directorships is included in the biographical details on B.
6: EVALUATION and the requirement to disclose any actual or page 18.
Performance Evaluation potential conflicts of interest.
The Board maintains an ongoing review of its During the year, the terms of reference of procedures and its effectiveness and those of its C: Accountability the Nomination Committee were amended to Committees throughout the year.
It carries out give the Committee responsibility for ensuring a formal and rigorous internal evaluation of its C. 1: FINANCIAL AND BUSINESS REPORTING that Executive Directors do not take on more performance, that of its Committees and those The Board is responsible for the integrity of than one non-executive directorship in a of individual Directors to assess such Reckitt Benckisers consolidated and the FTSE 100 company nor the chairmanship performance with a view to improving the Companys financial statements and recognises of such company.
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees its responsibility to present a balanced and and Reckitt Benckisers overall performance.
understandable assessment of Reckitt The performance review of the Board Benckisers position and prospects.
The Board is undertaken in 2011 concluded that the For both the 2010 and 2011 Board evaluations, satisfied that the financial statements, report to Chairman and other Non-Executive Directors the Chairman identified the areas in scope for a regulators and price-sensitive reports present a devote sufficient time to the Companys free-form discussion.
To encourage debate, balanced and understandable assessment of business.
open questions were provided prior to the Reckitt Benckisers position and prospects.
meeting together with an invitation for B.
4: DEVELOPMENT thoughts on how governance processes could To assist with financial reporting and the Induction and Training be improved and how the Non-Executive preparation of consolidated financial All new Directors are provided with a flexible Directors could add value to executive statements, the finance function has in place a induction programme tailored to accommodate management.
Where appropriate, comments series of accounting and treasury policies, individual areas of interest.
The induction were submitted ahead of the meetings.
practices and controls which are designed to covers the provision of core Company related ensure the identification and communication of internal and external documents, meetings with The scope of the evaluations for both years changes in accounting standards, and key Directors and senior executives and visits to focused on strategy and the strategy review reconciliation of core financial systems.
The various offices and factories as appropriate.
process: risk management and internal controls: function consists of consolidation and financial succession planning: communication with The Board holds at least one meeting each year accounting teams and technical support which management: engagement with investors and at one of the Companys operating units.
The comprises senior finance managers who review external stakeholders: Board meeting processes 2010 meeting was held in the USA and the external technical developments and and professional development and training.
The 2011 meeting was held in India.
The Board accounting policy issues.
In addition, the outcomes from each evaluation were recorded plans to visit its operating unit in Brazil during finance function maintains an up-to-date and action taken or identified as to be taken.
The Board also receives updates on legal, Group Finance Policy Manual and sets formal At the 2011 Board evaluation, the outcomes regulatory and governance matters from its requirements with business unit finance and actions identified from the 2010 evaluation internal and external advisers.
functions which specify the standard reports were reviewed and progress on each matter and approvals required by Reckitt Benckiser.
Directors are responsible for identifying their appropriately recorded.
These outcomes and individual needs and are expected to take the actions will also feed into the externally Throughout the year Reckitt Benckiser has had necessary steps to ensure that they are facilitated evaluation to be conducted in 2012 in place an ongoing process for evaluating the adequately informed about Reckitt Benckiser to aid benchmarking and the measurement of financial reporting process and the preparation and their responsibilities as Directors.
The progress against prior years.
The basis for the Board is confident that all its members have preparation of consolidated accounts is as set The evaluations of the Board Committees were the knowledge, ability and experience to out on page 41 under Accounting Policies.
undertaken with the use of detailed internally perform the functions required of a director generated questionnaires which included a The Board agrees an engagement letter with of a listed company.
The scores the Auditors in respect of the full and half year B.
5: INFORMATION AND SUPPORT and additional comments were collated for results and the Auditors statement on their All members of the Board receive timely reports subsequent discussions.
work and reporting responsibilities is set out on on items arising at meetings of the Board page 36.
The evaluation of the Chairmans performance enabling due consideration of the items in is undertaken by the SID with input from his Information on Reckitt Benckisers business advance of the meetings.
Directors unable to fellow Non-Executive Directors and the CEO model and strategy for generating and attend a particular meeting during the year had and CFO.
The Chairman evaluates each preserving longer term growth and delivering the opportunity to review and raise any issues Directors performance through one-to-one on the Companys stated objectives is set out in on the relevant briefing papers.
Board members discussions with other Directors.
The pages 2 to 8 of the Chief Executives Statement.
also have access to a dedicated online team Remuneration Committee also reviews the room containing relevant Company information The Statement of Directors Responsibilities on performance of the Executive Directors and including all Board and Committee papers.
page 28 details the Directors responsibility for other members of the Executive Committee.
the financial statements and for disclosing Each Director has access to the advice and B.
7: DIRECTORS RE-ELECTION relevant audit information to the Auditors.
services of the Company Secretary and a In accordance with Code recommendations all procedure exists for Directors to take The going concern statement required by the the Directors will submit themselves for independent professional advice at the Listing Rules and the Code is set out in the re-election election at the 2012 AGM.
Each Companys expense in furtherance of Statement of Directors Responsibilities on Director has provided assurance that he or she their duties.
page 28. remains committed to his or her role and can Company Secretary dedicate the necessary amount of time to C. 2: RISK MANAGEMENT AND The Company Secretary ensures that the attend to the Companys business.
In addition, INTERNAL CONTROL Company complies with all applicable rules, the performance evaluation undertaken by the The Board has established a risk and control regulations and obligations governing the Board was rigorous and transparent to ensure structure designed to manage the achievement Companys operations and is responsible for that each Director remains able to undertake of business objectives.
It has overall ensuring that the correct Board procedures are his or her duties.
Consequently, the Board responsibility for Reckitt Benckisers system of followed.
She advises the Board on corporate recommends that all Shareholders vote for on internal control and for the effectiveness of governance matters.
All Directors have access each of the resolutions to re-elect elect the such system.
The system complies with the 2011 25 Corporate Governance Report continued Turnbull guidance on Internal Control and Risk Risk Management as part of the ongoing The Audit Committee: Management and provides reasonable, but not risk and control process, operating units Monitors the adequacy and effectiveness of absolute, assurance against material review and evaluate risks to the achievement the system of internal control: misstatement or loss.
of business objectives and the Board reviews Reviews compliance procedures and Reckitt those significant risks which might impact on Reckitt Benckiser maintains an ongoing process Benckisers overall risk framework including the achievement of corporate objectives.
for evaluating the system of internal control the Groups whistleblowing arrangements : Mitigating controls, together with any and identifying and managing risk.
necessary actions, are identified and Considers reports on Internal Audits Management is required to apply judgement in implemented.
A summary of the most activities, significant legal claims and evaluating the material risks Reckitt Benckiser significant risks faced by Reckitt Benckiser is regulatory issues: faces in achieving its objectives, in determining included in the Business Review on pages 13 the risks that are considered acceptable to bear, Reviews the interim and full year financial and 14: in assessing the likelihood of the risks statements before submission to the concerned materialising, in identifying Reckitt Operating Unit Controls each operating full Board: Benckisers ability to reduce the incidence and unit maintains a system of internal control Makes recommendations to the Board impact on the business of risks that do and risk management which is appropriate to regarding the Auditors and their terms materialise and in ensuring that the costs of its own business environment.
Such controls of appointment: operating particular controls are proportionate must be in accordance with Group policies to the benefit.
and include management authorisation Reviews and monitors the external auditors processes, to ensure that all commitments on independence and services supplied and the Reckitt Benckisers control environment is behalf of Reckitt Benckiser are entered into objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit supported by a Code of Conduct, on which after appropriate approval.
In particular, process: and employees receive training annually, and a there is a structured process for the appraisal range of policies on corporate responsibility.
Considers operational risk and control and authorisation of all material capital Other key elements within the internal control presentations from management covering projects: and structure are summarised as follows: assurance providers, geographical and Monitoring the effectiveness of the functional areas.
The Board and Management the Board system of internal control and risk continues to approve strategy and performs During 2011 the Audit Committee: management is monitored regularly through an advisory and supervisory role, with the I ncreased the number of scheduled meetings a combination of management review, day-to-day management of the Company from three to four and met four times: self-assessment, independent review through being undertaken by the CEO supported by quality assurance, environment, health & Agreed an improved approach to identifying, the Executive Committee.
The CEO and other safety and regulatory audits, as well as managing, mitigating and refreshing the Executive Committee members have clearly independent internal and external audit.
reporting of the major risks facing the communicated Reckitt Benckisers vision, The results of internal and external audit Company: strategy, operating constitutions, values and reviews are reported to and considered by business objectives across Reckitt Benckiser: Approved updates to the Finance Policy the Audit Committee, and actions are taken Manual and the treasury policies: Organisational Structure During the year to address any significant control matters ended 31 December 2011, Reckitt Benckiser identified.
The Audit Committee also Monitored the relaunch of the whistleoperated four area management approves annual internal audit plans and is blowing procedures: organisations covering Europe, North responsible for performing the ongoing Redrafted the policy for non-audit fees to the America Australia, Developing Markets and review of the system of internal control and Auditors and monitored its implementation: Pharmaceuticals, and centralised functions risk management on behalf of the Board.
covering category development, supply, Updated the Audit Committee terms of The Board confirms that reviews of the sales, finance and legal, information services reference to reflect the Code: appropriateness and effectiveness of the system and human resources, as well as an of internal control and risk management Updated and extended the annual Standing independent internal audit team.
Throughout throughout the financial year and up to the Agenda to reflect the revised terms of the organisation, the achievement of date of approval of the Annual Report and reference and include a biannual operational business objectives and the establishment of Accounts have been satisfactorily completed in risk and controls review for specific areas, appropriate risk management and internal compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Code.
regions, functions and risks: control systems and processes are embedded in the responsibilities of line managers: The Company is compliant with DTR 7.2.
6 and Oversaw the change of the Head of the information is included in the section on Internal Audit: Budgeting there is an annual planning Takeover Directive on pages 19 to 20. process whereby detailed operating budgets Reviewed the effectiveness of, and approved for the following financial year are prepared C. 3: AUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITORS recommendations for, changes to the and are reviewed by the Board.
Long-term Audit Committee Internal Audit function: business plans are also prepared and are The Audit Committee comprises three Approved terms of engagement and reviewed by the Board on an annual basis: Independent Non-Executive Directors: Kenneth reviewed the strategy, scope and Hydon, Chairman since 16 November 2006, Management Reporting there is a effectiveness of the Auditors: Andr Lacroix and Warren Tucker.
Kenneth comprehensive system of management Hydon, FCMA, FCCA, FCT, was CFO of Received regular technical updates to keep reporting.
The financial performance of Vodafone Group plc until July 2005 and Warren abreast of changes in financial reporting and operating units and Reckitt Benckiser as a Tucker is CFO of Cobham plc.
Therefore, they governance matters: and whole is monitored against budget on a both have relevant and recent financial monthly basis and is updated by periodic Reviewed the performance of the Audit experience.
Reckitt Benckisers Auditors, head forecasts.
Area and functional executives also Committee itself and agreed actions of Internal Audit and CFO attend meetings and perform regular business reviews with their for improvement.
have regular private meetings with and direct management teams, which incorporate an access to the Committee.
The Chairman and Auditors and Auditor Independence assessment of key risks and opportunities: CEO attended some of the meetings, other  LLP and its senior management attend Audit Committee predecessor firms have been Reckitt Benckisers meetings by invitation.
Auditors since the merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser N. V. in 1999, and the Companys Auditors since its formation in 26 2011 2007.
In the opinion of the Audit Committee, arrangements are set out in the Directors E: Relations with Shareholders the relationship with the Auditors works well Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 35.
E. 1: RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS and the Committee remains satisfied with their D. 2: REMUNERATION COMMITTEE AND The Board is committed to effective independence and effectiveness.
It has, PROCEDURE communication between the Company and its accordingly, not considered it necessary to The Remuneration Committee chaired by Judith Shareholders.
The Executive Directors and the require the firm to tender for the audit work.
Sprieser comprises four members, of whom Director of Investor Relations meet regularly It is a requirement that the audit partner three, Judith Sprieser, Graham Mackay and with institutional Shareholders and financial responsible for audit is rotated every five years Richard Cousins, are considered independent analysts in Europe and North America to discuss and the current lead audit partner has been in under the Code.
The Chairman, Adrian Bellamy, matters relating to the Companys business place since 2008.
There are no contractual who was independent on appointment but has strategy and current performance.
The Board obligations restricting the Companys choice served on the Board for more than nine years, receives regular monthly reports from the CEO of Auditors.
is the fourth member of the Committee.
which include updates on share price Following a recommendation by the Audit developments, major buyers and sellers of The Committees purpose is to assist the Committee and in accordance with section 489 shares, investors views and analysts reports on Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibility of the 2006 Act, a resolution proposing the the industry and on the Company specifically.
by ensuring that remuneration policy and re-appointment of  LLP Feedback on presentations and roadshow practices reward fairly and responsibly: are as the Companys Auditors will be put to the meetings with institutional investors is linked to corporate and individual performance: Shareholders at the AGM.
Reckitt Benckiser presented to the Directors following twiceand take account of the generally accepted does not indemnify its Auditors.
yearly roadshows in Europe and North America.
On behalf of The investor relations programme includes: Reckitt Benckiser has a formal policy in place to the Board and subject to Board approval, the safeguard Auditor independence.
The Audit Committee primarily: Formal presentations of full year and interim Committee and the CFO keep the results and quarterly trading statements: Sets and regularly reviews the Companys independence and objectivity of the Auditors overall remuneration strategy: Regular meetings between institutional under review.
The Committee reviews the investors and senior management to ensure nature and level of non-audit services Determines the general remuneration policy that the investor community receives a undertaken by the Auditors during the year to for senior executives: and balanced and complete view of Reckitt satisfy itself that there is no effect on their In respect of the Chairman, the Executive Benckisers performance, the issues faced by independence.
The Board recognises that in Directors and members of the Executive Reckitt Benckiser and any issue of concern to certain circumstances the nature of the advice Committee sets, reviews and approves: the investors: required may make it more timely and cost-effective to appoint the Auditors who Remuneration policies, including annual Responding to enquiries from institutional already have a good understanding of bonuses and long-term incentives: Shareholders through the Companys Reckitt Benckiser.
Investor Relations team and from retail Individual remuneration and compensation shareholders through the Company The Auditors report to the Audit Committee on arrangements: Secretary: and the actions they take to comply with Individual benefits including pension and professional and regulatory requirements and A section dedicated to Shareholders on the superannuation arrangements: with best practice designed to ensure their Companys website.
independence from Reckitt Benckiser, including Terms and conditions of employment The Chairman is available to discuss governance periodic rotation of the lead audit engagement including the Executive Directors and strategy with major shareholders should partner.
Details of non-audit services are set out service agreement: such a dialogue be requested.
During the year in note 4 on page 49.
Participation in any of the Companys the Chairman liaised with Shareholders and bonus and long-term incentive plans: and reported upon these meetings to the Directors.
The Company believes that it is important to D: Remuneration The targets for any of the Companys make key executives available, along with the performance-related bonus and long-term D. 1: THE LEVEL AND COMPONENT OF SID, if required, to discuss matters of concern incentive plans.
The Companys compensation plan is The Chairman of the Board and the CEO and E. 2: THE ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING performance oriented and designed to foster CFO are responsible for evaluating and making The AGM provides all Shareholders with an Reckitt Benckisers innovative and recommendations to the Board on the opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to entrepreneurial culture.
Following the 1999 remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
The AGM is used as the main merger of Reckitt & Colman plc and Benckiser Members of the Remuneration Committee and opportunity for the Directors to meet directly N. V. the Board set out to create a truly any person attending its meetings do not with private investors.
It is attended by the multi-national Company and, as a result of this participate in any discussion or decision on their Directors and all Shareholders present are given approach, people of many nationalities work own remuneration.
the opportunity to ask questions of the with local citizens in each location in which Chairman, the Chairs of the Board Committees Reckitt Benckiser operates.
Detailed information on the Committee and and the Board as a unit.
its activities is set out in the Directors The level and composition of remuneration Remuneration Report on pages 29 to 35.
All resolutions are voted on by way of poll so across Reckitt Benckiser are designed to that each share has one vote.
The results of the facilitate global mobility and diversity.
A single poll are released to the Stock Exchange and employment contract is used for all employees published on the website shortly after the AGM.
and compensation rules apply equally to Reckitt Benckisers Top 400 managers in all markets.
Salary ranges are based on global benchmarking and Reckitt Benckisers annual cash bonus structure, long-term incentives and other benefits such as pensions, health care and travel allowance are the same for everyone.
Details on the Companys remuneration strategy and the Directors compensation 2011 27
