Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 40 Corporate Governance statement Governance Framework There have been no changes to the composition of the Board since The Board is committed to complying with corporate governance the publication of the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
guidelines and to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
A summary of the composition of the Board and its committees during the year is set out in Table 1.
The Financial Reporting Council introduced in June 2010 a new governance code entitled The UK Corporate Governance Code Steve Morgan as Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board the Code.
This statement, unless specifically stated, refers to the and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The Code, and the Company sets out details below of how it has applied continuing role of John Tutte as Group Managing Director ensures the principles of good governance as set out in Section 1 of the that there is a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the Code.
Company between the running of the Board and the operational responsibility for the running of the Companys business as required The Directors have considered the contents and requirements of the by the Code.
Code and believe that throughout the year ended 30 June 2011 the Company has been compliant.
All Non-Executive Directors holding office during the year ended 30 June 2011 were considered to be independent.
The Board Composition of the Board The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board and its The Board comprises an Executive Chairman, two further Executive Committees and his appointment and removal is a matter for the Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company Secretary is a member of the Group Table 1 List of Directors holding office during the year ended 30 June 2011 Number of years on board in Corporate most recent Independent Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Position appointment Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Steve Morgan Chairman i 2 John Tutte Group Managing Director 9 Barbara Richmond Group Finance Director 1 Non-Executive Directors Alan Jackson Non-Executive Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director 1 Chairman Chairman Debbie Hewitt Non-Executive Director 1 Chairman Paul Hampden Smith Non-Executive Director 1 Chairman i Steve Morgan is the founder of Redrow and rejoined the Board on 23 March 2009, after an absence of over 8 years, and became Chairman on 1 July 2009.
About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 41 Senior Management team and all Directors have access to his The Board has a formal schedule of matters advice and services.
In certain circumstances, Board Committees and individual Directors may wish to take independent professional reserved specifically for its decision.
advice in connection with their responsibilities and duties and, in this regard, the Company will meet the reasonable costs and The matters reserved include: expenses incurred.
n Approval of Redrows long term objectives and strategy: Board responsibilities and processes n Approval of the Annual Report and Accounts, preliminary The Board meets regularly and frequently, no less than six times and half-yearly financial statements, interim during a year.
It maintains a close dialogue as appropriate between management statements, trading updates and the meetings.
Board meetings are held at Head Office and periodically recommendation of dividends: at divisional offices when visits are frequently made to a selection n Approval of any significant changes in accounting of developments accompanied by the local management team.
policies or practices: Board papers are distributed in advance of the meetings to allow adequate time for review and preparation and include key strategic, n Any changes relating to capital structure: operational and financial information.
Attendance by individual n Approval of treasury policies: directors at Board and Committee meetings held during the year n ended 30 June 2011 is set out in Table 2.
Ensuring the maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management: Details of internal control and risk management processes are n Approval of corporate acquisitions or disposals, included in the Audit Committee report on pages 44 to 46. significant land purchases or contracts: n Board balance and independence Changes to the size, structure and composition of the Board: The Board considers that it is of a size and has a balance of skills, knowledge, experience and independence that is appropriate for its n Approval of significant policies, including Redrows business.
The Executive team provides the Board with an health & safety policy: and appropriate view of the detail of the business and the benefit of n Review of overall corporate governance arrangements, their significant collective experience of the UK house building including corporate responsibility.
industry and that enables it and its committees to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Non-Executive Directors bring a depth of experience and understanding from outside the Group which enables them to challenge and help Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are develop proposals on the Groups strategy.
subject to re-election at their first general meeting after appointment.
For those who are not subject to such obligations at Details of the Directors respective experience is set out in their this years AGM the Board decided to comply with the provisions profiles on pages 38 to 39. of the Code on re-election and accordingly all Directors will be submitting themselves for re-election.
The Boards policy on the Under the Code, at least half the Board, excluding a Non-Executive Chairman, should comprise independent Non-Executive Directors.
term of appointment for a Non-Executive Director is that it is not normally expected that a Non-Executive Director will serve more The Board currently comprises three Executive and three independent Non-Executive Directors, in compliance with the Code.
Table 1 on page 40 provides a summary of the Companys Professional development and performance evaluation The Board recognises that a structured appraisal process and good assessment of the independence of the Directors.
training are important requirements across the Group.
The Board receives regular presentations and briefings from those responsible The Board considers that each Director is able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
In addition, the Board maintains close relationships with local management teams.
Appointments and re-elections to the Board All Directors undertake a comprehensive induction programme The Board has a Nomination Committee whose terms of reference include making recommendations to the Board on the appointment following their first appointment.
The programme for Non-Executive Directors is specifically designed to encompass the full breadth of of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee report can be found on page 47. business and includes visits to operating subsidiaries.
Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 42 Table 2 - Attendance record of Directors at meetings during the year ended 30 June 2011 Corporate Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings in the year ended 30 June 2011 7 4 4 1 2 Executive Directors Steve Morgan 7 7 John Tutte 7 7 Barbara Richmond 7 7 Non-Executive Directors Alan Jackson 7 7 3 4 4 4 1 1 2 2 Debbie Hewitt 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 Paul Hampden Smith 7 7 4 4 4 4 1 1 During the year, formal appraisals of the Group Managing Director Following the full year and half-yearly results announcements in and Group Finance Director were undertaken by the Chairman.
September 2010 and February 2011, the Chairman, the Group Managing Director and the Group Finance Director met current or All independent Non-Executive Directors had an annual appraisal potential significant Shareholders.
This embraced visits to London conducted by the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman.
and feedback from these meetings is independently collated and disseminated to the Board.
The Board undertakes a formal annual review of its own effectiveness.
For the year ended June 2011, this was undertaken During the year ended June 2011, the Chairman, the Group using a formal questionnaire completed by each Director and the Managing Director, and the Group Finance Director together with responses were considered collectively by the Board.
the Senior Independent Director also held a number of meetings with significant Shareholders.
Directors remuneration The Board has a Remuneration Committee whose terms of The Annual General Meeting AGM takes place at a venue close to reference include the review of Main Board remuneration policy and the Groups Head Office.
All Directors attended the AGM on agreement of the terms of employment and the granting of 4 November 2010.
The AGM represents an opportunity for all bonuses, share options or share incentive plans relating to the Shareholders attending to table questions formally during the Groups Senior Management.
meeting and informally afterwards to the Companys Directors.
The Remuneration report can be found on pages 49 to 56.
Formal notification of the AGM, through the Annual Report and Accounts, is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days in Capital Structure advance.
It is Company policy to propose a separate resolution at Information on the capital structure of the Company is included the AGM on each substantive issue including the opportunity to in the Directors report on page 58. approve the Remuneration report.
Relations with Shareholders Redrows website, redrow.
co. uk, gives access to current financial and The Group announces its financial results half-yearly and corporate information.
immediately following their publication undertakes formal presentations to equity analysts.
These presentations are available on the Companys website.
In addition, the Group Graham Cope published an Interim Management Statement in November Company Secretary 2010 and April 2011.
7 September 2011 About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 43 Corporate Governance structure Main Board Non-Executive Team Executive Management Team Deputy Chairman & Senior Independent Director Chairman Independent Non-Executive Directors Group Managing Director Group Finance Director Company Secretary Functional Heads of Department covering Human Resources, Information Technology, Commercial, Marketing and Finance Committees Operating Divisions Audit Corporate Responsibility Nomination Remuneration
