Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 44 u it C mmittee rep rt Month Principal Activities n September 2010 A review of the full year 2009 10 results including the Annual Report and Accounts: n Consideration of the Group risk assessment process and a going concern review: and n A review of the effectiveness and structure of Business Performance review.
n November 2010 New external Audit Partner handover: n Reviews of the results of the 2009 10 external audit: Current Members of the Audit Committee n Review of the 2010 11 external audit plan n Paul Hampden Smith, Chairman of the Audit Committee and associated fees: n pictured A review of the effectiveness of the external audit process: n Alan Jackson n A review of the independence and n Debbie Hewitt objectivity of the external Auditors: n A review of Business Performance review The Audit Committees principal responsibilities lie in reviewing the programmes of work: and Groups financial reporting, overseeing the appointment and work n Review of the Committees effectiveness.
of the external Auditors and reviewing Redrows internal control processes.
The terms of reference of the Committee, which are in n February 2011 A review of the 2010 11 half-yearly compliance with the Combined Code, are kept under review.
The accounts: terms of reference are available at redrowplc.
co. uk n A review of the effectiveness of the Disaster Recovery process: and All the members of the Committee are independent and the Board n A review of the Terms of Reference of the believes the Committee has the appropriate level of expertise to Committee.
fulfil its terms of reference.
The Committee held four meetings during the financial year ended n June 2011 A review of the appropriateness of the June 2011 and holds further meetings as appropriate.
The Group Groups accounting policies: Finance Director was invited and attended each meeting as did the n A review of the impact of the Bribery Act external Auditors.
On each occasion the Committee had the and the related internal controls: opportunity to meet the external Auditors without any Executive n A review of the Groups Whistleblowing Director being present.
policy: and n A review of internal controls across the The Committee receives regular updates on changes to accounting whole business.
standards and best practice in financial reporting and corporate governance.
The Committee invites other individuals to attend the n September 2011 A review of the full year 2010 11 results meetings to provide technical support and advice as appropriate.
In including the Annual Report and Accounts: addition, individual members are encouraged to attend external and seminars and courses on areas relevant to their membership of the n Consideration of the Group risk Committee.
assessment process and a going concern review.
The Committee addressed a wide variety of issues in its meetings, including: The Group has a widely publicised whistleblowing policy which enables employees and other stakeholders e. g subcontractors, to raise concerns in confidence.
The Committee has arranged to receive reports on all occasions when such issues are raised under this policy.
A d o o About Redrow Business review Directors & Board reports Financial information Notice of AGM Miscellaneous information Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 45 Audit Independence area where there is any identifiable risk that the work of an  LLP PwC were appointed Auditors in individual within the external audit firm or the external audit firm 2003 having succeeded  who were generally could conflict or compromise the quality, objectivity or appointed in 1987.
Following the expiry of the tenure of the independence of any audit or compliance work undertaken for the previous external Audit Partner the Committee undertook a review Group.
and consequently approved the appointment of the new Audit Partner from PwC who commenced his tenure following the The main non-audit work undertaken on an ongoing basis relates to conclusion of the 30 June 2010 audit.
information provided to the Company by PwC in their capacity as Scheme Actuary of the Redrow Staff Pension Scheme.
The Company The Committee has a formal policy in respect of the work of the has a separate actuary to provide it with advice on pension matters.
The purpose of this policy is to ensure that the Auditors objectivity and independence is maintained by ensuring The external Auditors are not indemnified by the Company nor has both that the nature of any non-audit work undertaken and the the Company purchased liability insurance for them.
level of fees paid does not compromise the Auditors position.
Appointments in respect of non-audit work require the prior Internal Controls approval of the Committee within an established budget.
In The Board of Directors recognises its overall responsibility for the addition, no work can be undertaken by the external Auditors in any Groups system of internal control and for monitoring its The key features of the Groups internal controls are as follows: n n Defined authorisation levels exist over key areas such as A weekly business report WBR comprising sales funnel land purchase, the placing of orders and contracts and staff information, gross margins and order book is produced for recruitment: the Group, each Division and each site and circulated across the Group: n A comprehensive prioritised risk register which is regularly n reviewed: A monthly reporting pack is circulated in advance and reviewed at each of the Main, Executive and subsidiary n The Groups management information systems provide board meetings.
Annual budgets are set, with actual weekly updates on key statistics and information in respect performance compared against the annual budget: of sales and production and the content of these weekly n reports is regularly reviewed to ensure it remains The financial reporting process includes control and appropriate: reconciliation processes which ensures there is an audit trail between the Groups underlying financial reporting n Redrow has an in-house health and safety department and systems and the Groups financial statements: places great emphasis on the importance of health and n safety and environmental management.
The department Preparation and regular updates of Strategic Plans: works closely with the operating companies to ensure that n A policy and procedures manual which covers all the training is provided to employees and subcontractors, best significant aspects of the Groups operations and describes practice is shared and appropriate actions are taken to the systems and controls that are to be applied: and comply with heath and safety best practice and legislation throughout the organisation: n Daily statements of a reconciled cash position identifying significant payments are prepared, 13 week rolling n The Board requires each Director in its operating Divisions cashflow forecasts are prepared and forecast banking to complete an annual statement on Corporate covenant compliance is tested.
Governance and related party transactions.
The statement is designed to provide assurance that Group policies and procedures are being implemented and complied with in all material respects.
In addition, key functional Directors complete a Principal Controls Self Assessment Questionnaire which is reviewed by the Board to assist in improvements in the control framework: Redrow plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors & Board reports 46 effectiveness.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating T 3 Reporting and managing significant risks.
However, in reviewing the During the year the Group changed its business processes for effectiveness of internal control, such systems can only provide internal reporting to ensure management information is available reasonable but not absolute assurance against material sooner.
The timetable for the preparation of the management misstatement or loss.
accounts reduced to 3 days post month end, this required a number of business process changes across a variety of functions within the Group and system enhancements.
Results are then subject to Key business activities including finance, land acquisition, product appropriate review.
design, procurement and information technology are controlled by the Executive Directors.
All activity is organised within a defined structure with formal lines of responsibility, designated authority levels and a structured reporting framework.
Paul Hampden Smith A formalised reporting structure is established within Redrow.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and functional heads of 7 September 2011 department meet monthly to discuss the Groups key issues, risks and opportunities.
The operating companies hold monthly board meetings which are attended on a rotational basis by the Executive Directors.
The Group formally reviews its prioritised risk register.
In addition, the Executive Board, through its regular meetings, reviews key areas of risk on an ongoing basis and considers whether the internal controls identified in relation to those risks remain appropriate.
Insurance The Board has appointed an experienced broker to advise on and co-ordinate all insurance matters across the Group and they liaise closely with appropriate Redrow personnel at Head Office and within the subsidiaries and report directly to the Group Finance Director.
Risk Management and Business Process Reviews At the beginning of the year a thorough review of the risk register commenced, creating a register which defined controls as prevent or detect, identifying owners of each high level risk and reviewing and updating each of the risks listed to ensure they were relevant and accurate.
The register is regularly maintained and is reviewed by the Committee annually.
At the end of financial year 2010, the Group had made the decision to bring the internal audit work back in house from the 1st July 2010.
A risk based programme was design based on the risk register.
The Business Process Review programme looks to provide assurance to the Group, by testing internal controls and reviewing specific risks, as well as seeking out best practice and sharing it across the Group and identifying business process improvements.
Committee Members receive an Executive Summary of each Business Process Review report.
The Business Process Review strategy is discussed and agreed with the Committee and PwC.
Suggested control improvements and any control weaknesses identified are followed up as appropriate.
