govERnancE 62 RePORt OF tHe NOMiNAtiONS COMMittee Report of the Nominations Committee this report has been prepared by the joint Nominations composition of the Boards Committee of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV and has During the year the main focus of the Committee has been been approved by the respective Boards.
succession planning in relation to the appointment of nonexecutive directors to refresh the Boards arising from the Role of the committee impending retirement of long serving non-executive directors.
the principal role of the Committee is to provide assistance to the Also, following the announcement in October 2011 that Mark Boards of Reed elsevier PLC, Reed elsevier NV and Reed elsevier Armour, the Chief Financial Officer, had decided to retire at the Group plc by identifying individuals qualified to become directors end of 2012, the Committee has begun the process to identify and recommending to the Boards the appointment of such his successor.
there is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure the main responsibilities of the Committee are set out in for the recruitment of candidates to the Boards, and such written terms of reference available at www.
com recommendations are made solely on the basis of a candidates and include: merit, against objective criteria.
in this recruitment process, the Committee seeks to ensure that the Boards and where i to develop and agree the desired profile for potential appropriate, their committees, comprise an appropriate balance candidates for board membership: of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of Reed ii in consultation with external search consultants, agree the elseviers businesses.
specification for the recruitment of new directors which in recommending appointments to the Boards, the Committee provides a formal and transparent procedure for the considers the knowledge, experience and background of individual selection and appointment of new directors to the Boards: directors and has regard to the benefits of diversity, including iii to recommend to the Boards the appointment of candidates gender.
the Committee has reviewed the recommendations of the subject, where appropriate, to the approval of shareholders Davies Review Women on boards issued in February 2011, which of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV: sets an aspirational target of 25% female representation on FtSe 100 boards by 2015.
By 2013 we anticipate the Reed elsevier NV iv to recommend to the Boards directors to serve on Board Combined Board will be comprised of 30% women and the Reed Committees, having regard to the criteria for service on each elsevier PLC Board will be comprised of 22% women.
in addition, committee as set out in the terms of reference for such a diversity and inclusion strategy was adopted in 2010 with support committees, and to recommend members to serve as the of senior leadership throughout Reed elsevier, with each business Chair of those committees: unit asked to incorporate diversity and inclusion into its strategic v in consultation with the Chairman of the Remuneration plans.
Further details are provided in the Corporate Responsibility Committee and appropriate external consultants, to develop report on pages 29 to 38. proposals for the remuneration or fees for new directors: vi to make recommendations to the Boards in relation to the possible re-appointment of directors at the Annual General Meetings of Reed elsevier PLC and Reed elsevier NV.
committee membership the Committee comprises only non-executive directors, and is chaired by Anthony Habgood.
the other members are Mark elliott, Lisa Hook appointed to the Committee in April 2011, Sir David Reid and Ben van der Veer.
Lord Sharman ceased to be a member of the Committee upon his retirement from the Boards in April 2011. the Committee met five times during the year.
