Corporate governance The Board is committed to the high standards of corporate Matters reserved for the Board governance as set out in the UK Corporate Governance The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved Code formerly the Combined Code published in May 2010 to it for its decision, to ensure that no one individual has the Code for financial periods beginning after 29 June unfettered powers of decision.
The Code is available at www.
The Board x approval of regulatory announcements including is accountable to the Companys shareholders and this the interim and annual financial statements: report describes how the Board applied the principles of good governance.
In its prospectus dated 8 September x terms of reference and membership of the Board 2008, the Company stated its intention to voluntarily and its Committees: comply with the then Combined Code so far as it is x changes to the Groups capital structure: practical for a Luxembourg company to do so.
There is no similar corporate governance regime in Luxembourg.
x changes to the Groups management and control structure: The Board At 31 December 2011, the Board of Directors was made x capital investment in excess of 5 million: and up of six members comprising the Chairman, two Executive x material contracts annual value in excess of 5 million.
Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 21.
Minutes are taken of all Board discussions and decisions and all Directors are encouraged to request inclusion of any Role of the Board unresolved concerns that they may have in the Board minutes.
The primary role of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and to review the overall strategic development Roles of Board members of the Group.
The Board approves the corporate plan and There is a clear division of responsibilities between the the annual budget and reviews performance against targets Chairman and the Chief Executive.
Through the Audit Committee, the The Chairman Directors ensure the integrity of financial information and Douglas Sutherland is responsible for leadership of the the effectiveness of financial controls and the internal Board, setting its agenda and monitoring its effectiveness.
control and risk management system.
The Board has He ensures effective communication with shareholders and delegated authority to the Remuneration Committee to that the Board is aware of the views of major shareholders.
set the remuneration policy for Directors and senior He facilitates both the contribution of the Non-Executive management.
The Nomination Committee recommends Directors and constructive relations between the executive the appointment of Board Directors and has responsibility Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
for succession planning at Board level.
The various Board Committees the Committees have authority to make The Chairman, together with the Company Secretary, is decisions in their areas of expertise.
responsible for ensuring all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they have Frequency of meetings full and timely access to relevant information.
There were seven main board meetings during 2011.
The Chairman is considered by the Board to be The number of meetings of the Board and Committees and independent in character and judgement.
individual attendance by the Directors are shown below.
The Chief Executive Main Audit Remuneration Nomination Mark Dixon is responsible for formulating strategy and Board Committee Committee Committee for its delivery once agreed by the Board.
He creates a Total meetings 7 4 4 5 framework of strategy, values, organisation and objectives Douglas to ensure the successful delivery of key targets, and Sutherland 7 5 allocates decision-making and responsibilities accordingly.
Mark Dixon 7 Non-Executive Directors Stephen The Non-Executive Directors each bring their own senior level a Gleadle 4 of experience and objectivity to the Board.
The independent counsel brought to the group by the Non-Executive Directors Dominique b enhances the overall decision making of the Board.
NonYates 2 Executive Directors are appointed for an initial three year term, Lance Browne 7 4 4 5 subject to election by shareholders at each Annual General Elmar Heggen 7 4 4 5 Meeting AGM after their appointment.
Alex Sulkowski 7 4 4 5 Company Secretary a Resigned 31 August 2011 The Company Secretary, Tim Regan, is responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all b Appointed 1 September 2011 governance matters and for ensuring that appropriate minutes are taken of all Board meetings and discussions.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
24 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Board Committees External auditors: The Board has delegated certain of its governance KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. were the Companys auditors responsibilities to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to Audit Committee has recommended to the Board that a all of the Board Committees and minutes of meetings are resolution to reappoint KPMG Luxembourg S. r. l. as circulated to all Board members.
the Companys auditors be proposed at the AGM.
The Audit Committee will continue to keep under review the The terms of reference of the Committees have been independence and objectivity of the external auditors, the documented and approved by the Board and are available effectiveness of the audit process and the rotation of the on the Companys website www.
summary of the members, activities and terms of reference of the Committees is provided below.
The scope and extent of non-audit work undertaken by the Companys external auditors is monitored by and, Audit Committee above certain thresholds, requires prior approval from the Alex Sulkowski Chairman Audit Committee to ensure that the provision of non-audit Lance Browne services does not impair their independence or objectivity.
Elmar Heggen During the year, KPMG performed due diligence work on The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the certain acquisitions.
KPMG is prohibited from providing responsibility for applying an effective system of internal services that would be considered to jeopardise their control and compliance, accurate external financial independence such as book keeping services, valuations reporting, fulfilling its obligations under law and the Code: and system design.
and managing the relationship with the Companys external Remuneration Committee auditors.
The Committee consists entirely of Non-Executive Elmar Heggen Chairman Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be Lance Browne independent in character and judgement and are Alex Sulkowski competent in accounting and or auditing.
Details of the Remuneration Committee are set out in The Audit Committee meets at least three times a year.
At the the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 38. request of the Chairman, the external auditors, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and the Group Head of Nomination Committee Internal Audit and Risk Management attend each meeting.
Douglas Sutherland Chairman Lance Browne Summary terms of reference: Elmar Heggen x Financial Reporting provide support to the Board by Alex Sulkowski monitoring the integrity of financial reporting and ensuring The Nomination Committee meets as required during the that the published financial statements of the Group and year to consider matters delegated to it under its terms of any formal announcements relating to the Companys reference.
Board effectiveness, performance and leadership financial performance comply fully with the relevant were discussed informally by the Board as a whole.
Summary terms of reference: x Internal control and risk systems review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk x Board appointment and composition to regularly review management systems.
the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations on the role and nomination x Internal audit monitor and review the annual internal of Directors for appointment and re-appointment to audit programme ensuring that the internal audit function the Board for the purpose of ensuring a balanced Board is adequately resourced and free from management in respect of skills, knowledge and experience.
restrictions, review and monitor responses to the findings and recommendations of the internal auditors.
x Board Committees to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the suitability of candidates for x External audit advise the Board on the appointment, membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
reappointment, remuneration and removal of the The appointment and removal of Directors are matters external auditors.
reserved for the full Board.
x Employee concerns review the Companys x Board effectiveness to assess the role of Chairman and arrangements under which employees may in confidence Chief Executive and make appropriate recommendations raise any concerns regarding possible wrongdoing in to the Board.
financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit Committee ensures that these arrangements allow proportionate and x Board performance to assist the Chairman with independent investigation and appropriate follow-up action.
the annual performance evaluation to assess the performance and effectiveness of the overall Board The Audit Committee also meets independently with the and individual Directors.
Companys auditors and with the Group Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management to informally discuss matters x Leadership to remain fully informed about strategic of interest.
issues and commercial matters affecting the Company and to keep under review the leadership needs of the organisation to enable it to compete effectively.
com investors 25 Corporate Governance Corporate governance continued Principal risks and uncertainties Exposure to movements in property markets There are a number of risks and uncertainties which could A number of the Groups lease contracts contain market rent have an impact on the Groups long-term performance.
This means that the costs of these leases The Group has a risk management structure in place may vary as a result of external movements in the property designed to identify, manage and mitigate business risks.
In particular, in the UK, lease contracts typically Risk assessment and evaluation is an essential part of contain upward only rent reviews which means that should the annual planning, budgeting and forecasting cycle.
open market rents decrease, then Regus could be exposed to paying higher than market rent in these locations.
The Directors have identified the following principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Company.
These do If the Group is unable to pass on increased rent costs to not constitute all of the risks facing the Group.
customers due to local property market conditions then this could result in reduced profitability or operating losses Economic downturn in significant markets in these markets.
The Group has a significant proportion of its centres in the Americas predominantly the USA and Europe.
An Equally, for Group lease contracts without market rent economic downturn in these markets could adversely affect review clauses, the Group may benefit from paying below the Groups operating revenues thereby reducing operating market rent in a market with increasing open market rents.
performance or, in an extreme downturn, resulting in This may allow the Group to improve profitability if the operating losses.
movements in open market rents are passed on to clients.
Generally, the terms on which the Group earns revenues The length of the Groups leases or the period after which from customers and pays its suppliers principally landlords the Group can exercise any break option in the leases is are matched to reduce working capital needs.
However, usually significantly longer than the duration of the Groups a reduction in revenues, with no immediate decline in the contracts with its customers.
If demand falls, the Group cost base, could result in significant funding shortfalls in may be unable to increase or maintain occupancy or price the business.
Any funding shortfall may require the Group levels and if revenue declines the Group may be unable to seek external funding or sell assets in the longer term.
to reduce the lease cost base.
Additional costs could be incurred if the Group disposes of unprofitable centres.
In addition, competition may increase as a result of landlords offering surplus space at discounted prices and Changes in assumptions underlying the carrying value companies seeking to reduce their costs by sub-letting of certain Group assets could result in impairment space.
These factors could result in reduced revenue for Regus completes a review of the carrying value of its assets the Group as the prices it is able to charge customers annually to assess whether those carrying values can be would be reduced.
supported by the net present value of future cash flows derived from such assets.
This review examines the The Group has taken a number of actions to mitigate continued appropriateness of the assumptions in respect this risk: of which the carrying values of certain of the Groups assets x the Group has entered into performance-based leases are based.
This includes an assessment of discount rates with landlords where rent costs vary with revenues and long-term growth rates, and timing and quantum of earned by the centre: future capital expenditure.
Due to the Groups substantial carrying value of goodwill under IFRS, the revision of any of x building lease contracts include break clauses at periodic these assumptions to reflect current or anticipated changes intervals to allow the Group to exit leases should they in operations or the financial condition of the Group could become onerous.
In cities with a number of centres lead to an impairment in the carrying value of certain assets this allows the Group to stagger leases such that an in the Group.
While impairment does not impact reported orderly reduction in exposure to the location may be cash flows, it does result in a non-cash charge in the facilitated: and consolidated income statement and thus no assurance can x the profile of clients in a centre is continually reviewed be given that any future impairments would not affect the to avoid undue reliance on a particular client or clients Companys reported distributable reserves and therefore in a particular industry group.
its ability to make distributions to its shareholders or repurchase its shares.
Additionally, in the event of a downturn, the Group has a number of options for mitigating losses, for example by closing centres at lease break points.
The Groups strategy also focuses its growth into emerging markets that will reduce the proportion of the Groups revenue generated from the USA and Europe over time and provide better protection to the Group from an economic downturn in a single market.
26 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Groups geographic expansion may increase The Group manages the risk that a significant tax liability exposure to unpredictable economic, political and could arise by taking appropriate advice, both in carrying legal risks out the Group reorganisation and on an ongoing basis.
Political, economic and legal systems in emerging markets In addition, the Group believes that under current laws and have historically been less predictable than in countries regulations the risk of irreconcilable conflicts between current with more developed institutional structures.
As the Group laws and regulations impacting Regus plc is also low.
increasingly enters into emerging markets, the value of the All shareholders are paid dividends directly from Regus plc Groups investments may be adversely affected by political, SA plc.
All such dividends should be payable by plc economic and legal developments which are beyond the without deduction of Luxembourg withholding tax, Groups control.
regardless of the residence of the recipient.
Exposure to movements in exchange rates In general terms, UK resident shareholders receiving The Group has significant overseas operations whose dividends from plc should be taxed in the same way businesses are generally conducted in the currency of as if they had received a dividend from a UK company.
the country in which they operate.
The principal exposures Tax outcomes do, however, depend on the specific of the Group are to the US dollar and the euro with circumstances of shareholders and any shareholder in approximately 32% of the Groups revenues being doubt about their tax position including in particular UK attributable to the US dollar and 16% to the euro.
resident but non-UK-domiciled individuals who have Given that transactions generally take place in the functional elected to be taxed on a remittance basis should currency of Group companies, the Groups exposure to consult their own professional adviser.
transactional foreign exchange risk is limited.
However, the Centrally managed applications and systems translation into sterling of overseas profits and net assets The Group has moved to a centrally managed applications will be affected by prevailing exchange rates.
In the event and systems environment with the resultant effect that that either the US dollar or euro were to significantly all systems and applications are housed in a central data depreciate or appreciate against sterling, this would have centre.
Should the data centre be impacted as a result of an adverse or beneficial impact to the Groups reported circumstances outside of the Groups control there could performance and position respectively.
be an adverse impact on the Groups operations and The financial risk management objectives and policies of therefore its financial results.
This risk is managed through the Group, together with an analysis of the exposure to a detailed service arrangement with our external data such risks, are set out in note 24 of the Accounts.
centre provider which incorporates appropriate back-up Wherever possible, the Group attempts to create natural procedures and controls.
hedges against currency exposures through matching Internal controls income and expenses, and assets and liabilities, in the The Board has ultimate responsibility for maintaining same currency.
a sound system of internal control and for periodically Given the continued volatility in exchange rates in January reviewing its effectiveness.
2009 the Board approved a policy which allows the In accordance with the guidance set out in the Turnbull Group to hedge, subject to strict limits, the rates at which Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on overseas earnings are translated.
This will enable the the Combined Code, an ongoing process has been Group to have more certainty over the sterling value of established for identifying, managing and evaluating the these earnings.
The Groups system of internal Group Structure controls is designed to: As a Jersey-incorporated company having its place of x facilitate the effective and efficient response to risks central administration head office in Luxembourg and being which might affect the achievement of the Groups tax resident in Luxembourg, the Company is required to objectives: comply with both Jersey law and Luxembourg law, where applicable.
In addition, the Companys ordinary shares are x safeguard assets from inappropriate use or from loss listed on the Official List of the UK Listing Authority and or fraud: admitted to trading on the main market of the London Stock x help ensure the quality of internal and external financial Exchange.
It is possible that conflicts may arise between the reporting: and obligations of the Company under the laws of each of these jurisdictions or between the applicable laws and the Listing x help ensure compliance with applicable laws Rules.
If an irreconcilable conflict were to occur then the and regulations.
Company may not be able to maintain its status as a company tax resident in Luxembourg.
com investors 27 Corporate Governance Corporate governance continued No system of internal control can provide absolute Control processes assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The The Company has had procedures in place throughout Groups system of controls helps to manage, rather than the year and up to 20 March 2012, the date of approval eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, of this Annual Report, which accord with the Internal and can only provide reasonable assurance that potential Control Guidance for Directors in the Code.
These problems will normally be prevented or will be detected in include the following: a timely manner for appropriate action.
x the Board normally meets with regional executives every Strategy and risk management six months to carry out a wide-ranging review of Group The Board conducts regular reviews of the Groups and regional financial performance, business strategic direction.
Country and regional strategic development opportunities, Group infrastructure and objectives, quarterly plans and performance targets for general Group management issues: 2012 have been set by the Executive Directors and are x the annual budget process is driven from senior regularly reviewed by the Board in the context of the management meetings.
Budgets are prepared at a Groups overall objectives.
detailed level by business centre and roll-up at country There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and and regional level.
The Executive Directors review managing the risks faced by the Group.
Major business regional budgets to ensure consistency with regional risks and their financial implications are appraised by the strategic objectives and the final budget is reviewed and responsible executives as a part of the budget process approved by the Board.
The approved budget forms the and are endorsed by regional management.
Key risks basis of business management throughout the year: are reported to the Board and the Audit Committee.
The x operational reports and financial reports are prepared appropriateness of controls is considered by the executives, and distributed to the Board on a monthly basis.
Actual having regard to cost, benefit, materiality and the likelihood results are reviewed against budget and forecast and of risks crystallising.
Key risks and actions to mitigate those explanations are received for all material movements: risks are regularly considered by the Board and are formally reviewed and approved by the Board annually.
x key policies and control procedures including finance, operations, and health and safety are documented in Control environment manuals having Group-wide application.
These are High standards of behaviour are demanded from staff at available to all staff on the Groups intranet system: all levels in the Group.
The following procedures are in place to support this: x the Board has formal procedures in place for the review and approval of investment and acquisition projects.
The x the induction process is used to educate new team Group Investment Committee comprising the Executive members on the standards required from them in Directors review all investments prior to approval by the their role, including business ethics and compliance, Board.
Additionally the form and content of investment regulations and internal policies: proposals is standardised to facilitate the review process: x all team members are provided with a copy of the x the Group has clearly delegated authority limits with Team Member Handbook which contains detailed regard to the approval of transactions.
Purchase orders guidance on employee policies and the standards of must be obtained in advance for all purchases in excess behaviour required of staff: of 1,000: and x policies and procedure manuals and guidelines are x numerous reports are generated from the Groups sales readily accessible through the Groups intranet site: and and operating systems on a daily, weekly and monthly x operational audit and self-certification tools which require basis to provide management at all levels with individual centre managers to confirm their adherence performance data for their area of responsibility which to Group policies and procedures.
helps them to focus on operational issues that may require their input.
To underpin the effectiveness of controls, it is the Groups policy to recruit and develop appropriately skilled management and staff of high calibre, integrity and with appropriate disciplines.
The Group has also established an externally hosted whistle-blowing channel which is open to all staff to report issues and concerns in confidence.
28 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Information and communications processes Other matters The senior management team are integrally involved in the Board performance evaluation business and to this extent regularly discuss and address A formal evaluation of the performance of the Board was issues and opportunities with regional and functional teams.
carried out by the Chairman.
The aim was to ensure Formal business review meetings, chaired by Mark Dixon, continuous improvement in the functioning of the Board.
are held with the regional teams and functional heads on Training and resources a monthly basis.
Appropriate training is made available for all new Directors Regular staff communications include general information on to assist them in the discharge of their responsibilities.
the business from senior management as well as operational Training is provided on an ongoing basis to meet particular guidance on changes in policies and procedures.
needs with the emphasis on governance and accounting developments.
Sales staff and operational management periodically attend regional sales or management conferences at which During the year the Company Secretary, Tim Regan, information on operational issues is shared.
Delegates present provided updates to the Board on relevant governance the key messages to employees who did not attend the event.
matters, whilst the Audit Committee regularly considers new accounting developments through presentations from Monitoring effectiveness management, internal audit and the external auditors.
The The following key mechanisms were available to the Board Board programme includes presentations from management at various times during the year in the conduct of its review which, together with site visits, increase the Non-Executive of internal controls: Directors understanding of the business and sector.
x review of the Groups monthly management accounts All Directors have access to the advice and services of the which contain detailed analysis of financial performance Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that for the Group and each of the Groups geographic Board procedures, corporate governance and regulatory reporting segments: compliance are followed and complied with.
Should a x an ongoing process of review, through Board meetings, Director request independent professional advice to senior management meetings and divisional reviews as carry out his duties, such advice is available to him at well as other management meetings, for the formal the Companys expense.
identification of significant operational risks and mitigating Directors and officers insurance control processes: The Groups insurance programme is reviewed annually x internal audit reviews of key risk areas.
The findings and and appropriate insurance cover is obtained to protect the recommendations of each review are reported to Directors and senior management in the event of a claim management and the Audit Committee: being brought against any of them in their capacity as Directors and officers of the Company.
x quarterly post-investment reviews are presented to the Audit Committee to allow appraisal of the effectiveness Dialogue with shareholders of investment activity: and The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with the half year results announced in August or September x a bi-annual internal control self-assessment and and the final results announced normally in March.
There are management certification exercise covering the programmes for the Chief Executive and Chief Financial effectiveness of financial and operational controls.
This is Officer to give presentations of these results to the based on a comprehensive internal control questionnaire Companys institutional investors, analysts and media in collated and reviewed by Internal Audit.
Results and any London and other locations.
The Chief Executive and Chief necessary mitigating action plans are presented to senior Financial Officer maintain a close dialogue with institutional management and the Board.
investors on the Companys performance, governance, plans and objectives.
These meetings also serve to develop an ongoing understanding of the views and any concerns of the Companys major shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views of the institutional shareholders and the Chairman is available to meet with these shareholders on request.
The principal communication with private shareholders is through the Annual Report, the half year results and the AGM.
The Company has engaged the services of Brunswick as their investor relations adviser.
com investors 29 Corporate Governance Corporate governance continued AGM The AGM each year is held in May in Luxembourg and is attended, other than in exceptional circumstances, by all members of the Board.
In addition to the formal business of the meeting, there is normally a trading update and shareholders are invited to ask questions and are given the opportunity to meet the Directors informally afterwards.
Notice of the AGM, together with any related documents are required to be mailed to shareholders at least 30 clear days before the meeting and separate resolutions are proposed on each issue.
The voting in respect of all resolutions to be put to the AGM will be conducted by means of a poll vote.
The level of proxy votes cast and the balance for and against each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, if any, are announced to the meeting following voting on a poll.
Financial and other information is made available on the Companys website: www.
Re-election of the Board As required by the Code, all Directors submit themselves for re-election by shareholders annually and Directors appointed during the period since the last AGM are required to seek election at the next AGM under the Companys articles of association.
Non-Executive Directors are subject to the re-election requirements and serve the Company under letters of appointment, which have an initial three year term.
Compliance statement The Company has complied with the provisions set out in section E of the Code throughout the year ended 31 December 2011, with the exception of the following: x Provision E. 1.1 The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Lance Browne does not have regular meetings with major external shareholders.
The Board considers it appropriate for the Chairman to be the main conduit with investors, rather than the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman participates in investor meetings and makes himself available for questions, in person, at the time of major announcements.
The Chairman regularly updates the Board and particularly the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on the results of his meetings and the opinions of investors.
On this basis, the Board considers that the Senior Independent NonExecutive Director is able to gain full awareness of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
Notwithstanding this policy, all Directors have a standing invitation to participate in meetings with investors.
30 Regus plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
