DIRECTORS' CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT 37 The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
This has decided to seek to appoint a further non-executive director.
A recruitment consultant report, together with the Directors remuneration report sets out how the Company has has been engaged and has been provided a job specification against which to seek applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued by the appropriate candidates.
The consultant has been requested to ensure that the shortlist Financial Reporting Council and contains the information required by Section 7 of the UK for interview includes candidates that have the required skills and experience and, where Listing Authoritys Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules.
possible, at least two female candidates.
The recruitment consultant has no connection with the Company.
a. leadersHIp The Board has considered the recommendations of the Women on Boards report the role of the board issued by Lord Davies of Abersoch as regards setting out aspirations for the appointment The Board comprises five executive and three non-executive directors.
The directors of women to the board by 2013 and 2015 and has decided that it is inappropriate to set holding office at the date of this report and short biographical details are given on pages out any levels that may require positive discrimination in this respect, as the overriding 20 and 21.
Full biographical details are available on www.
The Company need is to appoint directors with the necessary skills and experience for the role.
maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers as disclosed in the commitment Directors report.
The terms of appointment of the non-executive directors, which includes the expected The Board focuses on formulation of strategy, management of effective business controls time commitment from non-executive directors and requiring any changes to other and review of business performance.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically significant commitments to be discussed with the Chairman and Chief Executive in reserved to it for decision.
These include the approval of annual and interim results and advance, are available for inspection at the AGM and at the registered office upon interim management statements, company and business acquisitions and disposals, written request.
major capital expenditure, borrowings, material agreements, director and company secretary appointments and removals, any patent-related dispute and other material None of the executive directors holds a directorship in a FTSE 100 company.
litigation, forecasts and major product development projects.
development The Board meets as often as is necessary to discharge its duties effectively.
In the Directors are offered the opportunity to attend formal training courses to update their financial year ended 30th June 2011, the Board met ten times and the directors knowledge of their duties as directors.
Guidance notes on changes to law and regulations attendance record at Board and committee meetings is set out at the end of this report.
Non-executive directors are invited to attend internal In addition, the non-executive directors met a number of times without executive conferences, which provide information to the Group on new product development and directors present.
Business presentations are given at Board meetings to provide The Board has three formally constituted committees, the Audit committee, the updates on and opportunities to discuss products and business strategies.
Remuneration committee and the Nomination committee.
An induction pack is provided to new appointees to the board and induction procedures There is an executive committee known as the Executive Board that is responsible include site visits, briefings by senior managers and meetings with major shareholders at for the executive management of the Groups businesses.
It is chaired by the Chairman appropriate opportunities.
and includes the executive directors of Renishaw plc and other senior Information and support management representatives.
The Board receives appropriate documentation, management accounts, forecasts A framework of delegated authorities is in place that maps out the structure of delegation and commentaries thereon in advance of each Board meeting to enable its members below Board level and includes the matters reserved to the Executive Board.
to review the financial performance of the Group, current trading and key business The Board has adopted a conflict of interests policy, putting in place procedures for the initiatives.
The company secretary advises the Board on all governance matters.
All disclosure and review of any conflicts and potential conflicts and authorisation by the directors have access to the company secretary and to independent professional advice Board if felt appropriate.
Authorisations granted and the terms of such are reviewed on at the Companys expense where necessary to discharge their responsibilities as an annual basis.
New disclosures are made where applicable.
The appointment and removal of the company secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
division of responsibilities the chairman evaluation The role of Chairman and Chief Executive is a combined role and thus contrary to the recommendations of the Code.
However, the Board considers that there is still a clear The Board has established a formal process, led by the senior independent director, for division of responsibilities at Board level to ensure an appropriate balance of power and the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board.
This includes the completion of authority.
The Chairman has no other significant commitments as regards employment or a questionnaire designed and approved by the Board to provide a framework for the directorships of other companies.
It is the role of the senior independent director to summarise the responses and discuss them with individual directors and with the Board as a whole.
non-executive directors The committees undertake a similar evaluation process led by the chair of the relevant The senior independent director is Bill Whiteley and he is available to discuss concerns committee.
The requirement under the UK Corporate Governance Code that evaluation with shareholders should the normal channels of the Chairman and Chief Executive or of the board of FTSE 350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every three the Group Finance Director fail to resolve such concerns, or for which such contact is years has been noted and the implementation of this requirement will be considered by inappropriate.
The non-executive directors meet without the executive directors present the Board.
The Chairman and Chief Executive discusses performance with to discuss performance and other matters.
b. eFFectIveness re-election composition of the board In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code all the directors will retire from All the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent in the Board at the next AGM and, other than in the case of any director who has decided to character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely stand down from the Board, will offer themselves up for re-election at the AGM.
to affect a non-executive directors judgement.
c. accountabIlIty The Code recommends that at least half the board, excluding the Chairman, should Financial and business reporting comprise independent non-executive directors.
The Board does not comply with this The respective responsibilities of the directors and auditors in connection with the requirement as it considers the balance of the Board to be appropriate for the size of financial statements are explained in the Statement of directors responsibilities and the its business.
appointments to the board Going concern With effect from 26th July 2010, the Nomination committee has been instituted as a The Group's business activities and business model, together with the factors likely to new committee responsible for reviewing the structure and composition of the Board affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review, and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board.
Previously, there was a where also given are details of the financial and liquidity positions.
In addition, note 22 combined Remuneration and nomination committee.
The majority of the members of this in the financial statements includes the Group's objectives and policies for managing committee are independent non-executive directors and a list of the members and the its capital, details of its financial instruments and hedging activities and its exposures to chair of the committee is set out on page 21.
The terms of reference of this committee credit risk and liquidity risk.
are published on the Companys website.
This section of the annual report describes the The Group has considerable financial resources at its disposal and the directors have work of the Nomination committee.
considered the current financial projections.
As a consequence, the directors believe that No new appointments have been made to the Board during the year but the committee the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully.
38 DIRECTORS CORPORATE GOvERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Going concern continued d. remuneratIon After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company The Directors remuneration report explains how the Company applies the Code and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the principles relating to remuneration.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in e. relatIons wItH sHareHolders preparing the Annual report and accounts.
dialogue with institutional shareholders risk management and internal control Presentations are given to institutional investors following publication of the half-year The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of risk management and internal and full-year results, following which interim reports are published and annual reports control and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Any system of internal control is designed are delivered to all shareholders.
The interim and annual results and presentations are to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and posted on the Company's website promptly after announcement of the results to the can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement UK Listing Authority via an RIS.
Institutional investors are actively encouraged to visit the or loss.
Companys headquarters and manufacturing sites where they will meet at least one of There are defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authorities.
There are also the executive directors and have the opportunity of discussing any issues with them.
established and centrally documented control procedures, including, for example, capital Meetings with investors, analysts and media are reported at each Board meeting and and other expenditure, information and technology security, and legal and regulatory analysts and brokers reports circulated so that the Board develops an understanding of compliance.
These are applied throughout the Group.
the views of investors and others.
Non-executive directors are available to attend planned meetings with major The Group internal audit function provides independent and objective assurance that the procedures are appropriate and effectively applied.
The Group Audit Manager attends shareholders.
All directors attend the AGM and are available to meet shareholders after Audit committee meetings to present annual internal audit plans and the results of such the meeting.
Actions are monitored by the Audit committee on an ongoing basis.
constructive use of the aGm There is a process for the review of business risks throughout the Group.
These are The AGM takes place at the Companys headquarters and formal notification is sent to reported on a monthly basis by senior management and overseas subsidiaries.
These the shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
A business presentation is given at the meeting and all directors are available for questions during and after the reports are reviewed by the Board.
meeting, including the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination committees.
The Board ensures that there are effective internal controls over the financial reporting Tours of the Companys facilities are offered.
Monthly accounts and forecasts are presented to the Board for review.
The Group internal audit function undertakes a programme of review of The Company reports on the number of proxy votes lodged on each resolution, the subsidiaries accounting processes and performance to provide assurance to the Board balance for and against each resolution and the number of votes withheld after the on the integrity of the information supplied by each company which forms part of the resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands.
This information is provided to the shareholders attending the AGM and published on the Companys website following consolidated results of the Group.
The Board undertakes an annual formal review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and an updated risk and controls analysis for the Group.
6 r The review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance The information regarding share capital required to be disclosed by this rule is contained controls and risk management systems.
The Board considers that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and board and commIttee membersHIp attendance record managing the significant risks facing the Group that has been in place during the year, Shown against each directors name is the number of meetings of the Board and its is regularly reviewed and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board confirms committees at which the director was present and, in brackets, the number of meetings that necessary action has been or is being taken to remedy any significant failings or that the director was eligible to attend during the year.
weaknesses identified from its review.
audit committee and auditors Audit Remuneration Nomination The Audit committee comprises the three non-executive directors.
A list of the members Director Board committee committee committee and the chairman is set out on page 21.
The Board is satisfied that at least two members of the committee have recent and relevant financial experience, being Terry Garthwaite Sir David McMurtry 10 10 - - 1 1 and David Snowden.
The terms of reference of this committee were reviewed during the year and are available on the Companys website.
D J Deer 9 10 - - - The committee reviews the accounting policies and procedures of the Group, its annual B R Taylor 10 10 - - - and interim financial statements before submission to the Board and its compliance with A C G Roberts 10 10 - - - statutory requirements.
The committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial G McFarland 10 10 - - - statements and announcements relating to financial performance and reviews the T D Snowden 9 10 2 3 2 3 1 1 significant reporting judgements contained therein.
It also reviews the scope, remit and effectiveness of the internal control systems and internal audit function.
T B Garthwaite 9 10 3 3 3 3 1 1 The committee has primary responsibility for making the recommendation on the W H Whiteley 10 10 3 3 3 3 1 1 appointment, reappointment and removal of external auditors, which the Board puts to J P McGeehan 4 4 1 2 1 1 1 1 shareholders for approval at the AGM.
It keeps under review the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the J P McGeehan retired on 14th October 2010. independence and objectivity of the auditors.
The auditors provide a confirmation of independence on an annual basis.
The committee reviews the nature and extent of the non-audit services supplied by the auditors, receiving regular reports on the balance complIance statement of audit to non-audit fees.
The committee regards it most cost efficient to use the The Board considers that it has complied with the requirements of the Code throughout auditors for tax advice and compliance since this requires an in-depth knowledge and the year except in relation to the following matters the reasons for non-compliance are understanding of the Companys business, products, customer base and markets.
stated in the report above : The committee reviews the policy by which employees of the Company may, in - the combined role of chairman and chief executive: and confidence, raise matters of concern, including possible improprieties in financial - at least half the board, excluding the chairman, does not comprise independent non reporting or other matters.
The committee meets at least three times a year with the Group Finance Director, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Audit Manager and the external auditors in attendance.
At least one meeting, or part, is held with the external auditors without N Tang executive directors present.
