Governance Non-audit services Nominations committee report The committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best undertaken by the external auditors.
The committee reviews Membership regularly the amount and nature of non-audit work performed by John McAdam Chairman the auditors.
The companys policy on non-audit services provides Alan Giles clear guidance on the categories of non-audit work which may Peter Long senior independent director and may not be undertaken by the auditors and describes the circumstances when consent from the committee is required.
Duncan Tatton-Brown The policy does not set a ceiling on the level of work carried out by Role and focus auditors by reference to audit fees earned as this would not take The nominations committee assists the board by keeping its into account the judgments that need to be taken over the nature composition size and structure under review and for reviewing of the work to be done.
succession planning to executive roles from amongst the senior management population as well as to conduct a rigorous and Auditor re-appointment transparent process when making or renewing appointments The companys audit services were last subject to a tender to the board.
The committees terms of reference make clear process in 2009 at which time KPMG Audit Plc replaced the duty on the committee to consider diversity issues when  LLP as the groups auditors.
The company contemplating board appointments.
is satisfied with the performance of the auditors and has no Other attendees immediate plans to undertake a further competitive tender for The group HR director, company secretary.
The lead audit partner is not yet due to be subject to rotation.
Resolutions will put to shareholders at the annual general meeting over the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc and the setting of their fees.
Dear shareholder The nominations committee provides a focus for the key task of Committee effectiveness ensuring that there are proper plans in place to ensure that the The committee conducted a review of its effectiveness using board continues to comprise a group of individuals who work the services of an independent external facilitator.
The review effectively together as a team and who possess the right mix of concluded that the committee had received sufficient, reliable experience and talent to provide effective oversight and challenge and timely information from management to enable it to fulfil to management.
its responsibilities and highlighted some areas to improve The committee is satisfied that for the current phase in the the effectiveness of the committees oversight of the control companys strategic development there is merit in retaining on environment and associated assurance processes.
the board the existing range of skills, experience and particularly knowledge of the issues facing the group.
The committee oversaw On behalf of the board, the process of identifying a non-executive director with relevant Duncan Tatton-Brown service sector experience resulting in the appointment of Angela Chairman, Audit committee Seymour-Jackson with effect from 5 March 2012.
Issues of diversity 1 March 2012 along with executive succession and longer term board balance will be key areas for the committee in 2012.
John McAdam Chairman, Nominations committee 36 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
