Governance Governance Corporate governance report Leadership and effectiveness Board composition Compliance with the UK Corporate We have a strong board which works hard to provide effective Governance Code the Code governance over the company.
The board currently comprises the chairman, six independent non-executive directors and The board is committed to the highest standard of governance three executive directors.
There have been no changes in and believes that good governance emanates from an the composition of the board during the year, with the last effective board which provides strong leadership representing appointment being that of Jeremy Townsend as chief financial protection for its shareholders.
The board remains committed officer in August 2010. to maintaining high standards of business ethics and integrity across the group, recognising these to be vital to the long-term The balance of the board both in terms of executive and nonperformance of the company.
executive roles and in respect of skills is a critical requirement.
The boards experience ranges across the UK, European and As at the date of this report, for financial years beginning on international services sector as well as in multi-national business or after 29 June 2010, the principal governance rules applying leadership and the development and execution of strategy.
The to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are board collectively has a high level of experience of international contained in the Code which is published by the Financial finance, risk control, governance and market development.
Reporting Council and is available on its website at www.
Information on the individual skills and experience of directors gov.
The companys governance report aims to provide together with information on their board committee participation shareholders with an understanding of how the company has is set out on pages 26 and 27. applied the main principles and provisions of the Code.
The board fully supports the Code and the direction in which it is The board is keen to retain the current spread of talents at taking the practice of good governance in the UK.
the present time but has initiated a process to address gender diversity at board level.
On 24 February 2012 the appointment was With the exception of the information in the following announced of Angela Seymour-Jackson as a non-executive director paragraph, the board considers that the company has, from 5 March 2012. throughout the year ended 31 December 2011, complied with the relevant main principles and detailed provisions set out in The role and activities of the board sections A to E of the Code.
The board is organised both in depth of experience and skills to discharge its primary duty to promote the success of the company With reference to the Code principle B.
1.1 the chairman, John while exercising independent judgement, care and diligence.
The McAdam, is not considered to be independent as a result of his board is responsible for the groups risk management approach participation in a one-off incentive arrangement approved by including evaluating and reviewing the overall level of risk that is shareholders in 2008 in connection with the recruitment at inherent in its strategy and for the execution of that strategy.
The that time of a new leadership team for the business.
board held nine meetings in 2011 and in addition held a two-day meeting to review and update the groups strategic plan.
23 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
