Corporate responsibility Divisional processes include externally accredited ISO 9001 for The following pages provide an overview of the companys Rentokil Pest Control and Initial Facilities.
corporate responsibility approach which is aligned to the Our values of Service, Relationships and Teamwork are integrated companys business plan, listing just some of the actions into new employee induction, training, performance development within each of our strategic thrusts that enhance responsible reviews and monitored by the Your Voice Counts survey which business practice.
measures employee enablement and engagement.
Eight out of 2011 was a year of tough economic conditions in many of our ten colleagues say they have a good understanding of the markets.
At the same time, environmental disasters floods companys values.
in Australia and Thailand, earthquakes in New Zealand, and Rentokil Initials corporate responsibility strategy and reporting is the tsunami in Japan meant that our colleagues around the fully aligned with the companys strategic business plan and annual world had to face significant challenges at work as well as operating plans, articulated through our five strategic thrusts.
in some instances, at home.
57 colleagues lost their homes and possessions in the Thailand flooding and were housed in our Bangkok branch for several weeks.
As always, we pulled Outstanding customer service and care together and supported one another.
Having established high levels of customer service across the We are proud to have continued our improved performance in group, the company began to focus on Customer Care in 2011 this years Business in the Community Corporate Responsibility a proactive approach to customer relationship management.
Index and Dow Jones Sustainability Index of the worlds leading companies.
A more detailed report as well as case studies can Engagement with customers be found in the companys Corporate Responsibility Report 2011 In 2011, City Link implemented new customer care systems which is available online at rentokil-initial.
com and processes ahead of the peak season, aided by the Join the Conversation internal campaign and customer care colleague training.
Alan Brown The company enhanced its customer engagement programme Chief executive through the Customer Voice Counts CVC survey, delivered across the group, providing service delivery feedback through a confidential and independent third party.
Governance A new proactive and tiered customer account management The board reviews corporate responsibility activities and approach was piloted through Programme Olympic in UK performance at least once a year and many elements more Pest Control, delivering significantly improved CVC scores.
Through the chief executive, operational management The company continued to invest in digital dialogue channels has responsibility for corporate responsibility matters.
The including websites, e-commerce, extranets and social media.
companys governance procedures and group policies require Its first smart phone App was launched in Germany allowing adherence to corporate responsibility policies and local initiatives customers to email signs of pest activity directly to the are encouraged.
As with many aspects of the companys operating company.
framework, consistent standards over corporate responsibility matters are encouraged.
For instance, a new code of conduct was introduced in 2010 and KPI 2008 2009 2010 2011 anti-corruption policy in 2011.
These have been promulgated in the State of Service 88.5% 98.1% 97% 98%s business to underpin our culture of responsible business practice.
Customer Voice Counts n a n a 19% 6% A UK policy group meets to review people-related policies.
Customer retention 81.0% 80.8% 83.9% 83.9%s Adherence to polices is monitored through annual internal control State of Service is the total number of service visits performed divided by self-assessments as well as through management review.
Speak the total number of visits due.
Up confidential reporting provides a further check on the actions The CVC score represents the net balance of those customers promoting our service compared with those neutral or not promoting.
CVC score for of individuals who may be operating at odds with our business 2011 is based on a more extended measurement incl.
City Link and Initial principles and policies.
In 2011, there were 28 control incidents Facilities than for 2010.
Customer retention is the reciprocal of closing portfolio after reductions reported to the audit committee, all were investigated and action and terminations as a percentage of opening portfolio.
Reports of safety, health and environment issues are the first item on the agenda at our board and management meetings.
Further support to compliance is provided through competition law and anti-corruption training.
To date, the total number of colleagues completing the competition law courses is 2,890.
52 Rentokil Initial plc Annual report 2011
