Audit Committee report This report sets out the work carried out by the Audit Committee of the Board with reference to the UK Corporate Governance Code and associated best practice guidance issue by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
Audit Committee composition The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board and comprises independent non-executive Directors of the Company.
The Committee is chaired by Simon Cloke, who has significant financial experience gained as a Managing Director within HSBC Banks Corporate Sector Group.
Tony Hughes is also a member of the Committee.
The Code recommends that audit committees be comprised of at least two independent non-executive directors in the case of smaller companies defined as those outside the FTSE 350 or at least three for companies with a premium listing, such as The Restaurant Group plc.
During 2011 the Audit Committee was comprised of two independent non-executive directors.
The Board continues to review the composition of the Audit Committee to ensure that it remains proportionate to the task and provides sufficient scrutiny of risk management and internal and external controls.
The Committee regularly invites the external auditor, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer and the Group Finance Director to its meetings.
The Company Secretary attends the meetings and is secretary to the Committee.
Discussions are held in private when appropriate.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference and the principal matters are to: ff provide additional assurance regarding the integrity, quality and reliability of financial information used by the Board and in financial statements issued to shareholders and the public: ff review the Companys internal procedures for control and compliance with regard to financial reporting to satisfy itself that these are adequate and effective: ff review the principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of the Groups financial statements to ensure they comply with statutory requirements and generally accepted accounting principles: ff receive reports from the Groups external auditor concerning external announcements, in particular the Annual Report and Accounts and the Interim Report: ff develop and oversee the Companys policy regarding the engagement of external auditors, review the independence of the external auditor, review the provision of non-audit services provided by the external auditor and review remuneration paid to the external auditor: and ff consider any other matter that is brought to its attention by the Board or the external auditor.
The Board as a whole reviews the risks facing the Group, and the processes on mitigating those risks, on a regular and formal basis.
The Board also reviews the work carried out by the Internal Audit function.
Audit Committee frequency The Committee meets at least twice a year.
Two meetings of the Committee were held during 2011 with full attendance.
Audit Committee process The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as defined in its terms of reference, through Audit Committee meetings during the year, at which detailed reports are presented for review.
From time to time, the Committee commissions reports from external advisers or Company management, either after consideration of the Companys major risks or in response to developing issues.
The Committee has the opportunity to meet privately with the external auditor at least twice a year and liaises with Company management in considering areas for review.
During the year, the Committee considered the following matters: ff interim and full year financial results.
As part of this review the Committee received reports from the external auditor on their audit of the Annual Report and Accounts and their review of the Interim Results: ff the scope and cost of the external audit: ff the external auditors interim and full year reports: ff non-audit work carried out by the external auditor in accordance with the Committees policy to ensure the safeguard of audit independence, in particular with reference to the work undertaken by Deloitte LLP in respect of the refinancing exercise carried out in 2011: ff the proposed change in senior statutory audit partner as the current incumbent will have held office for five years following the conclusion of the audit of the 2011 results: ff the effectiveness of the external auditor and consideration of their reappointment: and ff the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices.
36 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Business review Governance Financial statements The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by the Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
Independence of the external auditors The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit work which is in compliance with the Code.
The pre-approved services may be summarised as follows: ff audit related services, including work related to the annual Group financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and local statutory accounts: and ff certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning and tax advice.
Other work to be carried out by the external auditor is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Committee takes into account the following: ff the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the senior statutory audit partner who signs the audit report and who, in accordance with professional rules, has not held office for more than five years: ff the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit relationship: ff a report from the external auditor describing their arrangements to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: ff the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditor, in addition to its case-by-case approval of the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: and ff the past service of the auditor who was first appointed in 2007.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditor, the Audit Committee takes into account: ff the arrangements for ensuring the independence and objectivity of the external auditor: ff the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan: and ff the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditor in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements.
During the year Deloitte LLP provided additional services, other than those pre-approved, in the form of providing assistance to the Group in relation to its refinancing.
A competitive tender process, involving other external financial services firms was undertaken prior to Deloitte LLP being appointed to the role and the Committee took into account the expertise offered by Deloitte LLP in this area alongside any potential conflict from an audit perspective.
The Committee determined that the appointment of Deloitte LLP for the services on the refinancing would not cause any impairment of the external auditors independence.
Overview As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of reference.
The Committee has reviewed the independence and objectivity of Deloitte LLP as external auditor and recommends the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 May 2012.
On behalf of the Audit Committee, Simon Cloke 29 February 2012 The Restaurant Group plc Annual Report 2011 37
