56 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report corporate governance good governance compliance This corporate governance report has been prepared in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code of June 2010 the Code.
The Code is published by theFinancial Reporting During 2011 we focused on executing our Council FRC and can be viewed on the www.
strategy to deliver value to our shareholders and This report, being part of the directors report which includes the business review and the remuneration report, provides a summary stakeholders.
In doing so, we realise that it is of the Groups procedures for applying the principles of the Code imperative that the Company promotes a strong and theextent to which such principles have been applied.
It is the boards view that throughout the period 1 January to 31 December sense of meaningful and relevant governance in 2011 the Company has complied with the Code.
each area of our operations.
Our policies and procedures ensure that the Company is directed leadership and guided to follow good governance practices.
the role of the board We have an experienced board of directors The boards primary role is to ensure the sustainable long term whoare responsible to all our stakeholders for the success of the Group.
This it does through the development, review and implementation of the Groups strategy and the leadership longterm strategy and sustainable success of the ofthe executive directors to whom the board delegates the day to Company.
During the year there were changes day management of the business.
tothe board that were carefully considered to ensure that the Company andits shareholders The role of the board is to: benefit from a board with a depth ofexperience, e nsure the sustained long term success of the Group: ensure that the boards obligations to its shareholders adiversity of influences, an independent are understood and met: viewpoint and a varied skill set.
ensure that the strategy takes into account the interests of the Groups customers, suppliers, employees and the I am retiring as chairman of the board and this local communities in which Rexam operates: maintain control over the Groups assets: will be my last report as chairman.
With clear monitor changes to the Groups management and objectives, strong management and talented control structures: develop robust corporate governance and risk people, together with a board committed to management practices and procedures: and good governance practices, Rexam is in a establish high ethical standards of behaviour.
strong position for the future.
The Company operates through the board and its main board Sir Peter Ellwood committees, namelythe audit and risk, the nomination and the chairman remuneration committees.
The board also has a finance committee which oversees the financial risk management strategy, policy and treasury transactional matters delegated to it, and reviews and approves major financial transactions on behalf ofthe board.
Theboard evaluates the membership of its individual board committees on an annual basis and aims to ensure that its principalcommittees have different non executive directors as theirchairman.
The board committees are governed by terms ofreference which detail the matters delegated to the committee andfor which they have authority to make decisions.
The terms ofreference for the main committees can be found on the Rexamwebsite.
57 1 schedule of matters reserved for the board board membership 2011 meetings 2011 Board appointments and removals Sir Peter Ellwood chairman of the board 9 9 The Groups strategy, including the acquisition and disposal ofbusinesses Graham Chipchase 9 9 Material financial decisions relating to equity, marketable securities, borrowing Noreen Doyle 9 9 facilities, guarantees or indemnities and changes in accounting policies John Langston 9 9 orpractice Wolfgang Meusburger 9 9 All capital expenditure projects over 10m or any capital expenditure project Leo Oosterveer appointed 1 September 2011 3 3 which, regardless of the amount, does not meet the Groups financial criteria David Robbie 9 9 Changes to the Groups management and control structures JeanPierre Rodier 9 9 Matters relating to the Companys share listing 2 Carl Symon retired 23 November 2011 7 8 The appointment and removal of principal advisors and externalauditors 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that the The board does not routinely involve itself in day to day business director could have attended.
2 Carl Symon was unable to attend one meeting of the board.
He received the agenda matters but there is aformal schedule of matters that require the and the papers for that meeting and commented inadvance of it.
boards specific approval, as well as those which can be delegated tocommittees of the board or senior management.
Matters referred to the board are considered by the board as a whole and no one individual has unrestricted powers of decision.
the main areas dealt with by the board during 2011 best Strategy planning, implementation and monitoring performance Strategy for each business sector and focus on emerging markets Reports on the key issues affecting the business Sale of the Closures business Financial position of the Group and its performance against budget and forecast Bank facility refinancing proposals The Groups budget for 2012 andlong range plan to 2014 Reports on matters discussed at audit and risk committee meetings Review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control The Groups full year and half year results 2010 final dividend and 2011 interim dividend Annual general meeting customer Reports on meetings with customers and suppliers expectations Major customer and supplier contracts Research, development and innovation in relation to the strategic agenda Board visit to a supplier operation in SouthAmerica operational Capital expenditure requests including new manufacturing start ups, additional lines and line conversions in Brazil, excellence Egypt, Finland, France and India Rexams sustainability programmes incorporating all aspects of corporate social responsibility The Group and business procedures and controls The Group risk management process, risk tracking and mitigation Presentations from business sectors Legal compliance, code of conduct and anti bribery and corruption policies Information management strategy Health and safety matters winning Reports on matters discussed at nomination committee and remuneration committee meetings organisation Appointment of a chairman designate and a non executive director Board composition, diversity, development and succession planning Effectiveness of the board following the board evaluation Organisation and talent review Employee engagement survey Investor audit and feedback Board meeting and plant visits with the South American beverage can and plastic packaging management teams financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 58 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report corporate governance chairman and chief executive non executive directors The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate with At the date of this report, Rexam has seven non executive directors, each having clearly defined responsibilities.
Nonetheless, they including the chairman, whose role is to understand the business retain a close working relationship to ensure the integrity of the and its markets, considerproposals on strategy and constructively boards decision making process and the successful delivery of challenge the management.
Collectively they hold or have held theGroups strategy.
senior positions in industry and contribute a wide range of international experience and objective perspective to the board.
Sir Peter Ellwood was chairman of the Company throughout the Through the board committees, the non executive directors bring period 1 January to 31 December 2011.
The chairman creates and focus on governance and succession planning, internal controls, manages a constructive dialogue between the executive and non risk management and remuneration policies.
Heworks with the company secretary to ensure that appropriate matters are discussed during board meetings.
Non executive directors serve the Company under letters of appointment which are generally for an initial three year term.
Onappointment, an undertaking is requested confirming that thenon executive director has sufficient time to fulfil his or her The main duties of the chairman are to: roleon the board.
lead the board: Carl Symon, Rexams senior independent director, retired from p romote a culture of openness, challenge and debate: theboard on 23 November 2011.
Carl Symon had served on the review the effectiveness of the board: board since 2003 and, having successfully led and completed the e nsure that the board has the appropriate balance of search for the new chairman, felt that this was an appropriate time skills and experience and to give consideration to to step down from the board.
The board approved the appointment succession planning: of John Langston as acting senior independent director with effect ensure compliance with Group policies concerning the from 24 November 2011 and until such time as the nomination conduct of the business: committee can consult with the new chairman of the board and provide guidance to the executive directors and senior make a recommendation for a permanent appointment.
management: and safeguard the interests of shareholders.
The senior independent director, when necessary, supports the chairman and the other non executive directors on Company related matters.
He is available to talk to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns or if there are any unresolved matters that Sir Peter advised the board that he wished to retire from office shareholders believe should be brought to his attention.
There is a witheffect from close of business on 22 February 2012.
Stuart written job specification for this role and it is reviewed annually by Chambers was appointed as non executive director and chairman the nomination committee.
designate on 1 February 2012, and will succeed Sir Peter as chairman.
The board considers that Stuart Chambers was The non executive directors met several times during the year independent on his appointment as non executive director and withthe chairman to discuss, on a less formal basis, the Groups willbe independent on his appointment as chairman.
performance, governance, strategy and succession planning.
Theexecutive directors were not in attendance at these meetings.
Graham Chipchases primary objective as chief executive is toenhance long term shareholder value.
directors indemnities and insurance cover The Company granted indemnities to Leo Oosterveer and Stuart Chambers on their appointments to the board in 2011 and 2012 The main duties of the chief executive are to: respectively.
The indemnities relate to certain losses and liabilities d evelop and manage the Group and its trading which they may incur in the course of their duties and are in force performance within the authorities delegated by as at the date of this report.
Insurance cover also remains in place theboard: to protect all directors and senior management in the event of deliver the Groups strategic plan: aclaim being brought against them in their capacity as directors l ead the executive management and ensure that orofficers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Similar indemnities management has the appropriate balance of skills will be offered to other directors.
andexperience: o versee the Groups performance in safety, health andenvironmental matters: be the primary interface with shareholders: and promote high standards of ethical business conduct.
The written job specifications for the roles of chairman and chief executive are reviewed annually by the nomination committee.
59 length of service of non executive directors as at board balance as at 22 February 2012 22 February 2012 02 years 2 7 non executive directors including the chairman 34 years 2 2 executive directors 56 years 3 the nomination committee effectiveness All of the members of this committee are independent nonexecutive directors.
1 composition of the board committee membership 2011 meetings 2011 2 Rexam has a board of directors with international business Sir Peter Ellwood committee chairman 6 6 backgrounds and a range of diverseskills, experience and 3 Noreen Doyle 5 6 nationalities.
This diversity is invaluable in challenging and John Langston 6 6 developing the Groups strategy and enables the board to govern Wolfgang Meusburger 6 6 effectively a global business.
The board works asa team but 4 independence of thought and approach as well as constructive Leo Oosterveer appointed 6 December 2011 debate is encouraged.
JeanPierre Rodier 6 6 Carl Symon retired 23 November 2011 5 5 Throughout 2011 and up to the date of this annual report the Company had a majority of independent non executive directors 1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that the on the board.
2 Sir Peter Ellwood will retire as committee chairman on 22 February 2012.
StuartChambers was appointed as a member of the committee on 20February2012 The board is aware of the other commitments of the directors and and will succeed Sir Peter as committee chairman witheffectfrom 23February 2012. considers that these commitments do not conflict with their non 3 Noreen Doyle was unable to attend one meeting of the committee.
She received the executive duties asdirectors of the Company.
A biography of each agenda and the papers for that meeting and was able to comment in advance of it.
4 No meetings were held in 2011 after Leo Oosterveers appointment date.
member of theboard, including details of their business experience and other directorships, is given on pages54 and 55. appointments to the board The appointment and replacement of directors is governed bytheCompanys articles of association, which may only beamended with shareholders approval in accordance with relevantlegislation.
Recommendations for appointments to the board arethe responsibility of the nomination committee which acts inaccordance with its terms of reference and the articles ofassociation.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 60 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report corporate governance Lord Davies February 2011 report into Women on Boards and the amendments to the Code subsequently proposed by the FRC have highlighted the importance of effective diversity policies in The main responsibilities of the committeeare to: companies.
The Rexam board is aware of the benefits of all forms review the structure, size and composition of the board of diversity, including gender diversity, when seeking new including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, candidates for the board.
It is the boards aspiration that by 2015 including gender diversity : at least 25% of the board will be women.
Diversity is one of the give full consideration to succession planning and ensure important factors in the specification given by the committee to that processes and planning are in place with regard recruitment consultants when appointing new directors and the to both the board and senior executive appointments: committee ensures that, with the assistance of executive recruitment identify and consider candidates on merit against consultants who adhere to the Voluntary Code of Conduct, it has objective criteria and to make recommendations to visibility of a range of suitable candidates, including women.
theboard on appointments to the board and board committees, and on the appointment of the company The Groups gender balance in senior management roles is secretary: currently 86% male and 14% female and, throughout the Group, assess the time needed to fulfil the roles of chairman, 76% male and 24% female.
The board reviews howdiversity, in all senior independent director and non executive directors: forms, can be enhanced through the senior management team and keep up to date about strategic issues and commercial across the Group with the overriding objective that the most changes affecting the Company and its markets: and appropriate candidates are employed andthe most effective assist the chairman with the annual board performance employees are retained and promoted.
evaluation process to assess the overall performance succession planning and effectiveness of the board and each board The boards responsibility for succession planning means that it is committee, and the individual performance actively involved in the Groups talent processes to identify internal ofdirectors.
candidates for promotion and develop senior managers to give them every opportunity to progress their careers.
During 2011, the board discussed the current senior management positions within the organisational structure and, led by the chief executive, The performance and effectiveness of the committee are reviewed considered potential successors to meet the Groups leadership as part of the main performance evaluation of the board and all needs over time.
development, information and support All board appointments are conducted through aformal, rigorous Formal board meetings are held during the year and the chairman and transparent procedure between the nomination committee and the company secretary ensure that, prior to each meeting, andthe board.
The committee identifies through the management thedirectors receive accurate, clear and timely information review process any internal people whose skills, experience and whichhelps them to discharge theirduties.
In the months with no contribution to the Group would addvalue to the board.
The scheduled board meeting, the directors receive the prior month committee also works alongside executive recruitment consultants and cumulative financial and operating information relating to to evaluate and consider prospective external candidates and theGroup and its businesses.
Following an evaluation of candidates, the committee meets with prospective candidates who are then All newly appointed directors participate in an internal induction considered and, ifappropriate, recommendations are made to the programme that introduces the director to the Group and includes board for approval.
This programme is tailored to each directors needs, taking into account individual qualifications and During 2011 the committee identified the requirement to appoint experience.
If required, an overview of the role and responsibilities anew non executive director and, on Sir Peter Ellwoods intended of a director can be facilitated by an external consultant.
The processes leading to the Thecompany secretary gives guidance on board procedures appointments of Leo Oosterveer and Stuart Chambers were andcorporate governance.
conducted through external recruitment consultants who adhere toa voluntary code of conduct to ensure that at least 30% of thecandidates on their initial list of candidates are women theVoluntary Code of Conduct.
The committee considered the candidates against the boards requirements and recommendations for the appointment of Leo Oosterveer and Stuart Chambers were made to the board for approval.
61 Should a director reasonably request independent professional advice to carry out their duties, such advice is made available at the Companys expense.
Leo Oosterveer joined the board as a non executive director on 1 September 2011 and is participating in an board performance evaluation induction programme.
Leo has met with functional heads All directors, including the chairman, receive a formal performance for an overview of the Group.
He has participated in a evaluation to which all other members of the board have the one to one external course on the role and responsibilities opportunity to contribute.
The boards 2010 performance evaluation of a director, and has discussed areas of governance was led by an external independent consultant.
In 2011 the annual relevant to board membership with the company evaluations of the non executive directors, senior independent secretary.
Leo is scheduled to visit some of Rexams director and chief executive were led by the chairman and manufacturing plants and meet with operational supported by the company secretary.
In view of the announced management.
StuartChambers, who joined the board as change in the chairmanship of the Company, a formal evaluation chairman designate on 1 February 2012, has started an of the chairmans performance was not undertaken.
The chief induction programme and is meeting with functional executive led the evaluation of the finance director.
The chairmen heads and representatives from the Groups advisors prior of the respective committees reviewed the performance of their to commencing a tour of the Groups businesses.
The chairman met with the non executive directors during 2011 todiscuss the evaluation of the board and succession plans.
The chairman is responsible for and regularly reviews and agrees with each director their training and development needs and Achievement in 2011 of actions identified through the board performance members of the committees receive specific updates on matters evaluation in 2010 thatare relevant totheir role.
The chairman arranges for the board strategic planning Focus on regular reporting to the tovisit at least one oftheGroups business locations each year to boardon the progress of strategic ensure that the directors knowledge and familiarity with the issuesand actions Groups businesses are updated and maintained.
risk management Enterprise risk management function provided regular updates to the board: Finance director provided regular updates to the board on key risks and During 2011, the board held a meeting at the South mitigation measures American beverage can headquarters in Brazil and visited the beverage can plant in Jacare and the plastic financial and non New format of financial report: packaging plant in Jundia.
The board also visited the financial monitoring Development and understanding main aluminium supplier to the South American oftheGroups balanced scorecard beverage can business.
talent management and Chairman designate and non executive succession planning director appointed in accordance with succession plans: Review of executive leadership team Members of the senior management team with responsibility for Participation in board updates focusing board development theGroups businesses and those with corporate andservice centre on gender diversity in the boardroom, functional responsibilities make periodic presentations at board theUK Bribery Act and changes to the meetings about their businesses, functions, performance, suppliers, Takeover Code customers, markets and strategy.
The company secretary, who is appointed by the board, is responsible for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
Thisincludes taking minutes of the board meetings and the recording of any concerns relating to the running of the Company or proposed actions arising therefrom that are expressed by a director in a board meeting.
The company secretary is also secretary to the audit and risk, nomination and remuneration committees.
Under the direction of the chairman, he is responsible for the communication of relevant information between the board, its committees and the senior management team.
He also advises the board, through the chairman, on all governance and regulatory compliance matters.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 62 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report corporate governance In2011 each director completed a questionnaire scoring his or her directors in office as at the date of this report to be proposed for election orreelection at the AGM 2012 response to statements focusing on the areas identified below and commenting more specifically as appropriate.
Stuart Chambers non executive director and chairman designate board performance evaluation 2011 Graham Chipchase chief executive Board structure Strategy David Robbie finance director Board meetings and administration Customers and suppliers Noreen Doyle non executive director Talent management and succession Financial and non financial John Langston non executive director planning monitoring Wolfgang Meusburger non executive director Risk management Leo Oosterveer non executive director JeanPierre Rodier non executive director The results of the 2011 board performance evaluation were presented to the board.
The evaluation focused on the effectiveness Following a rigorous evaluation ofthe performance of each of the board and its main committees.
director and on the recommendation ofthenomination committee The directors shared the view that, following this comprehensive the board is proposing that Stuart Chambers and Leo Oosterveer, review, the board and its committees continue to operate who were appointed non executive directors since the date of the effectively.
However, theboard has agreed that during 2012 last AGM, stand for election and that the other directors named thefollowing processes will be further developed and improved: above stand for reelection at the AGM 2012.
The board considers that Stuart Chambers was independent on process 2012 actions following 2011 evaluation appointment as a non executive director and chairman designate.
strategic planning To further refine the strategic review Stuart Chambers is being recommended for election as the board process believes that he has an extensive breadth of business experience, risk management To maintain a clear focus on risk especially within the business to business markets, and his global anticipation, risk management and crisis expertise will be of benefit to the boards deliberations.
management aligned to the challenges Leo Oosterveer is considered by the board to be independent.
of the global economic climate Heis being recommended for election as the board believes that non financial monitoring To progress non financial monitoring his global management experience and skills in marketing, sales and reporting through the Groups and strategy development will be an asset to the Company.
balanced scorecard Graham Chipchase is being recommended for reelection as the talent management and To continue to review and contribute board believes his leadership and insight into the Group andits succession planning towards succession planning, markets will help to develop Rexam and create shareholder value.
consideration of the talent pool and people development David Robbie is being recommended for reelection as the board board development To further develop the way in which the believes his strong financial and corporate finance experience and board works together as a unit his financial and strategic skills are important to the board and to the maintenance of tight financial controls.
customers and suppliers To continue to develop knowledge ofand focus on the Groups customers Noreen Doyle, John Langston, Wolfgang Meusburger and andsuppliers JeanPierre Rodier are being recommended for reelection as, inthe boards view, they remain independent and, following A full performance evaluation ofthe board and its committees theirformal performance evaluation, the chairman of the board willcontinue to be conducted annually and an independent has confirmed that they continue to be effective and demonstrate external assessment will take place at least every three years their commitment to the board.
A biography of eachmember of asrecommended by the Code.
theboard can befound on pages 54 and 55. election and reelection of directors The Companys articles of association require that any director appointed to the board since the date of the last annual general meeting AGM should be proposed for election at the first AGM after such appointment.
Thereafter a director must be proposed forreelection at the third AGM following the AGM at which the director was last elected or reelected.
However, to promote goodgovernance and in accordance with the Code, the board hasrecommended that all directors should submit themselves forelection or reelection on an annual basis.
63 Nosignificant failings or weaknesses were identified in the review accountability for 2011.
The board is satisfied that, where areas for improvement were identified, processes are in place to ensure that the necessary action is taken and that progress is monitored.
The board will During 2011 the audit and risk committee focused continue to carry out such reviews on an annual basis.
Details ofthe specific actions taken during 2011 to review the control on a number of activities associated with and environment and continue to improve controls are set out in the complementary to its core internal financial table under risk management and internal control in this section.
the audit and risk committee The committee members comprise independent non executive As well as reviewing the half year and full year directors.
JohnLangston is the chairman of the committee.
As a qualified chartered accountant and former finance director he is results, the committee carried out a detailed well placed to provide the committee with the relevant financial assessment of the Groups risk profile along with experience to enable it to carry out itsresponsibilities.
1 the process and management of the Groups committee membership 2011 meetings 2011 John Langston committee chairman 4 4 enterprise risk management function.
It reviewed 2 JeanPierre Rodier appointed 6 December 2011 the effectiveness of the external auditors and the Noreen Doyle 4 4 actions taken by internal audit following the 2 Carl Symon retired 23 November 2011 4 4 independent review of its effectiveness in 2010.
1 Number of scheduled meetings attended maximum number of meetings that thedirector could have attended.
2 No meetings were held in 2011 after JeanPierre Rodiers appointment date.
John Langston Thecommittee membership comprised three independent non executive directors atthedate of each meeting.
audit and risk committee chairman The board recognises its responsibility for ensuring the implementation and maintenance of effective systems of risk The main responsibilities of the committee are to: management and internal control, and presenting a balanced o versee and review the financial andoperational risks, andunderstandable assessment of the Groups position and policies and management: prospects.
The systems and controls in place include policies a ssist the board in meeting its responsibilities by andprocedures which provide reasonable assurance that ensuring an effective system of internal control and transactions are recorded as necessary to facilitate the financial compliance and accurate external financial reporting: reporting process and the preparation of consolidated financial a ssist the board in managing the relationship with the statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Companys external auditors, to review and monitor Standards IFRS.
Representatives of the businesses are required their independence, and in particular the provision of tocertify that their reported information gives a true and fair view non audit services provided by them to theGroup: of the state of affairs of the business and its results for the year.
k eep under review the effectiveness of the process Todischarge these duties and responsibilities theboard works forthe identification, assessment, mitigation, reporting closely with the audit and risk committee.
and monitoring of risks facing the business: and ap prove the appointment of the director internal audit After taking account of the detailed work of the audit and risk and review and approve the annual programme of committee, the board confirms that it carried out a review of the internal audit assignments.
effectiveness of the system of internal control which operated withinthe Group during 2011 and up to the date of this annual report in accordance with the requirements of the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by the FRC.
This review The committee meets at least four times a year.
At the request of covered the effectiveness of all internal controls, namely financial, thecommittee chairman, the chairman of the board, the chief operational, compliance and risk management.
executive, the finance director, the group director enterprise risk, the director group finance, the director internal audit and theexternal auditors areinvited to attend each meeting.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 64 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report corporate governance Should it be requested, the committee has access to independent There is an ongoing process for identifying, assessing, mitigating, expert advice at the Companys expense.
The performance and reporting and monitoring the risks faced by the Group with a effectiveness of the committee are reviewed as part of the main formal audit and risk process known as the ARC process led by performance evaluation of the board and all its committees.
the group director enterprise risk together with the finance director, thedirector internal audit and other senior management financial and business reporting representatives.
Meetings are held with businesses and functional The audit and risk committee shares responsibility with the managers who present their risk registers, enabling discussion boardfor reviewing in detail the annual report and half year ofthe risks identified, the management of those risks and the resultsannouncement, which provide a clear assessment of the mitigation measures as well as the effectiveness of the systems performance and prospects of the Group through the business ofinternal control.
The process ensures that risks are not just the model, strategy and a review of strategic risks and financial and product ofabottom up approach but are also examined from a top non financial performance.
Also included in the annual report down perspective and closely aligned with the Groups strategy.
isthe external auditors report to the members providing an independent view of the state of the Groups affairs.
The half yearresults announcement includes the external auditors review report to the Company.
Through the risk council, chaired by the group director enterprise risk, and comprising representatives from Other published financial information is reviewed by the committee eachof the sectors and the director internal audit, for statutory and regulatory compliance and is submitted to the improvements to the ARC process were made during board with a recommendation for approval.
2011 with an increased focus on risk mitigation actions.
risk management and internal control The Group has well established risk management and internal control systems.
While all elements of risk cannot be eliminated, the The results of the ARC process are reported to theaudit and risk processes and systems aim to identify, assess, prioritise and, where committee and provide an opportunity for the committee to discuss possible, mitigate the Groups risks.
Although no system can provide and analyse the risks reported.
In addition to reviewing the risks, absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss, theGroups aspresented by management, the committee also receives systems are designed to provide the board with reasonable presentations from the Groups businesses or functional managers assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions are properly to assess first hand the effectiveness of the process, and whether authorised and recorded and that material errors andirregularities the risks identified are being managed successfully, and to are either prevented or detected within a timelyperiod.
challenge management on the mitigation measures in place.
A separate enterprise risk function was established in 2010 led by Thecommittee then reports its conclusions to the board for review.
a senior executive who is a member of the executive leadership Details of the key risks to which the Group is exposed and additional team.
The enterprise risk management function has brought an information on risk processes and management are included in the increased focus and emphasis on global risk management, business review and can be found on pages 34 to 41. providing leadership and coordination across the Groups business The framework which the board has established to provide effective and operational risk activities.
Other responsibilities include health internal control for both the Group and its associates and joint and safety, environment, fireandproperty protection, security, ventures is supported by the key areas set out in the table below.
insurance, business continuity andcrisis management.
key areas of the internal control framework activity in 2011 financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting Regular reviews took place to ensure businesses financial results to the board.
An annual budget and wereperforming in line with budget and strategy.
strategic review are prepared for each business and The chief executive and the finance director met are consolidated for review by the board before being regularly with operational management to ensure formally adopted.
During the year, monthly management businesses were performing as expected and accounts, including cash flow and capital expenditure reporting in accordance with the Groups standards.
reporting, are prepared with a comparison against Following those meetings the chief executive and the budget and prior year.
Forecasts are revised in light of finance director reported back to theboard.
A new this comparison and are also reviewed by the board.
financial report format was introduced for the board.
delegated authority There are clearly defined lines of responsibility and The Group authority levels and related financial limits, levels of authority in operation throughout the Group, which include information on those matters that are with specific matters reserved to the board.
Businesses specifically reserved for the boards consideration, are decentralised with operating autonomy and were reviewed and updated.
financial responsibility delegated to corporate and local management to the extent that they have approval to operate within defined levels of authority and risk.
65 procedures and controls There are formal written Group financial procedures Group authority levels were updated.
and controls in operation, including specific Improvements were made to access and security procedures for treasury matters, capital investment controls along with a detailed review of the andthe approval of significant contracts.
Corporate consistency of the Groups computerised management andlocal management are required to complete systems and controls operating around the Group.
biannual representation letters formally confirming thattheir businesses comply with the Groups financial A Group control framework is being developed which reporting policies and other Group policies will be rolled out across the Group in 2012 to ensure andprocedures.
that controls are operated consistently and in line with best practice.
The online legal compliance training developed to ensure employees familiarity and compliance with theCode of Conduct was further extended to include specific training on Financial Integrity, Combating Bribery in Business and Competition and Anti Trust Law, and was completed by all levels of senior management.
internal audit The internal audit function monitors financial and The annual internal audit plan was produced from otherrisks faced throughout the Group andthe anassessment of the risks following the ARC process controlsystems in operation to manage those risks.
reviews and was presented to the audit and risk Allsignificant internal audit findings are reported committee for approval.
Meetings were held regularly between internal audit management and the finance director, together withbusiness management, to review progress on implementing audit recommendations and toensure any significant issues identified wereaddressed.
Updates on performance were provided to the audit and risk committee by the director internal audit.
In 2011, following the independent effectiveness review of internal audit, the director internal audit presented to the audit and risk committee a road map for the internal audit function.
This addressed the structure and the remit of internal audit to ensure it was focused and delivering the necessary assurance to the committee and management, and was operating in line with best practice.
operational risk Operational risk management, part of the enterprise In line with the Rexam values a system of awards was management risk function, provides the leadership to develop and introduced to recognise businesses receiving high monitor processes which identify, assess and manage scores based on the audits.
risks associated with health and safety, environment, An enhanced global Environment, Health and Safety business continuity and crisis management, fire and EHS audit approach was developed to provide the loss prevention, security and asset protection.
Purpose basis of challenge for a more sustainable and robust built audit programmes allow for businesses to be improvement of EHS management systems and evaluated against Rexams and external best practice performance at all sites.
In addition we introduced a standards in these areas, and provide the basis for high standard fire safety and property protection audit continuous improvement action plans.
In addition, supported and performed by AXA Matrix.
Further many Rexam businesses are accredited to external details can be found in the key risks section of this internationally recognised standards.
The function annual report on page 40. alsomanages Rexams global insurance programme.
Periodic updates including any significant findings and issues are reported to the audit and risk committee.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 66 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report corporate governance internal audit Non audit services are provided by PwC to the Group only in The internal audit function plans and undertakes audits of the accordance with Rexams policy on the provision of non audit businesses to ensure that the controls operating in the businesses services, which assesses the type of service to be provided and the conform with Group controls and procedures, and reviews the associated fees.
Any request for non audit services above a fee effectiveness of the risk management process.
threshold of 25,000 is presented to the finance director for approval prior to commencement of the work.
The finance director The director internal audit provides regular updates to the audit will, depending on the nature of and fee for the service, obtain the and risk committee and reports on all significant audit findings.
prior authorisation of the chairman of the audit and risk committee.
Healso has separate meetings with the chairman of the audit This committee reviews the level of non audit fees to ensure that the andrisk committee without any other member of management provision of non audit services does not impair PwCs being present.
Non audit feesin 2011 relate mainly to assurance reporting on historic financial information required for In 2011 the committee reviewed and approved the annual internal business disposals, assurance in relation to IT projects, including a audit plan including the proposed audit approach, coverage and new treasury system, and global tax advisory services.
The fees for allocation of resources.
It also reviewed the results of the audits non audit services are disclosed in note 5 to the consolidated undertaken, with particular emphasis on the recommendations financial statements.
Other audit firms were engaged to provide made and managements response to the matters raised.
A change expatriate and specialist tax advisory services as well astoadvise in the audit ratings used by internal audit in itsreports to better on disposal transactions.
evaluate the control environment was also approved.
PwC are prohibited from providing services to the Group that external auditors would be considered to jeopardise their independence, such as The committee has primary responsibility for and advises the board financial systems design and implementation, actuarial services, on the appointment, reappointment and the remuneration of the internal audit outsourcing services and investment services.
 LLP PwC Thepolicy on non audit services has been reviewed during 2011 have been the Companys external auditors since 2003 withthe toensure it is in line with best practice.
lead audit partner changing by rotation in 2008.
During2011, the committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors and directors conflicts of interest recommended to the board that a resolution to reappoint PwC be The board has a formal system in place fordirectors to review proposed at the AGM 2012.
Afurther review of PwCs regularly their interests and to deal with situations where a director effectiveness will be undertaken in 2012 following completion of reports any conflictsof interest.
Any conflict situation reported to the 2011 year end audit.
The committee will continue to keep under the chairman and the company secretary is considered by the review the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
board based on its particular facts.
Any authorisations given to a director who has a conflict situation arerecorded in the board The external auditors attend all audit and risk committee meetings.
minutes and in a register of directors conflicts which is reviewed The committee chairman also has separate meetings with the annually by the board.
No conflict situations were reported to the external auditors to discuss relevant matters.
board during 2011 and up to the date of this annual report.
The first meeting within the Groups annual audit cycle is to code of conduct consider the nature and scope of the audit and to consider any A worldwide Code of Conduct, which applies to all the Companys additional special reviews that may be necessary.
Further meetings employees, has been approved by the board and provides a clear are held prior to the approval of the half year and full year results statement for the benefit of stakeholders involved with or impacted to consider, as relevant, the audit conclusions, the results of any by Rexams activities.
It is communicated throughan induction special reviews undertaken, the business risks facing the Group process for new employees, as part of the team briefings in the and the reports from the ARC process meetings.
Thecommittee Groups businesses, and on the Groups intranet and website.
reports its findings on the audit process and on thewider aspects Theboard is kept informed regarding the maintenance of the Code ofinternal control to the board.
of Conduct and any breaches of it.
Anonline training system has been introduced to ensure all management are aware of their responsibilities and are in compliance with the Code of Conduct.
In addition, with the introduction of the UK Bribery Act, all policies and procedures relating to bribery and corruption were reviewed to ensure they are in line with best practice and that there areadequate procedures to prevent bribery or corruption takingplace.
67 whistle blowing policy going concern Rexam has an open door policy on communication whereby The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely employees are encouraged to share concerns, raise issues, to affect its future development, performance and position are provideideas for improvement, with all levels of management set out in the business review on pages 10 to 41.
It is recognised, however, that there will be times position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and when an employee might be uncomfortable raising concerns borrowing facilities are detailed in the financial review on pages directly with local management and, in such cases, communication 31 to 33.
In addition, notes 24, 25 and 26 to the consolidated with business andGroup management is encouraged.
financial statements include the Groups objectives and policies formanaging its capital, its financial risk management objectives, Rexam operates a whistle blowing policy which is supported details of its financial instruments and hedging activities, and its byanexternal confidential telephone helpline, available to all exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
employees for the raising of any concerns, including those of a financial nature.
The Raise Your Concern policy is highlighted in The Group has considerable financial resources together with team meetings to ensure the policy is understood and available established agreements with a number of key customers and toall employees.
suppliers across different geographic areas and markets.
The financial resources include 2.6bn of debt facilities with the next The Raise Your Concern telephone helpline has been beneficial as significant maturities due in March 2013 0.5bn and June 2013 an independent point of contact for employees where, if requested, 0.5bn.
The directors believe that the Group is well placed to the anonymity of the employee is maintained.
During 2011 there manage its business despite the economic environment which were 41 concerns logged 2010: 45 concerns raising matters, increases risks and uncertainties.
inthe majority of cases, related tohuman resource issues and practices.
All concerns reported are investigated at the earliest The directors, having made appropriate enquiries, are satisfied opportunity by the director internal audit, in conjunction with the that the Company and the Group have adequate resources company secretary and, if appropriate, by management of the to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The director internal audit provides an update For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in on all calls received, and the actions taken to respond to and preparing the consolidated and Company financial statements.
resolve them, toGroup management and the audit and risk committee on a regular basis.
Any significant concerns are reported directly tothechairman of the audit and risk committee remuneration as well as to Groupmanagement.
The committee reviews the whistle blowing policy and the Raise remuneration policy for directors Your Concern process annually.
The remuneration committee is responsible for making recommendations to the board on the Groups remuneration policyand setting the remuneration levels and specific packages appropriate for the chairman and the executive directors takinginto account the Groups annual salary negotiations.
In 2011 an external benchmark review was undertaken Theremuneration report is on pages 69 to 80 of this annual report.
ofthe nature and volume of calls received under Raise Your Concern to ensure that the process was working effectively and was comparable with the experience of other organisations.
The nature of the calls logged was found to be broadly in line with benchmark data and the committee was satisfied that concerns are investigated thoroughly and that the callers receive appropriate responses through the helpline.
financial statements governance sustainability business review overview 68 Rexam annual report 2011 directors report corporate governance The non executive directors are given regular updates as to the shareholder relations views ofinstitutional shareholders.
After the investor meetings heldfollowing the announcement of the half and full year results, asummary report on investor responses is prepared for the board, dialogue with shareholders normally by the Companys corporate brokers.
The board also The board believes that it is a priority to communicate with commissions an annual presentation of major investors views on shareholders and uses various methods to reach as many Company management and performance, based on results of surveys shareholders as possible.
There are programmes for the chief and extensive interviews.
This survey also helps to plan the investor executive, finance director and the head of investor relations relations programme for the following year.
tomeet with the Companys major institutional investors in the UK, the US and Europe.
Presentations are made on the operating annual general meeting and financial performance of the Group, including corporate Communication with private shareholders is largely through the governance related matters, and the Groups longer term strategy.
AGM, which is held at a central London location.
The notice of the Thepresentation slides shown to representatives of the investment AGM is posted to shareholders with, ifrequested, the annual report community following the announcement of the half and full year and any related papers at least 20working days before the date of results are available on the Companys website, as is a live the AGM to ensure that shareholders have sufficient time in which webcast of the related results presentation.
Roadshowsare held to consider the items ofbusiness to be voted upon.
The majority of inthe UK, the US and Europe following the announcement of the shareholders have elected to access the annual report and other half and full year results.
Where it is not possible tomeet face shareholder documents online via the Rexam website rather than toface, meetings are held by video or telephone conference.
TheCompany also hosts plant visits and annual seminars for A presentation is made at the AGM to update shareholders on the institutional shareholders and representatives of the investment Groups activities.
Shareholders aregiven the opportunity to ask community.
Theseminars are webcast live and replays, together questions of the board and the chairman of each board committee with presentation slides, are available online.
during the AGM and to meet allthe directors informally at the AGM.
Separate resolutions are proposed at the AGM on a poll for each item of business and shareholders are asked to vote for, against or vote withheld oneach resolution.
Votes are counted During 2011 investors were invited to attend a seminar in and anannouncement confirming whether each resolution was person or by telephone focusing on the global beverage passed atthe AGM is made through the London Stock Exchange can market.
The seminar was well attended and investors and can be viewed on the Rexam website, together with a commented that it had improved their understanding of summary of the number of votes cast in respect ofeach resolution.
the beverage can industry and its growth drivers, as well Rexams ADR investors receive details of the AGM and are entitled as Rexams position within the industry.
to instruct the depositary, TheBank of New York Mellon, to vote onthe resolutions to be proposed at the AGM.
Institutional shareholders can request an opportunity to meet withany of the executive and non executive directors.
The non Shareholders can ask questions of theCompany at any executive directors have an opportunity to meet with shareholders time through the Rexam website or by contacting the at the AGM and may attend analyst presentations made by the company secretarys department at the Companys chief executive and finance director.
Theboard fully supports the headquarters.
principle of the Code which seeks toencourage more active interest and contribution from institutional shareholders.
