co. uk corporate governance Ed Williams, Managing Director, is also a non-executive Statement of compliance director of Trader Media Group.
His remuneration in relation to The 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code UKCGC sets out this role is set out in the Remuneration Report on page 35, the principles and provisions relating to good governance of though from July 2010 his remuneration has been given UK listed companies.
In this section we set out how we have directly to charity.
applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the Neither the Chairman nor the other two executive directors UKCGC during 2011.
As a UK listed company, the Company hold any other non-executive directorships or commitments is required to state whether it has complied with the disclosable under the UKCGC.
provisions of the UKCGC and where the provisions have Biographical details of the directors at the date of this not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
report and details of their committee membership appear on The directors believe that the Company is compliant in pages 16 and 17. all areas with one exception, which is explained below.
Directors remuneration The Board, the Board balance and independence The principles and details of directors remuneration and At the date of this report, the Board comprises eight directors contractual arrangements are contained in the Remuneration including the Chairman Scott Forbes, three executive Report on pages 30 to 42. directors Ed Williams, Managing Director, Nick McKittrick, Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director and Peter Re-election to the Board Brooks-Johnson, Managing Director, Rightmove.
co. uk and In accordance with the UKCGC, the Articles of Association four non-executive directors Jonathan Agnew, who is the require all directors to seek re-election every three years.
In Senior Independent Director, Colin Kemp, Ashley Martin and addition all directors are subject to election by shareholders Judy Vezmar.
at the first Annual General Meeting following their Rightmove currently has one female Board member on an appointment.
Following the changes introduced by the eight person Board, thereby constituting 12.5% of the Board UKCGC in June 2010, all directors will seek re-election at members.
It is the Boards goal to appoint a further female the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Board member by 2015 as part of the cycle of refreshing the membership of the Board.
Assuming an unchanged number Board and Committee membership and attendance of Board directors, Rightmove would then have 25% of The membership of the Committees of the Board and Board members being female.
attendance at Board and Committee meetings for the year The directors believe that the Board currently operates under review are set out in the table below: effectively and that there is an appropriate balance between the executive and non-executive directors and that all the Remuneration Audit Nomination non-executive directors are fully independent of management Board Committee Committee Committee and independent in character and judgment.
Colin Kemp non-executive director is an employee of Total meetings 8 5 4 2 Lloyds Banking Group.
Lloyds Banking Group is a customer 1 Scott Forbes 8 5 N A 2 of Rightmove Group Limited.
Until October 2009, Lloyds Jonathan Agnew 8 5 4 2 Banking Group owned Halifax Estate Agencies Ltd. Halifax Estate Agencies Ltd was a shareholder in Rightmove plc until Peter Brooks-Johnson 8 N A N A N A May 2008.
Therefore in strict application of the UKCGC, Colin Colin Kemp 7 N A N A N A Kemp is not considered to be independent, though he will be Ashley Martin 8 5 4 N A considered to be so from October 2012.
Nonetheless, the Board considers that Colin Kemp is independent in character Nick McKittrick 8 N A N A N A and in particular continues to challenge rigorously the Judy Vezmar 8 5 4 2 executive directors and the Board as a whole.
As a result, the composition of the Board for the year under review Ed Williams 8 N A N A N A was not in strict compliance with supporting principle 1 The Remuneration Committee Chairman has requested that the Chairman of B.
1.2 of the UKCGC in that at least half of the directors the Board attend the Remuneration Committee meetings.
excluding the Chairman are not considered independent non-executive directors.
24 24 business r business review eview corporate gover corporate governance finance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 In addition to the above meetings, the Chairman conducts Company Secretary, the Chairman monitors the information meetings with the non-executive directors without the provided to the Board to ensure that it is sufficient, pertinent, executive directors being present when required.
Agnew, the Senior Independent Director, chaired a meeting The Managing Director has day-to-day executive of the Board at which the performance of the Chairman was responsibility for the running of the Group, leading the also reviewed without the presence of the Chairman.
executive and operational teams in developing strategies and delivering results against defined targets to enable the Group Operation of the Board to meet its objectives.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall direction and control of the Group.
Its key task is to approve Board training strategy, ensuring the successful implementation of projects The breadth of management, financial and listed company and proposals and monitoring the operating performance experience of the non-executive directors is described in the of the Group in pursuit of its objectives in the interest of biographical details on pages 16 and 17, and demonstrates a maximising long-term shareholder value.
The Board has range of business expertise that provides the right mix of skills adopted a formal schedule of matters requiring specific and experience given the size of the Company.
These include, amongst other things, the approval procedures in place for individual Board members to receive of the annual business plan, capital structure, dividend policy, induction and training tailored to their individual needs and to acquisitions and disposals, appointment and removal of seek the advice and services of independent professional officers of the Company, approval of the Half year and Full advisers, at the Companys expense, where specific expertise year results, shareholder communication and responsibility or training is required in furtherance of their duties.
for corporate governance and review of the Groups risks and The directors disclose a qualifying third-party indemnity system of internal controls.
provision between the Company and its directors and officers The Board receives meeting papers to allow sufficient time as provided by the Articles of Association of the Company, for detailed review and consideration of the documents which was in force at the date of this report.
If any director has a concern about any aspect of also arranged directors and officers insurance cover in the business conducted at any Board meeting, the Company respect of legal action against the directors.
Secretary shall discuss this with the director concerned and The Group has set out written policies in compliance with record their concern or comments in the Board minutes.
a code of securities dealings in relation to the shares and The Board receives monthly management and financial reports equivalent to the Model Code published in the Listing Rules.
on the operational and financial performance of the business The code applies to all directors, other persons discharging setting out actual and forecast financial performance against managerial responsibility and other relevant employees.
approved budgets in addition to other key performance indicators.
The Board also receives copies of broker reports Performance evaluation and press releases relating to the Group.
At least once a year The Board conducted a Board evaluation exercise in quarter the Managing Director and the senior management team four of 2011 which was led by the Chairman, assisted by present a strategic review and an annual plan to the Board the Company Secretary.
All directors provided feedback on for review and approval.
the performance and operation of the Board and its The Board normally schedules eight meetings each year Committees.
The results were discussed at the Board although meetings can be scheduled at short notice at the meeting in December 2011.
The performance of the individual request of any director, or if required.
In addition to formal directors was evaluated by the Chairman with input from all Board meetings, there is regular informal dialogue between directors.
At a meeting chaired by Jonathan Agnew, Senior all directors.
Independent Director, without the presence of the Chairman, the Board provided input into and reviewed the performance Chairman and Managing Director of the Chairman.
The posts of Chairman and Managing Director are separate Following these evaluations the directors have concluded and there are clear written guidelines to support their division that the Board and its Committees are operating effectively of responsibilities.
The Chairman, Scott Forbes, is responsible and that each director is contributing effectively and for the effective conduct and leadership of the Board and for demonstrates commitment to their role.
With the assistance of the 25 www.
co. uk corporate governance continued The Board has agreed to organise an externally facilitated The Company will arrange for the Annual Report and Board evaluation at least once every three years and will take related papers to be available on the Companys corporate some time to review the external marketplace over the next website at www.
co. uk investors or posted year to determine an appropriate facilitator and process to shareholders where requested so as to allow at least alternatives with the aim of introducing an external evaluation 20 working days for consideration before the Annual in 2012.
The Company also complies with the UKCGC with the Relations with shareholders separation of all resolutions put to the vote of shareholders.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the The Company proactively encourages shareholders to vote performance and activities of the Company and welcomes at general meetings by providing electronic voting for the opportunities to engage with shareholders.
shareholders who hold their shares through the Crest system Within the terms of the regulatory framework, the and provides personalised proxy cards to ensure that all Company has conducted regular dialogue with institutional votes are clearly identifiable.
The Company presently takes shareholders through ongoing meetings with institutional votes at general meetings on a show of hands on the grounds investors and research firms to discuss strategy, operating of practicality due to the limited number of shareholders in performance and financial performance.
Contact in the UK is attendance.
Votes are taken by a poll at any shareholder principally with the Managing Director and Chief Operating meeting where legally required.
All proxy votes are counted Officer and Finance Director.
The Chairman also participates and the level of proxy votes including abstentions lodged for in the USA bi-annual investor road shows.
Jonathan Agnew, each resolution are reported after each resolution and Senior Independent Director, is also available to shareholders published on the Companys website.
if they wish to supplement communication or if contact through the normal channels is inappropriate.
Board committees The Board is kept informed of the views and opinions of The Board has established three principal committees, the those with an interest in the Company through reports from Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the the Managing Director and Chief Operating Officer and Nomination Committee, each of which operates within written Finance Director as well as reports from the Companys terms of reference approved by the Board.
No person other joint brokers, UBS and Numis.
than a Committee member is entitled to attend the meetings Shareholders are also kept up to date with the of these Committees, except by invitation of the Chairman of Groups activities through the Annual and Half year that Committee.
Reports and the investor relations section of its website, at www.
co. uk investors, which provides details Remuneration committee of all the directors, latest news, including financial results, The Remuneration Committees principal responsibility is investor presentations and Stock Exchange announcements.
for setting, reviewing and recommending to the Board the remuneration policy and strategy to ensure that the Conflicts of interest Companys executive directors and senior executives are In cases of doubt, the Chairman of the Board is responsible properly incentivised and fairly rewarded for their individual for determining whether a conflict of interest exists.
contributions to the Companys overall performance, having due regard to the interests of the shareholders and to the Annual General Meeting financial and commercial health of the Group.
Full details of The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for the Remuneration Committees responsibilities, and a report shareholders to vote on certain aspects of the Companys of its activities during the year, are set out in the Remuneration business to ask questions of the directors, who will also be Report on pages 30 to 42. available for discussions with shareholders prior to and after the meeting.
The Annual General Meeting will be held on Nomination committee 9 May 2012 at the offices of UBS Limited at 1 Finsbury The purpose of the Nomination Committee is to consider and Avenue, London, EC2M 2PP.
make recommendations to the Board about the composition of the Board, including proposed appointees, and whether to fill any vacancies that arise or to change the number of Board members.
26 26 business r business review eview corporate gover corporate governance finance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 The Nomination Committee consists of Scott Forbes The quorum for meetings of the Audit Committee is two who is also Chairman of the Board, Jonathan Agnew and members.
Appointments to the Committee are for a period Judy Vezmar as independent non-executive directors.
of up to three years, extendable by no more than two The quorum for meetings of the Nomination Committee is additional three year periods, so long as members continue two members.
The Chairman of the Company may not chair to be independent.
the Nomination Committee in connection with any discussion The Audit Committee meets at least four times a year about the appointment of his successor to the chairmanship and more often if necessary.
Two of its meetings are prior to of the Company.
In these circumstances, the Senior the announcement of the Half year and Full year results of Independent Director will take the chair.
Appointments are the Group, when the external auditor is in attendance.
for a period of up to three years, extendable by no more The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Audit than two additional three year periods, so long as members Committee.
The Chief Operating Officer and Finance Director continue to be independent.
and Financial Controller are normally invited to attend the The Nomination Committee meets at such times as may meetings.
Colin Kemp, non-executive director, is also invited be necessary and normally meets at least twice a year.
The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website, During 2011 the Audit Committee has, amongst other matters: www.
co. uk investors or by request from approved the appointment of the external auditor: the Company Secretary.
fixed their remuneration and reviewed the effectiveness of During the year the Nomination Committee has: the external audit process: approved the organisation structure: considered the need for an internal audit function: approved the plans for the succession of the executive considered its responsibilities to safeguard the audit directors and the senior management team: objectivity and independence as well as the needs of the agreed the process for the Boards annual evaluation: business and reviewed a policy for non-audit project work: considered the diversity of the Board and agreed the received the report from the external auditor on their review policy regarding gender composition on the Board: and of the 2010 Full year and reviewed the 2010 Annual Report: conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
agreed the remit of the 2011 audit plan by the external auditor: Audit committee received the report from the external auditor on their The Audit Committee assists the Board in the discharge of its review of the 2011 Half year results and reviewed the 2011 duties concerning the announcement of results, the Annual Half year Report: and Half year Reports and the maintenance of an effective reviewed the Groups treasury policy: system of internal controls.
It reviews the scope and planning received the report from the external auditor on their review of the audit and the auditors findings and considers the of the internal systems and controls: Groups accounting policies and the compliance with those reviewed the whistleblowing policy which provides the policies and applicable legal and accounting standards.
procedure for staff to report any concerns that they may The Audit Committee has authority to investigate any have independent of management about suspected areas of concern as to financial impropriety that arise and to misconduct without fear of retaliation : obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice reviewed the bribery policy and procedures for compliance in connection therewith.
The Audit Committees principal with the Bribery Act: and duties and terms of reference are available on the Companys conducted an annual review of its terms of reference.
co. uk investors, or by request from the Company Secretary.
Given the simplicity of the organisational structure, the open The Audit Committee consists of the three independent and accountable culture with clear authority limits, the non-executive directors, Ashley Martin who is Chairman, straightforward financial model and systems and the fact that Judy Vezmar and Jonathan Agnew.
Ashley Martin was the management team and Board conduct regular financial previously the Finance Director of Rok plc and Group Finance reviews, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board Director of the media services group Tempus Group plc and, that an internal audit function was not currently appropriate having relevant financial skills and experience, was appointed for the business.
This decision is kept under regular review.
to the role of Audit Committee Chairman on his appointment to the Board in June 2009.
co. uk corporate governance continued The Audit Committee also discussed its responsibilities to an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of safeguard the audit objectivity and independence as well as responsibility and delegation of authority: the needs of the business and agreed that it was practical in clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and many cases for the auditor to be assigned to other non-audit investment exist, including appropriate authorisation levels, project work due to their knowledge and expertise of the with larger capital projects, acquisitions and disposals business.
This would usually relate to corporate transaction requiring Board approval: advice and tax compliance.
The Audit Committee agreed a a comprehensive disaster recovery plan based upon policy that management be given authority to incur non-audit co-hosting of the Rightmove.
co. uk website across three fees up to 50% of the annual agreed audit and tax fee in any separate London locations, which is regularly tested financial year without the prior approval of the Audit and reviewed: Committee.
In 2011 the non-audit fees were 4,000 in a treasury function which manages cash flow forecasts relation to other advisory services and were 11,000 in and cash on deposit and is responsible for monitoring relation to tax advice and are fully disclosed in Note 6 of the compliance with banking agreements, where appropriate: financial statements.
a whistleblowing policy of which all employees are made aware, to enable concerns to be raised either with line Internal controls management or, if appropriate, confidentially outside the The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of line management structure: and internal controls and has established a framework of financial a bribery policy of which all employees are made aware, and other controls, which is periodically reviewed in to ensure compliance with the Bribery Act.
accordance with the Turnbull guidance for its effectiveness.
The Board has taken, and will continue to take, Through the procedures outlined above, the Board has appropriate measures to ensure that the chances of financial considered all significant aspects of internal control for the irregularities occurring are reduced as far as reasonably year and up to the date of this Annual Report.
possible by continually seeking to improve the quality of information at all levels in the Group, fostering an open Going concern environment and ensuring that the financial analysis is The Board is required under the UKCGC to consider whether rigorously applied.
Any system of internal control is designed or not it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve preparing the Group and the parent Company financial business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not statements.
absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As part of its normal business practice the Group The Groups management has established the procedures prepares annual and longer term financial plans.
In addition, necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for a going concern paper was prepared and presented to the identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to Audit Committee in February 2012 prior to it recommending the Group.
These procedures have been in place for the the approval of the financial statements and notes to whole of the financial year ended 31 December 2011 and up the accounts for the year ended 31 December 2011 to to the date of the approval of the financial statements and the Board.
After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company has adequate The key elements of the system of internal control are: resources and banking facilities to continue in operational major commercial, strategic, competitive and financial risks existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Board are formally identified, quantified and assessed, discussed continues to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the with the executive directors, after which they are considered annual report and financial statements.
Further information by the Board: is provided in Note 1 to the financial statements.
a comprehensive system of planning, budgeting and monitoring Group results.
This includes monthly management reporting and monitoring of performance against both budgets and forecasts with explanations for all significant variances: 28 28 business r business review eview corporate gover corporate governance finance financial statements rightmove plc annual report 2011 Statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Report and financial statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the Group and parent Company financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare Group and parent Company financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law they are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements on the same basis.
Under company law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and parent Company and of their profit or loss for that period.
In preparing each of the Group and parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether they have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Group and the parent Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the parent Company and enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They have general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
Under applicable law and regulations, the directors are also responsible for preparing a Directors Report, Directors Remuneration Report and Corporate Governance Statement that comply with that law and those regulations.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
