Governance Corporate governance continued Rio Tinto takes a unified approach to corporate governance to comply with for corporate governance and oversees managements control and annum, although the test also takes other circumstances into account.
Governance processes the regulatory obligations associated with its three principal stock accountability framework.
The chairman was considered independent on appointment under In 2011, there were eight scheduled board meetings and two board exchange listings in the UK, Australia and the US.
the Code, and in the boards view he continues to satisfy the tests for meetings convened and held at short notice.
Details of the directors A formal schedule of matters reserved by the board has been established by independence under the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
attendance at all of the board and committee meetings held in 2011 the directors.
This covers areas such as the Groups strategy, major investments are set out below.
Statement of compliance with governance codes and acquisitions and oversight of risk.
It is available on the website.
Executive directors other directorships and standards in 2011 Executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors The board has regular discussions with the executives during the year The board is ultimately accountable to Rio Tintos shareholders for the In compiling this report, the directors have referred to the UK Corporate of other companies.
The board has adopted a procedure under which on the Groups strategy.
These discussions will typically include strategy performance of the business.
Responsibility for day-to-day management Governance Code the Code, the Australian Securities Exchange ASX approval may be given to accept such invitations recognising the benefit presentations that are given by product group chief executives, other of the business is delegated to the chief executive and the Executive Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations 2nd edition to be derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from such appointments.
members of the Executive committee or global heads of function.
Authorities are also delegated to individual executives, all within with 2010 Amendments the ASX Principles, and the New York Stock For further information see page 104. board also holds an annual two day strategy-setting meeting with the an agreed financial control framework.
As part of the annual financial Exchange NYSE Corporate Governance Standards the NYSE Standards.
Executive committee which includes broader, detailed review sessions planning process, the board sets annual performance targets, which include Election and re-election on the Groups strategic direction.
The outputs from this event help Throughout 2011 and at the date of this report the Group applied personal and business performance measures, under the Groups short The directors may appoint additional members to join the board during the underpin the boards annual financial planning exercise and provide the principles of, and was compliant with, the provisions of Section 1 term incentive plan detailed on page 101.
These performance targets are year.
Directors appointed in this way will be subject to election by shareholders strategic direction and focus to the executive team through effective of the Code and with the ASX Principles.
determined by the Remuneration committee on behalf of the board for the at the first annual general meetings after their appointment.
In subsequent allocation of the Groups resources.
chief executive based upon his proposals and objectives for the year.
The years the directors are expected to submit themselves for re-election at the Rio Tinto plc, as a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares chief executive establishes targets for the other members of his Executive annual general meetings of each Company on an annual basis.
Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate information to enable listed on the NYSE, is obliged by the NYSE Standards to disclose any committee which are then cascaded throughout management teams.
them to fulfil their duties.
They also have direct access to the advice and significant ways in which its practices of corporate governance differ Non-executive directors are normally expected to serve at least six years Further details of the performance evaluation of the executive directors services of the company secretaries.
The directors are also able to obtain from the NYSE Standards.
and, except in special circumstances, would not normally serve more than and other senior executives is discussed in the Remuneration report.
independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
The Company has reviewed the NYSE Standards and believes that Board balance and independence its practices are broadly consistent with them, with one exception.
Directors membership of and attendance of board and committee meetings during 2011 Board composition The NYSE Standards state that companies must have a nominating Board Board Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Chairmans The names, skills and experience of each director together with their terms c c c c c c c corporate governance committee composed entirely of independent scheduled short notice committee committee committee committee committee in office are shown in the biographical details on pages 77 to 79.
Details of directors which, in addition to identifying individuals qualified to Tom Albanese 8 8 2 2 17 19 changes to the board during 2011 and in the year to date are set out in the become board members, develops and recommends to the board Robert Brown 7 8 2 2 5 5 4 4 Directors report on page 83. a set of corporate governance principles applicable to the Company.
d Vivienne Cox 8 8 1 2 5 5 5 5 4 4 Director independence Jan du Plessis 8 8 2 2 4 4 19 19 Rio Tinto has a Nominations committee, information about which The tests of independence of a non-executive director vary between the a Sir Rod Eddington 3 3 1 1 3 3 2 2 is set out on page 72.
This committee does not develop corporate jurisdictions where Rio Tinto has listings.
The board has adopted a formal Guy Elliott 8 8 2 2 15 19 governance principles for the boards approval.
The board itself policy for the determination of the independence of its non-executive a performs this task and approves the Groups overall system of Yves Fortier 3 3 1 1 3 3 2 2 directors which is available on the Groups website.
Applying the criteria of governance and internal controls.
Michael Fitzpatrick 8 8 1 2 6 6 3 3 4 4 the independence policy, the board is satisfied that all of its non-executive Ann Godbehere 8 8 1 2 6 6 4 4 directors are independent.
Further information about the corporate governance framework is Richard Goodmanson 8 8 2 2 3 3 5 5 4 4 available in the Shareholders section of Rio Tintos website.
Among the key criteria of the independence policy are independence from Andrew Gould 8 8 1 2 3 3 4 4 management and the absence of any business relationship which could Lord Kerr 8 8 1 2 6 6 5 5 4 4 The board materially interfere with the directors independence of judgement and ability b Chris Lynch 3 3 1 1 1 1 Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited have a common board of directors.
to provide a strong, valuable contribution to the boards deliberations, or which Paul Tellier 8 8 1 2 6 6 3 3 4 4 The directors are responsible for the success of the Group and, through could interfere with the directors ability to act in the best interests of the b John Varley 3 3 1 1 1 1 the independent oversight of management, are accountable to Group.
Where contracts in the ordinary course of business exist between Rio Sam Walsh 8 8 2 2 shareholders for the performance of the business.
Tinto and a company in which a director has declared an interest, these are a Retired from the board on 5 May 2011 reviewed for materiality to both the Group, and the other party to the contract.
Role and responsibilities b Appointed 1 September 2011 Material is defined in the policy as being where the relationship accounts The principal role of the board is to set the Groups vision and to regularly c Number of meetings attended maximum the director could have attended for more than two per cent of either partys consolidated gross revenue per review its strategic direction.
In doing this, the board also has responsibility d Stood down from Audit committee with effect from October 2011 Strat Strategy egy What w What we ha e hav five achie e achiev ved ed What ar What are our priorities e our priorities Pr Progr ogress against our priorities ess against our priorities Enhanced economic scenario planning: Enhanced economic scenario planning: Or Organic gr ganic gro owth pr wth progr ogramme continues t amme continues to r o ramp up whilst acquisitions amp up whilst acquisitions Succession Succession What w What we said e said complet completed ha ed hav five cr e creat eated further gr ed further gro owth options: wth options: R Re evie view e w ex xecutiv ecutive succession planning under the leader e succession planning under the leadership of the ship of the An asset allocation str An asset allocation strat ategy focusing on the r egy focusing on the relativ elative merit e merits of dividend s of dividend Prioritise v Prioritise value-adding gr alue-adding gro owth, and opportunistic mer wth, and opportunistic merger and ger and Nominations committ Nominations committee.
Major pr Major project ojects pr s progr ogressing w essing well with phased appr ell with phased approach t oach to allocating cash o allocating cash capital management v capital management ver ersus M&A gr sus M&A gro owth: and wth: and acquisition activity: acquisition activity: for in for inv vestment thr estment through the cy ough the cycle: cle: P Per erformance formance W Weather the curr eather the current economic w ent economic weakness and v eakness and volatility and capitalising olatility and capitalising Support the vision of global sect Support the vision of global sector leader or leadership thr ship through r ough regular r egular re evie view w Optimal application of human r Optimal application of human resour esources: ces: on opportunities, as and when these arise.
on opportunities, as and when these arise.
Disciplined capital appr Disciplined capital appro ov val pr al process r ocess resulting in US$16 billion capital esulting in US$16 billion capital and o and ov ver ersight of Gr sight of Group str oup strat ategy: egy: e expenditur xpenditure appr e appro ov ved for 2012: ed for 2012: L Leader eadership in mine oper ship in mine operations, pr ations, profitability and v ofitability and value accr alue accretiv etive gr e gro owth: wth: P People eople R Re evie view financial and non-financial per w financial and non-financial performance metrics t formance metrics to maintain o maintain High quality T High quality Tier 1 pr ier 1 project ojects in adv s in advanced study: anced study: Maintaining str Maintaining strength in the balance sheet: ength in the balance sheet: Globalising the business in r Globalising the business in relation t elation to emplo o employ yee div ee diver ersity and ensuring sity and ensuring a str a strong balance sheet: ong balance sheet: host country emplo host country employ yee r ee repr epresentation: and esentation: and K Keen focus on the Gr een focus on the Group oups risk s risks, incr s, increasing o easing ov ver ersight and r sight and re evie view of k w of ke ey y Deliv Delivery on e ery on existing commitment xisting commitments without losing sight of cr s without losing sight of credible edible L Lead succession planning for the boar ead succession planning for the board and senior e d and senior ex xecutiv ecutives: es: Embedding v Embedding values, ethics and go alues, ethics and gov vernance.
risk risks b s by boar y board and committ d and committees: ees: alt alternativ ernatives: es: Striv Strive for e e for ex xcellence in the Gr cellence in the Group oups go s gov vernance pr ernance processes and ocesses and Secur Secured an enhanced mix of e ed an enhanced mix of experience on the Boar xperience on the Board thr d through the ough the Addr Addressing the per essing the performance challenges within Rio T formance challenges within Rio Tint into Alcan: and o Alcan: and policies, including risk go policies, including risk gov vernance: and ernance: and appointment appointments of Chris L s of Chris Lynch and John V ynch and John Varle arley in 2011: y in 2011: Continued driv Continued drive for impr e for impro ov vement ements in safety per s in safety performance.
Deliv Deliver y er year-on-y ear-on-year impr ear impro ov vement in safety per ement in safety performance.
Ov Regr erettable fatalities in contr all progress against key indicat olled oper ors in 2011.
Over egr all pr ettabl ogr y ther ess against e were fatalities in contr key indicators in 2011: olled oper ations: Deliv Deliver ered continued impr ed continued impro ov vement ements in safety in t s in safety in terms of injury erms of injury fr frequency r equency rat ates: and es: and Achie Achiev ved balance sheet fle ed balance sheet flexibility allo xibility allowing the Gr wing the Group t oup to pur o pursue further sue further economic gr economic gro owth and or mer wth and or merger gers and acquisitions.
68 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 69 Governance annum, although the test also takes other circumstances into account.
Governance processes The chairman was considered independent on appointment under In 2011, there were eight scheduled board meetings and two board the Code, and in the boards view he continues to satisfy the tests for meetings convened and held at short notice.
Details of the directors independence under the ASX Principles and the NYSE Standards.
attendance at all of the board and committee meetings held in 2011 are set out below.
Executive directors other directorships Executive directors may be invited to become non-executive directors The board has regular discussions with the executives during the year of other companies.
These discussions will typically include strategy approval may be given to accept such invitations recognising the benefit presentations that are given by product group chief executives, other to be derived to the individual and to Rio Tinto from such appointments.
The For further information see page 104. board also holds an annual two day strategy-setting meeting with the Executive committee which includes broader, detailed review sessions Election and re-election on the Groups strategic direction.
The outputs from this event help The directors may appoint additional members to join the board during the underpin the boards annual financial planning exercise and provide year.
Directors appointed in this way will be subject to election by shareholders strategic direction and focus to the executive team through effective at the first annual general meetings after their appointment.
years the directors are expected to submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meetings of each Company on an annual basis.
Directors receive timely, regular and appropriate information to enable them to fulfil their duties.
They also have direct access to the advice and Non-executive directors are normally expected to serve at least six years services of the company secretaries.
The directors are also able to obtain and, except in special circumstances, would not normally serve more than independent professional advice at the Groups expense.
Directors membership of and attendance of board and committee meetings during 2011 Board Board Audit Remuneration Sustainability Nominations Chairmans c c c c c c c scheduled short notice committee committee committee committee committee Tom Albanese 8 8 2 2 17 19 Robert Brown 7 8 2 2 5 5 4 4 d Vivienne Cox 8 8 1 2 5 5 5 5 4 4 Jan du Plessis 8 8 2 2 4 4 19 19 a Sir Rod Eddington 3 3 1 1 3 3 2 2 Guy Elliott 8 8 2 2 15 19 a Yves Fortier 3 3 1 1 3 3 2 2 Michael Fitzpatrick 8 8 1 2 6 6 3 3 4 4 Ann Godbehere 8 8 1 2 6 6 4 4 Richard Goodmanson 8 8 2 2 3 3 5 5 4 4 Andrew Gould 8 8 1 2 3 3 4 4 Lord Kerr 8 8 1 2 6 6 5 5 4 4 b Chris Lynch 3 3 1 1 1 1 Paul Tellier 8 8 1 2 6 6 3 3 4 4 b John Varley 3 3 1 1 1 1 Sam Walsh 8 8 2 2 a Retired from the board on 5 May 2011 b Appointed 1 September 2011 c Number of meetings attended maximum the director could have attended d Stood down from Audit committee with effect from October 2011 Strategy What we have achieved What are our priorities Progress against our priorities Enhanced economic scenario planning: Organic growth programme continues to ramp up whilst acquisitions Succession What we said completed have created further growth options: Review executive succession planning under the leadership of the An asset allocation strategy focusing on the relative merits of dividend Prioritise value-adding growth, and opportunistic merger and Nominations committee.
Major projects progressing well with phased approach to allocating cash capital management versus M&A growth: and acquisition activity: for investment through the cycle: Performance Weather the current economic weakness and volatility and capitalising Support the vision of global sector leadership through regular review Optimal application of human resources: on opportunities, as and when these arise.
Disciplined capital approval process resulting in US$16 billion capital and oversight of Group strategy: expenditure approved for 2012: Leadership in mine operations, profitability and value accretive growth: People Review financial and non-financial performance metrics to maintain High quality Tier 1 projects in advanced study: Maintaining strength in the balance sheet: Globalising the business in relation to employee diversity and ensuring a strong balance sheet: host country employee representation: and Keen focus on the Groups risks, increasing oversight and review of key Delivery on existing commitments without losing sight of credible Lead succession planning for the board and senior executives: Embedding values, ethics and governance.
risks by board and committees: alternatives: Strive for excellence in the Groups governance processes and Secured an enhanced mix of experience on the Board through the Addressing the performance challenges within Rio Tinto Alcan: and policies, including risk governance: and appointments of Chris Lynch and John Varley in 2011: Continued drive for improvements in safety performance.
Deliver year-on-year improvement in safety performance.
Regrettable fatalities in controlled operations.
Overall progress against key indicators in 2011: Delivered continued improvements in safety in terms of injury frequency rates: and Achieved balance sheet flexibility allowing the Group to pursue further economic growth and or mergers and acquisitions.
com 69 Governance Corporate governance continued In addition, the directors are in regular informal communication with A similar process was followed for the board committees.
Actions included: The Committee considered reports from PwC and Rio Tinto Corporate Board committees members of the Executive committee and other senior executives.
This Assurance on the activities undertaken in reviewing and auditing the Audit committee mapping the Groups key risks to the remit of each board committee helps to foster an open and regular exchange of knowledge and experience.
control environment in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the Members of the Committee are Ann Godbehere chair, Michael Fitzpatrick, and ensuring agendas maintain a focus on these risks: internal control system.
This included an evaluation of the effectiveness Lord Kerr and Paul Tellier.
Vivienne Cox was a member of the Audit All new non-executive directors undertake a formal induction programme.
continually improving safety metrics with a goal of zero harm: and of the Groups internal controls over financial reporting and the Groups committee until 17 October 2011.
In addition, they are routinely provided with training and development disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with sections 404 and maintaining a focus on executive succession planning.
In 2011, these included a briefing on the Bribery Act.
Key responsibilities 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 respectively.
A review of the scope and The directors are also encouraged to participate in site visits to the The performance of the chairman is evaluated by the non-executive The primary function of the Audit committee, as set out in its terms of the outputs from the annual Internal Control Questionnaire, a key element Groups operations around the world and to meet local employees.
directors, with input from members of the executive.
The process is led reference which are summarised below, is to assist the board in fulfilling its of Rio Tintos internal control framework, was also evaluated.
In 2011, the board visited our operations in: the Pilbara, Western Australia: by the senior independent non-executive director.
responsibilities by monitoring decisions and processes designed to ensure and our coal mines in Queensland.
The board also takes the opportunity The external auditor attended all six committee meetings during the the integrity of financial reporting and sound systems of internal control The chief executive undertakes a performance evaluation of the to combine attendance at the annual general meeting in Australia with year.
In advance of the Committee meetings, the audit partners brief the and risk management.
The scope of the Committees responsibilities other executive directors, with input from the chairman and the site visits.
Following the majority of the meetings, includes: financial reporting and internal controls over financial reporting: non-executive directors.
a private session was held with members of the external audit team to internal controls: corporate assurance: external auditors: risk management: Board performance evaluation discuss the status of the audit and nature of interaction with management.
Based upon the results of these evaluations, it was concluded that the and the whistleblowing programme.
An annual exercise is undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of the board, board and its committees are operating effectively and that the individual board committees and individual directors.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of PwC In carrying out its responsibilities the Committee has full authority to directors performance continues to be effective and demonstrates the for Group audit and local, statutory audit work.
The evaluation took the investigate all matters that fall within its terms of reference.
Accordingly, For 2011, the board evaluation process was led by the chairman and managed level of commitment expected by Rio Tinto.
form of a survey comprising a range of questions covering objectivity and the Committee may: by the company secretary.
Questionnaires were completed by each director, quality and efficiency and was completed by individual Rio Tinto business the results of which informed discussions between the company secretary Governance structure obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties units.
The results of this survey were presented to the Committee which and each individual director.
The chairman personally appraises the The board has established committees which are responsible for audit, at the cost of the Group: and concluded that PwC continued to provide a high quality audit and an performance of non-executive directors each year and provides feedback on remuneration, succession and sustainability.
In addition, a Chairmans effective and independent challenge to management.
The Committee was have such direct access to the resources of the Group as it may each individuals performance and contribution.
The board considered the committee operates under delegated authority between scheduled board satisfied with the external audit process and that the independence of the reasonably require including the external and internal auditors.
output from its performance evaluation.
These assist the board in ensuring that high standards of external auditors was in no way compromised.
The Audit committees main responsibilities include the review of corporate governance are maintained across the Group.
regular discussion on Rio Tintos strategic position relative to its peers, PwC has been the external auditor since the formation of the dual listed accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation and high risk topics, such as iron ore pricing, Simandou and Oyu Tolgoi: The committees are governed by terms of reference which are reviewed company structure in 1995.
The Committee does not consider it necessary of public financial information, review with management of procedures continued development of directors knowledge and understanding annually and can be viewed in the corporate governance section of to undertake a tender process for the Groups external auditors.
Since 2002, relating to financial and capital expenditure controls, including internal of the business and operating environment through the site visits and the website.
PwC has followed the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley and APB Ethical audit plans and reports, review with external auditors of the scope and specific training: and Standards and rotated the audit partner at least every five years.
This results of their audit, review and approval of the auditors fees, the The chief executive is assisted by the work of management committees continued refreshing of the team brings new perspectives to the audit and striving for an optimal allocation of human resources, particularly in nomination of auditors for appointment by shareholders, and the review in monitoring performance and delivering Rio Tinto strategy.
promotes healthy debate between auditors and management as well as non-OECD locations where the Groups dependency and exposure of and recommendation to the board for approval of Rio Tintos risk the Committee.
The current UK audit partner, Richard Hughes, was is increasing.
Its responsibilities also include the appointed for the 2011 year end and therefore 2015 will be his last year oversight of the whistleblowing programme.
of involvement before transition to a new partner.
The current Australian Governance structure Governance processes audit partner, Rob Hubbard, retires after the 2011 year end audit process In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee met six times in 2011. having served as audit partner since 2007.
PwCs transitional arrangements Board of directors The Groups chairman, chief executive, chief financial officer, other have been reviewed and the Committee is satisfied that the new partner, senior management and external and internal auditors regularly attend Paul Bendall, is ready to take on this role.
Board committees Audit Nominations Sustainability Remuneration Chairmans What we did in 2011 The members of the Committee are independent and free of any committee committee committee committee committee Reviewed implementation of revised Group risk management processes: relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their Reviewed mineral resources and ore reserves governance and responsibilities.
The members meet the independence requirements reporting processes: of the Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Code and US legislation.
Focused on impairment, acquisitions and the Annual report: The Committee meets the composition, operation and responsibility Reviewed and approved the Integrity and Compliance Programme: Chief executive Chief financial officer requirements of the ASX Principles.
Oversight of transition of lead audit partner: The Committee is also bound by SEC requirements for audit committees Engaged with management over tax transparency reporting: and financial experts and the Code and ASX Principles requirement that at least one Committee member should have recent and relevant financial Oversight of the tender for, and appointment of the Internal Audit Management Disclosure and Investment Executive qualifications and experience.
Ann Godbehere, chairman of the Committee, service provider.
committees procedures committee committee is considered by the board to have recent and relevant financial experience committee What we are doing in 2012 and financial qualifications and has been designated the Committees Implementation of dedicated induction, training and development financial expert.
All other members of the Committee are, in the opinion programme for all Committee members: of the Committee, deemed to be financially literate by virtue of their Overview of Internal Audit Strategy for 2013 14: business experience.
Monitoring effectiveness of the Groups risk management process: Continuous Closure Ore reserves Risk Strategy and finance The Committee applies policies for the pre-approval of permitted services disclosure committee steering management committee Oversight of transition of Australian external audit partner: provided by the Groups external auditors  LLP a committee committee committee PwC.
All of the engagements for services provided by them were either Appointment of new Head of Corporate Assurance: and within the pre-approval policies or approved by the Committee.
The Engagement with European Commission over EU audit reform proposals.
Committee members are satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by PwC in accordance with this procedure is compatible with the general a The Continuous Disclosure committee is an independent management committee.
standard of independence for auditors imposed by relevant regulations, Ann Godbehere including the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and US legislation.
Chairman 70 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 71 Governance The Committee considered reports from PwC and Rio Tinto Corporate Board committees Assurance on the activities undertaken in reviewing and auditing the Audit committee control environment in order to assess the quality and effectiveness of the Members of the Committee are Ann Godbehere chair, Michael Fitzpatrick, internal control system.
Vivienne Cox was a member of the Audit of the Groups internal controls over financial reporting and the Groups committee until 17 October 2011. disclosure controls and procedures in accordance with sections 404 and Key responsibilities 302 of the Sarbanes Oxley Act 2002 respectively.
A review of the scope and The primary function of the Audit committee, as set out in its terms of the outputs from the annual Internal Control Questionnaire, a key element reference which are summarised below, is to assist the board in fulfilling its of Rio Tintos internal control framework, was also evaluated.
responsibilities by monitoring decisions and processes designed to ensure The external auditor attended all six committee meetings during the the integrity of financial reporting and sound systems of internal control year.
The scope of the Committees responsibilities chairman on key matters.
Following the majority of the meetings, includes: financial reporting and internal controls over financial reporting: a private session was held with members of the external audit team to internal controls: corporate assurance: external auditors: risk management: discuss the status of the audit and nature of interaction with management.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the effectiveness of PwC In carrying out its responsibilities the Committee has full authority to for Group audit and local, statutory audit work.
Accordingly, form of a survey comprising a range of questions covering objectivity and the Committee may: quality and efficiency and was completed by individual Rio Tinto business obtain independent professional advice in the satisfaction of its duties units.
The results of this survey were presented to the Committee which at the cost of the Group: and concluded that PwC continued to provide a high quality audit and an effective and independent challenge to management.
The Committee was have such direct access to the resources of the Group as it may satisfied with the external audit process and that the independence of the reasonably require including the external and internal auditors.
external auditors was in no way compromised.
The Audit committees main responsibilities include the review of PwC has been the external auditor since the formation of the dual listed accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation company structure in 1995.
The Committee does not consider it necessary of public financial information, review with management of procedures to undertake a tender process for the Groups external auditors.
Since 2002, relating to financial and capital expenditure controls, including internal PwC has followed the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley and APB Ethical audit plans and reports, review with external auditors of the scope and Standards and rotated the audit partner at least every five years.
This results of their audit, review and approval of the auditors fees, the continued refreshing of the team brings new perspectives to the audit and nomination of auditors for appointment by shareholders, and the review promotes healthy debate between auditors and management as well as of and recommendation to the board for approval of Rio Tintos risk the Committee.
The current UK audit partner, Richard Hughes, was management policies and processes.
The current Australian Governance processes audit partner, Rob Hubbard, retires after the 2011 year end audit process In discharging its responsibilities, the Committee met six times in 2011. having served as audit partner since 2007.
PwCs transitional arrangements The Groups chairman, chief executive, chief financial officer, other have been reviewed and the Committee is satisfied that the new partner, senior management and external and internal auditors regularly attend Paul Bendall, is ready to take on this role.
What we did in 2011 The members of the Committee are independent and free of any Reviewed implementation of revised Group risk management processes: relationship that would affect their impartiality in carrying out their Reviewed mineral resources and ore reserves governance and responsibilities.
Focused on impairment, acquisitions and the Annual report: The Committee meets the composition, operation and responsibility Reviewed and approved the Integrity and Compliance Programme: requirements of the ASX Principles.
Oversight of transition of lead audit partner: The Committee is also bound by SEC requirements for audit committees Engaged with management over tax transparency reporting: and financial experts and the Code and ASX Principles requirement that at least one Committee member should have recent and relevant financial Oversight of the tender for, and appointment of the Internal Audit qualifications and experience.
is considered by the board to have recent and relevant financial experience What we are doing in 2012 and financial qualifications and has been designated the Committees Implementation of dedicated induction, training and development financial expert.
Monitoring effectiveness of the Groups risk management process: The Committee applies policies for the pre-approval of permitted services Oversight of transition of Australian external audit partner: provided by the Groups external auditors  LLP PwC.
Committee members are satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by PwC in accordance with this procedure is compatible with the general standard of independence for auditors imposed by relevant regulations, Ann Godbehere including the Australian Corporations Act 2001 and US legislation.
com 71 Governance Corporate governance continued Nominations committee What we did in 2011 A three year commitment by the chairman to mentoring high potential Diversity and inclusion Members of the Committee are Jan du Plessis chair, Robert Brown, Assessed safety performance and progress towards embedding a zero female board candidates through the FTSE100 Cross-company Our commitment to diversity and inclusion Vivienne Cox, Michael Fitzpatrick, Ann Godbehere, Richard Goodmanson, harm culture through the Group and its non-managed operations: Mentoring Programme.
We are a global company, and wherever we operate, and across every Andrew Gould, Lord Kerr, Chris Lynch, Paul Tellier and John Varley.
Monitored progress made with the Groups process safety programmes part of our business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which Sir Rod Eddington and Yves Fortier were members of the Committee Participation by the managing director Australia in the Male in identifying and understanding critical process safety risk and the difference is recognised and valued.
By bringing together men and until retirement on 5 May 2011. champions of change initiative of corporate leaders to promote development of mitigation plans: women from diverse backgrounds and giving each person the opportunity strategies and actions to elevate womens representation in leadership.
Following the Committees site visit at the Pilbara, Western Australia, Key responsibilities to contribute their skills, experience and perspectives, we believe that we considered how Rio Tinto Iron Ore meets the challenges of balancing water The Committee is responsible, on behalf of the board, for regularly Proportion of women employees and board members are able to develop the best solutions to challenges and deliver demand, supply and distribution: assessing the balance of executive and non-executive directors and the In 2011, the proportion of women on the board was 14 per cent, in senior sustainable value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders.
composition of the board in terms of the skills, diversity and capacity Reviewed the Groups integrated approach to managing land access risk, management 14 per cent and in the overall workforce 18 per cent.
What diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto required to oversee the delivery of Rio Tinto strategy.
focused on emerging biodiversity offset requirements and the importance Measurable objectives and progress Embracing workforce diversity age, gender, race, national or of rehabilitation performance in support of the Groups licence to operate: The Committee develops and agrees the desired profiles of potential We established the following five year measurable objectives for ethnic origin, religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation, Reviewed the work performed relating to land with post-operational candidates for board membership.
It oversees the recruitment process workforce diversity at the start of 2011. physical ability.
environmental contamination for which the Group is liable for restoration in consultation with external search consultants.
Proposals for new board Valuing diversity of perspective leveraging the diverse thinking, Measurable objective Progress or other remedial actions: members are submitted to the full board for approval.
skills, experience and working styles of our employees and Women to represent 20 per cent of our Women represented 14 per cent of our Considered the implications of emerging legislation, including national other stakeholders.
senior management by 2015. senior management in 2011.
On behalf of the board, the Committee also reviews proposals for senior developments around the world on climate change policy: and executive appointments, monitors executive succession planning and Women to represent 40 per cent of our Women represented 35 per cent of our Building a flexible organisation providing opportunities for work Reviewed work plans formulated for health, safety, environment, 2015 graduate intake.
oversees the boards policy on external appointments of executive arrangements that accommodate the diverse needs of individuals communities and employment practices.
15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake 21 per cent of our 2011 graduate intake at different career and life stages.
to be nationals from regions where we were nationals from regions where we What we are doing in 2012 Respecting stakeholder diversity developing strong and sustainable Governance processes are developing new businesses.
Review reputational risks around non-managed operations within the relationships with diverse shareholders, communities, employees, In 2011, the Committee met four times.
wider context of identified risks within the Committees remit: governments, customers and suppliers.
Two new objectives relating to diversity of the board were added The members of the Committee are independent in accordance with the Consider deep dives on key risks and managements plans for tackling during 2011.
How we support diversity and inclusion independence policy adopted by the board.
them: and We use the following to drive action and build awareness about diversity The Nominations committee will undertake a review of board diversity What we did in 2011 Undertake locally-focused sustainable development reviews with and inclusion: in 2012.
Reviewed the plans formulated for both executive and non-executive management during site visits.
Governance models During each director selection and appointment process, the director succession: professional search firm supporting the board will provide at least Policies, practices and targets Considered the implications arising from the annual re-election of Richard Goodmanson one credible and suitably experienced female candidate.
directors, including possible revisions to terms of appointment: and Leadership and cultural competence Chairman The board will assess the objectives annually, as well as the progress Monitored emerging regulation, including relating to diversity, Stakeholder relationships Remuneration committee in achieving them.
and adopted a Diversity and inclusion policy.
Members of the Committee are John Varley chair, Michael Fitzpatrick, Richard Goodmanson, Andrew Gould and Paul Tellier.
Andrew Gould was Board diversity What we are doing in 2012 We prioritise long and short-term programmes based on need chairman of the Committee until 17 October 2011.
The board has been actively engaged in the corporate governance Continue regular executive succession planning reviews, including and impact.
reviews highlighting issues surrounding board diversity.
The board in relation to the chief executive, and taking into account the Groups Key responsibilities Read a summary of our Diversity and Inclusion Policy in the corporate reviewed its corporate governance practices during the year, including Diversity and inclusion policy: The Remuneration committee assists the board to fulfil its oversight governance section of our website.
how the director selection and appointment process takes into account Enhance the knowledge and skills of the board through the addition of responsibility to shareholders to ensure that remuneration policy and the boards desired mix of skills and diversity.
The review included an new, suitably diverse directors with good understanding and experience practices reward fairly and responsibly and with a clear link to corporate Our current focus assessment of the terms of reference of the Nominations committee and of the worlds emerging economies: and and individual performance.
Our goal is to have a workforce that is representative of the countries and Remuneration committee, and resulted in amendments in relation to Further development of the quality and depth of bench-strength communities in which we operate.
Currently, our focus is to improve the board appointments and succession planning.
More information about The report of the Remuneration committee on pages 86 to 118 has of the executive.
representation of women and of people from nationalities which are the selection, appointment and election of directors is available in the been recommended by the Committee for approval by the board.
corporate governance section of the website.
Key responsibilities, governance processes, key achievements in 2011 Jan du Plessis and priorities for 2011 are set out in the report.
Some of the activities and initiatives relating to diversity that we The Nominations committee regularly reviews the structure, size and Chairman undertook during the year are: composition of the board.
As a consequence of this review in 2011 the Chairmans committee Sustainability committee board formalised the following statement as to the mix of skills and Members of the Committee are Jan du Plessis chair, Tom Albanese and Establishment of a Group Diversity and Inclusion Council, an internal Members of the Committee are Richard Goodmanson chair, Robert diversity it is looking to achieve in membership of the board.
executive advisory group helping to drive necessary changes to our Brown, Lord Kerr and Vivienne Cox.
Sir Rod Eddington and Yves Fortier processes and culture to gain the full business benefits of diversity In leading a global mining and metals company, the board seeks were members of the Committee until retirement on 5 May 2011.
to continually evolve its membership by seeking non-executive The Committee acts on behalf of the board between scheduled board Key responsibilities Establishment of a diversity champions network to share best practice directors with diverse and complementary skills and perspectives, meetings either in accordance with authority delegated by the board or as The Committee assists the board to oversee management processes, across businesses, geographies and functions and support the work as well as experience which reflects the geographic spread of specifically set out within its terms of reference.
It supports the functioning standards, and strategies designed to manage social and environmental of the Diversity and Inclusion Council.
Core skills required for non-executive of the board and ensures that the business of the board and its committees risks and achieve compliance with social and environmental responsibilities membership of the board are maintained.
These skills may, Development of a Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy that sets out is properly planned and aligned with management.
When mandated by the and commitments.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of depending upon the circumstances, comprise international principles and guides the direction for diversity and inclusion efforts.
board, the Chairmans committee will consider urgent matters between management policies and procedures relating to safety, health, business, financial or public policy experience, strategic acumen Amendment to the terms of reference of the Remuneration board meetings, and deal with the implementation of board decisions on employment practices, relationships with neighbouring communities, or mining or metals industry experience.
The board aspires to committee to formalise its responsibility to review remuneration transactions and other corporate matters.
Other than for the chairman of environment, human rights, land access, political involvement and increase other aspects of diversity, including the gender diversity, by gender across the Group.
the board, the Committee performs the annual review of non-executive sustainable development.
of directors in order to bring a diversity of skills, experience and directors fees and makes a recommendation to the board, as appropriate.
Pilot training programmes in unconscious bias to help minimise perspective to the governance of the Group.
The board recognises Governance processes the impact of bias in recruitment and development practices and that the evolution of the mix of skills and diversity is a long-term In 2011, the Committee met five times.
The chairman, chief executive, extension of cultural competency training to enhance our capability process and weighs the various factors relevant to board balance and other senior management regularly attend its meetings.
to grow and globalise the Company.
and diversity when vacancies arise.
The members of the Committee are all independent.
72 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 73 Governance A three year commitment by the chairman to mentoring high potential Diversity and inclusion female board candidates through the FTSE100 Cross-company Our commitment to diversity and inclusion Mentoring Programme.
We are a global company, and wherever we operate, and across every part of our business, we strive to create an inclusive culture in which Participation by the managing director Australia in the Male difference is recognised and valued.
By bringing together men and champions of change initiative of corporate leaders to promote women from diverse backgrounds and giving each person the opportunity strategies and actions to elevate womens representation in leadership.
to contribute their skills, experience and perspectives, we believe that we Proportion of women employees and board members are able to develop the best solutions to challenges and deliver In 2011, the proportion of women on the board was 14 per cent, in senior sustainable value for Rio Tinto and its stakeholders.
management 14 per cent and in the overall workforce 18 per cent.
What diversity and inclusion means for Rio Tinto Measurable objectives and progress Embracing workforce diversity age, gender, race, national or We established the following five year measurable objectives for ethnic origin, religion, language, political beliefs, sexual orientation, workforce diversity at the start of 2011. physical ability.
Valuing diversity of perspective leveraging the diverse thinking, Measurable objective Progress skills, experience and working styles of our employees and Women to represent 20 per cent of our Women represented 14 per cent of our other stakeholders.
Women to represent 40 per cent of our Women represented 35 per cent of our Building a flexible organisation providing opportunities for work 2015 graduate intake.
arrangements that accommodate the diverse needs of individuals 15 per cent of our 2015 graduate intake 21 per cent of our 2011 graduate intake at different career and life stages.
to be nationals from regions where we were nationals from regions where we Respecting stakeholder diversity developing strong and sustainable are developing new businesses.
relationships with diverse shareholders, communities, employees, governments, customers and suppliers.
Two new objectives relating to diversity of the board were added during 2011.
How we support diversity and inclusion We use the following to drive action and build awareness about diversity The Nominations committee will undertake a review of board diversity and inclusion: in 2012.
Governance models During each director selection and appointment process, the professional search firm supporting the board will provide at least Policies, practices and targets one credible and suitably experienced female candidate.
Leadership and cultural competence The board will assess the objectives annually, as well as the progress Stakeholder relationships in achieving them.
Board diversity We prioritise long and short-term programmes based on need The board has been actively engaged in the corporate governance and impact.
The board Read a summary of our Diversity and Inclusion Policy in the corporate reviewed its corporate governance practices during the year, including governance section of our website.
how the director selection and appointment process takes into account the boards desired mix of skills and diversity.
The review included an Our current focus assessment of the terms of reference of the Nominations committee and Our goal is to have a workforce that is representative of the countries and Remuneration committee, and resulted in amendments in relation to communities in which we operate.
More information about representation of women and of people from nationalities which are the selection, appointment and election of directors is available in the under-represented in our workforce.
Some of the activities and initiatives relating to diversity that we The Nominations committee regularly reviews the structure, size and undertook during the year are: composition of the board.
As a consequence of this review in 2011 the board formalised the following statement as to the mix of skills and Establishment of a Group Diversity and Inclusion Council, an internal diversity it is looking to achieve in membership of the board.
executive advisory group helping to drive necessary changes to our processes and culture to gain the full business benefits of diversity In leading a global mining and metals company, the board seeks and inclusion.
to continually evolve its membership by seeking non-executive Establishment of a diversity champions network to share best practice directors with diverse and complementary skills and perspectives, across businesses, geographies and functions and support the work as well as experience which reflects the geographic spread of of the Diversity and Inclusion Council.
Core skills required for non-executive membership of the board are maintained.
These skills may, Development of a Group Diversity and Inclusion Policy that sets out depending upon the circumstances, comprise international principles and guides the direction for diversity and inclusion efforts.
business, financial or public policy experience, strategic acumen Amendment to the terms of reference of the Remuneration or mining or metals industry experience.
The board aspires to committee to formalise its responsibility to review remuneration increase other aspects of diversity, including the gender diversity, by gender across the Group.
of directors in order to bring a diversity of skills, experience and Pilot training programmes in unconscious bias to help minimise perspective to the governance of the Group.
The board recognises the impact of bias in recruitment and development practices and that the evolution of the mix of skills and diversity is a long-term extension of cultural competency training to enhance our capability process and weighs the various factors relevant to board balance to grow and globalise the Company.
com 73 Governance Corporate governance continued Communication with stakeholders Risk management In 2011, information was reported by management to the Audit committee Other disclosures Rio Tinto recognises the importance of effective timely communication with Risk management to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the internal controls and the Global code of conduct shareholders and the wider investment community.
Rio Tintos overriding objective is to generate attractive sustainable returns management of material business risks.
In addition, as part of their role, Rio Tintos commitment to integrity and compliance is set out in The way to shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, long-term, the board and its committees routinely monitor the Groups material we work.
This contains principles and standards of conduct which reaffirm To ensure that trading in its securities takes place in an informed market, cost-competitive mines and businesses.
The directors recognise that business risks.
the Groups commitment to corporate responsibility.
It is inspired by our the Group has adopted continuous disclosure standards which are creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
four core values: accountability, respect, teamwork and integrity.
overseen by the Continuous Disclosure committee and form part of the Due to the limitations inherent in any risk management system, the The risks facing shareholders are, to some extent, managed by the Groups Groups corporate governance standards.
The committee is responsible process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material business It is supported by Rio Tintos extensive framework of policies and standards.
diversified portfolio of assets spread across multiple geographies, for determining whether information relating to Rio Tinto may require risks is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and to provide Core policies are adopted by the board after wide consultation, externally currencies and commodities.
disclosure to the markets under the continuous disclosure requirements in reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement and within the Group.
Once adopted, they are communicated to business the jurisdictions in which Rio Tinto is listed.
The members of the committee A description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect or loss.
Certain risks, for example natural disasters, cannot be managed units worldwide, together with mandatory standards, guidance notes and are: the chief financial officer chair : the company secretary of Rio Tinto Rio Tinto are found on pages 10 to 12. to an acceptable degree using internal controls.
Such major risks are resources to support implementation.
Business units are required to devote plc: general counsel, Asia Pacific: the head of Business Development: the transferred to third parties in the international insurance markets, to the the necessary effort by management to implement and report on these Risk policy and standard head of Investor Relations: and the global practice leader, Media Relations.
The Group has material investments in a policies and standards.
The board recognises that risk is an integral component of the business, number of jointly controlled entities and associates.
Where Rio Tinto does Rio Tinto makes immediate disclosure to the listing authorities of any and that it is characterised by both threat and opportunity.
The Group Rio Tintos core policies, addressed in The way we work, include: access to not have managerial control, it cannot guarantee that local management information that a reasonable person would expect to have a material effect fosters a risk aware corporate culture in all decision making, and is land: business integrity: communities: corporate governance: employment: of mining and related assets will comply with Rio Tinto standards or on its share price in accordance with their rules.
All information released committed to managing all risk in a proactive and effective manner through environment: human rights: internal controls and reporting: occupational objectives.
Accordingly, the review of their internal controls is less to the markets is posted on the media section of the website.
To support this commitment, risk is analysed health: political involvement: government relations: safety: sustainable comprehensive than that of the Groups managed operations.
in order to inform the management decisions taken at all levels within the development: and transparency.
These are supported by policies in the In addition to statutory documents, Rio Tintos website features in-depth organisation.
The principles of the risk analysis and management process Auditors and internal assurance areas of data privacy, risk, information management and security.
information on health, safety and the environment, corporate governance, are set out in the Risk policy and standard which is on the website.
As indicated in the report of the Audit committee on page 71, Rio Tinto as well as general investor information, publications and policies and Each policy is supported by standards and guidance, expanding on the has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence of the Groups guidance.
Annual and half year results, as well as any major presentations, Risk approach minimum expectations on topics such as antitrust, continuous disclosure, external auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide other are also webcast.
Presentation material from investor seminars is also The Risk policy and standard is supported by an integrated framework antibribery, compliance, cultural heritage and health, safety and the accounting and other professional services that might compromise their made available on the website.
of risk governance and reporting specifying how the Group organises environment.
These policies and standards apply to all Rio Tinto managed appointment as independent auditors.
Together with the policy, the framework provides an businesses.
Where the Group does not have operating responsibility for a The annual general meetings present an opportunity to provide a summary on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The engagement of the external auditors to provide statutory audit business, Rio Tintos policies are communicated to its business partners business presentation, to inform shareholders of recent developments risks faced by the Group.
Clear accountability for risk management is services, other services pursuant to legislation, taxation services and and they are encouraged to adopt similar policies of their own.
Rio Tinto and to give them the opportunity to ask questions.
Generally, the chairs defined throughout the Group and is a key performance area of line certain other services are pre-approved.
Any engagement of the external employees are required to undertake training about the requirements of of all board committees will be available to answer questions raised by managers.
The process has been in place for 2011 and up to the date auditors to provide other permitted services is subject to the specific The way we work and other core policies.
shareholders and all directors are expected to attend where possible.
approval of the Audit committee or its chairman.
Rio Tintos external auditor, , attends the annual Whistleblowing programme general meetings and is available to answer questions about the conduct To support risk understanding and management at all levels, the Group Prior to the commencement of each financial year the chief financial officer The board has adopted a whistleblowing programme called Speak-OUT.
of the audit and the preparation and content of the auditors report.
Any Risk function provides the necessary infrastructure, information collation and the external auditors submit to the Audit committee a schedule of the Employees may report concerns, including suspicion of violations of the questions received and answers provided ahead of the annual general for the senior executive, and co-ordination between other risk-focused types of services that are expected to be performed during the following Groups financial reporting or environmental procedures.
The Speak-OUT meetings are made available to shareholders, who also have the functions.
Group Risk reports into the Risk management committee.
The Audit committee may impose a financial limit programme is independently administered, confidential, and our opportunity to meet informally with directors after the meetings.
on the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
Any employees can use this programme without fear of recrimination.
Internal controls non-audit service provided by the external auditors, where the expected The main channels of communication with the investment community are The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls Dealing in Rio Tinto securities fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must be subject to the Groups normal through the chairman, chief executive and chief financial officer, who have and for reviewing annually its effectiveness in providing shareholders Rio Tinto has a set of rules which restrict the dealing in Rio Tinto securities tender procedures.
regular meetings with the Companies major shareholders.
The senior with a return on their investments that is consistent with a responsible by directors and employees with access to inside information.
These rules independent director, chairmen of board committees, and other nonassessment and management of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is authorised to require those people to seek clearance from the chairman or the company executive directors are also available on request.
The senior independent operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures engage the external auditors to provide such services without going to secretary before any proposed dealing to ensure that they do not deal director has a specific responsibility to be available to shareholders who and their effectiveness.
The directors have completed their annual review tender, but if the fees are expected to exceed certain pre-determined when in possession of inside information.
Directors and members of the have concerns, and where contact with the chairman, chief executive or and assessment for 2011.
Whilst the Audit committee is responsible limits then the chairman of the Audit committee must give prior approval Executive committee will not be given clearance during close periods chief financial officer has failed to resolve their concerns, or for whom for oversight of the effectiveness of the risk management process, of the engagement.
immediately preceding the announcement of annual and interim results.
accountability for identifying and managing risks rests with the The rules prohibit the hedging of unvested options or other unvested Further information on audit and non-audit fees as well as remuneration chief executive and is cascaded throughout the Group through the securities issued as remuneration.
The Rules for dealing in Rio Tinto During 2011, these meetings with the investment community focused on payable to other accounting firms, is set out in note 41 to the financial Executive committee.
securities can be viewed on the website.
the issues of strategy, board succession, corporate governance, executive statements and in the Directors report.
remuneration, and the operational and financial platform of the Group.
Internal risk control systems Corporate Assurance The Group has an active programme of investor dialogue, including regular Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive committee Corporate Assurance is an internal function which provides independent investor seminars, which provide a two way communication opportunity and the Disclosures and procedures committee, regularly review reports and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups with investors and analysts.
More recently, corporate governance related to the Groups control framework in order to satisfy the internal systems for risk management, internal control, and governance together round tables have been hosted to provide investors with an opportunity to control requirements of the Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Code with recommendations to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the engage with non-executive directors.
Feedback is communicated to the and US legislation.
Each year, the leaders of the Groups businesses and relevant systems and processes.
The function has adopted international board.
Surveys of major shareholders opinions and perceptions of the administrative offices complete an internal control questionnaire that auditing standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
Group are presented to the board by the Groups investor relations advisers seeks to confirm that adequate internal controls are in place, are operating on a regular basis.
effectively and are designed to capture and evaluate failings and The function operates independently of management, under a mandate weaknesses, if any exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate.
approved by the Audit committee and the Sustainability committee and The results of the internal control evaluation are presented to the Audit has full access to all functions, records, property and personnel of the committee in support of their review of the Groups internal controls.
The head of Corporate Assurance reports functionally to both the Assurance functions, including internal auditors and sustainable Audit committee and Sustainability committee, providing each committee development auditors, perform reviews of the integrity and effectiveness with information relevant to their specific terms of reference.
of control activities and provide regular written and oral reports to the Audit committee, Sustainability committee and management committees.
74 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
com 75 Governance Risk management In 2011, information was reported by management to the Audit committee Risk management to enable it to assess the effectiveness of the internal controls and the Rio Tintos overriding objective is to generate attractive sustainable returns management of material business risks.
In addition, as part of their role, to shareholders through a strategy of investing in large, long-term, the board and its committees routinely monitor the Groups material cost-competitive mines and businesses.
creating shareholder return is the reward for taking and accepting risk.
Due to the limitations inherent in any risk management system, the The risks facing shareholders are, to some extent, managed by the Groups process for identifying, evaluating and managing the material business diversified portfolio of assets spread across multiple geographies, risks is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and to provide currencies and commodities.
reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement A description of the principal risks and uncertainties that could affect or loss.
Certain risks, for example natural disasters, cannot be managed Rio Tinto are found on pages 10 to 12. to an acceptable degree using internal controls.
Such major risks are transferred to third parties in the international insurance markets, to the Risk policy and standard extent considered appropriate.
The Group has material investments in a The board recognises that risk is an integral component of the business, number of jointly controlled entities and associates.
Where Rio Tinto does and that it is characterised by both threat and opportunity.
The Group not have managerial control, it cannot guarantee that local management fosters a risk aware corporate culture in all decision making, and is of mining and related assets will comply with Rio Tinto standards or committed to managing all risk in a proactive and effective manner through objectives.
Accordingly, the review of their internal controls is less competent risk management.
To support this commitment, risk is analysed comprehensive than that of the Groups managed operations.
in order to inform the management decisions taken at all levels within the organisation.
The principles of the risk analysis and management process Auditors and internal assurance are set out in the Risk policy and standard which is on the website.
As indicated in the report of the Audit committee on page 71, Rio Tinto has adopted policies designed to uphold the independence of the Groups Risk approach external auditors by prohibiting their engagement to provide other The Risk policy and standard is supported by an integrated framework accounting and other professional services that might compromise their of risk governance and reporting specifying how the Group organises appointment as independent auditors.
Together with the policy, the framework provides an on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant The engagement of the external auditors to provide statutory audit risks faced by the Group.
Clear accountability for risk management is services, other services pursuant to legislation, taxation services and defined throughout the Group and is a key performance area of line certain other services are pre-approved.
Any engagement of the external managers.
The process has been in place for 2011 and up to the date auditors to provide other permitted services is subject to the specific of the report.
To support risk understanding and management at all levels, the Group Prior to the commencement of each financial year the chief financial officer Risk function provides the necessary infrastructure, information collation and the external auditors submit to the Audit committee a schedule of the for the senior executive, and co-ordination between other risk-focused types of services that are expected to be performed during the following functions.
The Audit committee may impose a financial limit on the total value of other permitted services that can be provided.
Any Internal controls non-audit service provided by the external auditors, where the expected The directors are responsible for the Groups system of internal controls fee exceeds a pre-determined level, must be subject to the Groups normal and for reviewing annually its effectiveness in providing shareholders tender procedures.
with a return on their investments that is consistent with a responsible assessment and management of risks.
This includes reviewing financial, In exceptional circumstances, the chief financial officer is authorised to operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures engage the external auditors to provide such services without going to and their effectiveness.
The directors have completed their annual review tender, but if the fees are expected to exceed certain pre-determined and assessment for 2011.
Whilst the Audit committee is responsible limits then the chairman of the Audit committee must give prior approval for oversight of the effectiveness of the risk management process, of the engagement.
accountability for identifying and managing risks rests with the Further information on audit and non-audit fees as well as remuneration chief executive and is cascaded throughout the Group through the payable to other accounting firms, is set out in note 41 to the financial Executive committee.
statements and in the Directors report.
Internal risk control systems Corporate Assurance Two of the Groups management committees, the Executive committee Corporate Assurance is an internal function which provides independent and the Disclosures and procedures committee, regularly review reports and objective assurance on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups related to the Groups control framework in order to satisfy the internal systems for risk management, internal control, and governance together control requirements of the Code, the ASX Principles, the NYSE Code with recommendations to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of the and US legislation.
The function has adopted international administrative offices complete an internal control questionnaire that auditing standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA.
seeks to confirm that adequate internal controls are in place, are operating effectively and are designed to capture and evaluate failings and The function operates independently of management, under a mandate weaknesses, if any exist, and that action is taken promptly, as appropriate.
com 75 Governance Corporate governance continued Board of directors A risk-based approach is used to focus assurance activities on high risk Managements report on internal control over financial reporting Key for committee memberships: Vivienne Cox N, S and I Non-executive director, MA Oxon, A Audit committee areas and audit plans are presented annually to the Audit committee The management of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited is responsible MBA INSEAD, age 52 R Remuneration committee and Sustainability committee for approval.
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2005.
The Companies internal control over financial reporting is a S Sustainability committee In respect of its internal audit function, Rio Tinto utilises the services Skills and experience: Vivienne is the former Executive Vice President of process designed under the supervision of their common chief executive C Chairmans committee of external service providers.
The Audit committee has a policy which Gas, Power and Renewables and former Chief Executive of BP Alternative and chief financial officer to provide reasonable assurance regarding the I Independent addresses conflicts of interest in relation to management requested Energy.
During her career at BP she served in a variety of posts ranging reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair presentation of engagements of the service provider.
The policy complies with the IIAs from supply and trading, to commercial, finance and exploration and the Groups published financial statements for external reporting purposes standards on independence.
Certain services are pre-approved under Jan du Plessis R, N and C Chairman, BCom, LLB, CA SA, age 58 renewable energy.
Vivienne holds degrees in chemistry from Oxford in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards.
the policy as they would not be in conflict with the internal auditors role.
Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2008.
He was appointed University and in business administration from INSEAD.
There is a list of prohibited services which may not be undertaken without Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting chairman in 2009.
External appointments current and recent : Non-executive director of approval of the head of Corporate Assurance, and guidance on the cannot provide absolute assurance, and may not prevent or detect all Skills and experience: Jan worked in various management positions in BG Group plc since 8 February 2012, non-executive director of Pearson plc consideration of services which may give rise to a conflict of interest.
misstatements whether caused by error or fraud, if any, within each of the South African Rembrandt Group from 1981, and in 1988 became Group since 1 January 2012, non-executive director of the Department for Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
Financial reporting finance director of Compagnie Financire Richemont, the Swiss luxury goods International Development since 2010, non-executive director of The Financial statements The Groups internal control over financial reporting includes policies and group.
In 2004 Jan became chairman of British American Tobacco plc.
Climate Change Organisation since 2010, non-executive director of Climate The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable Change Capital Limited since 2008 and non-executive chairman since External appointments current and recent : Non-executive director period which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group as detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: 2009, member of the supervisory board of Vallourec since 2010, member of Marks and Spencer Group plc since 2008 and senior independent at the end of the financial period and of the profit or loss and cash flows provide reasonable assurances that transactions are recorded as necessary of the offshore advisory committee of Mainstream Renewable Power since non-executive director from 1 March 2012, non-executive director of British for that period.
This includes preparing financial statements in accordance to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS and 2010, member of the board of INSEAD since 2009, executive vice president American Tobacco plc from 1999 until 2009 and chairman of the board with UK company law which give a true and fair view of the state of the that receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with for BP plc between 2004 and 2009. from 2004 until 2009, non-executive director and chairman of the audit Companys affairs, and preparing a Remuneration report which includes authorisations of management and directors of each of the Companies: committee of Lloyds Banking Group plc from 2005 and 2008 respectively Guy Elliott C Chief financial officer, MA Oxon, MBA INSEAD, age 56 the information required by Regulation 11, Schedule 8 of the Large and and provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection until 2009, chairman of RHM plc from 2005 until 2007.
Appointment: Director and chief financial officer of Rio Tinto since 2002.
Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of the Groups assets that 2008 and the Australian Corporations Act 2001. could have a material effect on our financial statements.
Tom Albanese C Chief executive, BS Mineral Economics, Skills and experience: Guy joined the Group in 1980 after gaining an MS Mining Engineering, age 54 MBA having previously been in investment banking.
He subsequently The directors are responsible for maintaining proper accounting records, Management conducted an assessment of the effectiveness of internal Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2006.
He was appointed chief held a variety of commercial and management positions, including head in accordance with UK and Australian legislation.
They have a general control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2011, based on the executive in 2007. of Business Evaluation and president of Rio Tinto Brasil.
responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of safeguard the assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission COSO, and Skills and experience: Tom joined Rio Tinto in 1993 on Rio Tintos External appointments current and recent : Non-executive director other irregularities.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that concluded that it was effective.
acquisition of Nerco and held a series of management positions before of Royal Dutch Shell plc since 2010 and chairman of its audit committee appropriate systems are in place to maintain and preserve the integrity of being appointed chief executive of the Industrial Minerals group in 2000, since May 2011, non-executive director and senior independent director There were no changes in the internal controls over financial reporting that the Groups website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and after which he became chief executive of the Copper group and head of of Cadbury plc from 2007 and 2008 respectively until 2010. occurred during the period that have materially affected or are reasonably dissemination of financial statements may differ from current and future Exploration in 2004. likely to materially affect the internal controls over financial reporting of Michael Fitzpatrick A, R, N and I Non-executive director, BEng, legislation in other jurisdictions.
The work carried out by the auditors does each of Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited.
External appointments current and recent : Director of Ivanhoe Mines BA Oxon, age 59 not involve consideration of such developments and, accordingly, the Limited from 2006 to 2007, director of Palabora Mining Company from Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2006. auditors accept no responsibility for any changes, should any be made, 2004 to 2006, member of the executive committee of the International to the financial statements after they are made available on the website.
Skills and experience: Michael is chairman of Treasury Group Limited, Copper Association from 2004 to 2006, member of the board of visitors, an incubator of fund management companies.
He is also chairman of The directors, senior executives, senior financial managers and other Duke University, Fuqua School of Business from 2009. the Australian Football League, having previously played the game members of staff who are required to exercise judgment in the course Robert Brown N, S and I Non-executive director, BSc, age 67 professionally, and a former chairman of the Australian Sports Commission.
of the preparation of the financial statements are required to conduct Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2010.
Michael founded the pioneering infrastructure asset management company themselves with integrity and honesty and in accordance with the Hastings Funds Management Ltd in 1994 following a career in investment ethical standards of their profession and or business.
Skills and experience: Bob is chairman of Aimia Groupe Aeroplan Inc banking in Australia and New York.
and serves on the board of Bell Canada Enterprises BCE Inc, the holding The directors consider that the 2011 Annual report presents a true and company for Bell Canada.
He was previously president and chief executive External appointments current and recent : Chairman of the fair view and has been prepared in accordance with applicable accounting officer of CAE Inc, a world leader in flight simulation and training.
Before Infrastructure Capital Group Limited since 2009, chairman of the Treasury standards, using the most appropriate accounting policies for Rio Tintos that he spent 16 years at Bombardier Inc where he was first head of the Group Limited since 2005, the director of the Walter & Eliza Hall Institute business and supported by reasonable judgments and estimates.
The Aerospace Group and then president and chief executive officer.
He has of Medical Research since 2001, chairman of the Victorian Funds accounting policies have been consistently applied.
The directors have also served as chairman of Air Canada and of the Aerospace Industries Management Corporation from 2006 to 2008. received a written statement from the chief executive and the chief Association of Canada.
financial officer to this effect.
In accordance with the internal control Ann Godbehere A, N and I Non-executive director, FCGA, age 56 requirements of the Code and the ASX Principles Recommendation 7.3, Bob was inducted to the Order of Canada as well as lOrdre National du Appointment: Director of Rio Tinto since 2010 and chairman of the this written statement relies on a sound system of risk management and Qubec.
He has been awarded honorary doctorates from five Canadian Audit committee.
internal controls and confirms that the system is operating effectively in universities.
all material respects in relation to financial reporting risks.
Skills and experience: Ann has more than 25 years experience in the External appointments current and recent : Non-executive director financial services industry.
She spent ten years at Swiss Re, latterly as Disclosure controls and procedures of Aimia Groupe Aeroplan Inc since 2005 and chairman since 2008, chief financial officer from 2003 until 2007 and from 2008 until 2009 she The Group maintains disclosure controls and procedures as such term non-executive director of Bell Canada Enterprises BCE Inc since 2009, was interim chief financial officer and executive director of Northern Rock is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 e. Management, with the president and chief executive officer of CAE Inc from 2004 until 2009, post nationalisation.
participation of the chief executive and chief financial officer, has evaluated non-executive director of Nortel Corporation from 2000 to 2006, Ace the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure External appointments current and recent : Non-executive director Aviation Holdings Inc from 2004 to 2009 and Fier CPVC Montreal L. P. controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15 b as of of British American Tobacco plc with effect from 3 October 2011, since 2005. the end of the period covered by this report and has concluded that these non-executive director of UBS AG since 2009, non-executive director of disclosure controls and procedures were effective at a reasonable Atrium Underwriting Group Limited and Ariel Group Limited since 2007, assurance level.
non-executive director of Prudential Plc since 2007 and chairman of its audit committee since 2009, chief financial officer and executive director of Northern Rock from 2008 to 2009.
76 Rio Tinto 2011 Annual report riotinto.
