corporate governance report The revised Combined Code on corporate governance was published in Regular reports and briefings are provided to the Board, by the executive June 2006 following a review by the Financial Reporting Council the directors and the company secretary, to ensure the directors are suitably Code.
The Company complied throughout the year with the provisions briefed to fulfil their roles.
The Board normally meets six times a year of the Code.
and there is contact between meetings to advance the Companys activities.
It is the Boards usual practice to meet regularly with the senior In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Corporate executives of Sunbelt and A-Plant.
The directors also have access to the Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council in May company secretary and are able to seek independent advice at the 2010, the entire Board of directors will retire and offer themselves for Companys expense.
election or re-election, as appropriate, at this years Annual General Meeting.
The remaining provisions of the Corporate Governance Code As this is the first Annual General Meeting since their appointment, apply to financial years beginning after 29 June 2010 and are therefore Brendan Horgan and Ian Sutcliffe will offer themselves for election.
The not applicable to the Company until the year ending 30 April 2012. remaining directors, in accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, will retire at this years Annual General Meeting and will offer themselves The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate for re-election.
The Board recognises that it is accountable to the Companys shareholders for corporate governance and this statement describes how New Sunbelt chief executive the Company has applied the relevant principles of the Code.
Brendan Horgan was appointed as the new chief executive of Sunbelt and as a director of Ashtead Group plc on 26 January 2011.
In view of The Board Brendans experience of the US plant hire industry in general, and the The Companys Board comprises the non-executive chairman, the chief Sunbelt operation in particular, the Nomination Committee considered executive, the finance director, the executive heads of Sunbelt and A-Plant, that Brendan was best suited for the position as Sunbelts chief executive.
the senior independent non-executive director and three other independent non-executive directors.
Short biographies of the directors Non-executive directors are given on page 41.
In the recruitment of non-executive directors, it is the Companys practice to utilise the services of an external search consultancy.
Before appointment, The chairman undertakes leadership of the Board by agreeing Board non-executive directors are required to assure the Board that they can give agendas and ensures its effectiveness by requiring the provision of timely, the time commitment necessary to fulfil properly their duties, both in terms accurate and clear information on all aspects of the Groups business, of availability to attend meetings and discuss matters on the telephone and to enable the Board to take sound decisions and promote the success meeting preparation time.
The non-executives letters of appointment will of the business.
The chairman, assisted by other directors, reviews the be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
effectiveness of each member of the Board no less than annually and facilitates constructive relationships between the executive and nonThe non-executive directors including the chairman meet as and when executive directors through both formal and informal meetings.
required in the absence of the executive directors to discuss and appraise the performance of the Board as a whole and the performance of the The chairman ensures that all directors are briefed properly to enable executive directors.
In accordance with the Code, the non-executive them to discharge their duties effectively.
All newly appointed directors directors, led by the senior independent non-executive director, also meet undertake an induction to all parts of the Groups business.
Additionally, at least annually in the absence of the chairman to discuss and appraise detailed management accounts are sent monthly to all Board members his performance.
and, in advance of all Board meetings, an agenda and appropriate documentation in respect of each item to be discussed is circulated.
Non-executive directors are appointed for specified terms not exceeding three years and are subject to re-election and the provisions of the The chairman facilitates effective communication with shareholders Companies Act 2006 relating to the removal of a director.
through both the annual general meeting and by individual meetings with major shareholders, to develop an understanding of the views of the Performance evaluation investors in the business.
He also ensures that shareholders have access The performance of the chairman, the chief executive, the Board and its to other directors, including non-executive directors, as appropriate.
committees is evaluated, amongst other things, against their respective The chief executives role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the role profiles and terms of reference.
The executive directors are evaluated additionally against the agreed budget for the generation of revenue, Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The chief executive undertakes profit and value to shareholders.
the leadership and responsibility for the direction and management of The evaluation of the chairman, the Board and its committees was the day-to-day business and conduct of the Group.
In doing so, the chief conducted by way of a questionnaire completed by all of the directors, executives role includes, but is not restricted to, implementing Board the results of which were collated by the company secretary and decisions, delegating responsibility, and reporting to the Board regarding presented to the entire Board.
Based on this evaluation, the Board the conduct, activities and performance of the Group.
The chief executive concluded that performance in the past year had been satisfactory.
chairs the Sunbelt and A-Plant board meetings and sets policies and direction to maximise returns to shareholders.
Board committees Audit Committee All directors are responsible under the law for the proper conduct of The Audit Committee comprises Hugh Etheridge chairman, who has the Companys affairs.
The directors are also responsible for ensuring that relevant financial experience, Michael Burrow and Ian Sutcliffe.
By the strategies proposed by the executive directors are discussed in detail invitation, the Groups finance director, Ian Robson, and its director of and assessed critically to ensure they are aligned with the long-term financial reporting, Michael Pratt, normally attend the Committees interests of shareholders and are compatible with the interests of meetings, as do the chairman and chief executive, together with employees, customers and suppliers.
The Board has reserved to itself representatives of our internal and external auditors.
those matters which reinforce its control of the Company.
These include treasury policy, acquisitions and disposals, appointment and removal of The Audit Committee met on four occasions during the year.
The principal directors or the company secretary, appointment and removal of the areas considered by the committee since the last annual report included: auditor and approval of the annual accounts and the quarterly financial the results for the periods ended 31 July 2010, 31 October 2010 and reports to shareholders.
31 January 2011 and for the year ended 30 April 2011: Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 45 the external audit plan and key areas of audit focus for the year ended Attendance at Board and Committee meetings held between 30 April 2011: 1 May 2010 and 30 April 2011 reports from the external auditor, Deloitte, related to the results for the Board Audit Remuneration Nomination six months ended 31 October 2010 and the year ended 30 April 2011.
Number of meetings held 6 4 2 3 The Committee considered the work done and the key accounting Chris Cole 6 3 estimates and principal judgemental accounting and reporting issues: Sat Dhaiwal 6 the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of Deloitte and, in that Geoff Drabble 6 3 context, the level of audit and non-audit fees.
The Committee was 1 Brendan Horgan 2 satisfied as to the auditors independence, objectivity and effectiveness: 2 Joe Phelan 4 the internal audit plans for, and reports on, the programme of work for the year ended 30 April 2011: Ian Robson 6 audit plans and reports from the internal operational auditors Michael Burrow 6 4 2 3 3 responsible for auditing detailed operational controls at a store level: Bruce Edwards 6 1 3 the Group risk register and reports on the work of the Group Risk Hugh Etheridge 6 4 2 3 4 Committee: Gary Iceton 2 2 1 2 the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and financial reporting 5 Ian Sutcliffe 5 2 1 1 policies: and 1 Brendan Horgan was appointed a director by the Board on 26 January 2011. reports on matters referred through the Groups whistle blowing 2 Joe Phelans appointment as a director was terminated on 25 January 2011. procedures and any actions taken following appropriate investigation.
3 Bruce Edwards was appointed to the Remuneration Committee with effect from 7 September 2010.
The principal non-audit fees paid to the Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, 4 Gary Iceton ceased to be a director of the Company on 7 September 2010. for the year relate to their review of the Companys interim results and tax 5 Ian Sutcliffe was appointed a director by the Board on 7 September 2010. advice.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the nature of work undertaken and the level of non-audit fees did not impair the auditors independence.
Finance and Administration Committee The Finance and Administration Committee comprises Chris Cole, Geoff Deloitte LLP was appointed external auditor in 2004.
The Committee is Drabble chairman and Ian Robson.
The Board of directors has delegated recommending to the Board that a proposal be put to shareholders at the authority to this committee to deal with routine financial and 2011 Annual General Meeting for the reappointment of Deloitte.
There are administrative matters between Board meetings.
The Committee meets no contractual restrictions on the Companys choice of external auditor as necessary to perform its role and has a quorum requirement of two and in making its recommendation the Committee took into account, members with certain matters requiring the participation of Chris Cole, amongst other matters, the objectivity and independence of Deloitte, non-executive chairman, including, for example, the approval of material as noted above, and its continuing effectiveness and cost.
announcements to the London Stock Exchange.
The Audit Committees terms of reference will be available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Internal control The directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Groups system Remuneration Committee of internal control and confirm they have reviewed its effectiveness.
In The Remuneration Committee comprises Michael Burrow chairman, doing so, the Group has taken note of the relevant guidance for directors, Hugh Etheridge, Bruce Edwards and Ian Sutcliffe.
The Committee meets as namely Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and when required during the year to set the compensation packages for the Turnbull Guidance.
the executive directors, to establish the terms and conditions of the executive directors employment and to set remuneration policy generally.
The Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
This process has been in Chris Cole and Geoff Drabble normally attend the meetings of the place for the full financial year and is ongoing.
Under its terms of reference Committee to assist it in its work.
The Committee also engages the Group Risk Management Committee meets semi-annually or more remuneration consultants to advise it in its work as and when required.
frequently if required, with the objective of encouraging best risk External professional advice was obtained in the year from management practice across the Group and a culture of regulatory  LLP PwC.
PwC also provides internal audit compliance and ethical behaviour.
The Group Risk Management and due diligence services to the Company but has confirmed to the Committee reports annually to the Audit Committee.
These processes Committee that this other work has no influence on its recommendations accord with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board considers that the Groups internal control system is designed None of the members of the Remuneration Committee is currently or appropriately to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to has been at any time one of the Companys executive directors or an achieve business objectives.
Any such control system, however, can employee.
None of the executive directors currently serves, or has served, only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material as a member of the board of directors of any other company which has mis-statement or loss.
one or more of its executive directors serving on the Companys Board or Remuneration Committee.
The Group reviews the risks it faces in its business and how these risks are managed.
These reviews are conducted in conjunction with the The Remuneration Committees terms of reference will be available for management teams of each of the Groups businesses and are inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
documented in an annual report.
The reviews consider whether any Nomination Committee matters have arisen since the last report was prepared which might indicate omissions or inadequacies in that assessment.
It also considers The Nomination Committee comprises Chris Cole chairman, Geoff Drabble, Hugh Etheridge, Michael Burrow, Bruce Edwards and Ian Sutcliffe.
whether, as a result of changes in either the internal or external environment, any new significant risks have arisen.
The Group Risk The Nomination Committee meets as and when required to consider the structure, the size and composition of the Board of directors.
Committee reviewed the draft report for 2011, which was then presented to, discussed by the Audit Committee on 12 May 2011 and approved by The Nomination Committees terms of reference will be available for the Audit Committee and the Group Board on 13 June 2011. inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 corporate governance report continued Before producing the statement on internal control for the annual report properly select and apply accounting policies: and accounts for the year ended 30 April 2011, the Board reconsidered present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that the operational effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems.
provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: In particular, through the Audit Committee, it received reports from the provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific operational audit teams and considered the status of implementation requirements in IFRS is insufficient to enable users to understand the of internal control improvement recommendations made by the Groups impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the internal auditors and its external auditor.
The control system includes entitys financial position and financial performance: and written policies and control procedures, clearly drawn lines of accountability make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a and delegation of authority, and comprehensive reporting and analysis going concern.
against budgets and latest forecasts.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records In a group of the size, complexity and geographical diversity of Ashtead, that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and minor breakdowns in established control procedures can occur.
There are disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the supporting policies and procedures for investigation and management of Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply control breakdowns at any of the Groups stores or elsewhere.
The Audit with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding Committee also meets regularly with the external auditor to discuss the assets, for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of their work.
fraud and other irregularities and for the preparation of a directors report and directors remuneration report which comply with the requirements In relation to internal financial control, the Groups control and monitoring of the Companies Act 2006. procedures include: The Board confirms to the best of its knowledge: the maintenance and production of accurate and timely financial management information, including a monthly profit and loss account the consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS and selected balance sheet data for each store: as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board and IFRS as the control of key financial risks through clearly laid down authority adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, levels and proper segregation of accounting duties at the Groups financial position and profit of the Group: and accounting support centres: the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and the preparation of a monthly financial report to the Board, including performance of the business and the position of the Group, together income statements for the Group and each subsidiary, balance sheet with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
and cash flow statement: The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the the preparation of an annual budget and periodic update forecasts corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
which are reviewed by the executive directors and then by the Board: Shareholders should note that legislation in the UK governing the a programme of rental equipment inventories and full inventory counts preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from conducted at each profit centre by equipment type independently checked legislation in other jurisdictions.
on a sample basis by our operational auditors and external auditor: detailed internal audits at the Groups major accounting centres Going concern undertaken periodically by internal audit specialists from a major The Groups operations and financial condition, together with factors international accounting firm: likely to affect its future development, performance and condition are set comprehensive audits at the stores generally carried out annually by out in the Business and Financial Review on pages 6 to 33.
In particular, internal operational audit.
A summary of this work is provided annually the Groups financial management and cash flow, including details of the to the Audit Committee: and Groups banking facilities are set out on pages 30 to 32.
In addition, a review of arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise note 23 to the financial statements describes the Groups financial risk concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting management policies and processes, including its exposure to interest rate or other matters.
risk, currency exchange risk, credit risk and liquidity risk.
Statement of directors responsibilities The Groups debt facilities are committed for a weighted average The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the period of 5.1 years as of 30 April 2011 with the earliest significant maturity financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
being the renewed ABL facility which continues until March 2016.
The Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for Group finances its day-to-day activity via the ABL facility under which the Group in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards excess availability totalled $479m at year end.
Taking account of IFRS as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS reasonably possible changes in trading performance, used equipment Regulations and have also elected to prepare financial statements for the values and the other factors that might impact availability, the Group Company in accordance with IFRS.
Company law requires the directors expects to maintain significant headroom under the ABL facility for the to prepare such financial statements in accordance with IFRS and the forthcoming year.
After making enquiries, the directors therefore have a reasonable Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs to continue in operation for the foreseeable future and consequently of the company and of the profit or loss of the company for that period.
that it is appropriate to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the IAS 1, Presentation of Financial Statements, requires that financial financial statements.
statements present fairly for each financial year the Companys financial By order of the Board position, financial performance and cash flows.
This requires the representation of the effects of transactions, as well as other events and conditions, in accordance with the definitions and recognition criteria for assets, liabilities, income and expenses set out in the International Accounting Standards Boards Framework for the Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements.
In virtually all circumstances, Eric Watkins a fair presentation will be achieved by compliance with all applicable Company secretary International Financial Reporting Standards.
Directors are also required to: 15 June 2011 Ashtead Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
