42 Governance UK Corporate Governance Code The Code To achieve its long-term success, the Board has set itself the following In the year to December 31, 2011, the revised principles and provisions of tasks to: the Code published in May 2010 by the FRC applied to the Company.
ensure the development of the Groups strategy, together with monitoring of both its achievement and the Groups risk appetite: A printed copy of the Code can be obtained free of charge from FRC ensure the safety of its products and its people: Publications, 145 London Road, Kingston upon Thames, Surrey KT2 6SR uphold the values of the Group, including its brand and corporate telephone: 44 0 20 8247 1264 and online at: www.
reputation: oversee the quality and performance of management and ensure it is This report, which includes the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 maintained at world-class standards, through effective succession to 65, explains how the Company discharges its corporate governance planning and remuneration policies: and responsibilities.
maintain an effective corporate governance framework, with transparent reporting.
The Board confirms that throughout 2011, the Company complied with the provisions of the Code, with the following exception: Directors induction and training Newly appointed directors participate in a structured induction Code provision Explanation programme and receive a comprehensive data pack providing detailed C. 3.4 The audit committee should The Board considered it appropriate information on the Group.
An existing executive director acts as a mentor review arrangements by which staff of that this provision of the Code be the the company may, in confidence, raise responsibility of the ethics committee to each newly appointed non-executive director, giving guidance and concerns about possible improprieties which refers matters of improprieties in advice as required.
Ongoing training is available for all the directors, in matters of financial reporting or matters of financial reporting to the including presentations by the executive team on particular aspects other matters.
There is a procedure for directors to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access every director has to the General Counsel and the Board membership Company Secretary.
The nominations committee monitors the composition and performance of the Board and the composition of its committees.
During 2011, the Issues Facilitated by Boards composition changed with the appointment of a new Chief Operation of the Board and Chairman and Company Secretary Executive and two new independent non-executive directors.
Following governance Andrew Shilstons retirement, the committee also agreed the proposed Group strategy development and Chief Executive current issues appointment of a new Finance Director.
These appointments are discussed in more depth in the nominations committee report on Financial structure Finance Director page 48.
Risk strategy General Counsel Operational strategy Chief Operating Officer Roles and responsibilities Technology and engineering issues Director Engineering and Technology Sir Simon Robertson, as Chairman of the Board of directors, is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of Key site visits Director Engineering and Technology its role.
John Rishton is the Chief Executive responsible for the leadership, Committee technical requirements Committee chairman, internal or operational and performance management of the Group, defined by the external experts strategy and business plan agreed by the Board.
The division of responsibilities between them is set down in writing and agreed by the Board and a copy of this document can be found on our website at www.
Iain Conn is the Companys Senior Independent Director.
Communications with shareholders regarding business strategy and financial performance are coordinated by a dedicated Investor Relations Role of the Board department that reports to the Finance Director.
Communications The principal role of the Board is to ensure that the Groups strategy regarding the general administration of shareholdings are coordinated by creates long-term success for the Group, within an acceptable risk profile, the Company Secretariat, reporting to the Company Secretary.
and providing value for the long-term investor.
The two primary written sources of information about the Group for The Board retains responsibility for the approval of certain matters which shareholders are the website www.
com and the published affect the shape and risk profile of the Group, as well as items such as the Annual report, an online version of which is also available on the website.
annual budget and performance targets, the financial statements, The website also carries a wealth of financial and other information about payments to shareholders, major capital investments, substantial changes the Group that includes current business strategy, historical financial data, to balance sheet management policy and the strategic plan.
recent presentation materials as well as factual data about the Groups businesses, products and services.
The division of responsibilities between the Board and the executive team is set out in detail in a schedule approved annually by the Board, which The Group conducts a dedicated investor relations programme with also defines those decisions which can only be taken by the Board.
institutional investors which includes various formal events during the year, as well as a regular series of one-to-one and group meetings.
The day-to-day running of the Group is delegated by the Board to the executive team under the leadership of John Rishton, the Chief Executive.
The purpose of the events is to highlight a particular issue, theme or announcement that the Group believes warrants further explanation or clarification.
The events also provide opportunities for shareholders to Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 43 Governance UK Corporate Governance Code meet members of the senior management team to discuss topics of Holders of ordinary shares may attend the Companys AGM at which the interest.
Examples of these events in 2011 were: the preliminary and Company highlights key business developments during the year and at half-yearly results announcements: the AGM: the announcement of the which shareholders have an opportunity to ask questions.
The chairmen intention with Daimler AG to acquire Tognum AG: the update given at of the audit, nominations, remuneration, ethics and risk committees the Paris Air Show on trends in the civil and defence aerospace businesses: are available to answer any questions from shareholders on the work of the announcement with Pratt & Whitney to restructure the Groups their committees.
participation in IAE and form a new joint venture: the annual investor briefing: visits to the Groups sites: and industry conferences.
The Annual General Meeting AGM This years AGM will be held at 11.00am on Friday May 4, 2012 at the QEII The one-to-one and group meetings provide additional context around Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE.
The the Groups business strategy and financial performance such that Notice of AGM and the Annual report will be available to view on the shareholders are able to consistently and fairly value the Groups Groups website.
Shareholders unable to attend the AGM are invited to businesses.
In 2011, around 350 meetings took place with 1,350 existing vote on the business of the meeting by completing a proxy form and and potential institutional shareholders.
Of those meetings, the Chief returning it to the Computershare Investor Services PLC the Registrar.
Executive attended over 50 meetings and the Finance Director 30 Following agreement to receive electronic communications, shareholders meetings.
From a regional perspective, the majority of meetings took are able to vote online.
place in the UK approximately 250 with over 500 investors.
Forty meetings occurred in the USA involving 90 investors and a further The Company confirms that it sends the AGM notice and relevant 25 European meetings included around 55 investors.
documentation to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the date of the AGM.
For those shareholders who have consented to receive As well as providing context and answering questions about the communications electronically, notice is given by email or by written announcements during the year, the principal areas discussed with notice of the availability of documents on the Groups website.
shareholders and potential investors were: the Groups continued investment over decades in complex technology, people and The Board infrastructure that creates high-cost barriers to entry: the breadth, balance The Board met 12 times during the year, seven of which were scheduled.
and diversity of the product portfolio that underpins the resilient financial Five meetings were called at short notice to discuss such issues as the performance of the Group during this time of relative economic acquisition of Tognum AG, the provision of a new higher thrust version uncertainty: the scale of the record order book that provides opportunities of the Trent XWB to Airbus for the A350-1000 and the agreement of a for operational leverage: the importance of the Groups strong balance new joint venture with Pratt & Whitney to develop new engines for sheet: the potential impact of budgetary pressures, particularly in the future generation mid-size aircraft.
The attendance by individual defence aerospace business: development of the services model in the directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2011 is shown marine business: the options for future growth in the energy business and in the table below.
the initial views of the Chief Executive.
Board and committee attendance 2011 Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Ethics Risk Sir Simon Robertson Chairman 12 12 3 3 Dame Helen Alexander 11 12 5 5 3 3 3 3 1 Lewis Booth 6 6 2 2 1 2 2 2 Peter Byrom 11 12 3 3 3 3 2 Sir Frank Chapman 1 1 0 1 0 1 3 Iain Conn 9 12 4 4 3 3 Sir Peter Gregson 12 12 4 5 2 3 James Guyette 12 12 2 2 John McAdam 11 12 5 5 3 3 John Neill CBE 11 12 4 4 3 3 John Rishton 11 12 3 3 2 2 4 Sir John Rose 4 4 0 0 0 0 5 Andrew Shilston 12 12 2 2 Colin Smith 12 12 2 2 Ian Strachan 10 12 4 4 3 3 3 3 Mike Terrett 12 12 2 2 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended seven Board meetings were scheduled and five called at short notice.
The figures include meetings of the former holding company, Rolls-Royce Group plc to May 23, 2011.
1 Lewis Booth was appointed as a non-executive director on May 25, 2011.
2 Sir Frank Chapman was appointed as a non-executive director on November 10, 2011.
3 Iain Conn attended six out of seven scheduled Board meetings.
4 Sir John Rose retired as Chief Executive on March 31, 2011.
5 Andrew Shilston retired as Finance Director on December 31, 2011 and was replaced by Mark Morris who joined the Board with effect from January 1, 2012.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Governance 44 Governance UK Corporate Governance Code There are currently 15 directors on the Board comprising the non-executive Independence of the non-executive directors Chairman, the Chief Executive, four other executive directors and nine The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its non-executive directors.
Executive directors are employees who have non-executive directors remain independent by reviewing the day-to-day responsibilities as executives of the Group in addition to their independence of the non-executive directors every year, based on the duties as directors.
Non-executive directors are not employees and do criteria in the Code.
This review was undertaken in November 2011 and the not participate in the daily business management of the Group.
Each Board concluded that all the non-executive directors were independent in executive director receives a service contract on appointment and each character and judgement.
non-executive director receives a letter setting out the conditions of his or her appointment see pages 58 and 65, respectively, for further information.
The Code does not consider the test of independence to be appropriate to the chairman of a company.
However, Sir Simon Robertson did meet The quality and broad experience of the directors, the balance of the the Codes independence criteria upon his appointment as Chairman in Boards composition and the dynamics of the Board as a group, ensure the January 2005.
His other external commitments are described on page 38.
Boards effectiveness and also prevent any individual or small group dominating the Boards decision making.
As referenced in the Chairmans introduction on page 41, the Board will again be asking shareholders to re-appoint Peter Byrom as a director, even Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, though he has served as a director of the Group since January 1, 1997. which may be extended with the agreement of the Board, although reappointment is not automatic and their term of office is subject to Conflicts of interest annual re-election by shareholders at the AGM.
Under Article 112 of the Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can Companys Articles of Association, all directors with the exception of have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, Sir Peter Gregson will offer themselves for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
with the interests of the Company unless that situational conflict has been authorised by the Board.
The nominations committee has reviewed and The work of the Board in 2011 authorised all directors situational conflicts and has agreed that while During the year, in addition to its routine business, matters considered by directors are required to keep confidential all Company information, the Board included: they shall not be required to share with the Company confidential information received by them from a third party which is the subject an investment to create a replacement new disc facility at a site close of the situational conflict.
to Sunderland: the resolution of the issues arising from the Qantas QF32 incident and Indemnity lessons learned: The Company has entered into separate Deeds of Indemnity in favour of the offer by Engine Holding GmbH, a joint venture with Daimler AG, to its directors.
The deeds provide substantially the same protection as that acquire the whole of the issued share capital of Tognum AG: already provided to directors under the indemnity in Article 216 of the the introduction and listing of a new holding company for the Group, Companys Articles of Association.
The Company has also reviewed, Rolls-Royce Holdings plc: arranged and maintains appropriate insurance cover for any legal action the impact on the Groups people, its operations and its suppliers of taken against its directors and officers.
the earthquake in Japan: the withdrawal of support by the US Secretary of Defense of the F136 Board committees programme: The Board has established a number of committees, the principal ones plans to modernise the Groups IT infrastructure: being audit, remuneration, nominations, ethics and risk.
A safety committee development of a new higher thrust version of the Trent XWB for the will also be established during 2012.
Terms of reference for each committee Airbus A350-1000: are, or will be available, on the Groups website at www.
the restructuring of the Groups participation in IAE with Pratt & The membership, responsibilities and activities of these committees are Whitney, together with a new partnership for a joint venture to described in this governance report on pages 46 to 65. develop engines for future generation mid-size aircraft: and the effects of consolidation in the industry and the European Executive committees sovereign debt crisis.
During the year, the governance structure of the group below Board level developed further with the establishment of the Executive Board as the In addition, executive directors and senior executives, as appropriate primary channel for executive approval.
The Executive Board, comprised supplied reports on business and financial performance together with of all executive directors, carries out a pre-approval review of those items regular updates on health, safety and the environment, IT infrastructure requiring the approval of the Board and acts as the primary approval and disaster recovery arrangements, corporate governance, corporate channel for matters below Board level, in accordance with the Groups affairs and quality and process excellence.
All Board committee chairmen delegated authorities manual.
It establishes corporate priorities, assists the provided verbal reports on the activities of their committee at the next Board in the development of Group policy and strategy, decides on senior Board meeting.
In September 2011, the Board held its annual day-long succession and makes recommendations to the nominations committee strategy meeting, which included discussions with the presidents of each in relation to succession to the Executive Board itself and to the GLT.
of its business sectors and presentations on the ten-year financial plan, customer relations, delivery of the order book, technology acquisition and At each meeting the Executive Board reviews the HS&E performance low-carbon technologies.
of the Group, considers customer relations, reviews financial and operational performance and receives an update on potential acquisitions and disposals.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 45 Governance UK Corporate Governance Code The GLT, which generally meets immediately after the Executive Board meeting, receives an update from the Chief Executive on the work transacted at that meeting.
The GLTs responsibilities are: a to provide input and advice to the Executive Board on policy and strategy: b to discuss Group performance: and c to act as an important communications forum between the executive directors and the Groups senior management.
During the year, the GLT met on a face-to-face basis ten times and held regular catch up meetings by teleconference between each of its meetings.
Like the Executive Board, it routinely considers the HS&E performance of the Group, customer relations and financial and operational performance at each of its formal meetings.
In addition to its routine business, the committee received presentations on such subjects as the Groups anti-bribery and corruption programme, the introduction of worldwide all-employee global grading together with the existing system of performance appraisal management, government relations and product safety.
In addition to the Executive Board and the GLT, the Operations Executive, chaired by the Chief Operating Officer, considers detailed operational issues in its pursuit of world-class performance in terms of cost, quality and delivery.
The Groups functions are placed under similar scrutiny by the Functional Executive chaired by the Finance Director.
Each of the Groups business segments have their own governance structures which broadly mirror that of the holding company.
Meetings at sector level generally take place a week ahead of the Executive Board and GLT meetings.
Rolls-Royce Holdings plc Annual report 2011 Governance
