CORPORaTE GOvERnanCE application of the Principles of the Code and Compliance with its Provisions.
This section explains how the Board and its Committees operate and function and how the principles and supporting principles in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code were applied.
Here you will also find specific disclosures and standards required within the provisions of the Code that are applicable to the accounting period applying to this Report and Accounts.
Further details are met by using the financial systems and BOaRd EffECTivEnEss and of this commitment are included in the applying the procedures, described below, PERfORmanCE Nomination Committee report.
supported by the Groups system of internal The directors consider that the Board control: is fully effective and functions well.
The Subject to the matter of the number of Using an appropriate system of Chairman and the Chief Executive have independent non-executives referred to accounting records, capable of worked closely over recent years to ensure in this paragraph, which the Board is operating with reasonable accuracy that the best use of the time and talents of committed to rectifying during 2012, the to be in compliance with local and the Board are applied at Board meetings.
Company considers that it complies with international financial and legal reporting This has resulted in more open discussion the provisions of the Code.
The basis used to and interaction by the Board rather than does however, continue to believe that as prepare our Group financial statements spending time on verbal reporting into the each of the non-executives are very strong is International Financial Reporting Board meeting by executive management and senior individuals with experience of Standards IFRS as adopted by the which can be achieved through written international FTSE 100 Boards, sufficient European Union.
In particular, more time is now strength does in any event currently exist statements and Directors Remuneration spent on strategic discussion and through Report are prepared in accordance with on the Board.
the year there is a cycle of discussion and applicable law and United Kingdom further development and refinement of Generally Accepted Accounting Practice: In response to Lord Davies Women on Group strategy.
Boards report and subsequent requests Using IFRS to ensure a true and fair for public statements by FTSE 350 Non-executive directors constructively view of the state of affairs of the Group, Chairmen on targets, the Company challenge as well as scrutinise including our profit or loss for the period: published a statement which can be management and business performance Applying appropriate accounting policies accessed on the Companys website under levels.
This is done in the context of a within the framework of IFRS and RNS announcements.
The statement said unitary and unified Board working together ensuring these are consistently applied: that the Company will endeavour to achieve for the long term success of the Company.
Making judgments and preparing gender representation in line with the estimates that are reasonable and recommendations of Lord Davies Report During the year under review an externally prudent: and confirmed that it has a short term facilitated Board performance evaluation objective of having at least one female confirmed that directors are individually Operating within the guidelines of all the Board member by the end of 2012, thus disclosure advice provided by UK and satisfied with the quality of information that ensuring at least 25% of our independent they are provided with and feel they are all international statute: non-executives are female.
able to fully contribute to Board discussion.
Considering whether adoption of the going concern basis is appropriate: The Company also in February 2012 COdE COmPLianCE sTaTEmEnT Maintaining robust assurance processes provided further information to Cranfield The Board comprises of the Chairman, and controls over financial reporting University, who were acting on behalf of the four executive directors and the three procedures: government, re-confirming the target for independent non-executive directors Extending these principles to half-yearly women on the Board and providing further B.
As Rotork p. l. c. is considered a reports and other reports in the public information on the proportion of women on large company by the Code it is recognised domain.
the Board, in senior executive positions and that full compliance would require one female employees in the organisation as a further independent non-executive to be The Board at least annually formally whole.
appointed so that half the Board, excluding reviews the effectiveness of the Companys the Chairman, comprises independent nonrisk management and internal control inTERnaL COnTROL executive directors B.
The review covers Board members recognise their financial, operational, compliance and responsibilities to ensure that the statutory Following recommendations by the risk management controls.
The role of requirements to deliver balanced and Nomination Committee the Board has management is to implement and maintain understandable assessments of the decided that it is in the best interests of the internal control and risk management Companys position are achieved.
The the Company that an additional, female systems.
The system of internal control is Board is satisfied that these responsibilities independent non-executive director be ROTORK P. L. C. 38 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP ifC - 06 BUsinEss REviEW 07 - 34 GOvERnanCE 35 - 52 finanCiaL sTaTEmEnTs 53 - 100 infORmaTiOn 101 - 103 designed to reduce but cannot eliminate RisK manaGEmEnT The Companys Articles of Association the risks of failure to meet business A continuous process for identifying, provide that one third of the directors shall objectives.
Internal control therefore can evaluating and managing the significant retire from office by rotation at each Annual only provide reasonable but not absolute risks faced by the Group continued to be General Meeting AGM.
New directors are assurance in meeting such business applied and developed during the year subject to election by shareholders at the objectives or against material misstatement under review and operated up to the date first opportunity after their appointment or loss.
of approval of the Annual Report and B.
From the 2011 AGM onwards, Accounts.
Details of the processes used the Board decided that all directors will be The processes that are used by the Board are explained on pages 26 and 27. subject to annual re-election.
In line with to review the effectiveness of this system the Code guidance, non-executive directors of internal control include the following Following the risk identification process are normally appointed for an initial term C. 2.1 : the major risks are reported into the of three years, which is then reviewed and Audit Committee and Board by the Group extended for up to a further two three year During the year the Audit Committee: Finance Director.
The top 11 risks identified periods B.
On appointment directors Monitored and reviewed the effectiveness are described on pages 26 and 27. receive a suitable and tailored induction of internal audit activities: B.
During the year non-executive Internal financial audits are undertaken directors were given the opportunity to Reviewed and monitored external auditor on a regular basis by a selected group attend a training seminar directed at their independence and objectivity and the role and responsibilities B.
There is a of accountants drawn from head office effectiveness of the audit process: and across the divisional businesses and clear division of responsibility approved by Considered reports from management, the Board in writing between the Chairman, geographic centres.
All these accountants internal and external audit on the system participate in a training programme which RC Lockwood, and the Chief Executive, PI of internal financial control and any France, that ensures that there is a balance covers internal audit, best practice and material control weaknesses: control procedures.
of power and authority between the running Received reports on health & safety: of the Board and the executive responsible Work will continue to further embed for the running of the Companys business Discussed with management the range A.
2.1. of actions taken on issues affecting the internal control and risk management in the operations of the business and to business that were identified by Board IG King is the current senior independent members or in the internal and external further enhance and add to the relevant processes.
independent non-executive director IG King annually arranges a meeting of the nonAll matters are undertaken using a rolling HOW THE BOaRd OPERaTEs executive directors without the Chairman agenda programme which is agreed each The Board currently has eight members present to appraise the Chairmans year by the Committee.
comprising of the Chairman, the three performance B.
The Board annually independent non-executive directors and approves a detailed timetable for each Additionally: four executive directors.
financial year including dates for all The Board receives copies of the minutes scheduled Board meetings, of which of all Audit Committee meetings and a there are usually at least eight, and four briefing on all Audit Committee meetings Committee meetings.
by the Committee Chairman: The Board reviews the role of insurances in managing risk across the Group: n diRECTORs aTTEndanCE aT BOaRd and COmmiTTEE mEETinGs a.
1.2 The Board regularly receives written Board audit Remuneration nomination and oral reports from management on meeting Committee Committee Committee all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk management matters.
of Meetings 10 5 3 2 1 Prior to the year end the full Board, RH Arnold 10 2 n a n a following detailed consideration by the 1 1 JM Davis 10 5 1 n a Audit Committee, formally reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of 1 1 PI France 10 5 3 2 internal control.
1 GM Ogden 10 2 n a n a G Bullard 10 5 3 2 IG King 10 5 3 2 1 1 RC Lockwood 10 5 3 2 JE Nicholas 10 5 3 2 1 by Invitation ROTORK P. L. C. 39 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORaTE GOvERnanCE continued Planning for the orderly succession of The timetable also schedules time for business over 10m and all acquisitions meetings of the Chairman and nonin ordinary course of business over 1m.
new directors to the Board including identifying and nominating for the Boards executives without the Chief Executive The directors also have powers to issue present.
During the year, Board meetings and buy back the Companys shares approval suitable candidates to fill nonexecutive vacancies: are scheduled at significant sites other than conferred annually by the shareholders at the Companys headquarters in Bath.
The decisions which are left to Recommending to the Board the allows, in particular, non-executive directors management are all those related to the membership of Board Committees.
to meet management at these sites and successful operation and management receive presentations from them.
During of the Companys business and in COmmiTTEE mEmBERsHiP the year under review the Board visited and development and implementation of the The Nomination Committees members held Board meetings at its new sales and strategy within the limits set by the Board during the year under review were service centre in Houston, Texas, USA.
annually for overall operational budgets and RC Lockwood who chairs the Committee, capital expenditure A.
A visit to the new factory and RIDEC centre IG King, JE Nicholas, G Bullard and in Chennai, India is planned for 2012.
The Nomination Committee The Chairman ensures that meetings of comprises of the three independent The Chairman ensures through the non-executives without the executives directors, the Chief Executive and the present are held A.
All directors Company Secretary, that the Board Agenda Chairman.
The majority of the members of and all relevant information is provided have access to the advice and services of the Nomination Committee are therefore the Company Secretary and through him to the Board sufficiently in advance of independent non-executive directors as meetings.
The Chairman and Company they can request and obtain independent accepted by the Code B.
2.1. professional advice at the Companys Secretary discuss the Agenda in detail ahead of every meeting and the Chairman expense where they judge it necessary to The Terms of Reference of the discharge their responsibilities as directors and the Chief Executive always have a Nomination Committee can be review meeting ahead of each Board B.
The Company maintains accessed on the Companys website in appropriate directors and officers meeting.
At Board meetings the Chairman the Investors section under Corporate ensures that all directors are able to insurance cover A.
2.1. make an effective contribution throughout meetings and every director is encouraged PERfORmanCE EvaLUaTiOn aCTiviTiEs Of nOminaTiOn COmmiTTEE to participate and provide opinions for For the year under review the Board dURinG THE YEaR each Agenda item.
The Chairman always commissioned an externally facilitated During the year the Committee considered seeks to achieve unanimous decisions Board Performance Evaluation.
The Board succession planning including the of the Board following appropriate facilitators did not have any connection with need for additional non-executive directors.
The Board the Company other than providing support regularly considers and discusses future on previous evaluations.
The evaluation The Committee decided to recommend strategy, following submissions on included individual discussions with each to the Board that it should search for a strategy development by management, director by the external facilitators using suitable female non-executive director, at Board meetings.
The non-executive a series of questions as prompts for as it considers it is in the best interests directors through constructive challenge the discussion.
The main findings of the of the Company to do so taking account and comment help develop proposals on report were circulated to the Board and of the balance of skills and experience strategy at those meetings.
and diversity, including gender, on the Board and noting the added dimension a The Schedule of Reserved Matters details The report contained comments on how female contribution could bring to Board those matters specifically reserved for further improvements could be made discussion.
The Committee is currently Board decision.
The types of decision in the processes to develop corporate actively searching for such a candidate.
relate to matters which cannot, or strategy and in the resources available for the Board considers should not, be mergers and acquisitions.
Following the During the year under review the delegated to the Chief Executive and evaluation, a Group Business Development Committee considered the report of executive management.
They include Director has been appointed to the Rotork Lord Davies entitled Women on Boards.
approval of Group commercial strategy Management Board to focus on these The Company also published its aims and succession planning, approval of issues.
for the percentage of women on its Group annual operating and capital Board.
The announcement stated expenditure budgets, recommendations sHaRE CaPiTaL that Rotork will endeavour to achieve for payment of the final proposed dividend Information on the Companys share capital gender representation in line with the and decisions for interim dividends and is provided on page 50 of the Directors recommendations of Lord Davies report.
dividend policy, approval of the Annual Report.
It added that Rotork has a short-term Report and Accounts and announcements objective of having at least one female of final and interim results, ensuring sound nOminaTiOn COmmiTTEE Board member by the end of 2012, thus internal control and risk management, REsPOnsiBiLiTiEs ensuring at least 25% of its independent executive director remuneration, corporate Reviewing regularly the composition of non-executive directors are female.
The governance matters including Board and the Board and making recommendations announcement also stated that Rotork Committee performance appraisals, Board to the Board on any desired changes: anticipates its cooperation with numerous and Committee membership, approval of universities, apprentice schemes and material contacts in the ordinary course of ROTORK P. L. C. 40 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP ifC - 06 BUsinEss REviEW 07 - 34 GOvERnanCE 35 - 52 finanCiaL sTaTEmEnTs 53 - 100 infORmaTiOn 101 - 103 secondment programmes will promote The Committee operates under formal Auditors handling of key accounting gender diversity, leading to a better pipeline Terms of Reference and these are reviewed judgements: responses to questions from of appropriate female senior executives.
The Committee considers that it the Committee and feedback about the Rotork was commended in the Women has discharged its responsibilities as set conduct of the audit from key finance on Boards six month monitoring report out in its Terms of Reference to the extent personnel within the Company: published in October 2011 for its declared appropriate during the year.
There were no The current audit partner having target for women on the Board.
changes to the Terms of Reference in the served for five years retires by rotation year under review.
After carefully During the year the Committee received considering whether to change auditors, updates from the Chief Executive on The Terms of Reference of the Audit the Committee decided to continue with management structure changes and Committee are available to view on KPMG and appoint a replacement audit executive appointments as well as Rotorks website in the Investors partner: section under Corporate Governance - management succession planning and The Committee having considered all Committees C. 3.2 and C. 3.3. talent and development programmes.
relevant matters, has concluded that it is satisfied that auditor independence Specific matters reviewed by the aUdiT COmmiTTEE and objectivity has been maintained.
Committee during 2011 included: main REsPOnsiBiLiTiEs As such, the Committee does not Reviewing the effectiveness of the consider that it would be appropriate financial Reporting Companys financial reporting, internal at this time to put the audit out to Reviewing the appropriateness of the control policies and procedures for the tender but will continue to keep this Groups financial statements including identification, assessment and reporting under review having discussed the considering significant financial reporting of risk: European Commission Green Paper judgements made by management, Reviewing significant financial reporting and FRC proposals on Effective taking into account the reports received issues and judgements: Company Stewardship.
Following these from the Group Finance Director and considerations the Committee made a Monitoring the integrity of the Companys the external auditors and ensuring the recommendation which was accepted by financial statements: compliance of the financial statements the Board that resolutions to re-appoint Keeping the relationship with the with International Financial Reporting KPMG Audit plc be proposed at the 2012 auditors under review, including the Standards and UK company law: AGM: terms of engagement, fees and their Reviewing and recommending approval Review of the representation letter: independence: of the annual financial statements A policy that formalises the arrangements Monitoring the role and effectiveness including the statements on corporate regarding the provision of non-audit of the internal audit function.
governance, internal controls and risk services provided by the auditors and management and the half year and sets out the procedures for the preCOmmiTTEE mEmBERsHiP interim management statements: approval of such services is reviewed The Audit Committee of the Board is Reviewing and recommending the going annually.
All non-audit services provided currently comprised of three non-executive concern statement.
by the auditors are pre-approved by directors, JE Nicholas, IG King and either the Group Finance Director or the G Bullard.
JE Nicholas was Chairman of the External auditors Committee Chairman under delegated Committee throughout the year.
There were Reviewing the effectiveness, approval authorities from the Committee.
therefore three independent non-executive independence and objectivity of the The breakdown of the fees paid to the directors who were members of the Audit external auditors and the external audit external auditors, including the split Committee at all times throughout the process.
The Committee oversees between audit and non-audit fees, is year C. 3.1.
The Board is satisfied that at the relationship with the external included in note 8 on page 71 to the least one member of the Committee, JE auditors including reviewing the auditor financial statements: Nicholas, has recent and relevant financial engagement letter, considering the experience having served as the Finance Consideration of the risk of KPMG, as audit fees and the appointment of the Director of a large listed company.
He is external auditor, leaving the market: Auditor C. 3.6.
The Committee makes also a member of the Financial Reporting recommendations to the Board, for Reviewing external audit findings: Review Panel of the Financial Reporting shareholder approval at the AGM: Discussing with the auditors the Council FRC.
The Finance Director, the Representatives from the Auditor, report appropriateness of accounting policies, Chief Executive, the Chairman and the to the Committee on their independence estimates and judgements: external auditors normally attend meetings.
and objectivity and the mechanisms Discussing the external auditors views on employed to ensure this is maintained: the control environment including fraud aCTiviTiEs Of THE aUdiT COmmiTTEE In considering whether the audit risk management: dURinG THE YEaR had been effective, the Committee The Committee met five times during the At least once during each financial year considered whether the auditor had year.
An annual Rolling Audit Committee the Committee meets with the external met the agreed audit plan for 2011 Agenda is reviewed at each meeting and auditors, separately, without executive including any work undertaken to address ensures that all matters within the Audit management present.
This provides any changes in perceived risks: the Committees Terms of Reference are an additional opportunity for an open robustness and perceptiveness of the appropriately covered.
exchange of views and feedback.
ROTORK P. L. C. 41 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORaTE GOvERnanCE continued internal Control REmUnERaTiOn COmmiTTEE Capital markets day The work of the Remuneration Committee This was held in November 2011 in Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and is described in the Remuneration Report UBS offices in London and provided an on pages 43 to 49.
The Chairman and opportunity for shareholders and analysts risk management including fraud risk management: the Chief Executive were invited to and to meet and receive presentations from the did attend all meetings but both were not Rotork Management Board including the Monitoring and reviewing the in attendance when their own fees and executive directors and also to have access effectiveness of internal audit remuneration respectively were considered to the Chairman and two independent activities, which included: a review of D. 2. non-executive directors who also attended: the internal audit terms of reference: audits carried out: the results thereof RELaTiOns WiTH sHaREHOLdERs survey of major shareholders and managements response and the During the year, the Board instructed Communication with shareholders is given programmes and resourcing for 2011 high priority.
The Board recognises the its Corporate Advisors to contact the and 2012: main shareholders independently of importance of shareholder engagement The internal audit function is undertaken and welcomes the introduction of the UK management to confirm they were content by members of the Groups finance with the level of disclosure provided.
Their Stewardship Code and fully supports the departments who all have other distinct practice of ongoing constructive dialogue findings were reported to the Board: posts.
Further detail is provided in the with institutional holders.
All members of Internal Control section.
The Finance the Board receive copies of all analysts non-Executive meetings Director is also Head of Internal The Company Secretary has written reports of which the Company is made Audit.
This method of internal audit is aware.
The Board receives non-attributable to major shareholders inviting them to reviewed annually by the Committee.
meetings with the non-executives and to comments from analyst meetings and The Committee remains satisfied with shareholder meetings after both interim provide feedback on the current levels the arrangements which ensure a of Board contact with the Company and final results E. 1.1 and other updates comprehensive internal audit programme from its corporate advisers.
The Chief and communication to non-executives.
is undertaken across the Group: Responses indicated major shareholders Executive reports at each Board meeting Monitoring the effectiveness of the upon his meetings with analysts, fund are satisfied with current levels of contact: risk management process, including managers and shareholders E. 1.2. an annual review of all key Group risks aGm identified and mitigating controls: All the directors attend the AGM and Specific examples of shareholder engagement during the year under review are available to take questions from Monitoring the effectiveness of the shareholders.
The Notice of AGM is Groups system of internal controls are detailed below: communicated to shareholders at least including reviewing significant internal 20 working days prior to the meeting.
audit reports and findings: full Year and Half Year announcements The Chief Executive and Group Finance At the AGM, where a vote has been taken Monitoring health and safety on a show of hands, all votes are counted Director attend with the Chairman and performance data and receiving reports provide opportunities for meetings with and are clearly displayed on a screen from the Rotork Management Board detailing the number of votes for, against fund managers and analysts: member responsible for health and safety and withheld in relation to resolutions and practice and procedures.
copies of the proxy votes are available to investors meetings The Chief Executive and Group Finance shareholders at the end of the meeting: Other matters Director regularly meet investors.
This A review of new regulations and year over 100 meetings in person Other shareholder information governance regarding the operation and Rotorks website includes information have occurred with shareholders, fund responsibilities of audit committees: managers and analysts.
Throughout the and updates for all investors.
Individual A review of whistleblowing policies: shareholder enquiries are also addressed year, teleconferences are also arranged A review of Group policies in place with these parties including following by the Company Secretarial Department.
regarding the employment of previous the announcement of the two interim external audit staff.
management statements in the first and second half of the year.
Investor and analyst roadshows have been held throughout the year under review in London, Edinburgh, Norway, Boston, New York, Chicago and Toronto providing the opportunity for investors to meet the Group Finance Director and the Chief Executive: ROTORK P. L. C. 42 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
