Management & Governance Corporate Governance Chairmans Introduction The introduction to the new Combined Code now renamed the UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that the Chairman should report personally how the principles relating to the role and effectiveness of the Board have been applied.
I am happy to have the opportunity to do this.
The report below explains our compliance against the detailed provisions of the Code as well as giving a more detailed view of the activities of the Board and its Committees.
It shows a high degree of compliance.
As Chairman I have the key roles of providing leadership to the Board and ensuring we maintain an environment to enable the Board to perform effectively.
Having in place appropriate governance structures is a vital component in meeting these objectives and I strongly believe that the Board of RPS Group plc achieves this.
The development and membership of the Board is a dynamic process, which is kept under close review.
During 2011, one Executive Director retired after over 20 years service and two Non-executives resigned, one having served nine years and the other seven years.
We have transitioned well from having five executives on the Board two years ago to three now.
We recruited, as an additional Non-executive, with the assistance of external consultants, Tracey Graham who brings extensive international business experience to the Board.
As far as the other Non-executives are concerned, John Bennett who chairs the Audit Committee after many years in public company Finance Director roles, Robert Miller Bakewell who has over 30 years city experience and Louise Charlton, who has extensive corporate communications experience, have all made a significant contribution.
Of the four Non-executives on the Board, you will also see that two are female!
Our annual Board performance review provided the opportunity for our collective and individual performance to be tested and reviewed.
The Board was faced with a major challenge this year due to our new auditors sudden and surprise announcement that they interpret IFRS3 2008 differently from our previous auditors.
The detail of this and its implications are explained elsewhere.
However, from a governance perspective, I can report that both the Audit Committee superbly chaired by John Bennett and the Board responded exceptionally well and successfully minimised the impact of this event on the operation and performance of the Group.
In my view such events are the best test of the quality of a Board and I believe the RPS Board could not have responded any better.
The management of the audit was below the standard we expect.
I have therefore asked the Audit Committee to see what can be done to improve this going forward.
In addition to the traditional Board Committees Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Governance, the involvement of the Nonexecutives outside the Board Room enables them to have a better understanding of the operational issues facing a group which has diversity in both geography and disciplines.
The Board actively encourages Non-executives to take the time to visit and engage directly with our businesses, in addition to the updates they receive at our regular Board meetings.
During the year the Board has continued to review the Group strategy and performance as well as scrutinizing proposed acquisitions.
In addition the Board has continued to oversee the maintenance of appropriate systems, controls and employment policies to underpin the Groups commercial strategy.
All of these matters are reflected in the Boards agenda and I am pleased that all our directors contribute actively to these discussions.
We will continue to develop our processes, procedures and systems as the Group and the wider governance environment evolves.
The performance of RPS over the last three challenging years suggests we have firm foundations on which to build.
Brook Land Chairman Corporate Governance Committee The Corporate Governance Committee is responsible for overseeing the Group structure and organisation and evaluating these in the context of developments in standards of corporate governance.
The Committee keeps the Board and its other committees appraised of developments that may impact their structure and activities.
It also oversees the policies described in the Corporate Responsibility Statement as well as the Groups environmental policies.
The Committee consists of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
Combined Code The Company has, throughout the year to 31 December 2011, complied with all provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, except that in a period of transition from 6 May 2011 when Roger Devlin and Karen McPherson retired from the Board and 12 September 2011 when Tracey Graham was appointed a less than half the Board, excluding the Chairman, consisted of Independent Non-Executive Directors and b the Audit and Remuneration Committees consisted of only two members.
In the period prior to 6 May 2011 and since 12 September 2011 the Company has been fully compliant with the Code.
com 21 Board Responsibilities The Board has a schedule of matters that are reserved for its decision, which includes the matters summarised below.
n Determining the Groups overall strategy n The approval of policies and systems for risk management and assurance n Approving annual budgets and financial reporting including annual and half year results and interim management n The approval of overall policies and plans for human resources statements n The appointment of key advisers to the Group n The approval and recommendation of dividends n The approval of major items of capital expenditure n The approval of significant acquisitions and disposals n The settlement of major litigation Board Structure At the date of this report the Board comprised three Executive and five Non-Executive Directors including the Chairman.
During the year, as noted above, Roger Devlin and Karen McPherson both retired as Non-Executive Directors and Tracey Graham was appointed as a Non-Executive Director.
In addition Peter Dowen, an Executive Director, retired and left the Board.
The Executive Directors are responsible for the day-to-day management of all the Groups business activities.
The Non-Executive Directors are, in the opinion of the Board, all independent of management and contribute independent judgement as well as extensive knowledge and experience to the proceedings of the Board.
The Chairman was independent on appointment.
The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for three-year terms, which may subsequently be extended.
Any term beyond six years for a Non-Executive is rigorously reviewed, looking at the requirement to refresh the Board.
All directors are subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Chairman and Chief Executive have clear and distinct roles.
The key functions of the Chairman are to conduct Board meetings as well as meetings of shareholders and to ensure that all Directors are properly briefed in order to take a full and constructive part in Board discussions.
The Chief Executives role is to develop and lead business strategies and processes to enable the Groups business to meet the requirements of its clients and the needs of its staff and shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders who wish to raise concerns that cannot be resolved through the Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director.
During the year Roger Devlin acted as Senior Independent Director until his retirement from the Board on 6 May 2011 from which time Robert Miller-Bakewell assumed this role.
The Board is assisted by the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees, all of which activities are described in this report.
The Chairman of each Committee provides updates as to its activities at Board meetings.
The table below shows the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each of the Directors during the year.
Full Audit Remuneration Nomination Corporate Board Committee Committee Committee Governance Brook Land 9 2 2 Alan Hearne 9 2 Gary Young 9 Peter Dowen 5 Phil Williams 9 Roger Devlin 2 1 2 Karen McPherson 3 2 2 John Bennett 9 5 3 Louise Charlton 8 1 2 Robert Miller-Bakewell 9 5 Tracey Graham 4 2 1 Number of meetings held 9 5 3 2 2 Served as Directors and Committee members for part-year only Served as Remuneration Committee member for part year only Served as Nomination Committee member for part year only Board Operations The Board generally meets on a monthly basis, except during holiday periods, but may meet more frequently should circumstances require.
The Board agenda gives significant focus to business performance and strategy.
Comprehensive papers are circulated well in 22 Report and Accounts 2011 Management & Governance advance of Board meetings.
These include general updates and briefings on significant issues from each of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
These reports and other matters of immediate importance are discussed by the Board.
Presentations on the operations of particular operating companies are made from time to time.
The Company Secretary assists the Chairman in ensuring that Board procedures are followed and advises on matters of Corporate Governance.
The services of the Company Secretary are available to Directors generally.
The Executive Directors meet formally at least once a month.
The Executive Committee, which consists of the three Executive Directors supported by the Company Secretary, is responsible for all operational matters within the Group subject to those matters that remain reserved for the Board.
The minutes of Executive Committee meetings are circulated to the Non-Executive Directors for review.
Where Directors have concerns that cannot be resolved regarding the management of the Company or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the Board minutes.
In accordance with Company policy any concerns expressed by a Director on resignation are provided, in a written statement, to the Chairman for circulation to the Board.
The Companys Articles of Association contain provisions that allow Directors to authorise conflicts in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
These provisions enable the Directors to authorise a conflict, subject to such terms as they may think fit, which may include exclusion from voting in respect of the relevant issue and exclusion from information and discussion relating to the matter.
The procedure approved by the Board for authorising conflicts reminds directors of the need to consider their duties as directors and not grant an authorisation unless they believe, in good faith, that this would be likely to promote the success of the Company.
A potentially conflicted Director cannot vote on an authorising resolution or be counted in a quorum for that purpose.
Any authority granted may be terminated at any time and the director is informed of his obligation to inform the Company without delay should there be any change in the nature of the conflict authorised.
In addition, the Board requires the Nomination Committee to check that any individual it nominates to the Board is free of any potential conflict of interest.
No actual or potential conflicts of interest arose during the year under review.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice and training at the Companys expense.
The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance with a current limit of indemnity of 20m.
The Groups general strategy and its related business model are described on page 3.
Board Performance The Board undertakes an annual appraisal of its performance.
Directors are asked to complete a detailed review relating to the general operation of the Board and its Committees as well as performance against group strategy.
The results are discussed with the Chairman and a summary of the principal findings is presented to and discussed by the Board.
Where appropriate the Board agrees changes to process and structure that are necessary to address the issues arising.
Such a review was undertaken during 2011 and although no major issues arose, some reorganisation of the Board and Board Committee timetable was subsequently agreed in order to facilitate a more efficient transaction of business.
In addition the review process highlighted a need to compliment the Boards skills through the recruitment of a Non-Executive Director with international management experience: this was achieved on the appointment of Tracey Graham to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors hold meetings with the Chairman without the Executives present at least twice a year.
The NonExecutives, led by the Senior Non-Executive Director, meet on an annual basis to appraise the Chairmans performance.
The Executive Directors have their performance individually reviewed by the Chief Executive against annually set objectives.
The Chief Executive has his performance reviewed by the Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
The Boards annual appraisal process incorporates a review of the performance of Non-Executive Directors.
Directors receive an induction on appointment including considerable information on the Company as well as the Board and its procedures.
They also meet other members of the Board to be briefed on strategy, financial matters and other key issues.
Advice is available from the Companys solicitors if required.
During the year updates are provided on key technical issues as required including those relating to corporate governance and corporate social responsibility.
Non-Executive Directors undertake regular visits to operating companies in order to improve understanding of more operational issues.
The Board is mindful of the provisions of the Code indicating that an externally facilitated performance review should be carried out at least once in every three years and is considering its options in this regard.
We are concerned that few of those offering such services can claim to be experienced and independent.
Communication The Company attaches great importance to communication with its shareholders and other stakeholders.
In addition to regular financial reporting the Group website provides up-to-date information about its organisation, the services it offers and newsworthy subjects.
The Company also responds to numerous letters and enquiries from shareholders and others with an interest in the Group.
com 23 In addition to presentations of full and half-year results, senior executives led by the Chief Executive hold meetings with the companys principal shareholders to discuss the Companys strategy and performance.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are also available to discuss issues with major shareholders.
An investor relations report is presented at all regular Board meetings to ensure that the Board is kept aware of the views of major shareholders and the investment community generally.
The Chairman of each of the Board Committees attends the Annual General Meeting and is available to answer questions.
Audit and internal controls The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the independent auditors in connection with the accounts are explained on pages 19, 20 and 35 and the statement of the Directors in respect of going concern appears on page 18.
The Board has throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements had procedures in place as recommended in the guidance in the UK Corporate Governance Code and Turnbull: Guidance on Internal Controls.
The principal risks to which the Group is exposed and the measures to mitigate such risks are described on pages 9 and 10.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control, which are designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board reviews from time to time the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management from information provided by management and the Groups external auditors.
Such a review was undertaken during 2011 the outcome of which was satisfactory.
The key procedures that the Directors have established to provide effective internal financial controls are as follows: Financial reporting: The results for the Group are reported to and reviewed by the Board on a monthly basis.
A detailed formal budgeting process for all Group businesses culminates in an annual Group budget which is approved by the Board.
Financial and accounting principles and internal financial controls assurance: Accounting policies and guidelines are issued to all accounting teams including those of acquired companies.
These set out the principles and minimum standards required by the Board for effective financial control.
Compliance with these policies and guidelines is reviewed on a regular basis.
Capital investment: The Group has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements where businesses are being acquired.
Treasury: the Group operates a central treasury function that undertakes required borrowing and foreign exchange transactions as well as the daily monitoring of bank balances and cash receipts.
Appropriate payment authorisation processes are in place in all parts of the Group.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee comprises three Independent Non-Executive Directors: John Bennett, Robert Miller-Bakewell and Tracey Graham.
Roger Devlin served as a member of the Committee until his retirement from the Board and Tracey Graham was appointed as a member on her joining the Board.
The Committee has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
Although the Board considers that all current members of the Committee have experience that is relevant to the role, John Bennett, who is a Chartered Accountant, is the member of the Committee specifically identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
The major issue the Committee dealt with during the year arose when Ernst & Young indicated that it did not agree with the Groups interpretation of IFRS3 2008 Business Combinations that it contains a rebuttable presumption in respect of the treatment of contingent deferred consideration, relating to transactions completed since I January 2010.
Ernst & Youngs view is that the deferred consideration due to vendors that is contingent on their continued employment, should be expensed through the profit and loss account, rather than being treated as capital cost, as the Group has done previously.
Ernst & Youngs review of the Groups 2011 interim results had not raised this as an issue.
In view of this, and given the previous auditors certification of the Group accounts at 31 December 2010, the Audit Committee commissioned an independent opinion from another big 4 firm.
This supported the Groups interpretation of IFRS3 2008.
DLA Piper, the Groups lawyers, were also asked to give an opinion on specific legal matters raised by Ernst & Young concerning the structure of our transactions.
DLA also supported the Boards position.
Although the RPS Board remains of the view that these contingent deferred consideration payments can be treated as capital costs, as they were in the audited 2010 report and accounts, the Audit Committee recommended the accounting treatment be changed to adopt the Ernst & Young interpretation.
The Board accepted this recommendation.
The Audit Committee also considered the impact of this revised treatment on the 2010 accounts and recommended to the Board that the impact is not material as omitting that information from the comparative results in the Report and Accounts for 2011 would not influence the decisions that users make about the Group.
The Board agreed: the 2010 accounts have, therefore, not been restated.
24 Report and Accounts 2011 Management & Governance The Audit Committee has reviewed and supports the Boards new preferred measures of Group profitability, including profit before tax, amortisation and transaction related costs PBTA and adjusted earnings per share.
The Committee and Board consider these provide more meaningful measures than statutory profit before tax and earnings per share.
The Committee reviews and approves audit plans with the Auditors prior to work being undertaken and reviews the integrity of the Groups financial statements and announcements prior to their submission to the Board.
This review includes ensuring that statutory and associated legal and regulatory requirements are met as well as considering significant reporting judgements, the adoption of appropriate accounting policies and practices and compliance with accounting standards.
As part of this process the Committee receives reports on the scope and outcome of the annual audit and managements response to this.
The Committee also monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls and risk management processes: this included assisted the Board in conducting the review of internal controls described above.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the need for an internal audit function and remains of the view at present the financial controls operating throughout the Group and the reviews undertaken by the Group Finance function are adequate without a dedicated internal audit function.
The Audit Committee keeps the scope, cost and effectiveness of the external audit under review as well as making recommendations as to the annual re-appointment of Auditors.
During the year the Committee undertook a review of the external audit appointment following which a competitive tender process was initiated and Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as Auditor.
The independence and effectiveness of the external auditor will continue to be subject to annual review and audit partners rotated at least every five years.
As part of its responsibility to ensure independence and objectivity the Committee has adopted a policy to determine the circumstances in which Auditors may be permitted to undertake non-audit work for the Group.
Under the terms of this policy the provision of certain services are prohibited and include those listed below: n bookkeeping services n preparation of financial statements n investment advisory, broker and dealing services n design and implementation of financial systems n general management services n valuation services Certain other services are approved up to agreed financial limits with the provision of such services beyond those limits requiring approval of the Committee.
The following fall within this category: n taxation services n advice relating to risk management and controls n transaction support including due diligence n accountancy advice and training The provision of any service at any level that does not fall within the above categories requires the approval of the Committee.
The split between audit and non-audit fees for the year under review appears on page 51.
The Committee also keeps under review the means by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about financial improprieties relating to financial reporting, internal control or other matters.
The companys procedure allows for any such matters to be reported to the Company Secretary who will ensure that any such matters are properly investigated and reported to the Audit Committee and the Board.
Any individual raising a concern need not disclose their identity and if such identity is disclosed it will not be passed on without the consent of that individual.
Nomination Committee The Committee meets as required, but not less than once a year, and comprises the Non-executive Chairman, Brook Land and two Independent Non-Executive Directors, Louise Charlton and Robert Miller-Bakewell.
The Committees key responsibilities include reviewing the Board structure, size and composition as well as evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience which may be required in the future and making recommendations to the Board accordingly.
It is also responsible for nominating candidates to the Board when vacancies arise, recommending Directors who are retiring to be put forward for re-election and where appropriate considering any issues relating to the continuation in office of any Director.
It has written terms of reference which are available on the Companys website and on request from the Company Secretary.
The Committee believes that the Board as currently constituted provides an appropriate range and balance of skills and experience.
The Executive Directors have many years experience with the Company and of their specific roles.
The Non-Executive Directors, as their biographies indicate, have skills ranging across senior level corporate management, finance, law, investment analysis, and corporate communication.
The Committee, however, keeps Board succession planning and the need to retain Board balance under careful review.
Succession plans deal specifically with each of the roles undertaken by the Executive Directors whilst taking into account the developing needs of the business.
Account is also taken of the need to periodically refresh the Non-Executive compliment and ensure that they continue, as noted above, to provide the range and balance of skills required.
The Committee and the Board have remained cognisant of rpsgroup.
com 25 the need to encourage Board diversity and during the year the Company announced its view that a female representation of 25 per cent Board membership was an appropriate level.
On the appointment of Tracey Graham to the Board this level was achieved.
When Directors are appointed to the Board, this is through a formal, rigorous and transparent process.
Tracey Graham was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 12 September 2011.
This followed a careful evaluation of the skills currently available at Board level and how these could best be enhanced and balanced.
A job specification was prepared and a shortlist of candidates prepared using the services of an external search agency.
After a number of detailed and rigorous interviews, the Committee concluded that Tracey Grahams skills and experience offered a strong match with the Companys requirements.
The appointment was only then made following meetings with other Directors and final consideration of the appointment by the Committee and the Board.
John Bennett whose second three year term as a Non-Executive Director will expire at the forthcoming Annual General meeting has agreed to continue for a further three year term.
This further term was only agreed after careful scrutiny bearing in mind the need to achieve the appropriate balance between the retention of acquired experience and refreshment of the Board.
Remuneration Committee The membership and activities of the Remuneration Committee are described in the Remuneration Report on pages 27 to 34.
Takeover Directive Disclosures required under the Takeover Directive are included on page 20 and form part of the Groups Corporate Governance report.
