Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 57 Corporate governance annual general meeting in July 2011, and Mr Wilson will be proposed Introduction for election as a director in his place.
In this report we describe the directors approach to corporate The size and certain aspects of the composition of the board and of governance and how the board applies the Combined Code on the audit, nomination and corporate accountability and risk assurance Corporate Governance adopted by the Financial Reporting Council committees are determined primarily by the terms of our relationship FRC in June 2008. agreements with Altria and with BevCo Ltd BevCo, a holding company of the Santo Domingo Group, both of which have been The FRC issued a new UK Corporate Governance Code in May 2010 approved by the shareholders of SABMiller.
which applies to financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
We are not therefore required to report on our application of the new The agreement with Altria limits the size of the board to a maximum of Code for the first time until next year, but if the new Code had applied 15 directors, of whom no more than two are to be executive directors, to the year ended 31 March 2011, we would have reported that we up to three are to be non-executive directors nominated by Altria, up applied all of its principles and provisions, except for the composition to two are to be non-executive directors nominated by BevCo, and of our audit committee, as approved by shareholders, which is as up to eight are to be non-executive directors appointed by the board.
The agreement with BevCo allows BevCo to nominate up to two nonexecutive directors for appointment to the board.
The directors are committed to maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance, which they believe are fundamental to The number of directors on the board currently exceeds the number discharging their stewardship responsibilities, and in his statement permitted under our agreement with Altria.
Altria has consented to on pages 6 to 9 of this report, the Chairman reports personally on this in order to facilitate the progressive renewal of the board and the how we apply the principles of the Code relating to the role and broadening of the diversity of background, gender and experience effectiveness of the board.
at board level, and to assist the company in applying the provision of the Combined Code that at least half of the directors excluding Application of the Combined Code the Chairman should be independent non-executive directors.
The The board applied all of the principles and provisions of the Combined board is grateful to Altria for its agreement to permit the maximum Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2011, except that the audit number of directors allowed under the relationship agreement to be committee did not consist solely of independent directors.
Under our exceeded for the time being, on the understanding that in the absence relationship agreement, as approved by shareholders in 2002 and in of unforeseen circumstances, one longer serving director will retire 2005, Altria Group, Inc. Altria has the right to nominate a director to in 2012, and one will retire in 2013, thereby restoring the number of the audit committee, and has nominated Mr Devitre, whom the board directors to that envisaged by the agreement, while still applying the does not consider to be an independent director for the purposes of provisions of the new Corporate Governance Code.
Altria and BevCo have each exercised their right under their The board nevertheless considers that the composition of the respective agreements to nominate one director for appointment to audit committee remains appropriate, given Altrias interest as the the nomination committee.
Both Altria and BevCo have the right to companys largest shareholder, and is satisfied that, having regard nominate directors for appointment to the corporate accountability to the experience and background in financial matters of Mr Devitre, and risk assurance committee CARAC, which Altria has exercised as a former chief financial officer of Altria, the independence and but BevCo has not, and Altria has the right to nominate one director effectiveness of the audit committee in discharging its functions in for appointment to the audit committee, which it has exercised.
terms of the Combined Code continue to be considerably enhanced and not in the least compromised.
Independence The board considers nine directors Mr Armour, Ms Knox, MrManser, Mr Manzoni, Mr Morland, Dr Moyo, Mr Pieterse, Leadership and effectiveness MrRamaphosa and Ms Weir to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code.
The board considers five non-executive directors Board of directors: composition, independence and renewal not to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code: Composition MrBible, Mr Devitre and Mr Willard, as they are nominees of Altria, the The board currently consists of the Chairman Mr Kahn : nine companys largest shareholder: and Mr Santo Domingo and Mr Prez, independent non-executive directors including Mr Manser, the as they are nominees of the Santo Domingo Group, the companys SeniorIndependent Director : five non-executive directors who are not second largest shareholder.
The test of independence under the Code considered to be independent: and two executive directors Mr Mackay, does not apply in relation to the Chairman, Mr Kahn.
the Chief Executive, and Mr Wyman, the Chief Financial Officer.
Short biographies of each of the directors are on pages 50 and 51.
Progressive renewal of the board The board continues to believe that its overall composition remains During the year ended 31 March 2011, Mr Armour, an independent appropriate, having regard in particular to the independence of non-executive director, was appointed to the board in May 2010. character and integrity of all of its directors, and the experience and Lord Fellowes retired from the board in July 2010 after 11 years of skills which they bring to their duties.
Regrettably, Ms Doherty was obliged to resign as a non-executive director with effect from 31 December It is now 12 years since the company listed on the London Stock 2010, as a result of her appointment as Chief Financial OfficerExchange, and SABMiller has been fortunate to retain the services designate of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc.
As Mr Mackay is the senior of several distinguished non-executive directors the Chairman, independent director of Reckitt Benckiser Group plc, it was not Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa for all or most of that thought appropriate for Ms Doherty to continue as a non-executive period.
They have provided considerable stability to the board and the director of SABMiller plc.
board has benefited greatly from the presence of individuals who have over time gained valuable insight into the group, its markets and the Subsequently, in May 2011, we announced the appointment of two industry.
new non-executive directors, Ms Knox and Ms Weir.
If a director has served for a period of nine years or more, the Also in May 2011, we announced the planned retirement of Mr Wyman Combined Code requires the board to consider whether that as chief financial officer, and the appointment as his successor of director continues to be independent.
In respect of each of the three MrWilson.
Mr Wyman will not seek re-election to the board at the independent directors who have served the board for more than 50518 TEXT pgs50-75.
indd 57 07 06 2011 00:45 58 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued nine years and are offering themselves for re-election Mr Manser, riskparameters.
The board monitors compliance with policies and MrMorland and Mr Ramaphosa, the board has therefore considered achievement against objectives by holding management accountable specifically whether their length of service has compromised their for its activities through monthly and quarterly performance reporting independence.
In each case the board has determined that the and budget updates.
In addition, members of the executive committee director concerned remains independent in character and judgement the executive directors, the divisional managing directors and the and that there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely directors of key group functions: corporate affairs: marketing: supply to affect, or could appear to affect, his judgement, and that the chain and human resources: and legal make regular presentations independence of character and judgement of each of the directors to the board, enabling directors to explore specific issues and concerned is not in any way affected or impaired by length of service.
The board has also conducted a rigorous review of the performance of the Chairman, Mr Manser, Mr Morland and Mr Ramaphosa and Board and committee meetings are held in an atmosphere of intellectual considers that each of these directors continues to bring invaluable honesty of purpose, integrity and mutual respect, requiring reporting of integrity, wisdom and experience to the board and to contribute the highest standard by management and direct, robust and constructive positively to board and committee deliberations.
The board is challenge and debate among board and committee members.
therefore entirely satisfied as to the performance and continued independence of judgement of each of these directors.
Matters reserved for the board There is a schedule of matters which are dealt with exclusively by the The Combined Code recommends that directors who have served board.
These include approval of financial statements: the groups for more than nine years should stand for annual re-election.
By business strategy: the annual capital expenditure plan: major capital contrast, the new UK Corporate Governance Code recommends projects: major changes to the groups management and control that all directors should stand for annual re-election.
Although there structure: material investments or disposals: risk management strategy: is no consensus among UK institutional shareholders on whether sustainability and environmental policies: and treasury policies.
annual re-election of the entire board is appropriate or not, the board has decided that all directors should stand for re-election at the next The board governs through clearly mandated board committees, annual general meeting.
accompanied by monitoring and reporting systems.
Each standing board committee has specific written terms of reference issued by The board considers there is an appropriate balance of skills, the board and adopted in committee.
The terms of reference of the collective experience, independence, knowledge and gender among audit, remuneration and nomination committees are available on the the non-executive directors.
companys website or, on request, from the Company Secretary.
All committee chairmen report orally on the proceedings of their How the board operates committees at the next meeting of the board, and the minutes of Board meetings and attendance the meetings of all board committees are included in the papers During the year there were six board meetings.
Individual directors distributed to all board members in advance of the next board attendance at board and committee meetings and at the annual meeting.
general meeting is set out in the table below.
In the few instances where a director has not been able to attend a board or committee Conflicts of interest meeting, any comments which they have had on the matters to The directors are required to avoid situations where they have, be considered at that meeting have been given in advance to the or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly chairman of the meeting.
may conflict, with the companys interests.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the articles of association of the company allow Operation of the board the board to authorise potential conflicts of interest that may arise The board sets the strategic objectives of the group, determines and to impose such limits or conditions as it thinks fit.
Procedures investment policies, agrees on performance criteria, and delegates are in place for the disclosure by directors of any potential conflicts to management the detailed planning and implementation of and forthe appropriate authorisation to be sought if a conflict arises.
those objectives and policies in accordance with appropriate These procedures continue to operate effectively.
Directors attendance 1 April 2010 to 31 March 2011 and committee memberships Board Audit Remuneration Nomination CARAC AGM Independent Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended J M Kahn N A 5 6 2 2 1 2 Y E A G Mackay N A 6 6 2 2 Y M I Wyman N A 6 6 2 2 Y M H Armour Yes 5 5 4 4 1 1 Y G C Bible No 6 6 2 2 Y D S Devitre No 6 6 4 4 Y M E Doherty Yes 5 5 3 3 Y Lord Fellowes Yes 3 3 1 1 2 2 Y P J Manser Yes 6 6 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 Y J A Manzoni Yes 6 6 3 3 2 2 2 2 Y M Q Morland Yes 6 6 4 4 3 3 2 2 Y D F Moyo Yes 6 6 2 2 Y C A Prez Dvila No 6 6 Y R Pieterse Yes 6 6 2 2 Y M C Ramaphosa Yes 6 6 2 2 2 2 Y A Santo Domingo Dvila No 6 6 2 2 Y H A Willard No 6 6 2 2 Y Mr Kahn was unable to attend the board and CARAC meetings in September 2010 as they coincided with a day of religious observance.
Ms Knox and Ms Weir are not included in the table as they joined the board on 19 May 2011.
indd 58 07 06 2011 00:45 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 59 The roles of executive and non-executive directors Mr Wyman is the senior independent non-executive director of The executive directors are responsible for proposing strategy and Nedbank Group Limited, a company whose shares are listed on for making and implementing operational decisions.
Non-executive the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, and of its subsidiary Nedbank directors complement the skills and experience of the executive Limited.
He is the Chairman of the audit committee and a member directors, bring independent judgement and contribute to the of the remuneration committee of Nedbank Group Limited.
The formulation of strategy, policy and decision-making through their board is satisfied that Mr Wymans position with Nedbank, a major knowledge and experience of other businesses and sectors.
South African financial institution, is complementary to his role as Chief Financial Officer and continues to widen his experience and Information and training knowledge to the benefit of the company.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the board, through the Chairman, on matters of corporate governance.
The board and Fees earned by Mr Mackay and Mr Wyman from these appointments its committees are supplied with full and timely information, including are set out in the directors remuneration report.
detailed financial information, to enable directors to discharge their responsibilities, and the committees are provided with sufficient Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director resources to undertake their duties.
All directors have access to the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate with advice of the Company Secretary.
Independent professional advice responsibilities divided between them, as formalised in their is also available to directors in appropriate circumstances, at the respective letters of appointment, approved by the board.
None of the directors has sought independent were no significant changes to the Chairmans external commitments external advice through the company.
Following the appointment of new directors to the board, directors The Chairman is available to consult with shareholders throughout are briefed on the duties they owe as directors to the company, and the year and, in the month prior to the annual general meeting, he tailored induction programmes are arranged which involve industryalso invites major shareholders to meet him to deal with any issues.
specific training and include visits to the groups businesses and The board is kept informed of the views of shareholders through meetings with senior management, as appropriate.
New directors are regular updates from the Chairman, the Company Secretary and briefed on internal controls at business unit level and are advised of the executive directors, as well as through the inclusion in the the legal and other duties they have as directors of a listed company board papers of reports on commentaries of, and exchanges with, as well as on relevant company policies and governance-related shareholders, investor bodies and analysts.
The company is committed to the continuing development of directors in order that they may build on their expertise and develop The Senior Independent Director is Mr Manser.
He chairs or serves an ever more detailed understanding of the business and the markets on all four main committees of the board, and is therefore well in which group companies operate.
Members of board committees placed to influence the governance of the company and to meet are encouraged to attend internal and external briefings and courses his responsibilities as Senior Independent Director.
The Senior on aspects of their respective committee specialisms and regular Independent Director serves as an additional contact point for updates on relevant legal, regulatory, corporate governance and shareholders, and is also available to fellow non-executive directors, technical developments are presented to committee members at either individually or collectively, to discuss any matters of concern in eachmeeting and, as appropriate, to the full board.
a forum that does not include executive directors or other members of the management team.
Outside appointments Non-executive directors may serve on a number of other boards In the year under review, the Chairman hosted a meeting of the nonprovided that they continue to demonstrate the requisite commitment executive directors without the executive directors being present.
The to discharge effectively their duties to SABMiller.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also held a meeting of non-executive the nomination committee keep under review the extent of directors directors without the presence of the Chairman at which, among other other interests to ensure that the effectiveness of the board is not things, the performance of the Chairman was discussed.
compromised by the extent of external commitments.
The board is satisfied that the Chairman and each of the non-executive directors Board, committee and director performance evaluation commit sufficient time to their duties as Chairman and directors of A formal and rigorous evaluation of the performance and effectiveness thecompany, respectively.
of the board and its principal committees is carried out each year, led by the Chairman, with input from the Senior Independent Director, and The board believes, in principle, in the benefit to the company in consultation with other directors and the Company Secretary.
of executive directors and members of the executive committee accepting non-executive directorships of other companies in order to The performance of the Chief Executive is reviewed by the widen their experience and knowledge for the benefit of the company.
remuneration committee and this review is shared with and Accordingly, subject to the agreement of the board, executive considered by the board.
The performance of the Chief Financial directors and members of the executive committee are permitted to Officer is reviewed by the Chief Executive and the remuneration accept external non-executive board appointments and to retain any committee, and reported on to the board by the remuneration fees received from such appointments.
Each non-executive directors performance is evaluated by the Chairman, in consultation with the Senior Independent Director, Mr Mackay is a non-executive director of Reckitt Benckiser Group who in turn consults with the executive directors and the Company plc and is the senior independent director and a member of its Secretary.
The Chairmans performance is evaluated against the remuneration committee.
He is also a member of the board of Philip same criteria by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive Morris International Inc. and serves on three of its committees: directors and the Company Secretary, taking into account the views compensation and leadership development, finance, and product ofthe executive directors.
The board is satisfied that these duties do not impinge on Mr Mackays commitment and ability to In considering the contribution of individual directors for the year discharge fully his duties to the company, and that his service on the under review, performance was assessed against the companys boards of two global consumer product companies, which operate in selected criteria of strategy, expertise in their field, ethics and many of the developed and emerging markets in which the company governance factors, commitment, profile, knowledge of the industry, also has businesses, continues to give Mr Mackay valuable additional and team contribution, culminating in an overall contribution rating, insights and knowledge which enhance his ability to fulfil his duties as while recognising the importance of the different roles played by Chief Executive of the company.
individual directors in bringing a balanced overall view to the board.
In reviewing the performance of the board and its committees, the 50518 TEXT pgs50-75.
indd 59 07 06 2011 00:45 60 SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Chairman and the Senior Independent Director were aligned in their The Company Secretary conclusion that, measured against the principal duties expected of The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the board and its it, the board and its standing and ad hoc sub-committees continued committees and he attended all meetings during the year under to operate effectively and to meet in full their obligations to support review.
management, to monitor performance, and to maintain the boards strategic oversight.
The boards committees and the executive committee The executive committee In a meeting of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, The board delegates responsibility for determining and implementing the committee chairmen and the Company Secretary, the results the groups strategy and for managing the group to the Chief of the performance and effectiveness evaluations conducted in Executive, Mr Mackay, who is supported by the executive committee respect of the board, each of the directors, the Chairman, the excom, which he chairs.
Excom members are appointed by Senior Independent Director and each of the boards four standing MrMackay, after consultation with the board.
The other members committees were reviewed.
Regarding the board committees, each of excom are the Chief Financial Officer: the divisional managing of the committee chairmen expressed their views regarding the directors responsible for managing the groups regional hubs Africa, operation of his committee against its terms of reference and the Asia, Europe and Latin America : the Chairman and Managing Director performance and effectiveness of that committee.
These views were of The South African Breweries Limited: the directors of key group discussed in an open and constructive manner with recommendations functions corporate affairs: marketing: and supply chain and human arising from the discussions being brought forward to the board and resources : and the General Counsel and Group Company Secretary.
The conclusion of this meeting was that Excoms purpose is to support the Chief Executive in carrying out the board was balanced and operated effectively and that the board the duties delegated to him by the board and, in that context, excom committees discharged effectively their duties under their respective co-ordinates brand and operational execution, delivers strategic terms of reference.
plans, budgets and financial reports for the boards consideration and, through the Chief Executive, reports on these matters to the board.
The results of the performance and effectiveness assessment process as outlined above were reviewed in full and approved by the Excom also ensures that effective internal controls are in place and board.
Matters identified as requiring further consideration have been functioning, and that there is an effective risk management process addressed, and in particular more time has been made available in the inoperation throughout the group.
boards agenda for focus on strategic matters by holding an additional away day dedicated to strategy.
The audit committee During the year under review, the audit committee was chaired All directors, except Mr Wyman, will be standing for election or reby Mr Manser, chairman since 2002.
Mr Manser qualified as a election at this years annual general meeting.
The Chairman confirms chartered accountant in 1964 and was made a Fellow of the Institute that each of the existing directors offering themselves for election of Chartered Accountants in 1976.
Further biographical information or re-election continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate concerning Mr Manser is set out on page 51. commitment to their role.
In particular, the Chairman confirms that, in relation to each of the non-executive directors who will have served for Mr Morland and Mr Devitre served on the committee throughout over nine years, the board is satisfied with his performance and has the year.
Mr Morland has been a member of the committee since determined that the length of their service does not compromise their 13 April 1999 and Mr Devitre since 16 May 2007.
Mr Manser, as Senior Independent Director, confirms appointed to the committee on 1 May 2010.
Lord Fellowes served that the Chairman continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate until his retirement on 22 July 2010 and Ms Doherty served until commitment to his role.
The Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience, as does Mr Devitre, having until The board unanimously recommends to shareholders the election 31March 2008 held the position of Chief Financial Officer of Altria, of Mr Wilson as a director, in consequence of his appointment as and Mr Armour, being the Chief Financial Officer of Reed Elsevier chief financial officer in succession to Mr Wyman.
The board believes Group plc, a position he has held since 1996, and of its parent that Mr Wilson has an outstanding talent, with a considerable companies, Reed Elsevier PLC and Reed Elsevier NV.
Ms Knox and breadth of industry experience, acquired both within SABMiller and Ms Weir were both appointed to the committee with effect from the wider alcohol beverage sector, and that he combines a unique 19May 2011, and both have recent and relevant financial experience.
operational, commercial and financial perspective with a proven track MsKnox has had a successful career in investment banking and record in the business.
His appointment as chief financial officer asset management, and has served in a wide range of non-executive will further enhance the commercial focus of the finance function, director positions including having been a member and a chairman ensuring that the group is well positioned to leverage value from the of a number of audit committees.
Ms Weir was until May 2011 an range of business capability initiatives that are being progressively executive director ofLloyds Banking Group plc, including four years as implemented throughout the group.
group financedirector, and has previously been group finance director of Kingfisher plc.
Biographical details of all directors who are standing for election or re-election are included on pages 50 and 51 of this report.
The committee met four times during the year.
The external auditors, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Internal Retirement of directors Auditor attended each meeting by invitation.
Other members of the The companys articles of association require that new directors management team attended as required.
are subject to election at the first annual general meeting following their appointment, and directors are subject to retirement and reThe work of the committee during the year included consideration of election by shareholders every three years.
The reappointment of the following matters: non-executive directors is not automatic.
However, the board has determined that for the time being all directors will stand for rethe annual financial statements and the preliminary results election annually.
Independent non-executive directors who have announcement for the year ended 31 March 2010 before their served for nine years will only be asked to stand for re-election if the submission to the board for approval, including consideration of board remains satisfied both with the directors performance and that the group on a going concern basis, with particular reference to nine years continuous service does not compromise the directors balance sheet and treasury considerations: continuing independence.
the interim financial statements and interim results announcement for the six months ended 30 September 2010: 50518 TEXT pgs50-75.
indd 60 07 06 2011 00:45 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information SABMiller plc Annual Report 2011 61 areas of significance in the preparation of the financial statements, to the committee with effect from 19 May 2010, and Lord Fellowes including exceptional items, impairment reviews, tax provisions, stepped down from the committee upon his retirement in July the treatment of costs relating to the groups business capability 2010.
The committee considers the composition of the board and programme, the re-recognition of the results of the groups its committees, the retirement, appointment and replacement of Zimbabwe associate and the Tsogo Sun transaction: directors, and makes appropriate recommendations to the board.
governance and controls in relation to the business capability programme: The nomination committee has continued to evaluate the balance reports from the external auditors on the annual and interim of skills, knowledge and experience of the board and is committed financial statements, the approval of the audit plan and fee proposal to the progressive renewal of the board through orderly succession.
for the 2011 year end audit: Appropriate succession plans for the non-executive directors, for the developments in accounting standards and the groups responses: executive directors and for senior management were also kept under the progress of the years internal audit programme and matters close review.
The committee remains conscious of the need for due arising: regard to be given to diversity when considering appointments to the the effectiveness of the internal audit function and of the Chief board.
Five of the last seven independent non-executive directors to Internal Auditor: be appointed by the board were women, and currently one-third of the the groups state of readiness for compliance with section 404 companys independent non-executive directors are women, and the of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act although the company is not an committee therefore believes that the company is well positioned in SEC registrant and is not required to comply with Sarbanes-Oxley terms of the future balance of the board.
standards : the results of the groups bi-annual letters of representation and Where non-executive vacancies arise, the committee may use the managements investigation and follow-up of any instances of services of external consultants in order to identify suitable candidates non-compliance: for the board to consider.
Candidates are shortlisted for consideration the internal control environment and risk management systems by the nomination committee on the basis of their relevant corporate and the groups statement on internal control systems, prior to or professional skills and experience.
As noted in our last corporate endorsement by the board: governance report, a strong shortlist for the position filled by revisions to treasury policies and compliance with risk limits: MrArmour in May 2010 was derived after extensive consultation.
material legal developments: An external search firm was not involved in this appointment, the whistleblowing systems in place within the group and material committees engagement of a leading search firm for a similar position whistleblowing reports: not having yielded any suitable candidates.
However, in relation to the effectiveness of the external auditors and the recommendation the most recent board appointments, a different external search firm to the board of the reappointment of  LLP was retained and produced a strong list of candidates, from which as the external auditors: MsKnox and Ms Weir were appointed in May 2011. the appointment of a new audit engagement partner by  LLP for the 2012 audit: In relation to the appointment of Mr Wilson as the new Chief Financial the policy on auditor independence and non-audit services, Officer, an external search firm specialising in senior executive andconsideration of the nature, scope and appropriateness recruitment was retained, and worked closely with the executive of non-audit services supplied by the external auditors: and directors and the nomination committee in a rigorous process over its terms of reference and effectiveness.
a six month period, to compile and benchmark a shortlist of highly qualified internal and external candidates.
After extensive review The audit committee reports its activities and makes andconsultation, and a detailed assessment and interview process, recommendations to the board.
During the year, the audit committee Mr Wilson was selected as the best qualified candidate to succeed discharged its responsibilities as they are defined in the committees MrWyman.
terms of reference, and has been engaged in ensuring that appropriate standards of governance, reporting and compliance The remuneration committee arebeing met.
The committee has advised the board on issues During the year, the remuneration committee consisted entirely of relating to the application of accounting standards as they relate independent directors: Mr Morland Chairman, Mr Manzoni and topublished financial information.
Mr Armour, an independent non-executive director was appointed to the committee with effect from 19 May 2010.
Lord The Chief Internal Auditor has direct access to the committee, Fellowes stepped down from the committee upon his retirement in primarily through its chairman.
The committee has access to July 2010.
Ms Knox was appointed to the remuneration committee subsidiary company internal audit leadership.
The reports of the with effect from 19 May 2011. divisional audit committees are also available to the audit committee.
During the year, the committee met at least once with the external The committee is responsible for the assessment and approval of a auditors and with the Chief Internal Auditor without management broad remuneration strategy for the group and for the operation of the being present.
This includes determination of short-term and long-term incentives for executives across the In addition to the review of the committees performance, terms of group, and the committee is empowered by the board to set shortreference and effectiveness led by the Chairman of the board, the term and long-term remuneration for the executive directors and committee critically reviewed its own performance during the year members of the executive committee.
by means of a questionnaire which each member of the committee completed independently.
The committee chairman then reviewed The remuneration committee has implemented its strategy of ensuring the responses and conducted one-to-one discussions with members that employees and executives are rewarded for their contribution of the committee where he felt it was necessary.
The results of the to the groups operating and financial performance at levels which self-assessment and any action plans arising were then reported to take account of industry, market and country benchmarks.
that the executives goals are aligned to those of the company, share incentives are considered to be critical elements of executive The nomination committee incentive pay.
During the year, the committee engaged the services During the year, the nomination committee was chaired by Mr Kahn.
These consultants have no Mr Bible, Mr Manser, Mr Morland, Mr Ramaphosa and Mr Santo other connection with the company.
At levels below the companys Domingo were members of this committee throughout the year.
executive committee, the companys management engages other MrManzoni, an independent non-executive director, was appointed consultants, on a project basis.
