Governance Corporate governance Statement of compliance Throughout the year ended 30 September 2011, the Company has complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code published in May 2010.
Governance framework The various elements which comprise our governance framework are listed below, along with an overview of their responsibilities.
Shareholders Other stakeholders Board of directors 1 Non-executive Chairman 3 Executive directors 4 Independent non-executive directors Executive Committee Nominations Remuneration Audit Company Committee Committee Committee Secretary Internal audit External audit Group functions Group policies Nomination Committee Internal audit This Committee reviews the composition of the Board to ensure it The internal audit function facilitates the identification of risks and carries remains appropriate for the needs of the business and plans for its out reviews and testing of the controls that are in place to mitigate those progressive refreshing.
It leads the process for the identification and risks.
Further details of the work of internal audit are provided on selection of new directors and makes recommendations to the page 49.
Board in respect of such appointments.
The Committee also makes External audit recommendations to the Board on the membership of its committees.
The external audit function provides independent audit and review.
Remuneration Committee Further details of the work of external audit are provided on page 49.
This Committee determines the policy for the remuneration of the Executive Committee Chairman, executive directors, Company Secretary and senior executives of the Group.
Further details on the Groups remuneration policy are This Committee is chaired by the Chief Executive and is responsible for provided in the Remuneration report on pages 58 to 66. overseeing operations in the Groups regions and the Group functional areas.
It comprises the senior executives within the Group.
Audit Committee Group functions The Audit Committee oversees the Companys financial reporting, risk management and internal control procedures, and the work of its internal Certain specific administrative functions are controlled centrally at and external auditors.
Further details on the activities of the Audit Group level and report to the Board via various members of the Committee are provided on pages 48 to 50.
For example, Finance, Investor Relations, Tax and Treasury report through the Chief Financial Officer.
Procedures are Company Secretary clearly defined to ensure that the activities of these functions reduce the The role of the Company Secretary is to ensure good information flows risk profile of the organisation.
to the Board and its committees and between senior management and Group policies non-executive directors.
He facilitates the induction of new directors and assists with professional development as required.
He also ensures The Board is responsible for ensuring that adequate policies and Board procedures are complied with and that applicable rules and procedures are in place.
These are reviewed and amended as required to regulations are followed.
The Company Secretary is available to all ensure that they remain in line with legislation and regulations and are directors to provide advice and assistance, and is responsible for sufficiently robust to ensure appropriate internal controls are maintained, providing governance advice to the Board.
whilst also providing a suitable framework for the businesses and Group functions within which to operate.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements How our governance framework operates The Board and its committees Matters reserved for the Board % of time spent The Chairman in conjunction with the Chief Executive and Company Strategy and risk Secretary plans the agenda for each Board meeting.
That agenda is Operational reviews and discussions Mergers, acquisitions and disposals issued with supporting papers during the week before the Board meeting CEO updates is held.
Board packs contain financial information and briefing papers on Strategic planning the topics for discussion.
Risk management and reporting 18% Financial reporting Board meetings are held both inside and outside the United Kingdom at Results operating companies of the Group.
Directors are also encouraged to visit Investor Relations Tax and treasury overseas operations on a regular basis.
This provides the Board and Capital structure individual directors with the opportunity to broaden their understanding Budgeting and forecasting 62% 20% of the business and the key markets in which it operates.
Governance Board training The Board currently comprises the non-executive Chairman, the Chief Performance evaluation Executive, two other executive directors and four other independent Company Secretarial and legal Strategy and risk non-executive directors.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief reporting updates Reporting of Board committees Executive are quite distinct from one another and ar Financial reporting e clearly defined e. g. Audit Committee, Remuneration in written terms of reference for each role adopted by the Board and Governance Committee, Nomination Committee available to shareholders on request to the Secretary at the registered The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility to ensure that office and on the Companys website at www.
the strategies proposed by the executive directors are fully considered.
As can be seen from the directors biographies on pages 42 and 43, In order to do this and to enable the Board as a whole to discharge its the directors have a range of experience and can bring independent duties, all directors receive appropriate information in advance of all judgement to bear on issues of strategy, performance, resources and Board meetings.
standards of conduct, which is vital to the success of the Group.
It is the The Board recognises the importance of reviewing its practices and balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge evidenced performance on a regular basis.
To achieve this, the Board has evaluated by the biographies which ensures the duties and responsibilities of the its performance and that of its committees and individual members at Board and its Committees are discharged effectively.
All directors are meetings and also through the completion of detailed questionnaires.
subject to re-election at each Annual General Meeting and, to give them The questionnaires cover a range of issues relating to the Boards a full understanding of the business on appointment, new members of role and its responsibilities, the conduct of Board meetings and the the Board undergo a full, formal and tailored induction to the Board.
The structures in place to ensure that the Board has the opportunity to Board has formally adopted a schedule of matters specifically reserved debate fully areas of concern, the leadership and culture of the Group.
to it for decision which is available to shareholders on request to the The questionnaires also consider Board communications, governance Secretary at the registered office and which is also available on the and the performance of the Committees and their members.
Completed Companys website at www.
questionnaires are reviewed and considered by the Chairman and by The Company is also very supportive of the aims and objectives of the the Board as a whole.
The Chairman follows this review with meetings Davies Report on Women on Boards.
The Board of Sage currently with individual directors.
The Company Secretary also raises the areas comprises 25% women and the Company would expect to maintain a covered by the questionnaires for discussion with key executives who similar balance through 2013 to 2015 as the Board is refreshed during support the Board and the Committees and key advisers and reports this period.
The Board must continue to provide strong leadership at their views to the Chairman.
Sage and, therefore, the Company continues to appoint only the most In the year under review, the directors were also assisted in their appropriate candidates.
evaluation by an independent third party, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management Review.
Dr Long is entirely independent of the Group and performs no of the Group.
To assist in this, training is also made available to directors other function for the Group other than assisting in directors evaluations.
and training needs are assessed as part of the evaluation procedure of Dr Long facilitated a Board workshop in order to assist the Board in its the Board, which is discussed below.
All directors have access to the own evaluation.
This workshop, and the completed questionnaires, advice and services of the Secretary, who is responsible to the Board resulted in a number of issues being identified, including around the for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable procedures at Board meetings, which have since been addressed by rules and regulations are complied with.
The Secretary ensures that the Chairman.
the directors take independent professional advice as required at the Under the Companies Act 2006 a director must avoid a situation where expense of the Company when it is judged necessary to discharge he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly their responsibilities as directors.
The appointment and removal of the may conflict with the Companys interests.
The Act allows directors Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts, where The Board meets formally not less than six times a year, reviewing appropriate, where the articles of association contain a provision to trading performance, ensuring adequate funding, setting and monitoring this effect.
The articles of association give the directors authority to strategy, examining major acquisition opportunities and reviewing regular approve such situations and to include other provisions to allow reports to shareholders.
In the year under review the Board met on six conflicts of interest to be dealt with.
In order to address this issue, at occasions.
All directors in office at the time attended all of these the commencement of each Board meeting, the Board considers a Boardmeetings.
register of interests and potential conflicts of directors and gives, when appropriate, any necessary approvals.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 47 Governance Corporate governance continued There are safeguards which will apply when directors decide whether Remuneration Committee to authorise a conflict or potential conflict.
First, only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision, and secondly, in taking the decision the directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures on conflict have been followed throughout the year and the Board consider the approach to operate effectively.
The Chairman The role of Chairman of the Board carries a particular responsibility to monitor and assess the corporate governance practices of the Group.
The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Ms R Markland.
The other members of the Committee are the Chairman of the Board, The terms of reference for the Chairman of the Board ensure that this Mr A J Hobson, and the other independent non-executive directors, role is quite distinct from that of the Chief Executive and are set out Ms T Ingram, Mr I Mason and Mr M E Rolfe.
on the Companys website at www.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee meets at least four times in To ensure a proper dialogue with directors, the Chairman of the Board the year.
In the year under review, nine meetings of the Committee were holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive held of which four were held on full notice and five were shorter meetings directors to assess their views.
In addition, the non-executive directors held by telephone on a shorter notice.
All members in office at the time have met without the Chairman present to appraise the Chairmans attended all the meetings other than Mr Mason who was unable to performance.
The Chairman also ensures that shareholder attend one meeting and Ms T Ingram who was unable to attend three communications and responses are discussed at each meeting of the meetings.
The Chief Executive may, by invitation of the Committee, Board and that all shareholders have access to the non-executive attend meetings except when his own performance or remuneration are directors, through a request to the Chairman or the Secretary.
under review but he is not a member of the Committee.
The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board, within The Senior Independent Director agreed terms of reference, on the Companys framework of executive Mr T C W Ingram undertook the role of Senior Independent Director remuneration.
The Committee determines the contract terms, until his retirement from the Board at the Annual General Meeting on remuneration and other benefits for each of the executive directors 2 March 2011.
Ms R Markland took over the role from that point.
This including performance share awards, performance related bonus role provides a point of contact for those shareholders who wish to raise schemes, pension rights and compensation payments.
The Committee issues with the Board, other than through the Chairman.
She is available also monitors remuneration for those senior executives below Board to consult with shareholders and also chairs meetings of the nonlevel.
Remuneration consultants advise the Committee.
executive directors without the Chairman present.
The Board itself determines the remuneration of the non-executive directors.
Committees of the Board In the year under review, the Committee addressed the remuneration The three committees of the Board deal with certain specific aspects issues related to a number of senior executive appointments and the of the Groups affairs.
These are the Remuneration Committee, the retirement of an executive director as well as its general review of Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee and details are set remuneration policies.
It paid particular attention to bonus arrangements out below.
Whilst the Board notes that all independent non-executive in support of the goals of the Group set out on pages 58 and 59. directors other than the Chairman of the Board are members of all Details of the Companys policies on directors remuneration are given in Board committees, it considers that the membership is appropriate the Remuneration report on pages 58 to 66, together with further details in light of the Boards policy that all independent non-executive directors of the Remuneration Committee.
are given the opportunity to take part in the discussions of those committees.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees are reviewed annually and are available on request from the Secretary at the registered office of the Company or on the Companys website at www.
The Secretary acts as secretary to all theCommittees.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements present.
It also met with executive management and executive directors.
Audit Committee The Committee discharged its obligations in respect of the financial year in the following ways: Financial reporting During the year the Committee reviewed the interim and annual financial statements.
The Committee received a report from the external auditors setting out the accounting or judgemental issues which required its attention.
The auditors reports were based on a full audit Annual Report and a high level review Interim Report respectively.
Internal controls and risk management The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr M E Rolfe.
The other members of The Committee considered reports from internal audit on the operation the Committee are independent non-executive directors, Ms R Markland, of, and issues arising from, the Groups internal control procedures, Ms T Ingram and Mr I Mason.
together with observations from the external auditors and discussions with senior management.
The Committee monitored the effectiveness Mr Rolfe is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England of the Groups risk management process, which considered the key and Wales and is considered by the Board to have the recent and risks, both financial and non-financial, facing the Group and the relevant financial experience required for the provisions of the Code.
effectiveness of the Groups controls to manage and reduce the impact The other members of the Committee have a wide range of business of those risks.
experience, which is evidenced in their biographies on pages 42 and 43.
The Board makes appointments to the Committee.
Internal audit Internal audit activities and responsibilities are provided by an in-house Full induction training is provided for new members and additional training internal audit team, supplemented under co-source agreements by is provided as and when required.
Having reviewed the composition of third party providers.
The role of Head of Internal Audit is undertaken the Committee in the year under review, the Board is satisfied that the by the Group Risk and Assurance Director who has a direct reporting Committee has the resources and expertise to fulfil effectively its line to the Audit Committee and its Chairman in order to ensure responsibilities, including those relating to risks and controls.
An internal audit charter is also in place which outlines The main duties of the Committee, set out in its terms of reference, are to: the objectives, authority, scope and responsibilities of internal audit.
Performance against this charter is reviewed on an annual basis.
review and advise the Board on the Companys interim and annual financial statements, its accounting policies and on the control and It is the role of internal audit to advise management and the Board mitigation of its financial and business risks: on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective.
The internal audit plan, which covers the scope, authority and resources review and advise the Board on the effectiveness of the Companys internal control environment, including its whistleblowing procedures: of the function, is determined through a structured process of risk assessment and is approved by the Audit Committee.
review the nature and scope of the work to be performed by the external and internal auditors, the results of their audit work and of The nature and scope of the work of the internal audit team was the response of management: reviewed and approved, the reports of results received and the responses of management considered.
The plan set out at the make recommendations on the appointment and remuneration of external auditors and to monitor their performance and independence: beginning of the year was achieved and the outcome of the work and was in line with expectations.
approve and monitor the policy for non-audit services provided by the External audit external auditors to ensure that the independence of the auditors is The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation not compromised.
and monitoring of the Groups policy on external audit.
In order to fulfil its duties, the Committee receives sufficient, reliable The policy assigns oversight responsibility for monitoring the and timely information from management.
The terms of reference of independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory the Committee are reviewed on an annual basis and are available at requirements to the Audit Committee and day-to-day responsibility www.
In its most recent review the Committee was satisfied to the Chief Financial Officer.
that the terms enabled the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities and determined that no material changes were necessary.
To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: Meetings the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and The Committee invites executive directors, management, external and any variations: internal auditors to attend meetings as it considers appropriate for the the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling matters being discussed.
of key accounting and audit judgements: and Work of the Committee the content of the external auditors Internal Control Report.
In the financial year, the Audit Committee met four times with all members The scope, fee, performance and independence of the external auditor present on each occasion and reported its conclusions to the Board.
It are considered annually by the Audit Committee.
met privately with the internal and external auditors without executives Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 49 Governance Corporate governance continued The Committee is confident that the objectivity and independence of a tender process will be undertaken every five years, around the time of the auditors is not impaired in any way by reason of their non-audit that the audit partner is normally changed.
work and has adopted controls to ensure that this independence is not The most recent change of audit partner occurred in the year to compromised.
These controls include the continued monitoring of the 30 September 2010 and, therefore, formal consideration of an audit independence and effectiveness of the audit process.
tender process took place during the course of that year.
Audit partners are rotated every five years with the most recent change The Committee gave full consideration to the performance and taking place in the year to 30 September 2010.
A formal statement independence of the auditors and after this review considered that a of independence from the external auditors is received each year.
In tender process was not required given the processes already in place to addition, the Audit Committee has adopted a specific policy on auditor ensure independence and the performance to date of the current auditors.
independence, drawing together the various existing Group policies in this area.
This policy requires that there is full consideration of independence issues before any appointment of an employee or former employee of the auditor to a position with the Group.
It expressly states Nomination Committee that the Group will not engage the auditors to undertake any work that could threaten the independence of the auditors and prohibits the Group from engaging the auditors to undertake certain types of service, such as, amongst others, human resources, legal and actuarial services.
The Committee believes that the Company receives particular benefit from tax advice provided by its auditors, given their wide and detailed knowledge of the Group and its international nature.
Executive management has the discretion, subject to certain financial limitations, to obtain taxation services from the auditors without prior reference to the Audit Committee, subject to appraising the Audit Committee regularly of the amount and nature of fees for such services.
Where these financial The Nomination Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, limitations are exceeded, the approval of the Audit Committee is required Mr A J Hobson and consists of the Chairman and four independent for such appointment.
The Group also receives taxation advice from non-executive directors, Ms T Ingram, Ms R Markland, Mr I Mason and other large accountancy practices as and when appropriate.
In the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Committee Non-audit services other than in relation to taxation may be undertaken is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
by the external auditors, subject to the rules referred to above, with The Nomination Committee meets not less than once a year.
Seven all projects expected to cost in excess of an amount set by the Audit meetings of the Committee took place in the year under review at which Committee being approved in advance either by the Chairman of the all the members of the Committee in office at the time were present other Audit Committee or by the full Audit Committee, depending on the than on one occasion when Mr Mason was unable to attend and three expected cost of the project.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee may occasions when Ms Ingram was unable to attend.
require that such projects are put out to tender to a number of firms.
It is the policy of the Committee to require that acquisition due diligence be The Nomination Committee is responsible for a number of matters undertaken by firms other than the auditors unless conflicts of interest for relating to the composition of the Board and its committees including comparable firms make this impractical.
At each meeting, the Committee proposing candidates for appointment to the Board, having regard to its receives a report from the external auditors providing an update on the balance and structure and considering issues of succession.
Recruitment fees for non-audit services incurred since the previous meeting.
Where consultants are used to assist in the process.
The Nomination Committee the cumulative non-audit fees in the year are anticipated to exceed a is also responsible for an annual review of the membership of the Board, certain sum, the prior approval of the Audit Committee is required.
evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board and advising the Board on any areas where further recruitment In the year to 30 September 2011 the audit fee was 2.2m.
It also considers the succession planning of the The Companys auditors,  LLP, also perform Group for key executive personnel at Board level and below and non-audit services for the Group principally tax advice over and above undertook a review of this area in the year under review.
The fees in relation to these services were 1.4m, all The terms of reference of the Committee, available on www.
com, of which was attributable to tax services 1.1m to tax compliance work requires the Committee to have regard to diversity in considering and 0.3m to tax advisory services.
Further details of fees paid to appointments to the Board.
In making its decisions it has regard to the auditors are set out on page 82. diversity policy referred to on page 36.
There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of the Committee In the year under review, the Committee dealt with a number of issues as to external audit and, having considered the services provided by relating to senior executive appointments and the retirement of an executive the current external auditors, their independence and knowledge of the director from the Board.
Details of these changes are referred to at 48.
Group and the factors referred to above, the Committee has determined to recommend to the Board the reappointment of the auditors at the Annual General Meeting in March 2012.
In reaching this decision, the Committee also had regard to the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor from the market.
The current external auditors were appointed to that role in 1988.
The Committee has determined that, providing the work of the external auditors remains entirely satisfactory, formal consideration 50 | The Sage Group plc | www.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements E M T I T A I u G l A A T V E E Internal control and risk management The processes used by the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness The Board is responsible for the operation and effectiveness of the Groups of the system of internal control include discussions with management system of internal controls and risk management.
There is an ongoing on significant risk areas identified and the review of plans for, and results process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced from, internal and external audits.
This process is managed on a day-to-day basis by the Group Risk and Assurance Director and has been in place for the year The Audit Committee reports the results of its review of the risk under review and up to the date of approval of this report.
It is regularly assessment process to the Board.
The Board then draws its collective reviewed by the Board and complies fully with the Turnbull guidance.
conclusion as to the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The governance framework for risk management and the key procedures, The internal control systems are designed to meet the Groups particular which the directors have established with a view to providing effective needs and the risks to which it is exposed and by their nature can only internal control, are set out on the following page.
provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
The effectiveness of this process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings to the Board.
Risk management processes and responsibilities The processes to identify and manage the key risks to the success of the Group are an integral part of the internal control environment.
Audit Group Board Committee Executive Committee Group Risk Country CEOs Principal risks and Assurance Director Regional Management and Group Management Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 51 A y F n I T A n l y E S d E I Governance Corporate governance continued as outlined above, ensure that risks are identified from a top down Risk management and key responsibilities strategic perspective as well as a bottom up local perspective.
Facilitated 1 Executive Committee risk workshops have been completed with the Executive Committee and The Executive Committee is responsible for the identification, reporting major territories around the Group.
The results from risk management and ongoing management of risks and for the stewardship of the risk activities were previously reported to the Risk Committee.
it is considered best practice that the Executive Committee take prime responsibility for the management of risk.
Therefore, the Groups Risk The Executive Committee identifies and assesses the key strategic Committee has been disbanded.
Results from risk management activities risks to the Group.
The output of the assessment is sent to the Group are now reported and discussed directly with the Executive Committee Board for review and to the country CEOs for inclusion in their risk after each six monthly risk management exercise.
A whistleblowing telephone hotline service operates in many 2 Country CEOs operating companies in the Group including all those in the UK and US Country CEOs are responsible for the identification, reporting and allowing employees to raise issues of concern in relation to dishonesty ongoing management of risks in their respective countries.
or malpractice on an entirely confidential basis.
Processes for the confidential reporting of concerns exist in France, Germany and Spain The country CEOs facilitate their risk assessment exercise with the key and the Group continues to seek the introduction of further telephone strategic risks and identify the top five local risks within their country.
hotlines where local legislation permits.
The Audit Committee receives The output of the assessment is sent to regional management and regular reports on any matters raised through these services and the Group Risk and Assurance Director for review and challenge.
monitors their use throughout the Group.
As a result of these structures, the Board considers that it receives adequate information for the 3 Regional management and Group management identification and assessment of risk.
Regional management and Group management are responsible for the reporting, challenge and ongoing management of risks.
Financial reporting Regional management, with support from the Group Risk and In addition to the general internal controls and risk management Assurance Director, review and challenge the risk information from processes described above, the Group also has specific internal controls the countries and agree the regional response to the key strategic and risk management systems to govern the financial reporting process.
risks and the top five region risks.
Group management identify top The requirements for producing financial information are governed by the risks from central functions for example, tax and treasury.
All outputs Group Accounting Manual, against which the Groups external auditors are sent to the Group Risk and Assurance Director.
Financial control requirements are set out in a detailed Financial Controls Policy, which is subject to internal 4 Group Risk and Assurance Director audit reviews on an annual basis.
Any part of the Group not subject The Group Risk and Assurance Director is responsible for the to a specific internal audit review of financial controls in any given year is required to self-assess the effectiveness of their financial control facilitation and implementation of the risk management approach throughout the Group and regions.
Management representations covering the compliance with relevant policies and the accuracy of financial information are also The Group Risk and Assurance Director consolidates the regional risk collated on an annual basis.
reports and creates the Group Risk Report containing the responses to the key strategic risks and the top five to ten local risks for the Quality and integrity of personnel The integrity and competence of personnel is ensured through high recruitment standards and the Group as a whole.
The Group Risk Report is sent to the Executive Committee for review and challenge.
provision of subsequent training and development.
High quality personnel are seen as an essential part of the control environment.
5 Audit Committee Management structure The Audit Committee is responsible for the independent review and challenge of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk The Board has overall responsibility for the Group.
director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the Groups affairs.
A clearly defined organisational structure exists within which The Audit Committee review and challenge the Group Risk Report.
individual responsibilities are identified and can be monitored.
The The Group Risk Report is then submitted to the Group Board management of the Group as a whole is delegated to the Chief for review.
Executive, the executive directors and the Executive Committee.
6 Group Board The Executive Committee meets regularly to agree strategy, monitor performance and consider key business issues.
As part of its review, The Group Board has overall responsibility for risk management and it considers the risks associated with the delivery of strategy and implementation of the risk management policy.
important governance issues within the operating companies.
The Group Board reviews the output from the Executive Committee.
Within the Group team, based in Newcastle upon Tyne, there are a The risk assessment exercise is repeated six months later as an number of central administrative functions such as Group Treasury, update exercise.
Corporate Communications, Group Legal and Business Development.
During the year, new, more detailed risk management processes and These functions report to the Board through its executive members procedures were established around the Group.
The new processes, and the members of the Executive Committee.
com Overview Performance Governance Financial statements A number of Group-wide policies issued by the central Group team and Information included in the Directors report administered both centrally and at local level, ensure compliance with key Certain information that fulfils the requirements of the Corporate governance standards.
These policies cover areas such as finance, data Governance Statement can be found in the Directors report in the protection and mergers and acquisitions.
sections headed Substantial shareholdings, Deadlines for voting rights, Repurchase of Shares, Amendment of the Companys articles The conduct of Sages individual businesses is delegated to the local of association, Appointment and replacement of directors and executive management teams.
Details of the authority delegated to Powers of the directors and are incorporated into this corporate local and regional management is set out in a delegation of authority governance section by reference.
matrix which is communicated to management throughout the business.
These teams are accountable for the conduct and By order of the Board performance of their businesses within the agreed business strategy.
They have full authority to act subject to the reserved powers and sanctioning limits laid down by the Board and to Group policies andguidelines.
Internal audit The Group has an in-house internal audit team supplemented under co-source agreements with third-party providers to review compliance M J Robinson with procedures and assess the integrity of the control environment.
Secretary Internal audit acts as a service to the businesses by assisting with the 30 November 2011 continuous improvement of controls and procedures.
Actions are agreed in response to its recommendations and these are followed up by the Audit Committee to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
Budgetary process A comprehensive budgeting system is in place, with annual budgets for all operating subsidiaries being approved by respective subsidiary boards.
Subsequently the combined budget is subject to consideration and approval by the Board.
Management information systems provide the directors with relevant and timely information required to monitor financial performance.
Investment appraisal including acquisitions Budgetary approval and defined authorisation levels regulate capital expenditure.
As part of the budgetary process the Board considers proposals for research and development programmes.
Acquisition activity is subject to internal guidelines governing investment appraisal criteria, financial targets, negotiation, execution and post-acquisition management.
Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders is given high priority.
A full Annual Report & Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish to receive one.
The Company also has a website www.
com which contains up-to-date information on Group activities and published financial results.
There is regular dialogue with individual institutional shareholders and there are presentations to analysts after the Companys announcement of the year end and half-year results.
At each Board meeting, the Board receives an update on presentations to investors and any communication from shareholders to ensure that directors, both executive and non-executive, have an understanding of their views.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 | The Sage Group plc | 53
