Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction The Boards role is to provide Salamander stakeholders with leadership and direction for the development and execution of the Companys strategy, along with being collectively accountable for the long term success and achievements of the business.
Attaining good governance is linked with organisational culture and, by ensuring the risks and rewards of doing business are properly balanced and managed, a responsible business is created.
At Salamander, we are 100% committed to all principles of good governance and ethical behaviour.
Aims and objectives Salamander strives to apply best industry practice in all of its activities.
The Board, management and staff of Salamander are committed to applying the highest standards of business ethics, corporate governance and health, safety and environmental control.
To this end, the Group has put in place policies and procedures within which it conducts its activities along with working practices and a business culture to ensure openness and full accountability.
Compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code The Board is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate governance.
The principal governance rules applying to companies with a premium listing of equity shares on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code adopted by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 and available publicly from www.
The Board confirms that the Company has applied the principles of the Code as described in this report and complied with its provisions throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2011.
Board of Directors On 31 December 2011, the Board comprised the Non-executive Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Operating Officer and five Independent Non-executive Directors.
Dr Nick Cooper resigned as Chief Financial Officer from the Board and Company on 31 May 2011.
Dr Jonathan Copus was appointed as Chief Financial Officer on 31 October 2011.
All of the Executive Directors have extensive upstream oil and gas experience.
The majority of the Nonexecutive Directors have held senior appointments in oil and gas companies and, together, the Non-executive Directors bring a broad range of business and commercial experience to the Board.
The membership and brief biographies of the Board members are set out in the Board of Directors and Advisers section.
These demonstrate a wealth of experience and sufficient calibre to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct, which are fundamental to the continuing success of the Group.
The Board structure ensures that no individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
The role of the Board is clearly defined.
The Board is accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long term shareholder value.
To achieve this, the Board directs and monitors the Groups affairs within a framework of controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed effectively.
It sets the Groups strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to achieve those aims, and reviews management and financial performance.
The Board also has responsibility for setting the Groups core values and standards of business conduct and for ensuring that these, together with the Groups obligations to its stakeholders, are widely understood throughout the Group.
43 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Board of Directors continued There is a clear separation between the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairmans key responsibilities are the effective running of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy, and acting as guardian of the Boards decision-making process.
The Chairmans other significant commitment is as Chairman of Vostok Energy Limited.
The Board believes that the Chairmans obligations are unaffected by this directorship.
The key responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer are managing the Groups business, proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives in consultation with the Board and, as leader of the executive team, implementing the decisions of the Board and its committees.
In addition, the Chief Executive Officer is responsible for maintaining regular dialogue with major shareholders as part of the Companys overall investor relations programme.
The Board has established a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
Additionally, the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
In accordance with the revised Turnbull guidance on internal control published in October 2005, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, which has been in place throughout 2011 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
As part of its review of internal controls during the year, the Group undertook various audits and reviews, implemented relevant training programmes and also conducted a review of its policies and procedures.
The Boards monitoring covers control matters, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
A summary of the key risks facing the Group and mitigating actions are described in the Risk Management section of this report.
Following its review of the system of internal control, including the review of the Groups policies and procedures noted above, the Board confirms that necessary actions have been taken or are being taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
The Audit Committee took the decision in 2010 to establish an internal audit function.
During the first half of 2011, various audits and reviews were carried and the findings of those audits and reviews were reported to the Audit Committee.
Management, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, is currently establishing plans and determining resourcing in order to undertaken audits and reviews during 2012.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, they may serve one or more three year terms subject to satisfactory performance.
The letters of appointment of each Non-executive Director are available for inspection.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director is Struan Robertson.
In this role he is available to shareholders who have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chief Executive or Chairman.
All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be subject to re-election by shareholders at the next AGM after their appointment.
Subsequently, the Articles of Association of the Company provide that Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at least every three years.
However, the Company is supportive of the recommendation from the Code that all Directors annually stand for re-election.
Accordingly, and as at the 2010 and 2011 AGM, all Board members will offer themselves for re-election at the 2012 AGM.
44 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Board of Directors continued Prior to such re-elections, the Chairman and the Nominations Committee will review each Directors performance to ensure they continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and on an ad hoc basis as required.
The attendance record of each Director is shown below.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Director Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Attended Possible Charles Jamieson 7 7 N A N A N A N A 2 2 James Menzies 7 7 N A N A N A N A N A N A Mike Buck 7 7 N A N A N A N A N A N A Jonathan Copus appointed October 31 2011 1 1 N A N A N A N A N A N A Nick Cooper resigned on 31 May 2011 3 3 N A N A N A N A N A N A Struan Robertson 7 7 4 4 3 3 2 2 Michael Pavia 7 7 4 4 N A N A N A N A John Crowle 7 7 4 4 3 3 N A N A Robert Cathery 7 7 N A N A 3 3 2 2 James Coleman 7 7 N A N A N A N A N A N A In addition to the formal meetings of the Board, the Chairman and Executive Directors maintain frequent contact with the other Directors to discuss any issues of concern they may have relating to the Group or as regards their area of responsibility and to keep them fully briefed on on-going matters relating to the Groups operations.
Directors have access to a regular supply of financial, operational and strategic information, as well as the Company Secretary, to assist them in the discharge of their duties.
Such information is provided as part of the normal management reporting cycle undertaken by senior management.
Board papers are generally circulated seven days in advance of Board meetings.
In addition, each formal Board meeting includes a review of the history, performance and future potential of an individual asset or business unit, designed to ensure that all material assets are considered on a cyclical basis and to enable Board members to familiarise themselves with the key assets and operations of the Group.
The Board formally reviews the Groups risk register twice a year with the constant monitoring of events by the Executive Directors.
All Directors and Board committees have access to independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, as and when required.
The Company Secretary, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive, provides an induction process for each new Director tailored to their individual knowledge and experience.
The Company provides training to Directors where required.
Training can include attendance at seminars, briefings by advisers and internal briefings.
The Group maintains Directors and officers liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval is in place.
In addition to those formal matters required by the Companies Act to be set before a Board of Directors, the matters reserved include: the Groups overall strategy and policy, approval of annual and interim results, business plans, material acquisitions and disposals, material contracts and major capital expenditure projects and budgets.
Subject to those reserved matters, the Board delegates authority for the management of the business primarily to the Chief Executive and a Senior Executive Committee.
Certain other matters are delegated to the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, each of which is described in more detail below.
45 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Directors conflicts Where the Articles of Association of a company contain a provision to that effect, the Companies Act 2006 allows Directors of public companies to consider, and if thought fit, authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may potentially conflict, with the interests of the Company.
The Articles of Association of the Company contain a provision to this effect.
Directors of the Company who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting.
Only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest situation and in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
During the year procedures, based upon the GC100 guidance, were in place to review any conflicts of interest.
Following its introduction, the system for the declaration and authorisation of conflicts has been followed by the Company.
The system has been tested and the Board considers that these procedures are operating effectively.
Board performance Annual performance appraisal of the Board, its committees, individual Directors and the Chairman is carried out, with the evaluation process involving Directors input to a detailed questionnaire followed by individual interviews and feedback with the Chairman.
The results of the survey, together with any recommendations for improving effectiveness, are presented by the Chairman to the whole Board for discussion.
The Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet without the Chairman to evaluate his performance in leading the Board and chairing meetings to conduct the Boards business.
In addition to their attendance at Board and, as appropriate, committee meetings, the Chairman and the Non-executive Directors will also meet formally without executive management present to examine and review the Board performance of the executive management, both individually and as a team: this review process is in part dealt with by the Board committees referred to below.
Separately, the Chairman and Chief Executive hold informal meetings with the Non-executive Directors to discuss issues affecting the Group such as target objectives and remuneration matters.
An external review of the Board was carried out in March 2011 by Socia Limited, which has no other relationship with the Company.
The review has been the subject of Board discussion and actions have been agreed to implement the recommendations from the review.
Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are Michael Pavia Chairman, Struan Robertson and John Crowle.
Other Board members may also be invited to attend committee meetings.
Michael Pavia is considered to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Meetings are held at least three times a year.
The Chief Financial Officer is invited to attend meetings where appropriate and the Groups Auditors are regularly invited to attend meetings, including once at the planning stage before the audit and once during the year-end audit and half-year review at the reporting stage.
At least once a year the Audit Committee will also meet the Groups external Auditors without management being present.
The work of the Audit Committee in respect of the financial year has included: consideration of matters relating to the appointment of the Groups Auditors: reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups Auditors: 46 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Audit Committee continued reviewing the integrity of the Groups annual and half-year reports, interim management statements and any other formal announcement relating to its financial performance: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and compliance procedures: and reviewing the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
In fulfilling its responsibility of monitoring the integrity of financial reports to shareholders, the Audit Committee has reviewed accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the preparation of public financial information and has examined documentation relating to the Annual Report and Half-year Report.
The clarity of disclosures included in the Financial Statements was reviewed by the Audit Committee, as was the basis for significant estimates and judgements.
In assessing the accounting treatment of major transactions open to different approaches, the Committee considered written reports by management and the external Auditors.
The Committees recommendations are submitted to the Board for approval.
In addition, the Committee has responsibility for the implementation of internal controls and receives an update at each meeting as to the status of the development of internal controls.
In addition, audits and reviews are undertaken during the year on specific areas of internal control, at the direction of the Audit Committee, and the outcome and findings of those audits and reviews, along with recommendations, are reported to the Audit Committee to consider and to implement appropriate responses.
The committee also reviewed the independence and effectiveness of the external Auditors, accepting that their independence had been maintained throughout the audit process for the financial year.
The committee considers that at this stage it is more efficient to use a single audit firm to provide certain non-audit services for transactions and tax matters.
However, to regulate the position, the committee has established a policy on the provision of non-audit services by the external Auditor.
In compiling that policy, which sets out the external Auditors permitted and prohibited non-audit services and a fee threshold requiring prior approval by the Audit Committee for any new engagement, reference was made to Ethical Standard 5 of the Auditing Practices Board.
Further information relating to the independence of the Auditors is set out below and details of non-audit fees during the year are shown in note 6 to the consolidated Financial Statements.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are included on the Companys website, www.
Remuneration Committee The members of the Remuneration Committee are currently Robert Cathery Chairman, John Crowle and Struan Robertson.
The primary duty of the Remuneration Committee is to determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Groups Chief Executive, Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and such other members of the executive management as it is designated to consider.
The remuneration of Non-executive Directors is a matter for the Chairman and the executive members of the Board.
No Director may be involved in any decisions as to their own remuneration.
Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee are included on the Companys website, www.
47 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Nominations Committee The members of the Nominations Committee are Struan Robertson Chairman, Charles Jamieson and Robert Cathery.
The Nominations Committees terms of reference, which are included on the Companys website, www.
com, are to review regularly the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared to its current position and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Nominations Committee also considers future considerations of the composition of the Board, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Group, and what skills and expertise are needed on the Board.
Following a decision of the Board that the appointment of a new Director is appropriate, the duty of the committee is to present for consideration suitably qualified candidates.
In making such recommendations, the committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and develops a description of the role and required capabilities.
Candidates are then identified for interview.
The committee also makes recommendations to the Board regarding the re-election and or re-appointment of any director.
Similar selection processes would apply for the appointment of a Chairman.
Succession plans for key management roles, including the Executive Directors, are reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The committee met twice during the year and its activities included a review of the Companys succession plans and discussion in respect of the on-going structure and capability of the Board.
The appointments of Jonathan Copus in October 2011 and Carol Bell in January 2012 were made following a search led by the Senior Independent Non-executive Director in conjunction with external consultants and recommendations made to the Committee, the brief including but not limited to the need for diversity in the boardroom.
The committee noted that Carol had wide commercial experience gained through a successful career in oil and gas, and banking, which would be an asset to the Board.
In addition, Jim Coleman will not be standing for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The committee keeps itself updated on key developments relevant to the Company, including, most recently, on the subject of diversity in the boardroom.
The Board believes in creating throughout the Company a culture free from discrimination in any form.
The committee believes in providing mentoring for women in senior roles to help them maximise their careers at the Company.
The Board and committee have chosen not to set specific representation targets for women at Board level at this time.
However, it confirms that the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity, will continue to be an active consideration when changes to the Boards composition are next contemplated, within the overriding objective of ensuring that the Board has the appropriate balance of skills, experience and independence.
Auditor independence The Board is satisfied that Deloitte LLP has adequate policies and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence are maintained.
The external Auditors report to the Audit Committee annually on their independence from the Company.
In accordance with professional standards, the partner responsible for the audit is changed every five years, and last changed in 2010.
The Audit Committee considers whether the audit should go out to tender but has taken the view that partner rotation at both the Group and operating business level has been sufficient to maintain the necessary independence.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Audit Committee as to the choice of external Auditors.
The Audit Committee has also adopted a formal policy on the Companys relationship with its Auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
48 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Auditor independence continued In line with its terms of reference, the Audit Committee undertakes a thorough assessment of the quality, effectiveness, value and independence of the audit provided by Deloitte LLP on an annual basis, seeking the views and feedback of the Board, together with those of the Group.
Following the most recent review, the Audit Committee has determined to recommend to the Board the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP at the 2012 AGM.
Shareholder relations Communication with shareholders is given high priority and there is regular dialogue with institutional investors, as well as general presentations to analysts at the time of the release of the annual and half-year results.
Management completed over 200 meetings with institutions during 2011.
The Board receives regular investor relations reports covering key investor meetings and activities, as well as shareholder and investor feedback.
The Group publishes its periodic results and other stock market announcements on the Investor Relations section of the Companys website www.
com and regular news updates in relation to the Group, including the status of exploration and development programmes, are also included on the website.
Shareholders and other interested parties can subscribe to receive these news updates by e-mail by registering online on the website.
The Board also uses the Annual General Meeting to communicate with private and institutional investors and welcomes their participation.
The Board aims to ensure that the entire Board is available at the AGM to answer questions and explain details of the resolutions proposed at the AGM.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 clear business days before the meeting in accordance with the Code and Companies Act.
Approved by the Board of Directors on 23 March 2012 Martha Bruce Company Secretary 23 March 2012 49 Corporate governance Salamander Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
