Corporate Governance Report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 1.
GOVERNANCE In the following sections we explain our approach to Leadership corporate governance and key developments during the The Board is responsible for determining the long-term year.
The Board is committed to compliance with the direction and strategy of the Group in a framework of UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 and transparent sound, robust corporate governance and throughout 2011 reporting of its compliance position.
Where SDL does the Board continued to apply the enhanced governance not fully comply the Board provides a comprehensive and control environment introduced during 2010. explanation and a clear plan as to what is being done to secure full compliance.
The Executive Chairman ensures that each Board meeting has a strong strategic focus and that Board members The Board considers that during the year ended 31 are regularly appraised of strategy development and December 2011 the Company complied with all of the execution, forecasts, corporate developments including provisions of The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 acquisition and operational and human resource the Code with the exception of A.
2.1, which details the implications of strategy.
The Board members are also requirement for a separate Chairman and Chief Executive updated on current external and investor sentiment.
Changes were made from 1 February 2011, and reported in the 2010 Annual Report, splitting the The Non-Executive Directors bring an external view Chairman and Chief Executive role with Mark Lancaster of current best practices to Board meetings and becoming Executive Chairman and John Hunter Chief constructively challenge operational management on Executive Officer.
The Board consulted with major proposals and scrutinise management performance.
shareholders on the appointment of Mark Lancaster The Non-Executive Directors are of sufficient calibre and as Executive Chairman and they considered it to be number that their views carry significant weight in the appropriate given the current strategic and operational Boards decision making.
The Non-Executive Directors progress of the Group.
The Board will continue to keep meet during the year without executive directors or other this under review through its external advisors and executive management present.
through dialogue with major shareholders.
The Board is guided by shareholder value on this issue recognising The Board considers effective communication between the importance of making the correct decisions and Board members is crucial to leadership and delivery.
The moving in tune with shareholder sentiment and with Board meets regularly and usually with full participation of maximum regard for what is best for continuity of strategy all Board members see the Composition and Attendance implementation and execution.
The Board acknowledges that Chris Batterham has served Board Composition as a member of the Board for more than nine years.
The Board views Chris Batterham as independent in his actions In 2011, the Board consisted of three executive directors and with his unique skills and experience of other software and five Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details are companies, which coupled with his knowledge of SDL, set out on pages 48 and 49. makes him a valuable asset in Board make up and decision making.
The Board asserts his independence on that basis.
During the year Matthew Knight was appointed to the Board on 14 April 2011 and Cristina Lancaster stepped The Board is seeking to appoint another independent Nondown on 31 March 2011.
Jane Thompson will not be Exectuive Director in due course.
seeking re-election at the 2012 AGM.
On 28 March 2011 David Clayton was appointed as Senior The Board has decided that an annual election of Board Independent Director, taking over from John Matthews.
7.1 will be put in place from the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
64 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE It was stated in last years Annual Report that a new Non Director.
The Board believes that this orderly succession is Executive Director would be appointed during the year.
in the best interests of shareholders.
The search for a candidate whose skills, independence and knowledge would enhance the existing balance and The Board has agreed a succession planning framework to knowledge of the Board took longer than anticipated.
ensure that Board tenure is appropriate and encourages The board is now pleased to welcome Mandy Gradden fresh thinking and new ideas, is sufficiently diverse with as a Non Executive.
As stated in last years Annual Report, an appropriate mix of general and specialist skills and steps have been taken to address the composition of board have the necessary level of independence from the SDL committees during 2011 and the independent component executive and each other.
Without seeking to set a specific goal for female Although John Matthews will not be seeking re-election representation on the Board, it remains our commitment at the 2012 AGM, SDL wishes to retain access to his to maintain a high level of diversity, including gender knowledge and valuable insight to the business.
To this diversity, within the boardroom, appropriate to and end, John has agreed to render his services as a consultant reflecting the global nature of the Company and the to the Board from time to time as required.
strategic imperatives the Board has agreed upon.
Currently there are two female directors, out of a total of nine During 2011, Chris Batterham relinquished his Nomination board members.
The Board recognises the benefits of and Remuneration Committee responsibilities but will the right balance of independence, skills, knowledge and 3 remain as a Non-Executive Director.
the Board maintains continuity and retains his expertise and knowledge of the Companys business, strategies, The Board is aware of the other commitments of its markets, competitors, and technologies.
He has valuable directors and is satisfied that these do not conflict with contributions to the Companys strategy, policy making their duties as directors of the Company.
Executive Directors are expected to commit 12-24 days per annum and the Board is satisfied that each commits The Board intends to make further changes in 2012 to sufficient time to the business of the Company.
Changes meet the balanced board principles.
This will involve the to the commitments of the directors are reported to the appointment of one additional independent Non-Executive Board.
The composition of the Board during 2011 and the beginning of 2012 is set out in the table below.
BOARD COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE Current Directors Date Appointed Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Mark Lancaster 31 January 1992 8 8 3 2 John Hunter 1 September 2008 8 8 4 2 Matthew Knight 14 April 2011 6 6 4 1 David Clayton 16 December 2009 8 8 4 4 7 7 Chris Batterham 15 October 1999 8 8 4 4 6 6 Joe Campbell 1 July 2005 4 8 - 4 4 Mandy Gradden 30 January 2012 n a - - John Matthews 12 June 2001 8 8 3 3 6 6 Jane Thompson 16 December 2009 7 8 3 4 7 7 DIRECTORS WHO STEPPED DOWN IN 2011: Cristina Lancaster 31 March 2011 1 2 - - Attendance by invitation 65 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Corporate Governance Report Effectiveness We continue to be an equal opportunities employer and will maintain our merit based approach to recruitment.
Specific Board responsibilities are set out in a schedule of SDL has a good record of promoting and appointing matters reserved for the Board and these are available on women to senior positions with women currently holding our website www.
The matters include: 47% of management positions.
The aim of the Board is to Material acquisitions and disposals of assets: ensure that SDL has the right balance of skills, diversity in Investments, capital projects, and risk management all forms, and experience throughout the Company.
policies: and Appointments to the Board.
Copies of the Terms of Reference are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and on the Groups website The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its in the Investor Relations section.
committees whose terms of reference are regularly reviewed and are available on the Companys website at Induction and professional development and advice www.
The Company has a formal director induction programme which was operated during 2011 for Matthew Knight.
It The Committee memberships are as follows: covers matters such as the operations and activities of the Group, the groups key financial and non-financial risks The Audit Committee see the Audit Committee report on and the role of the Board and its Committees.
The director page 67 is led by David Clayton who is Group Strategy receives information about the Companys corporate and Corporate Development Director for The Sage Group governance practices and procedures and is advised of plc has considerable relevant experience and a strong their legal duties and obligations as a director of a listed governance background.
The other members are Chris company.
Batterham, Jane Thompson and Mandy Gradden.
Mandy Gradden was appointed to the Committee on 30 January Board knowledge and training needs form part of the 2012 and has the professional accounting knowledge Board evaluation and the Chairman is responsible for defined by the Code.
Chris Batterham will remain on the the development needs of the Board ensuring that all Committee for a handover period after which he will step directors receive continuing training in order that they can down.
This is done through presentations at Board meetings on business matters The Remuneration Committee see the Remuneration and technical update sessions from internal and external report on page 72 is led by Jane Thompson with David advisers and regular updates on changes affecting the Clayton, Joe Campbell and Mandy Gradden as members.
Company and the market in which it operates through Mandy Gradden was appointed to the Committee on briefings from senior executives and meetings with key 30 January 2012.
John Matthews and Chris Batterham advisers.
stepped down from the Remuneration Committee on 1 August 2011.
Professional Advice The Nomination Committee consists of David Clayton as Directors are given access to independent professional Chairman, Mark Lancaster and Joe Campbell.
In 2011, advice at the Companys expense when the directors the Committee restructured with Mark Lancaster passing deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their the role of Nomination Committee Chairman to David responsibilities.
The directors also have access to the advice Clayton and Chris Batterham and John Matthews stepping and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible down as Committee members on 1 August 2011 and 24 to the Board for ensuring that procedures are followed February 2012 respectively.
The role of the Committee is to and that applicable rules and regulations are complied review the structure, size and composition of the Board, its with and that Board discussions have effective minutes ongoing relevance to the nature of the business, identify taken with formal records kept of Board discussions.
and nominate new Board appointment candidates, The Company seeks to ensure that the directors receive evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience appropriate training covering such things as their legal on the Board and consider any conflicts of interest that obligations as directors and compliance with Stock may be reported by directors of the Company.
66 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Indemnification 3.
AUDIT COMMITTEE Overview The Company maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers which is renewed annually.
Deeds of The objective of the Audit Committee is to promote and indemnity are also in force under which the Company has maintain high standards of corporate and regulatory agreed to indemnify the directors, to the extent permitted reporting, risk management and compliance, as by law and the Companys articles of association, in effectiveness in these areas enhances the performance and respect of all losses arising out of, or in connection with, reduces the risks of the business.
the execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities, as directors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
The Audit Committee is comprised entirely of NonExecutive Directors: David Clayton Chair, Jane Evaluation Thompson, Chris Batterham and Mandy Gradden.
On 1 August 2011 John Matthews stood down.
Each of the Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees directors on the Committee has, through their other and individual directors takes place on an annual basis business activities and or professional qualifications, and is conducted within the terms of reference of the significant experience in financial matters.
Nomination Committee with the aim of improved individual contribution, effectiveness of the Board and its External auditor, executive directors, senior members of committees.
3 management and advisors are regularly invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
The Board is committed to continually review its effectiveness and is adopting Code provision 3.6.
2 which The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing a wide states evaluation of the board of FTSE 350 companies range of matters including the half-year and annual should be externally facilitated at least every three years.
accounts, and monitoring the controls that are in force During 2011, the Board changed significantly with further to ensure the integrity of the information reported to changes planned and a new appointment in 2012.
The Committee also exercises oversight of to these planned changes in composition of the Board a the financial statements, policies and judgements.
The decision has been taken to delay an external evaluation Audit Committee considers the nature, scope, results and until after Mandy Gradden appointed on 30 January costs of the audit as well as the resources deployed and 2012 is able to make a constructive contribution to the the conduct of the audit.
The Audit Committee keeps exercise.
It is the intention of the Board to undertake the under review the cost effectiveness, independence and external evaluation before the end of the current year.
objectivity of the external auditor and has adopted a formal written process in this regard.
Non-audit services The Chairman together with the Non-Executive Directors above 20,000 are sanctioned formally by the Audit evaluate the performance of the other Executive Board Committee evaluating the nature of the work and fees members leading to annual salary reviews and bonus involved and the materiality of the fees.
Expertise being targets achievement assessment.
provided is very closely monitored as are any non-audit relationships between the Group and the Auditor.
The Non-Executive Directors have responsibility to perform an evaluation of the performance of Mark Lancaster.
67 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Corporate Governance Report Activities in 2011 Auditor Independence The Audit Committee met four times during 2011.
Matters The Committee evaluates the performance of the external considered by the Committee included: auditor through committee members views and those of relevant senior management.
It is the Companys policy the internal control program and its execution to carry out periodic market testing either through bench including accounting policies, key judgements and marking or audit tender.
estimates: the resource requirements for the Group Finance An audit tender was carried out in 2010 when KPMG Audit function: Plc were appointed.
the integration requirements of past and potential Internal control acquisitions together with control and reporting: a review of key risks affecting the Group: The Committee has a formalised structure of a strategic tax planning review: reporting by the Group Auditor which allows for it to monitoring of non-audit services provided by KPMG independently assess the quality of financial reporting and Audit Plc, the external auditor: representations made in the accounts.
The Committee approval of processes for prevention of bribery and reviews the quality and make-up of the Groups internal fraud: finance function and the control environment.
The control the review and approval of a strategy for annual environment reviews include the Chief Financial Officer, external audit review processes both interim and International Controller and senior members of the Group annual, and consideration of the findings: finance function reporting formally to the Committee on a review of the requirement for separate internal audit the completion of the comprehensive program of control function within the Group: and work initiated by the Chief Financial Officer.
This includes monitoring the effectiveness of the whistleblowing reporting on site visit outcomes which enables the process where staff may raise concerns about possible Committee to formally assess whether control programs improprieties in financial reporting, fraud or other are delivering.
The Companys approach to monitoring the quality of financial reporting and control processes remains under ongoing review by the Audit Committee.
Copies of the Terms of Reference are available, on request, from the Company Secretary and on the Groups website in the Investor Relations section.
