DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INVESTOR RELATIONS The Board considers effective communication with dialogue with shareholders and views this as an effective shareholders, whether institutional investors, private way to ensure that those representing the shareholders or employee shareholders, to be extremely important.
with the majority of shares in SDL can engage directly and The Groups aims are to be open and transparent in make their issues and concerns known.
The Board seeks to communicating its business strategies and performance, respond promptly to shareholder governance enquiries.
promoting credibility and confidence amongst all its In 2011, a series of meetings and consultations between stakeholders.
institutional shareholders, the Association of British Insurers and Non-Executive Directors were held to discuss The company reports formally to shareholders when its executive remuneration in general and specific share full year and half year results are published.
A new Long Term Share Incentive Plan are posted on SDLs website www.
At the same was subsequently approved by the shareholders at the time the Executive Directors give presentations on the Annual General Meeting AGM in 2011. results to institutional investors, analysts and the media in London and other international centres.
The company The Board looks to use the AGM to communicate with also holds investor days for its institutional investors and private as well as institutional investors and welcomes analysts.
These conferences are a good mechanism to broad participation in this meeting.
The Chairman, Chief highlight current matters of shareholder interest and reach Executive Officer CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and potential new investors and broaden the shareholder chairpersons of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination base.
Targeted communication programs are suggested Committees attend the AGM and are available during 3 by the Groups financial and public relations advisors.
and after formal proceedings to meet with any attending The outcome of any shareholder or external stakeholder shareholders.
Notice of the AGM together with any related dialogue, including with governance institutions, is documents are made available to shareholders on the communicated to the Board in order to enable a broad Companys website or mailed to them at least 21 days understanding of the views of major shareholders and before the meeting.
The agenda will always propose a external commentators about the Group.
separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and will always contain a resolution relating to the report Mark Lancaster, John Hunter and Matthew Knight meet and accounts.
Shareholders are able to vote electronically with both existing and potential institutional investors thorough our Registrars website.
The level of votes regularly during the financial year and explain the strategy lodged on a resolution is made available on a regulatory and objectives of the Group and the financial results.
information service and on the Companys website at Where appropriate the Executive Directors and Nonwww.
Executive Directors also attend investment conferences which provide access to multiple investors to understand Details of the 2012 AGM are set out in the notes first-hand the strategy, positioning and progress of the accompanying this Annual Report.
The Board promotes an effective and open 69 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 4 STATUTORY INFORMATION 70 STATUTORY INFORMATION 4 71 SDL Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011
