Section 4 | Governance Corporate Governance Report Introduction In managing the affairs of the Group, the Board of Serco Group plc is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all of its activities around the world.
A fundamental part of the Groups corporate governance processes is the Business Conduct and Ethics Standard that the Company and Group have adopted.
Throughout 2011 Serco Group plc complied fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The paragraphs below, together with the Our performance section on pages 20 to 81 and the Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 107, provide details of how the Company has applied the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
The Board of Directors Board composition Currently the Board has seven members: the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Following the retirements of Margaret Ford and Tom Corcoran at the end of 2010, three Non-Executive Directors, Paul Brooks, Angie Risley and Ralph D. Crosby Jr, were appointed in the year.
With the sad and untimely passing of Paul Brooks in January 2012, an externally led recruitment process is underway for his successor.
As announced on 20 March 2012, Leonard V. Broese van Groenou will be retiring from the Board at the end of the Companys Annual General Meeting, being held on 14 May 2012 and hence will not stand for re-election.
Angie Risley will succeed Leonard as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making.
The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
In coming to this conclusion the Board has determined that each Director is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgements.
Each Director brings a valuable range of experience and expertise to the Board.
The profiles of all Directors can be found on pages 94 and 95.
Diversity With reference to the report by Lord Davies of Abersoch entitled Women on Boards, Serco strongly supports the principle of boardroom diversity, of which gender is one, but not the only, key aspect.
Diversity of thought, experience and approach are all important and we will always seek to appoint on merit against objective criteria, including diversity.
The Board aims to achieve an appropriate diversity across all elements of Sercos management.
As, over time, we recruit new members we would, therefore, expect to address the issue of diversity in general, and to increase the proportion currently 14% that women constitute of our plc Board.
The role of the Board The Board has responsibility for the overall management and performance of the Group, the approval of its long-term objectives and commercial strategy and for ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken promptly.
Reporting to the Board, the Governance function is tasked by the Group to develop and oversee corporate processes for the identification and management of business risks and the appropriate application of the Serco Management System SMS and corporate responsibility activities throughout the Group.
The Our Performance section on pages 20 to 81 details the internal control and risk policies, procedures and management framework adopted by the Group.
The Corporate Responsibility Report is available online at www.
com and illustrates how Sercos approach to corporate assurance and responsibility translates from the Board into everyday working practices.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association, as approved by shareholders at the Companys 2010 Annual General Meeting, include provisions reflecting recommended practice concerning conflicts of interest.
The Board has in place procedures for Directors to report any potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for their authorisation where appropriate.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest only non-interested Directors i. e. those that have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision: in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, the Directors may impose conditions or limitations when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The process of reviewing conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given, is repeated at least annually.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of Directors conflicts which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
82 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011
