Section 4 | Governance Corporate Governance Report Introduction In managing the affairs of the Group, the Board of Serco Group plc is committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance, integrity and business ethics for all of its activities around the world.
A fundamental part of the Groups corporate governance processes is the Business Conduct and Ethics Standard that the Company and Group have adopted.
Throughout 2011 Serco Group plc complied fully with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council the Code.
The paragraphs below, together with the Our performance section on pages 20 to 81 and the Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 107, provide details of how the Company has applied the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
The Board of Directors Board composition Currently the Board has seven members: the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Following the retirements of Margaret Ford and Tom Corcoran at the end of 2010, three Non-Executive Directors, Paul Brooks, Angie Risley and Ralph D. Crosby Jr, were appointed in the year.
With the sad and untimely passing of Paul Brooks in January 2012, an externally led recruitment process is underway for his successor.
As announced on 20 March 2012, Leonard V. Broese van Groenou will be retiring from the Board at the end of the Companys Annual General Meeting, being held on 14 May 2012 and hence will not stand for re-election.
Angie Risley will succeed Leonard as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
No individual or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision-making.
The Board considers all of the Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
In coming to this conclusion the Board has determined that each Director is independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the Directors judgements.
Each Director brings a valuable range of experience and expertise to the Board.
The profiles of all Directors can be found on pages 94 and 95.
Diversity With reference to the report by Lord Davies of Abersoch entitled Women on Boards, Serco strongly supports the principle of boardroom diversity, of which gender is one, but not the only, key aspect.
Diversity of thought, experience and approach are all important and we will always seek to appoint on merit against objective criteria, including diversity.
The Board aims to achieve an appropriate diversity across all elements of Sercos management.
As, over time, we recruit new members we would, therefore, expect to address the issue of diversity in general, and to increase the proportion currently 14% that women constitute of our plc Board.
The role of the Board The Board has responsibility for the overall management and performance of the Group, the approval of its long-term objectives and commercial strategy and for ensuring that any necessary corrective action is taken promptly.
Reporting to the Board, the Governance function is tasked by the Group to develop and oversee corporate processes for the identification and management of business risks and the appropriate application of the Serco Management System SMS and corporate responsibility activities throughout the Group.
The Our Performance section on pages 20 to 81 details the internal control and risk policies, procedures and management framework adopted by the Group.
The Corporate Responsibility Report is available online at www.
com and illustrates how Sercos approach to corporate assurance and responsibility translates from the Board into everyday working practices.
Conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association, as approved by shareholders at the Companys 2010 Annual General Meeting, include provisions reflecting recommended practice concerning conflicts of interest.
The Board has in place procedures for Directors to report any potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for their authorisation where appropriate.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest only non-interested Directors i. e. those that have no interest in the matter under consideration will be able to take the relevant decision: in taking the decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
In addition, the Directors may impose conditions or limitations when giving authorisation if they think this is appropriate.
The process of reviewing conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given, is repeated at least annually.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of Directors conflicts which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
82 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Reserved and delegated authorities There is a formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board.
This schedule, which is reviewed annually, includes approval of: Group strategy Annual financial and operating plans Major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments Annual and half-year financial results Satisfying itself as to the integrity of financial information Dividend policy Ensuring adequate succession planning for the Board and senior management and appointing and removing Directors, the Company Secretary and Committee members Treasury policy Review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and risk management process Training and development of the Board and the Company Secretary.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees which operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the responsibilities delegated to the Committees are given on pages 86 to 88.
Each Committee has an appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company.
Information flow Senior executives below Board level attend certain Board meetings at which they make presentations on the results and strategies of their divisional units and functional areas of the Group.
Board members are given appropriate documents in advance of each Board meeting and each Committee meeting, as appropriate.
Board meetings are scheduled six times a year, four over two days at a time, and two meetings held for one day each.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion of the strategy, trading and financial performance and risk management of the Group.
One of the two-day meetings is dedicated to the review of the longer-term strategy of the Group.
Board and Committee meetings are held at varying locations, including overseas units, and the opportunity is used to combine the formal business of the Board with site visits and divisional presentations and discussions.
Additional Board meetings are scheduled as required.
The attendance of individual Directors at Board meetings held during the year is shown in the table on page 85.
Company Secretary and independent advice The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all corporate governance matters, ensuring that all Board procedures are followed, good information flows and facilitating induction programmes for Directors.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board has approved a procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, set out in writing, and agreed by the Board.
As Chairman, Alastair Lyons is responsible for: Ensuring the effectiveness and successful operation of the Board, its agenda and processes Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance and ensuring appropriate communication with shareholders on these standards and the Groups overall performance Ensuring appropriate Director training and development takes place Board succession planning.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 83 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 4 | Governance Corporate Governance Report The Chief Executive, Christopher Hyman, is responsible for: The formation and implementation of the Groups global strategy Delivery of the Groups business plan Providing motivation and leadership to the operating divisions, chairing the Executive Committee and setting its style and tone Setting the overall policy and direction of Sercos business operations, investments and other activities within a framework of prudent and effective risk management and ensuring that divisions and functions control those risks satisfactorily Providing leadership and representation of the Group with major customers, shareholders and industry organisations.
Senior Independent Director David Richardson was appointed to the role of Senior Independent Director in January 2011.
As part of this role, David is available to shareholders if they have any issues or wish to discuss any aspects of the Companys business without the Executive Directors or Chairman present.
Additionally, in accordance with the provisions of the Code, David is available to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to act as an intermediary for Non-Executive Directors when necessary.
External directorships for Executive Directors The Board considers that Executive Directors can gain valuable experience and knowledge through appropriate and limited non-executive appointments in other listed companies or independent sector organisations.
The Board is careful to ensure that any such appointments do not compromise the effective management of the Group and that these are approved in advance of any appointments being taken up.
Details of the fees received by Executive Directors for external appointments can be found in the Remuneration Report on page 102.
Significant other commitments of the Chairman Alastair Lyons is non-executive Chairman of Admiral Group plc, Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director of Bovis Homes Group PLC, Senior Independent Director of Phoenix Group Holdings and Chairman of the Towergate Insurance Group.
The Board believes that Alastair holds a well-balanced portfolio of positions which allow him to perform his duties as Chairman appropriately.
Re-election of Directors The Companys Articles of Association stipulate that each Director shall retire but be eligible for re-election at the annual general meeting held in the third calendar year following the year in which he or she was elected or last re-elected by the Company.
Any Directors appointed by the Board since the last annual general meeting must stand for re-election at the next annual general meeting.
Any Non-Executive Directors, excluding the Chairman, who have served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election.
Notwithstanding the above, in accordance with provisions contained within the Code all Directors retired and stood for re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting and will do so on an annual basis at each annual general meeting.
Their names are set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
The Non-Executive Directors Independence All the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have no cross-directorships or significant links which could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
Term of appointment All Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years.
Thereafter, subject to satisfactory performance, they may serve one or two additional three-year terms, with a thorough review of their continued independence and suitability to continue as Non-Executive Directors being undertaken if they are to remain on the Board for more than nine years.
The terms and conditions of the appointment of the Directors are summarised in the Remuneration Report on page 102 and are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Meetings of Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors meet separately without the Chairman or Executive Directors being present at least once a year principally to appraise the Chairmans performance with input from Executive Directors as described below.
This meeting is chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
84 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Board meetings and attendance Board meetings were held on a bi-monthly basis with ad hoc meetings in between as required.
During the year, three such ad hoc meetings were held to discuss matters relating to the Intelenet acquisition.
The frequency and content of Board meetings are reviewed by the Board annually.
The attendance of the individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings of which they were members during 2011 was as follows: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 9 meetings 3 meetings 6 meetings 3 meetings Alastair Lyons 9 n a 4 4 3 Christopher Hyman 9 n a n a 1 1 Andrew Jenner 9 n a n a n a Leonard V. Broese van Groenou 9 3 6 n a David Richardson 9 3 6 3 Paul Brooks 6 7 3 n a 1 1 Angie Risley 5 6 n a 4 4 0 0 Ralph D. Crosby Jr 4 4 n a n a n a Notes: 1. n a means that the specified Director is not a member of that Committee, although he or she may attend meetings at the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee.
Where a number is given in brackets against a Directors attendance, this is the number of meetings which took place during their tenure.
Board effectiveness Induction On joining the Board, Directors are given background information describing the Company and its activities.
They receive an induction pack which includes information on all the governance processes of the Group, the roles and responsibilities of the Board, Committees and other management teams and a range of other appropriate information about the Group, its activities and its advisors.
Meetings are also arranged with a number of key people from across the Group on a structured basis to assist with a Directors induction.
Visits are also made, where possible, to a number of contracts around the country.
Paul Brooks, Angie Risley and Ralph D. Crosby Jr undertook a number of meetings and site visits on joining the Group, both in the UK and overseas, and Alastair Lyons has continued to further his knowledge of the Group with a comprehensive ongoing programme of contract visits, numbering in excess of 40 since joining the Board.
Continued professional development During 2011 the Board members were all engaged in a range of training and professional development activities.
Board members attended a workshop on the UK Bribery Act during the year.
This included not only consideration of the legal implications but also the Companys wider approach to compliance and refresher training on the Companys procedures around anti-bribery and corruption as specified within the Serco Management System.
The Board considers the training needs of the Executive and Non-Executive Directors plus the Company Secretary.
All Board members are encouraged to attend relevant training courses at the Companys expense.
The development needs of the Directors and the Company Secretary fall within the remit of the Chairman who reviews and agrees these individually.
Performance evaluation The Group recognises the importance of a comprehensive evaluation process for the Board and ensures that comments and recommendations are considered carefully and implemented where appropriate to ensure its continued development.
In 2011, the Board commissioned an external review completed by an independent consultant, who, it is confirmed, is not connected with the Company in any way.
The objectives of the review were: To provide an independent evaluation of the Boards structure and composition, processes and decision-making, performance and outcomes and alignment of the Boards priorities to Company strategy, in line with UK corporate governance standards: To review the effectiveness of the Audit Committee, Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee: To provide insight into areas of strength and areas that would further increase the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 85 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 4 | Governance Corporate Governance Report Each Board Member completed a detailed, structured questionnaire about the Boards effectiveness and was then interviewed to clarify views where necessary and discuss common themes emerging from the research.
The consultant interviewed the Company Secretary, a number of members of the Executive Committee and selected Company advisers to understand their perspectives on the Boards effectiveness.
A presentation to the Board was given of the results of the evaluation on its conclusion.
The review concluded that the Board operates effectively under strong leadership from the Chairman.
Members participate fully in open and constructive debate and appropriate focus is given to key areas of risk and strategy.
Recommendations have been made with respect to increasing Board contact with the key talent and rising stars from across the Group and reviewing the format of management information provided at and between Board meetings.
Further, the Board recognised the value of previous detailed sessions held on City and Investor Relations and the evaluation has recommended including another such meeting in the next two years.
These, along with more administrative recommendations, have been given due consideration by the Board and actions for each have been agreed accordingly.
In addition, an evaluation of the Chairmans performance led by the Senior Independent Director taking into account the views of both the Non-Executive and Executive Directors was carried out during the year.
It is considered that the Chairman provides strong leadership of the Board, his time commitment to learning about the Group not only gives him a more informed view of the Group but enables him to provide a strong sounding board for the Executive Directors and there is a good level of trust between him and the Chief Executive.
The value to Serco employees of the Chairmans commitment to contract and site visits was also acknowledged.
Board Committees The Board has delegated authority to a number of permanent Committees to deal with matters in accordance with written terms of reference.
The terms of reference for all Committees are reviewed on a regular basis by the Board to ensure they are still appropriate and reflect any changes in good practice and governance: these are available online at www.
Committees are authorised to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if they consider it necessary.
The Audit Committee and Audit Committee Report Membership: The Audit Committee consists solely of independent Non-Executive Directors.
It is chaired by David Richardson and comprises Leonard V. Broese van Groenou and, from February 2011 until his passing in January 2012, Paul Brooks.
The Chairman of the Committee has recent and relevant experience for this role.
The Audit Committee met three times during the year.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit, KPMG LLP the Groups internal auditor, and Deloitte LLP the external auditor attend meetings.
The Committee meets with each of the internal auditor, external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit separately at least once a year.
All Directors have access to the minutes of the Audit Committee meetings.
Responsibilities: The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, including interim management statements, and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them To monitor and review the internal audit programme and ensure that the internal audit function is adequately resourced and has appropriate standing with the Company To review managements and the internal auditors reports on the effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management To consider the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditor and assess independence and objectivity of the external auditor, ensuring that key partners are rotated at appropriate intervals and relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements are taken into account To recommend the audit fee to the Board and pre-approve any fees in respect of non-audit services provided by the external auditor and to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity To discuss with the external auditor, before the audit commences, the nature and scope of the audit and to review the auditors quality control procedures and steps taken by the auditor to respond to changes in regulatory and other requirements To oversee the process for selecting the external auditor and make appropriate recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to consider at the annual general meeting Review the Companys procedures for detecting fraud and its systems and controls for the prevention of bribery and receive reports on non-compliance.
86 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Additionally, in accordance with the Code, the Committee is responsible for a formal whistle-blowing policy and procedure which applies throughout the Group.
Responsibility for the operation of this policy has been delegated to the Company Secretary.
Members of the Audit Committee have received updates on accounting standards and generally accepted accounting practice on a quarterly basis as part of the Finance Directors report to the Board, and also on a half-yearly basis from the external auditor.
During 2011 the Audit Committee discharged fully its responsibilities listed above and, in doing so, considered the following: Corporate Governance Report and the Statement of Directors Responsibilities for inclusion in the 2010 Annual report and accounts 2011 Half Year Report and Auditors report thereon 2011 external audit fees Review of the whistle-blowing process and significant reports from that process Evaluation of the Audit Committee and the achievement of its Terms of Reference 2011 internal audit programme and the proposed 2012 programme The continuing independence of the external auditors.
Due to the nature and complexity of the business and its contracts, in considering the integrity of the financial statements of the Company the Committee paid particular attention, amongst other matters, to contract accounting, goodwill impairment, pensions accounting and taxation.
Non-audit services: The Committee has reconfirmed its policy on the provision of audit and non-audit services by Deloitte LLP.
It determined three categories of services: Approved e. g. audit and related assurance services, Permitted e. g. tax compliance and due diligence and Not Permitted e. g. design implementation of financial information systems and quasi management services.
The Committee, the Company and Deloitte LLP all monitor compliance with the policy and review at each meeting the fees earned and the estimates for the year.
The Committee acknowledges that the Groups external audit firm will have a significant understanding of the Groups business and this knowledge and experience can be utilised to the Groups advantage in many areas thus ensuring efficiency in costs to the Group.
They also operate to professional codes of conduct including the management of conflicts of interest.
Accordingly, the external auditor may be engaged for the following non-audit services: a assistance in tax compliance activities including the preparation of tax returns : b tax advisory services: c accountants reports for any Stock Exchange purposes: d ad hoc reporting on historic financial information for any other purpose and ad hoc accounting advisory services: e due diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions or disposals of businesses: f other corporate finance advisory services required in support of potential transactions or bids including the review of financial models for internal consistency and compliance with Group financial accounting policies: g any other services which are not prohibited and are authorised by the Finance Director or Group Company Secretary.
Where such services are considered to be recurring in nature approval of the Committee may be sought for the full financial year at the beginning of that year.
Approval for other permitted non-audit services has to be sought on an ad hoc basis: where no Audit Committee meeting is scheduled within an appropriate time frame the approval is to be sought from the Chairman of the Committee or his nominated alternate.
The Committee may establish fee thresholds for pre-approved services and similar approvals are required for work awarded to accounting firms other than firms auditors where fees are expected to exceed pre-approved limits.
The Group Company Secretary is nominated by the Audit Committee as the point of review and approval for the engagement of non-audit services.
The Group has complied with the policy throughout the year.
Where appropriate, non-audit services have been provided by companies other than Deloitte LLP to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence.
The fees paid to Deloitte for audit, audit-related and non-audit services for 2011 can be found in note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The principal areas of engagement of Deloitte LLP for audit-related and non-audit services were commissioned in full compliance with the above policy and a formal tender exercise was undertaken where appropriate.
The services principally related to taxation advice, IT security testing and due diligence and other corporate finance advisory services.
Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 87 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview Section 4 | Governance Corporate Governance Report Auditors independence: The independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor have been examined by the Committee and discussions were held regarding their terms of engagement and remuneration.
The Senior Statutory Auditor is Richard Knights who was appointed to the role at the beginning of 2011.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys current choice of external auditor and consideration was given to the merits of appointing an alternative external audit firm.
Following an assessment of the relative strengths and weaknesses of an alternative provider against the continued engagement of the incumbent provider, the Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed for reappointment at the forthcoming 2012 Annual General Meeting.
This recommendation has been accepted and will be proposed to shareholders.
The Nomination Committee Membership: The Nomination Committee is chaired by Alastair Lyons and comprises David Richardson, Angie Risley from 1 April 2011 and Christopher Hyman who was appointed to the Committee on 10 May 2011.
Paul Brooks was also a member of the Committee from 1 February until 10 May 2011.
The Committee met three times during 2011.
Responsibilities: Matters considered during the year included succession and contingency planning, Board structure and composition and the recruitment of Paul Brooks, Angie Risley and Ralph D. Crosby Jr.
The Committee has responsibility for the identification and nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise, engaging external search consultants when necessary.
Approval of appointment is a responsibility of the Board.
The Nomination Committee has engaged relevant external executive search consultants for the appointment of new Non-Executive Directors.
In consultation with the chosen search consultants, specifications were drawn up for the roles and attributes were identified that were felt to be essential for their effective performance, including what would be considered acceptable in terms of time commitment.
The Remuneration Committee Details of the Remuneration Committee and its policies together with the Directors remuneration, emoluments and interests in the Companys share capital are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 96 to 107.
Executive Committees Throughout 2011, an Executive Committee has operated which is chaired by the Chief Executive and comprises 11 other members, including the Group Finance Director, Divisional Chief Executives and other selected Corporate function heads.
The Committee has delegated responsibility from the Board to ensure the effective direction and control of the business and to deliver the Groups long-term strategy and goals.
The Committee met 12 times during the year to review the Groups activities and discuss management and operational issues.
Representatives from across the Serco business were invited to the meetings to discuss aspects of their business or give presentations on specific topics.
Relationship with shareholders The Companys relationship with shareholders is given a high priority.
The Annual report and accounts is available to all shareholders both in hard copy and online at www.
We no longer produce a printed report of our half-year results.
Instead, a letter summarising those results is issued to shareholders and a copy of the full stock exchange announcement is available on request.
Regular trading updates are published ahead of close periods and before the annual general meeting by press release.
In addition, press releases and stock exchange announcements are made regarding significant contracts or transactions.
All trading announcements are also posted on the Groups website www.
Annual general meeting Individual shareholders have the opportunity at the annual general meeting AGM to question the Chairman and, through him, the Chairs of the various Board Committees and other Directors.
Details of the meeting are set out in the notice of meeting which is sent to shareholders and which contains the text of the resolutions to be proposed and explanatory notes.
Shareholders attending the AGM are invited to vote by means of a poll.
A poll reflects the number of voting rights exercisable by each member and is considered by the Board to be a more democratic method of voting.
Shareholders are advised of the total number of votes lodged for each resolution, in the categories for and against together with the number of votes withheld.
This information is also posted on the Groups website www.
88 | Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 Institutional investors The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular dialogue with institutional investors.
The Chairman also meets with significant institutional investors from time to time.
The Companys investor relations programme and day-to-day activities are managed by the Head of Investor Relations.
As part of the role of Senior Independent Director, David Richardson is also available to meet shareholders, should it be required.
The Board receives an investor relations report at each meeting.
This reviews share price movements and valuation, changes in the share register, the Companys recent and planned investor relations activities, communication with shareholders, analyst recommendations and significant news from the market and support services sector.
The report ensures that the Board has a clear understanding of the Companys investor relations performance and enables them to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Group website The Group website www.
com is a primary source of information on the Group.
The site includes an area tailored for investors, including information such as an archive of all reports, announcements, presentations and webcasts, share price tools, the terms of reference for all Board Committees, the Corporate Responsibility Report, and information on voting at the annual general meeting.
It also has a link directly to the Companys registrars, allowing shareholders to view their shareholding online and to vote on the resolutions set out in the notice of annual general meeting.
Business conduct Serco Group operates within a Management System that defines the policies, standards and processes to be applied wherever we operate.
Integral to this is our policy on Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to all business divisions, operating companies and business units throughout the world.
This policy outlines the Groups position on a wide range of ethical and legal issues including conflicts of interest, financial inducements, human rights and legal and regulatory compliance.
It applies to Directors and to all employees regardless of their position or location.
Recognising that ethical dilemmas may arise in a growing company the Group has an Ethics Consultation Process that is to be followed to determine the Groups position on particular issues.
To support this process an Ethics Committee, comprising members of the Executive Team with a quorum of three and chaired by the Corporate Affairs Director, meets as required.
As the leadership of the Company, the Executive Team will make any fine judgements about what it considers acceptable or otherwise.
Sercos outsourced Ethics Hotline operated throughout the year, which enables employees to report any concerns they may have, or report any wrongdoing, that they do not feel able to raise with their line manager, human resources colleagues or through other reporting channels.
In addition to the Hotline, which is available toll-free worldwide in several languages, employees can also make reports via email or the internet.
The Company Secretary investigates independently any issues raised and reports back to the Audit Committee and, as required, the Board.
During the year new territories and languages have been efficiently integrated to encompass the extended coverage of the Group as a result of acquisitions.
The Group maintains a position of impartiality with respect to party politics.
Accordingly, it does not contribute funds to any political party.
It does, however, contribute to the public debate of policy issues that may affect it in the countries in which it operates.
Internal control and risk management Further to the comments above regarding Governance, details of the Groups internal control and risk management processes are contained in pages 72 to 81 of the Our Performance section.
The Board confirms that the actions it considers necessary have been taken to remedy any failings and weaknesses which it has determined to be significant from its review of the Groups internal controls and risk management processes.
Going concern The Directors have acknowledged the guidance on Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for the Directors of UK Companies 2009 and An Update for Directors of Listed Companies: Responding to increased country and currency risk in financial reports, published by the Financial Reporting Council in 2009 and January 2012 respectively.
This is discussed in the Finance Review starting on page 54.
Approved by the Board of Directors and signed on its behalf by: Joanne Roberts Secretary 27 February 2012 Serco Group plc | Annual report and accounts 2011 | 89 Financial statements Governance Our performance Our business Overview
