Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Governance Nominations Committee This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The Committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the board and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
It also reviews their external interests with a view to identifying any actual, perceived or potential conicts of interests, including the time available to commit to their duties to the company.
The Committee monitors the independence of each non-executive director and makes recommendations concerning such to the board.
The results of these reviews are important when the board considers succession planning and the election and reappointment of directors.
Members of the committee take no part in any discussions concerning their own circumstances.
During the year the Committee reviewed the procedure for reporting and authorising, as Andrew Duff appropriate, any actual or potential conicts of interests, in accordance with the provisions Chairman of the Nominations Committee of the Companies Act 2006.
The members of the Nominations Committee in 2010 11 were the non-executive directors The main purpose of the Committee is of the board and the Chief Executive, Tony Wray.
to assist the board by keeping the composition of the board under review In accordance with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all members and conducting a rigorous and of the board will seek re-election at the annual general meeting in July 2011.
In March this transparent process when making or year the Nominations Committee formally reviewed the performance, contribution and renewing appointments of directors to commitment of each of the directors retiring at this years AGM and seeking reappointment the board.
It also advises the board on and supported and recommended their reappointment to the board.
The Committee has issues of directors conflicts of interest confirmed that each director continues to perform well on an individual and collective basis, and independence.
The full terms of making a valuable contribution to the boards deliberations and demonstrating commitment reference for the Committee can be to the long term interests of the company.
found on the companys website Nominations Committee attendance in 2010 11 www.
com and are also Sir John Egan 2 2 available from the Company Secretary.
Dr Bernard Bulkin 4 4 Succession planning Richard Davey 4 4 When considering new appointments to Andrew Duff 3 3 the board, the Committee oversees the Gordon Fryett 2 4 preparation of a position specification Martin Lamb 3 4 that is provided to an independent recruitment organisation retained to Baroness Noakes 4 4 conduct a global search.
In addition to Tony Wray 4 4 the specific skills, knowledge and Each committee meeting complied with the terms of reference in that a minimum of five experience deemed necessary, the members were in attendance, with the majority being independent, non-executive directors.
specification contains criteria such as: a proven track record of creating shareholder value: unquestioned integrity and a diversity of psychological mindset: a commitment to the highest standards of governance: having the required time available to devote to the job: strategic mindset, an awareness of market leadership, outstanding monitoring skills: a preparedness to question, challenge and openly assess: and an independent point of view.
