40 Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Audit Committee This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The members of the Audit Committee are Baroness Noakes DBE Chairman, Dr Bernard Bulkin and Richard Davey whose experience and background are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The board is satisfied that Baroness Noakes and Richard Davey have recent and relevant financial experience and that all members of the Committee remain independent.
The members of the Committee receive updates in financial reporting and the groups regulatory framework in various forms throughout the year.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Director of Internal Audit, the Director of Strategy and Regulation, the Group Financial Controller, the Company Secretary and the external auditor normally attend, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
Other Baroness Noakes DBE members of senior management are also invited to attend as appropriate.
In performing its Chairman of the Audit Committee duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Director of Internal Audit, the Company Secretary and external professional advisers.
The Committee assists the board in We met five times in 2010 11 and our work focused on four key areas: financial statements discharging its responsibilities for the and accounting policies: internal controls: oversight of internal and external audit: and the integrity of the companys financial regulatory reporting obligations of our subsidiary Severn Trent Water Limited.
statements, the assessment of the effectiveness of the systems of internal Financial Statements and Accounting Policies controls and monitoring the effectiveness Reviewing the financial statements and accounting policies requires us to make certain and objectivity of the internal and external judgements and we set out below some of the key issues we discussed in respect of 2010 11: auditors.
The role and the responsibilities the implementation of accounting standards in the period, in particular IFRIC 18 in of the Committee are set out in written respect of assets transferred from customers terms of reference.
These can be found on the companys website the assumptions which underpin accounting for the groups retirement benets schemes www.
com and are also the rationale for items shown as exceptional in the accounts.
available from the Company Secretary.
In reviewing the financial statements, we receive input from the Executive Disclosure Committee and Deloitte.
The former is chaired by the Finance Director and considers the content, accuracy and tone of the financial statements and other public disclosures prior to their release.
Deloitte reported to the Committee on their review of the half year interim results and on their audit of the year end financial statements.
Internal Controls We receive regular reports from Internal Audit in respect of their work on internal controls and we review management letters received from the external auditors.
We review Internal Audits annual review of fraud prevention and mitigation as well as a regular fraud log.
Technology controls and governance were areas of focus in 2010 11 and we received several reports on the control environment in this area, where we had previously identied the potential to enhance controls.
Much progress has been made in improving the control environment and we will continue to monitor progress into 2011 12.
We reviewed the processes for and outputs from our enterprise risk management process, through which the principal risks and related controls are identied.
In addition, we monitored the ongoing development of our compliance and assurance processes in respect of the key risks.
We discussed the new compliance requirement for Senior Accounting Ofcers to provide certication in respect of the accounting records and processes which underpin the calculation of tax liabilities for UK based companies owned by the group.
A programme is under way to ensure the group is in compliance with the UK Bribery Act which is due to become effective in July 2011.
We will receive further progress reports in 2011 12.
Further details of our Internal Control Framework, including the main features of our internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process, can be found in the Directors Report on page 28.
Oversight of Internal Audit and External Audit We are responsible for overseeing the work of the internal audit function and also for managing the relationship with the groups external auditor.
We review the performance of Severn Trent Plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 the internal and external auditor annually to ensure that they are effective and recommend Policy on the provision of non-audit to the board whether the external auditor should be reappointed.
services The Committee regularly holds discussions with both the internal and external auditors in The company has approved a formal the absence of management.
The Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the policy on the provision of non-audit services aimed at safeguarding and board on the Committees work and the board receives a copy of the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
supporting the independence and objectivity of the external auditor.
Internal audit The policy sets out the approach to be The Director of Internal Audit and his Internal Audit team report on a day to day basis taken by the group when using the to management on the effectiveness of the groups systems of internal controls and the adequacy of these systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the groups assets services of the external auditor, including and resources.
This work is summarised and reported to the Audit Committee on a regular requiring that certain services provided by the external auditor are pre-approved basis and is a key element of the assurance that the Committee receives on the risks and by the Audit Committee or its Chairman.
The plans, the level of resources and the budget of the Internal Audit function are reviewed It distinguishes between those services at least annually by the Audit Committee.
The Director of Internal Audit is free to raise any where an independent view is required and that should be performed by the issues with the Committee or its Chairman at any time during the year.
external auditor such as statutory and External auditor non-statutory audit and assurance work, Deloitte LLP Deloitte were appointed auditor of the company in 2005.
The Audit prohibited services where the Committee reviews the auditors effectiveness each year prior to recommending to the independence of the external auditor board that they be proposed for reappointment at the AGM.
Deloitte audit all significant could be threatened and they must not subsidiaries of the group.
be used, and other non-audit services Annually, the committee reviews information provided by the external auditor conrming where the external auditor may be used.
their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements Non-audit services where the external and professional standards.
The company does not have a policy of tendering the external auditor may be used include: nonaudit at specic intervals but would initiate a tender process if there were any concerns recurring internal controls and risk about the quality of the audit or the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
There are management reviews i. e. excluding no contractual obligations that act to restrict the Committees choice of external auditor.
outsourcing of internal audit work, advice Details of the amounts paid to Deloitte for audit and non-audit services are provided in note on financial reporting and regulatory 7 to the accounts page 75. matters, due diligence on acquisitions and disposals, project assurance and In accordance with the requirements for auditor independence, the lead partner stood down advice, tax compliance services, and after the 2009 10 audit having served five years in that capacity.
Our new lead partner employee tax services.
observed the 2009 10 audit to ensure continuity following the changeover.
The approval of the Audit Committee Severn Trent Water Limited or its Chairman is always required if The regulated activities carried out by Severn Trent Water Limited result in other reporting a non-audit service provided by the requirements to Ofwat and these are also covered by the Audit Committee.
These auditor is expected to cost more than regulatory reporting obligations include a comprehensive annual return on all of Severn 100,000 or if non-audit fees for the Trent Water Limiteds regulatory obligations, known as the June Return, and a statement year would thereby exceed the amount that underpins the customer charges made by Severn Trent Water Limited, known as the of the audit fee.
Deloitte make reports to Ofwat in respect of the June Return.
The June Return covers many aspects which are not financial and Severn Trent Water Limited appoints a Reporter, Atkins, to report on those aspects.
The Audit Committee receives reports from Deloitte and the Reporter on their work as part of its review of the returns.
In June 2010, we held an additional meeting to consider and review the new Ofwat reporting requirements regarding the split of operating costs and xed assets between different activities within Severn Trent Water Limited accounting separation.
Audit Committee attendance in 2010 11 Baroness Noakes 5 5 Dr Bernard Bulkin 4 5 Richard Davey 5 5 In April 2010, we conducted an annual review of our performance as part of the annual Board Effectiveness Review process and the board, as a whole, concluded that we continue to operate effectively.
