Governance Corporate Governance The Board continues to be committed to achieving high standards of corporate governance throughout the Group.
Adrian Auer Chairman of strategic plans and initiatives for consideration Corporate Governance statement The Board fully supports the principles of good by the Board.
The formal division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief corporate governance.
This statement, together with the Remuneration Report on pages 79 to 85, Executive has been agreed by the Board and documented, a copy of which is available on the explains how the Group has applied the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Groups website.
Governance in force for the year to 31 March 2011 and also with the provisions of the Disclosure The non-executive directors bring a wide range of experience to the Group and are considered and Transparency Rules on Audit Committees and Corporate Governance Statements DTR7.
The by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship Board considers that it has complied with Section 1 of the Combined Code and DTR7 in all material which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The non-executive respects throughout the year.
The Board also supports the revised and renamed UK Corporate directors make a significant contribution to the functioning of the Board, thereby ensuring that no Governance Code, compliance with which it will be required to disclose next year.
The Board however one individual or group dominates the decision making process.
Non-executive directors are not believes that it will be able to comply with the new Code in all material respects save that whilst noneligible to participate in any of the Companys share option or pension schemes.
The Chairman executive directors are required to stand for annual re-election in accordance with the Companys also meets and communicates regularly with the other non-executive directors without the presence Articles of Association, executive directors will not be required to do so at the 2011 AGM unless this of the executive directors.
coincides with their existing three year re-election cycles.
Further explanation is provided in the Eric van Amerongen continues to hold the position of Senior Independent Director, being available Nomination Committee section below.
to shareholders should they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, The Board The Board comprises the Chairman, a further four Group Chief Executive or Group Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact independent non-executive directors, the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
only change to the Board during the year was the appointment in September 2010 of Jacques Petry as The table below details the number of formal Board meetings held in the year and the attendance a non-executive director.
The Chairman, who has been independent since his original appointment, record of each director.
Additional meetings chiefly represent those convened in connection with the has primary responsibility for running the Board.
The Group Chief Executive is responsible for the bank refinancing.
operations of the Group and for the development Scheduled Additional Board Board Director meetings meetings Total A Auer Chairman 12 12 4 4 16 16 T Drury 12 12 4 4 16 16 P Johnson 12 12 4 4 16 16 J Petry 7 7 4 4 11 11 S Riley 11 12 2 4 13 16 C Surch 12 12 4 4 16 16 E van Amerongen 11 12 4 4 15 16 Bracketed figures indicate maximum potential attendance of each director.
74 Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Board induction and professional development continue to demonstrate commitment to their role and whose performance continues to be effective.
On appointment, directors are given an introduction to the Groups operations, including visits to principal The Board recognise that a continuous and constructively sites and meetings with operational management.
Specific training requirements of directors are met either critical evaluation of their performance is an important factor in unlocking the full potential of the Group.
A directly or by the Company through legal regulatory updates.
Non-executive directors also have access to number of topics were also identified for the Board to focus further attention on in 2011.
 non-executive database and course programme.
There is a rolling programme of Further to the Boards consideration of the provisions of the holding Board meetings at various Group locations in the Netherlands, Belgium and the UK in order to review local new UK Corporate Governance Code, external consultants will be engaged to undertake future evaluations on a operations and make site visits.
In the year under review the Board visited Blochairn and Cumbernauld in Scotland triennial basis, commencing with that for 2011 12. and the Greenmills facility in the Netherlands.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr A Auer Board governance There is a formal schedule of matters reserved specifically and is comprised solely of non-executive directors: Mr E van Amerongen, Mr P Johnson, Dr S Riley and Mr J for the Boards decision.
These include approval of financial statements, strategic policy, acquisitions and Petry.
The Committee is formally constituted with written terms of reference which are available on the Groups disposals, capital projects over defined limits, annual plans and new borrowing facilities.
It met on five occasions during the year and is responsible for making recommendations to the Board regularly, having met sixteen times during the year, four of which were held specifically in connection with the on the appointment of directors and succession planning.
It also reviews organisation and resourcing plans for Groups successful re-financing project.
In addition, the Board held a one day strategy meeting with senior the purpose of providing assurance that appropriate processes are in place to ensure a sufficient supply of management in attendance.
competent executive and senior management.
The Board is provided with appropriate information in a timely manner to enable it to effectively discharge During the year the Committee progressed a number of initiatives, including: its duties.
All directors have access to the Company Secretary whose role includes ensuring that Board procedures and regulations are followed.
In addition, Reviewing the establishment of a talent pool of directors are entitled, if necessary, to seek independent high potential managers to participate in a Group professional advice in the furtherance of their duties at development scheme.
The use of an agreed set of competencies by the All directors are required to notify the Company on an executive directors and the three managing directors ongoing basis of their other commitments and through as a basis of objectively assessing and underpinning the Company Secretary there are procedures for ensuring development reviews of their senior teams.
that the Boards powers for authorising directors conflicts of interest are operated effectively.
For the most senior appointments, specific account is now taken of potential, as well as current suitability for The work of the Board is further supported by three formal the role, if required by succession plans.
Committees Audit, Remuneration and Nomination, detailed below.
In addition, whilst not a Committee with Ascertaining appropriate leadership training specific powers of its own delegated by the Board, the requirements.
Group Chief Executive is assisted in the performance of his duties by an Executive Committee, which meets In keeping under review the structure, composition monthly and whose permanent members include the and balance of skills of the Board, the Committee Group Finance Director and the Managing Directors of the determined a need for an additional nonNetherlands, Belgium and the UK.
executive with relevant Benelux international waste management experience.
Mr J Petry, whose Board evaluation biographical details appear on page 73 was identified Performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees as an eminently appropriate candidate.
Neither an and directors during the year was based upon external search consultancy nor open advertising formalised self assessment questionnaires was used for this specific appointment.
However, supplemented by structured interviews conducted following introductory meetings with Board members by the Chairman with individual directors.
The and references having been taken up via a recruitment performance evaluation of the Chairman was consultant, the Board agreed unanimously to appoint undertaken by the non-executive directors, led by him as a non-executive director with effect from 30 the Senior Independent Director.
Following this years September 2010. performance evaluation the Board recommends to shareholders the election and re-election of those Any new director appointed to the Board is subject to directors standing at the forthcoming AGM, all of whom election by shareholders at the first opportunity after Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Shanks Group plc 75 Information Financial Governance Performance Strategy Overview Governance Corporate Governance continued particulars of directors remuneration and their their appointment.
In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association non-executive directors are also interests in the Companys shares.
required to stand for re-election on an annual basis.
Nonexecutive directors have previously been appointed Remuneration for renewable three year terms but for consistency with Committee their annual re-election requirements, letters of reDirector meetings appointment since 31 March 2011 have been issued on the E van Amerongen Chairman 5 5 basis of renewable annual terms.
A Auer 5 5 P Johnson 5 5 Both the executive directors have contractual notice J Petry 2 2 periods of one year and are required to stand for S Riley 5 5 re-election every three years.
The Board does not believe it is necessary to require executive directors Bracketed figures indicate potential attendance of each director.
to stand for annual re-election as the Chairman and non-executives have an existing accountability Audit Committee to shareholders for ensuring executives perform The Audit Committee, which met four times in the year, effectively and a responsibility if necessary to remove is formally constituted with written terms of reference them from their post if they fail to do so.
However, in which are available on the Groups website.
The light of the new UK Corporate Governance Code and Committee is comprised solely of non-executive directors: emerging practice the Board will keep the matter of Mr P Johnson, Dr S Riley and Mr E van Amerongen.
annual re-election under review for future years.
Mr P Johnson, who continues to have current and relevant financial experience under UK Corporate Governance Following discussion of the recommendations of Code requirements, chaired the Committee throughout the Lord Davies report on Board Room Diversity, the year.
Representatives from the external auditors, whilst the Committee at the current time has not the Risk Management and Internal Audit Manager, the determined to set a specific female Board member Chairman and the executive directors are regularly quota, appointments to the Board will continue to be invited to attend meetings.
The Committee also has access based on the diversity of contribution and required to the external auditors advice without the presence competencies, irrespective of gender.
The Audit Committee has the authority to examine any matters relating to the financial Nomination affairs of the Group.
This includes the appointment, terms Committee of engagement, objectivity and independence of the Director meetings external auditors, the nature and scope of the audit, A Auer Chairman 5 5 reviews of the interim and annual financial statements, P Johnson 5 5 internal control procedures, accounting policies, J Petry 2 2 adherence with accounting standards and such other related functions as the Board may require.
The Committee S Riley 5 5 also considers and reviews other risk management and E van Amerongen 5 5 control documentation, including the Groups policy on whistleblowing and security reporting procedures.
Bracketed figures indicate potential attendance of each director.
Specified non-audit services may be provided by the Remuneration Committee external auditor subject to a competitive bid process The Remuneration Committee, which met five times in other than in situations where it is determined by the year, is formally constituted with written terms of the Group Finance Director that the work is closely reference which are available on the Groups website.
related to the audit or when a significant benefit can The Committee is comprised solely of non-executive be obtained from work previously conducted by the directors: Mr E van Amerongen, Mr A Auer, Mr P Johnson, external auditor.
Whilst the Group Finance Director Dr S Riley and Mr J Petry.
The Committee is chaired by Mr E may approve any new engagement up to the value of van Amerongen and determines the Companys policy on 25,000, anything in excess requires Audit Committee remuneration and on a specific package for each of the approval up to an agreed annual aggregate limit executive directors.
It also determines the terms on which of 75% of the prior year audit fee.
In exceptional the Long Term Incentive Plan and the Save As You Earn circumstances this limit may be exceeded with the share options are awarded to employees.
In determining whether or not to engage the external auditor to provide any nonThe Committee also determines the remuneration audit services consideration will be given to whether of the Groups senior management and that of this would create a threat to their independence.
It recommends the remuneration Similarly the external auditor will not be permitted to of the non-executive directors for determination undertake any advocacy role for the Group such that by the Board.
In exercising its responsibilities the their objectivity may be compromised.
Similarly the Committee has access to professional advice, external auditor may not provide services involving both internally and externally, and may consult the preparation of accounting records or financial the Group Chief Executive about its proposals.
The statements, the design, implementation and operation Remuneration Report on pages 79 to 85 contains 76 Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 identified and the controls and action plans reported.
of financial information systems, actuarial and internal control functions or the management of internal audits.
Risk management responsibilities are outlined in the Principal Risks and Uncertainties section on page 34.
Tax and other profesional services have also been Embedding risk management processes into the dayprovided to the Group by audit firms KPMG and Ernst to-day running of the business is important if it is to be & Young during the year.
The following requirements help ensure the effectiveness of the risk management framework: During the year the performance of the external auditors was formally reviewed and as identified last Involvement of an increasing number of managers year, as part of the planned rotation process, a new across the Group in assessing risks and producing engagement partner was appointed to lead the 2011 the risk register in each country.
A resolution proposing the re-appointment of during the year by risk management roadshows and  LLP as Group auditors will be put engagement with key senior operational managers.
to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Quarterly reporting to the Board by each country on Audit the specific measures being taken to control the most Committee important risks from a Group perspective.
Director meetings The Managing Director of each country making P Johnson Chairman 4 4 an annual presentation to the Audit Committee J Petry 3 3 on how the significant risks are being mitigated in each business.
S Riley 4 4 E van Amerongen 2 4 Risk management is also embedded in the major decision-making processes involved in delivering the Bracketed figures indicate potential attendance of each director.
Groups strategy, specifically in relation to investment projects and infrastructure development and Accountability and Audit acquisitions.
It is also embedded in the day-to-day The responsibilities of the directors and the auditors management of operations including health, safety in relation to the financial statements are set out on and environmental compliance where there is regular pages 90 and 91. monitoring, auditing and reporting of procedures and controls.
More details regarding the key performance indicators in these areas are included in the Risk management Performance and Monitoring section on pages 43 to 45.
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk management.
Internal control responsibility In compliance with Principle C. 2 of the Combined Code The system of internal control is based on a continuous on Corporate Governance it has established a continuous process of identifying, evaluating and managing risks process in relation to the identification, evaluation and including the risk management processes outlined above.
management of the significant risks faced by the Group.
The Board of directors has overall responsibility for the This process has been in place for the financial year Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its ended March 2011 and to the date of approval of this effectiveness.
The Board recognises that internal control report and is in accordance with the Revised Guidance for systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate Directors on the Combined Code Turnbull Report.
the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute The objectives of the risk management process are to assurance against material misstatements, losses and the identify, assess and control the most serious risks facing the breach of laws and regulations.
The main risks affecting the Group are set out on pages 34 to 39 of this report.
The main elements of the risk Annual assessment of the effectiveness of the management process are as follows: system of internal control In addition to the Boards ongoing internal control The schedule of matters reserved for the Board, and its monitoring process it has also conducted an annual adherence, ensures that all significant factors affecting review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Group strategy, structure and financing are properly Combined Code.
This review covered all material controls managed by the directors.
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
Specifically, the Boards The Group risk management framework ensures that review consisted of the following elements: each business annually assesses the risks it faces and its monitoring and control of those risks.
The output of Consideration of changes in the risk environment this process is a summary of all significant strategic, and the Groups ability to respond to these through operational, financial and compliance risks, mitigating its review of business risk registers, controls and controls and the action plans necessary to reduce risks improvement action plans.
to a level deemed appropriate by the Board.
These are reviewed by both country management and Consideration of quarterly risk reporting by the Board to ensure the appropriateness of the risks business management.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Shanks Group plc 77 Information Financial Governance Performance Strategy Overview G Go ov ver ernan finance ce Corporate Governance continued Review of the annual certification by country key aspects of the risk management and internal management that appropriate internal controls control systems.
are in place following assessment by the Risk Management and Internal Audit function.
Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been identified through the monitoring Review of reports by Internal Audit and external processes outlined above, plans for strengthening auditors.
During the year internal audits included them are put in place and action plans regularly reviews of treasury operations, IT disaster recovery monitored until complete.
The Board confirms that arrangements, tax accounting and other financial no material weaknesses were identified during the controls across the Group.
year and therefore no remedial action is required in relation to them.
Continuous process for the monitoring of the system of internal control Financial reporting Regular features of the Groups internal control system In addition to the general risk management and which contribute towards its continuous monitoring internal control processes described above, the Group are as follows: has also implemented internal controls specific to the financial reporting process and the preparation of the annual financial statements.
The main control aspects A comprehensive planning and budgeting exercise.
are as follows: Performance is measured monthly against plan and prior year results and explanations sought for Formal written financial policies and procedures significant variances.
Key performance indicators applicable to all business units.
KPIs are also extensively used to help management of the business and to provide early warning of A detailed reporting calendar including the potential additional risk factors.
See pages 43 to 45 submission of detailed monthly accounts for each for additional information on the use of KPIs.
business unit in addition to the year-end and interim reporting process.
A clear management structure including clear limits of authority, updated during the year Detailed management review to Board level of and signed off by the Board, over items such as both monthly management accounts and year-end capital expenditure, pricing strategy and contract and interim accounts.
Bi-annual certification by country managing Monthly meetings of the Groups most senior directors and finance directors and executive managers and executive directors to discuss directors on compliance with appropriate policies performance and plans.
and the accuracy of financial information.
Monthly visits by the executive directors to key Information on the Companys share capital is set out in operating locations to attend local board or the Directors Report.
Investor Relations Appointment and retention of appropriately The Company has an active investor relations experienced and qualified staff to help achieve programme, regularly meeting with institutional business objectives.
investors, analysts, press and other parties.
The Board obtains feedback from its joint brokers, An annual risk-based internal audit plan approved RBS Hoare Govett and Investec on the views of by the Audit Committee.
Audits are performed institutional shareholders and the Chairman under the guidance of the Risk Management and attends meetings with major shareholders whose Internal Audit Manager with findings discussed at views are communicated to the Board as a whole.
Summaries of audit Detailed shareholder and market comment in findings and the status of action plans to remedy particular is reported to the full Board after results significant failings are discussed at Group Board announcements.
In October 2010 the Company held and Audit Committee meetings on a regular basis.
an investor day which provided an opportunity to explain the Groups strategy and demonstrate its A range of quality assurance and environmental growth potential as well as introducing the executive management systems in use across the Group.
This was followed by a site visit in March 2011 Where appropriate these are independently to the Groups MBT facility at Frog Island, East London certified to internationally recognised standards and its Orgaworld AD facility in Amsterdam to including ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 and subject to demonstrate delivery of the strategy.
The new Group regular independent auditing.
com contains useful information for shareholders and the general public.
Regular meetings of the Audit Committee, The Company also communicates with private and comprising non-executive directors, to consider all institutional investors through the AGM.
78 Shanks Group plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
