8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 70 70 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Nomination Committee report The following Directors served as members of the Nomination Committeea review of the composition, diversity, tenure, independence and the the Committee during the year ended December 31, 2011: balance of skills and experience of the Board and its Committees: succession planning for the Board: Member From To an evaluation of the Committees performance to ensure it is David Kappler, Chairman April 5, 2004 To date operating effectively, taking into account feedback from the Board: William Burns July 27, 2011 To date Matthew Emmens June 18, 2008 To daterecommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment Dr. Jeffrey Leiden July 25, 2007 January 31, 2012 of Non-Executive Directors whose terms of office expired during the year: and A majority of the Committee has been determined by the Board a review of the Committees terms of reference.
to be Independent Non-Executive Directors for the purposes of the Governance Code.
Ms. Anne Minto was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from February 8, 2012.
Role of the Nomination Committee The key responsibilities of the Committee under its terms of reference are to: David Kappler regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board, Chairman of the Nomination Committee including the skills, knowledge, diversity and experience of the Board, and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes: identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates for new Board appointments: in relation to appointments to the Board, to identify capabilities required and consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity and also consider the candidates ability to devote sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities effectively: review succession planning for Executive and Non-Executive Directors to ensure that this is managed in a timely manner with a view of ensuring long-term success of the Group: and make recommendations to the Board concerning the reappointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office, having regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board in light of the knowledge, skills and experience required.
The terms of reference of the Committee are available on Shires website at www.
Nomination Committee activities The Committee met five times during 2011.
The attendance record is set out in the Corporate governance report on page 51.
At the invitation of the Committee, Mr. Russell attended all meetings.
During 2011, the business reviewed by the Committee included: updates on corporate governance, including Board diversity and the annual re-election of Directors: the selection and engagement of search agencies to help the Committee identify potential new Board candidates.
In engaging search agencies the Committee requests that the agency takes account of Board diversity, including gender, in their search for potential Board candidates.
The Board considered and agreed with the Committees recommendation that Susan Kilsby join the Board as a Non-Executive Director:
