Governance 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 71 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 71 Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee report The following Non-Executive Directors served as members of the Audit, to review the status of the Companys compliance programme to Compliance & Risk Committee the Committee during the year ensure adherence to applicable legal and regulatory standards and ended December 31, 2011: to the Companys Code of Ethics where there may be a material impact on the Company: Member From To review with the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer arrangements David Kappler, Chairman April 5, 2004 To date for the confidential, anonymous submission by employees of Susan Kilsby September 1, 2011 To date concerns regarding matters which could have a material impact David Stout December 8, 2009 To date on the Group, and to ensure these arrangements allow Patrick Langlois November 11, 2005 November 10, 2011 proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action: Members of the Committee are chosen from amongst the NonExecutive Directors of the Company and are selected on the basis ofreview the major findings of internal investigations and their knowledge and experience of financial matters, financial reporting, managements response and material inquiries received from risk management and internal control.
Each of the members of the regulators or governmental agencies: and Committee has been determined by the Board to be an Independent review the Groups procedures for detecting fraud and review the Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the Governance Code.
investigation and remediation of any alleged or suspected fraud.
Each member also satisfies the NASDAQ rules regarding the independence of members of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Committee briefs the Board at each of its meetings on the matters considered by the Committee, including those The Board is satisfied that Mr. Kappler, who is a fellow of the Chartered items where it considers that action is required.
The Committees terms Institute of Management Accountants and who was Chief Financial of reference give it authority to investigate any activity within its terms of Officer of the Cadbury Schweppes group from 1995 until his retirement reference and to be responsible for the resolution of any disagreement in April 2004, has relevant financial experience.
The Board has also between management and the external auditor regarding the Groups determined that Mr. Kappler is the Committees financial expert for the financial reporting.
The Committee is also authorized to seek any purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002. information it requires from any employee of the Group in order for the Committee to perform its duties.
Role of the Committee The Committees terms of reference include all matters specified in Approval of audit and non-audit services provided the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Governance Code.
by the external auditor The Committees terms of reference are available on Shires website.
The Committee has adopted a formal policy in relation to the provision The key responsibilities of the Committee under its terms of reference of audit and non-audit services by the external auditor.
The principal are to: purpose of the policy is to ensure that the independence of the external monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group, auditor is not impaired.
including its annual and quarterly reports, preliminary results announcements and any other Shire announcement relating The policy, which is in compliance with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002, to the Groups financial performance: prohibits the provision of certain non-audit services to the Group by the external auditor, including:ensure clarity of disclosure in financial reporting and the presentation of a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groupsbookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records financial position: or financial statements of the Group: make recommendations to the Board on matters to be put to design and implementation of financial information systems: shareholders in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or contributionremoval of the external auditor, to determine the remuneration in-kind reports: of the external auditor and to assess, at least annually, the objectivity and independence of the external auditor: actuarial services or internal audit out-sourcing services: approve the external audit plan and review and discuss issues legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: and recommendations arising from the external audit: management functions or human resources services: set and apply a formal policy in relation to the provision of non-audit broker, dealer, investment advisor or investment banking services by the external auditor with a view to preserving the external services: and auditors independence and objectivity: any other service that the Public Company Accounting Oversight monitor and review the integrity of the internal audit program, Board determines is impermissible as a non-audit service.
consider the findings of internal audit reviews and managements response to them: All audit and permissible non-audit services may be provided by review the annual internal audit plan and review, at least annually, the external auditor if the work is either specifically pre-approved the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk by the Committee or if the work falls within a schedule of services management systems: pre-approved by the Committee in accordance with the pre-approval policy.
The Committees pre-approval policy covers four categories review the Groups strategy for the management of key corporate of workaudit services, audit-related services, taxation services and financial risks of the Group: and other non-audit related services.
If the services proposed to be review procedures for the receipt and treatment of complaints provided by the external auditor fall within a category of pre-approved received by the Group regarding accounting, internal accounting services and additionally the fee for those services is below precontrols or auditing matters: approved annual and transactional limits, such services may be provided by the external auditor without specific, individual approval of those services by the Committee, provided that management 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 72 72 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee report does not need to exercise any discretion in determining whether 2 Internal financial control and risk management systems a proposed service falls within one of the pre-approved categories.
semi-annual review of the Groups corporate risk schedule which In all cases, the Committee is notified at the next Committee meeting included the consideration of the key risks faced by the Group of any pre-approved service that is provided by the external auditor.
and review of the Groups plans to mitigate such risks: review of the Groups annual internal audit plan, compliance with Any audit or permissible non-audit services proposed to be provided Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 and the effectiveness by the external auditor which is either not a pre-approved service, of the Groups system of internal controls over financial reporting: or is a pre-approved service for which fees are above the annual or transactional limits, must be approved in advance by the Committee, quarterly review of the results of the Groups internal audit program: who will consider whether the independence, skills and experience of annual review of the Group Treasury Policies and recommendation the external auditor make it a suitable supplier of the proposed service.
of proposed changes to the Board: Authority has been delegated to the Chairman of the Committee, to approve such services in situations where the Company requires quarterly reports on treasury activities and a review of the Groups an expeditious decision.
Any decision made under such delegation foreign exchange exposure risk management strategy: of authority is presented to the Committee at its subsequent annual review of the Groups tax strategy and assessment of fiscal scheduled meeting.
risk: and Committee activitiesreview of the Groups arrangements for the confidential, anonymous The Committee met on five occasions in 2011.
The members of the submission by employees of concerns regarding matters which Committee attended all meetings they were eligible to attend with could have a material impact on the Group.
the exception of Mr. Langlois who was unable to attend one meeting due to illness.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the 3 Other matters Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financialcompliance updates, including areas relating to bribery and Controller, the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, the Head of Internal corruption: Audit, the Groups external auditor and the Chairman of the Board review the renewal terms of the Groups Insurance Programme: attended Committee meetings.
review of the Committees terms of reference: and In addition, the Committee held a number of separate private meetings the evaluation of the Committees performance.
during the course of the year with respectively, the Groups external auditor, the Head of Internal Audit and the Chief Compliance and Risk 4 External auditor Officer, without any executive member of the Board or other member of an initial review of the external auditors performance and management present.
The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate effectiveness during 2011 and a final review of the 2011 audit open discussions between Committee members and these persons.
at the February 2012 Committee meeting: During 2011, the Committees areas of review included:review of the policy on the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external auditor: 1 Financial statements consideration of any key accounting judgments:approval of the 2011 Audit Plan and fees: and the financial disclosures contained in the Groups 2010 full year andreview of the objectivity and independence of the external auditor.
2011 quarterly results announcements and related financial reports: The Committee has remained satisfied that neither the level of nonvarious accounting matters, including but not limited to: the audit services nor the nature of the work performed by the external application of the Groups critical accounting policies and US GAAP auditor has in any way impaired their objectivity and independence.
in the context of the financial statement disclosures: accounting for Details of the fees paid to the external auditor are disclosed in the acquisition of Advanced BioHealing Inc: accounting for sales Note 31 to the consolidated financial statements.
deductions: revenue recognition for royalty income receivable from GSK: intangible asset impairment reviews: the accounting for various Following the review of the external auditors performance as regards tax matters: and the application of new accounting standards: the 2011 financial year, the Committee recommend to the Board review of the questions raised by the SEC concerning the Groups the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditor.
2010 Form 10-K filing and the approval of Shires responses.
A resolution to re-appoint Deloitte LLP will be put to shareholders The SEC were satisfied with Shires responses: and at the 2012 AGM.
quarterly audit reports from the external auditor were received The external auditor is required to rotate the audit partner responsible by the Committee and discussed.
The reports addressed the for the engagement every five years.
At the conclusion of the 2011 following key areas: year end audit Paul Franek will be replaced by James Bates as the external auditor responsibility and independence: audit partner.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys choice of external auditor.
significant accounting estimates and judgments made by management: and significant accounting policies and one off transactions.
David Kappler Chairman of the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee
