8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 48 48 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Corporate governance report Dear Shareholder The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance The Board has reviewed its approach to the re-election of directors which I believe to be central to how the Board, its committees and has agreed that with effect from the 2012 AGM, each Board and its business function.
A sound governance structure engenders member should stand for annual re-election.
A comprehensive Board and Committee performance evaluation The Board is responsible for key areas such as strategy, risk was undertaken internally in 2011, which included one-to-one meetings management and succession planning.
which I held with each of the Directors.
A fuller disclosure of the evaluation process can be found on page 50 of this report.
The Board Each year the Board spends time reviewing the Companys strategy has agreed that the 2012 performance evaluation will be externally with management to ensure that the Company continues to focus facilitated, which is three years after the last external evaluation.
on growing the business for the long-term, given the changing dynamics of the external environment.
Strategy is reviewed on an Shire values its ongoing dialogue with institutional shareholders through ongoing basis by the Board and one Board meeting is dedicated a series of meetings which are attended by various Board members to this area.
The Board is updated regularly by the CEO and CFO on shareholder views on a broad range of issues.
The business we are in is an inherently risky business and the Board is focused on ensuring that the management of risk is carefully As Chairman, I am reassured by the commitment of the Board managed by employees.
The Board recognizes that the culture of the and all the individuals who work at Shire, to continue to achieve Company is key to how risk is managed and that the Board and senior exceptional results for our shareholders within a framework that management has an important leadership role in promoting a culture promotes good governance.
of measured risk taking and ensuring that robust internal controls are in place.
The Companys Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee reviews the material risks to the business twice yearly and specific risks more frequently, as needed.
The Board reviews material risks once a year, and specific risks more frequently, as needed.
Over the last few years the Board has been focused on gaining Matthew Emmens greater visibility of executive talent and management succession.
Chairman This is managed in various ways including providing opportunities for executive talent to present to Board members, visits by Board members to key sites, and enabling less formal interactions such as at dinners and receptions.
As Chairman, it is my role to lead the Board and to ensure its effectiveness.
It is important in this regard that the composition of the Board comprises a diverse mix of skills, experiences, background and gender to ensure that it is best able to serve the interests of the Company, its shareholders and other stakeholders.
Recognizing the importance of this, the Board recently formalized its approach by the adoption of a diversity policy on this basis.
Any appointment to the Board will be considered against this policy and these considerations will be taken into account when reviewing the performance effectiveness of the Board.
The value of diversity is mirrored throughout the Company with similar policies in place for employee recruitment.
Consistent with this approach to diversity, Board members who have joined Shires Board in the last two years bring with them expertise in varied areas including science, mergers and acquisitions, finance, international pharmaceuticals and remuneration, which complement the skill sets and backgrounds and gender of an already highly skilled and experienced Board.
Governance 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 49 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 49 The following report outlines how Shire has applied the main principles Chief Executive Officer set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the UK The Chief Executive Officer, Angus Russell, has the overall responsibility Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Governance Code.
for running the business on a day-to-day basis and he chairs meetings of the Leadership Team.
Compliance statement For the year to December 31, 2011 the Company has, in the Directors The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, opinion, complied fully with the provisions set out in the Governance Senior Independent Director, and the Chief Executive Officer are clearly Code.
defined, separate and have been approved by the Board.
More details can be found on Shires website.
Leadership Board effectiveness Role of the Board The Board which is collectively responsible for the long-term success Composition of the Board of the Company currently comprises two Executive and seven The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman.
composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of the Board and its Committees to ensure that they are well balanced The Board is responsible for the overall management of the Company.
to meet their respective responsibilities and makes recommendations The Board has formally reserved certain matters for its determination to the Board with regard to any change.
and approval including the Companys strategic direction, risk profile, sound system of internal controls, annual budget, periodic financial The Board is of the opinion that each of its members has the skills, reports, overall governance, material transactions and succession knowledge, aptitude and experience to perform the functions required planning.
The full list of these matters, known as the Boards Reserve of a Director of a listed company.
Powers, is disclosed on the Companys website, www.
com Biographical details of the members of the Board who served The Board discharges its responsibilities through regularly scheduled during the year and up to the date of this report are shown on pages meetings and ad hoc meetings, as may be required.
The Board meets 42 and 43. in person at least five times a year.
The Board considers William Burns, Dr. David Ginsburg, David Kappler, The Board and its Committees monitor and evaluate the performance Susan Kilsby, Anne Minto and David Stout to be Independent Nonof the Group as a whole, through engaging with the Chief Executive Executive Directors.
The Board views each of these Non-Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, members of the Leadership Team and Directors to be independent of management, independent in judgment other members of senior management.
and character and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent The Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising judgment.
The Board also considered Dr. Jeffrey Leiden and Patrick independent judgment in Board deliberations and for scrutinizing and Langlois to have been Independent Non-Executive Directors while challenging the actions of senior management.
The Executive Directors members of the Board.
The Boards Chairman Matthew Emmens are responsible for day-to-day business operations.
is not considered to be an Independent Non-Executive Director.
At each Board meeting, the Chairman of each Board Committee At the time of Dr. Leiden stepping down from the Board, Mr. Emmens informs the Board of key matters discussed and agreed at the and Dr. Leiden were both directors of Vertex Pharmaceuticals Inc. : preceding Committee meeting.
Matters not formally reserved to the Mr. Emmens in an executive capacity and Dr. Leiden as a NonBoard are delegated to the Leadership Team, which is chaired by Executive Director.
When re-appointing Dr. Leiden in December 2010, the Chief Executive.
the Board concluded in its opinion that Dr. Leiden remained independent in judgment and character, his commitment to the Group Role and responsibilities of the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, was undiminished and his performance continued to be effective.
Senior Independent Director, and Chief Executive Officer Appointment and re-election of Directors Chairman The Nomination Committee report on page 70 provides information The Board is chaired by Matthew Emmens.
The Chairman is about the appointment process for new Directors.
responsible for the leadership of the Board which includes ensuring that Board discussions are conducted in a way which promotes The Board may appoint any person to be a Director either to fill open discussion between Directors such that no individual Director a vacancy or as an addition to the existing Board.
Any Director or small group of Directors dominates proceedings.
The Chairman is so appointed must retire and offer himself or herself for election available to meet with shareholders on any matter which is important at the next AGM, following appointment.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed by the Board ordinarily Deputy Chairman for a term of two years, subject to re-appointment by the Board.
David Kappler, as Deputy Chairman, provides support and guidance The Board has considered and agreed that with effect from the 2012 to the Chairman and deputizes for the Chairman as required.
AGM, Directors will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
Senior Independent Director Newly appointed Non-Executive Directors receive a customized As Senior Independent Director, David Kappler acts as a sounding detailed induction program which takes account of their particular board for the Chairman and is available as an intermediary for the experience and backgrounds.
This program includes meetings with other Directors if necessary.
The Senior Independent Director is also senior management from the Businesses and corporate functions.
responsible for chairing meetings of the Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman and Executive Directors present and in leading The terms of appointment of each of the Non-Executive Directors the Non-Executive Directors in evaluating annually the performance and the service contracts of the Executive Directors are made available of the Chairman.
for inspection at the Companys AGM.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 50 50 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Corporate governance report Time commitment Committees of the Board All Non-Executive Directors are required to allocate sufficient time The Board has established the Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee, to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
In addition to their work the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee and the in relation to scheduled meetings of the Board, any Board Committee Science & Technology Committee together the Committees.
Each and the AGM, the Non-Executive Directors commit time for meetings Committee has written terms of reference which have been approved with senior management, site meetings and to participate in additional by the Board, and are available on Shires website www.
Board and Committee meetings as the business of the Company may Details of each Committee are set out below.
require from time to time.
Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee Prior to taking up a new role in another organization, Non-Executive The Audit, Compliance & Risk Committee the ACR Committee has Directors are required to first discuss the opportunity with the been established for the purpose of overseeing the accounting and Chairman.
This is to ensure that acceptance of the new role does financial reporting processes of the Group, the audit of its financial not result in a conflict of interest or that the Non-Executive Director statements and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and is unable to give sufficient time to Shires business.
The ACR Committee met on five occasions in 2011.
The members of the ACR Committee are all Independent NonBoard performance evaluation Executive Directors.
For further information about the ACR Committee, The Board agreed that the 2011 Board performance effectiveness its membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, review would be managed internally.
A detailed questionnaire was please refer to the ACR Committee report on pages 71 and 72. circulated to all Board members by the Company Secretary which focused on assessing various matters including if the Board is spending Remuneration Committee adequate time on key areas of responsibility, if the information being The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing, reviewing provided to the Board is of the right caliber, if the Board has appropriate and overseeing the implementation of the Groups compensation access to senior management and outside advisors, if the Boards and benefits policy.
The remuneration of the Executive Directors culture promotes active engagement and constructive challenge and the Chairman is determined by the Remuneration Committee.
from all members, if the Chairman demonstrates effective leadership, The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined by if Board members are well prepared and, if there are any suggestions the Chairman and the Executive Directors.
The remuneration of the to enhance effectiveness and performance.
The responses were members of the Leadership Team, other than the Executive Directors, aggregated by the Company Secretary and were circulated on a is determined by the Chief Executive Officer following discussion with non-attributable basis to all the Board.
The Chairman had one-to-one the Remuneration Committee.
The members of the Remuneration discussions with each Board member.
Following those discussions Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
and the circulation of the outputs of the questionnaire, the Board met to review the feedback.
The Board agreed ways to enhance the The Remuneration Committee met on five occasions in 2011. operation of the Board including the level of detail provided in feedback For further information about the Remuneration Committee, its from Board Committees and that with the Business expanding and membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2011, growing geographically, it would be helpful to hold meetings with Board please refer to the Directors remuneration report on pages 55 to 69. members in additional key sites to enable the Board to engage with talent at those sites.
In addition to this process, the Senior Independent Nomination Committee Director spoke with each Board member, other than the Chairman, The Nomination Committee is responsible for identifying and to assess the Boards views as to the effectiveness of the Chairman.
nominating, for the approval of the Board, candidates for the Board.
This feedback was shared at a meeting of the Non-Executive Directors, The Nomination Committee also ensures adequate succession excluding the Chairman, chaired by the Senior Independent Director.
The Nomination Committee met on five occasions in 2011.
The members of the Nomination Committee, Information and support with the exception of Matthew Emmens, are all Independent NonThe Executive Directors and the Company Secretary are responsible Executive Directors.
for ensuring that detailed information is provided to Board members in advance of any scheduled or ad hoc Board meeting.
Before decisions The Nomination Committee retains the services of executive search are made, consideration is given to the adequacy of information consultants to assist it in the discharge of its responsibilities, as it available to the Board and, if necessary, decisions are deferred if further considers necessary.
For further information about the Nomination Committee, its Board members receive detailed information from the Executive membership and activities for the year ended December 31, 2011 Directors, the Company Secretary, members of the Leadership please refer to the Nomination Committee report on page 70.
Team and other senior managers to enable them to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
All Directors have access to employees Science & Technology Committee in the Company and to the advice and guidance of the Company The Science & Technology Committee is responsible for periodically Secretary and are encouraged to seek independent advice at the reviewing and advising the Board on Shires strategic direction and Groups expense, where they feel it is appropriate.
investment in research, development and technology.
The Science & Technology Committee met on three occasions in 2011.
The members of the Science & Technology Committee are all Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Dr. Jeffrey Leiden and Dr. David Ginsburg served on the Committee during the year ended December 31, 2011.
Dr. Leiden chaired the Committee until he stepped down from the Board on January 31, 2012.
Mr. William Burns was appointed as a member of the Committee with effect from February 8, 2012.
Governance 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 51 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 51 Leadership Team During 2011 the Leadership Team held ten scheduled meetings.
The The Board has delegated the day-to-day management of Shire to the Leadership Team currently comprises Angus Russell Chief Executive Leadership Team, which operates within clear and formal parameters.
Officer who chaired the Leadership Team, Graham Hetherington Chief The Leadership Team reports to and seeks guidance from the Board Financial Officer, Michael Cola President of Specialty Pharmaceuticals, on a regular basis and normally meets once a month to deliberate Sylvie Grgoire President of Human Genetic Therapies, Kevin Rakin on major business issues.
It also considers those matters that are of President, Regenerative Medicine, Barbara Deptula Chief Corporate a size and significance as to require referral to the Board before such Development Officer and Tatjana May General Counsel and Company matters are referred to the Board for final consideration and decision.
1 Board and Committee meetings The attendance of the Directors at Board and Committee meetings held in 2011 was as follows: Audit, Science & Board Board Compliance & Remuneration Nomination Technology Directors scheduled ad hoc Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Matthew Emmens 5 5 1 1 5 5 Angus Russell 5 5 1 1 Graham Hetherington 5 5 1 1 William Burns 5 5 1 1 5 5 2 2 Dr. David Ginsburg 5 5 1 1 3 3 2 David Kappler 5 5 0 1 5 5 5 5 2 Anne Minto 5 5 0 1 5 5 Susan Kilsby 2 2 0 0 2 2 2 David Stout 5 5 0 1 5 5 2 2 Former Directors Dr. Jeffrey Leiden 5 5 1 1 5 5 5 5 3 3 3 Patrick Langlois 3 4 1 1 3 4 3 4 1 x y where x is the number of meetings attended and y is the number of meetings that could have been attended.
For example 2 4 indicates two meetings attended out of a possible four.
2 Due to a conflict with prior commitments Mr. Kappler, Mr. Stout and Ms. Minto were unable to attend an ad hoc Board meeting.
3 Mr. Langlois was unable to attend the October Board and Committee meetings due to illness.
Directors remuneration At the Companys AGM shareholders were given the opportunity to ask The Groups remuneration policy is described in the Directors questions of the Directors.
The Directors also made themselves available remuneration report on pages 55 to 69.
The report details the informally after the meeting to answer questions from shareholders.
Directors remuneration and the basis upon which executive remuneration is determined.
Shires approach to Responsibility Shire strives to ensure it delivers value to healthcare systems and Relations with shareholders to society.
It is therefore critical that Responsibility is at the heart of The Group is committed to maintaining constructive relationships Shires business in order that we continue to build and maintain trust with shareholders.
with our many stakeholders patients, physicians, policymakers, payors, investors, employees and others as well as in the communities The Group announces its financial results quarterly.
The Chief Executive in which we operate.
Shire therefore attaches great importance to Officer and Chief Financial Officer gave presentations on the quarterly ethical business practices and to societal and environmental issues.
results by teleconference for institutional investors and analysts.
As the Accordingly, ultimate responsibility for them is taken at the highest Company has securities listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market levels.
The Board has reviewed Shires overall approach to in the US, Shire also files quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and an Responsibility.
The Board also periodically reviews the specific business Annual Report on Form 10-K with the US Securities and Exchange risks related to Responsibility matters, as part of the overall risk Commission SEC.
The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, supported During 2011, Shire continued to further advance its Responsibility by other senior executives, also attended individual and Group strategy by focusing on core areas that support the delivery of our meetings with major shareholders throughout the year to discuss business goals.
The Responsibility coordination Team, chaired by the the Groups strategy and performance and to understand the views General Counsel, comprises senior employees who act as sponsors of major shareholders, which are then communicated to the Board for responsibility focus areas such as access to medicines, public as a whole.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Non-Executive policy, and public patient education on the conditions and diseases Director are available also to meet with major shareholders.
Team members expertise spans the areas of health and safety, supply chain, R&D, marketing, environment, Shires website at www.
com provides information about the community and drug safety.
The Responsibility coordination Team Group and its business and is regularly updated.
The Groups Investor meets at least four times a year and is responsible for working with Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout employees across the business to ensure that Responsibility is the year.
understood by all employees and is embedded in the way Shire conducts its business and seeks to deliver on its goals.
Responsibility risks are managed within the overall framework of risk management, explained below under the heading internal control.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 52 52 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Corporate governance report Further information about Shires Responsibility focus areas and the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have regular news about  achievements, can evaluated the effectiveness of those disclosure controls and be obtained from the area dedicated to Responsibility on Shires procedures: website at www.
the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have indicated in the Form 10-K whether there were any significant Code of Ethics changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting: and The Group is committed to the maintenance of high ethical standards.
The Groups Code of Ethics applies to all Directors and employees based on the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief and is available for review on Shires website.
Financial Officer, all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting Financial reporting and disclosure, internal control and the role which are reasonably likely to affect adversely the Groups ability of the auditors to record, process and report financial information included in the The Board has, through the ACR Committee, established formal and Form 10-K have been disclosed to the Groups external auditor.
transparent arrangements for financial reporting, external auditing and the review of the internal control environment, including compliance The Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer have and other risk issues.
The ACR Committees terms of reference extend completed these certifications and they have been filed with the to the Groups compliance and risk management activities as a whole SEC in the US as part of the Groups Annual Report as at December and not just the financial aspects of internal control.
The ACR Committee has access, as it may require, to the Groups Risk management, compliance and internal control internal and external auditors throughout the year, in addition to The Board, in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal presentations from both on a quarterly basis.
Any significant findings control, recognizes its overall responsibility to maintain sound risk or identified risks are closely examined and are reported by the ACR management and internal control systems to safeguard shareholders Committee Chairman to the Board with recommendations for action.
investments and the Groups assets and to regularly review the effectiveness of such systems.
While the Board acknowledges its All employees can, via an independently managed Global Compliance responsibility for the systems of risk management and internal control, Helpline, raise any concerns in any of these areas and any other area, such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate all risk.
anonymously if they wish, to the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer in Accordingly even the most effective systems of risk management the strictest confidence without fear of retaliation.
Periodically, the Chief and internal control can provide only reasonable and not absolute Compliance and Risk Officer provides the ACR Committee with a assurance against material misstatement or loss.
summary of concerns raised through the Global Compliance Helpline, and to the extent required, any specific significant concerns raised In 2011, the Board reviewed both the key risks faced by the Group including the result of any follow up investigation.
and the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control systems.
Aside from these reviews, the Board delegates Financial reporting and disclosure responsibility to the ACR Committee for more regular review of both The Board, with the assistance of the ACR Committee, has ultimate key risks and internal controls and for monitoring the activities of the responsibility for the preparation of accounts and for the monitoring internal audit function.
The ACR Committee has kept these areas of systems of internal control.
The Board strives to present a balanced under regular review during 2011. assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects and it endeavors to present all financial, scientific and other information The Group has risk management, compliance, internal audit functions so as to be comprehensible to investors.
The Group publishes quarterly and other corporate and business assurance functions.
The Chief financial reports so that its shareholders can monitor the Groups Compliance and Risk Officer and the Head of Internal Audit report financial position regularly.
to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, respectively, but each has direct and regular access to the Chairman of the Group, In addition the Group has established a Disclosure Committee, which the Chairman of the ACR Committee and the other members of that is chaired by the Chief Financial Officer.
They also both attend and regularly present at ACR executives and senior managers from the businesses and from the Committee meetings.
legal, finance, compliance and risk functions.
Its responsibilities include ensuring that all material information is disclosed to investors in the The Groups risk management, compliance and assurance strategy Groups periodic financial reports and that such information is is based on a risk and control framework containing the following recorded, summarized and reported accurately.
key elements: an effective control environment: Following the enactment of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 in the US, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are required an effective process to identify, assess and manage risks: to complete formal certifications, which confirm, inter alia, that: effective internal control procedures: and the Annual Report on Form 10-K the Form 10-K in the US does effective internal audit.
not contain any material misstatements or omissions: financial information reported in the Form 10-K fairly presents the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the Group: the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer are responsible for determining and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures for the purposes of financial reporting in the US: Governance 8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 53 c Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 53 Effective control environment The principal focus of Shires compliance effort is to prevent and detect The key elements of the Groups control environment are as follows: misconduct or non-compliance with law or regulations through the promotion of ethical behavior through policy development, appropriate the Board has overall responsibility to maintain the risk management training, and monitoring or audit.
Shire employees are encouraged to and internal control systems and has delegated certain responsibilities seek help and to report suspected cases of misconduct without fear to the Leadership Team and or the ACR Committee: of retaliation.
Employees can do this through management or through a framework of corporate values and a Code of Ethics which sets the Global Compliance Helpline.
Concerns and allegations are fairly appropriate standards of ethical behavior are operational throughout and independently investigated and appropriate disciplinary action the Group: is taken if warranted.
the internal structure of the organization is well documented with The GCRM is managed by the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, clear reporting lines and clear limits of authority for different matters: who reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief a range of corporate policies, procedures and training have been Compliance and Risk Officer chairs the Risk Council and regularly implemented: provides summary reports on the Risk Council and Compliance activities to the ACR Committee.
The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer the internal audit department, overseen by the Head of Internal has access at all times to the Committee Chairman which provides a Audit, carries out regular reviews of internal controls and reports mechanism for bypassing management, should the need ever arise.
findings to management and the ACR Committee: the Company also maintains other corporate and business Effective internal control procedures assurance functions in the areas of Environment, Health and Safety, The Group has a system of internal control procedures.
Compliance Research and Development, and Manufacturing Supply chain.
with these procedures is monitored through a system of internal review These functions also carry out regular reviews of internal controls and regular reports prepared by internal audit, the Groups external and report findings to management: and auditor and other corporate and business assurance functions.
Any significant issues arising are reported to the ACR Committee.
the ACR Committee considers the major findings of any internal investigations and managements response to them.
The ACR Effective internal audit Committee reports annually to the Board on the effectiveness The internal review of the Groups control procedures and compliance of the Groups control environment.
with such procedures is mostly undertaken through internal audit.
The ACR Committee monitors and reviews the internal audit program, Effective identification, assessment and management of risks considers the findings of internal audit reviews and managements Management of business risk is essential for ensuring that the Group response to them, and ensures efficient coordination between the creates and preserves shareholder value.
Accordingly, the Group Groups internal and external auditors.
The Groups internal audit has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing function, comprising a mixture of internal and out-sourced resource, the significant risks that it faces.
This process has been in operation was operational throughout 2011.
The ACR Committee, which is throughout the period under review and up to the date of signing responsible for monitoring the activity of the internal audit function, has the Annual Report and Accounts.
reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function during 2011.
The Risk Council which is supported by the Global Compliance and External auditing Risk Management Department GCRM oversees the management The ACR Committee has the primary responsibility for making and mitigation of the principal risks faced by the Group.
The Risk a recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment and removal Council comprises a number of cross-functional senior managers of the external auditor as well as for determining the remuneration of charged with overseeing the risk management process and activities and overseeing the work of the external auditor.
The ACR Committee of the Group.
Chaired by the Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, the assesses at least annually the objectivity and independence of the membership includes senior employees of the businesses, plus the external auditor taking into account relevant regulatory requirements.
Each business unit and corporate function The Committee reviews and approves the annual external audit plan must periodically review the significant risks facing their businesses.
each year and ensures it is consistent with the scope of the auditors The functions are provided with a framework for use in their review.
In order to ensure that the independence and objectivity This review includes identifying operational risks, compliance risks of the external auditor is maintained, the Committee applies a formal and risks to the achievement of goals and objectives.
That review policy for the provision of non-audit services.
Such services are occurs twice annually and material risks are recorded on a corporate categorized as follows: risk schedule for review and assessment of the risks and mitigation plans.
Identification of a manager with responsibility for management services for which the external auditor are explicitly excluded: of any given risk is required.
services for which the external auditor can be engaged without prior referral to the ACR Committee: and The Chief Compliance and Risk Officer provides the risk schedule to the Leadership Team for review and validation.
The risk schedule services for which pre-approval of the ACR Committee is required.
is then provided twice yearly to the ACR Committee, and annually to the Board.
The Committee also considers the fees paid to the external auditor and whether the fee levels for non-audit services, individually and The Risk Council is assisted by the GCRM, which is responsible in aggregate, relative to the audit fee are appropriate so as not to for supporting the development and implementation of practices undermine their independence.
that facilitate employees compliance with laws and Group policy.
The GCRM provides assistance to help employees meet high On an annual basis, the ACR Committee assess the performance ethical standards and comply with applicable laws and regulations.
of the external audit firm based on pre-established critical success factors, managements opinion on the firms independence and objectivity and other key questions requiring ACR Committee consideration.
8446 Annual Report 2011 Annual Report 2011 15 03 2012 16:12 Page 54 54 Shire plc Annual Report 2011 Shire plc Annual Repo Corporate governance report Managements report on internal control over financial reporting The Groups management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13 a to 15 f promulgated under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the US.
The Groups internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the Companys principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the Companys Board, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.
A companys internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: i pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company: ii provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company: and iii provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the companys assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, material misstatements due to error may not be prevented or detected.
Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness for future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
The Groups management assessed the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations COSO of the Treadway Commission.
Based on this assessment, management believes that the Groups internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2011.
The Groups independent auditor, Deloitte LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an auditors report on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
The Auditors Report appears on page F-3 of the Groups Annual Report on Form 10-K. Changes in internal control over financial reporting During the year ended December 31, 2011 there were no changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
