Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governanCe dear shareholder SIG is committed to business integrity, high ethical values and professionalism in all of its activities.
At SIG, we believe that good governance comes from an effective Board which provides strong leadership to the Company and engages well with both management and stakeholders.
As an essential part of this commitment the Group supports the highest standards in corporate governance.
comPliance With the uK corPorate governance code the code The Board considers that throughout the year under review the Company has complied with the governance rules and best practice provisions applying to UK listed companies as contained in the Code with the exception of Code Provision B.
1.2. which requires that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise NonExecutive Directors who are determined by the Board to be independent, with which the Company was not compliant from 16 March 2011 to 11 July 2011.
This non-compliance arose as a result of Mrs V. Murrays resignation as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 16 March 2011 pursuant to her also being a Non-Executive Director of Carillion plc, that companys agreed offer for Eaga plc and her future potential conflict of interest as a result of that transaction in respect of SIGs energy management business.
The Nominations Committee then undertook the process of seeking a replacement for Mrs Murray in order that the Company would return to compliance with Code Provision B1.2.
The Combined Code can be accessed at www.
Board evaluation The Board is required, under the Code, to undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
In December 2011 the Board conducted such an evaluation which was externally facilitated.
Details of the process concerning this evaluation are covered on page 57 of this Corporate Governance Report.
Board diversity I can confirm that the SIG Board and Nominations Committee have discussed the matter of setting targets for the percentage of women that we might aim to have on our Board in 2015.
Whilst the Company broadly agrees with the principles set out in the Davies Report, we do not believe it to be appropriate to set percentage representation targets for Board and Executive Committee membership as all appointments will be based on a spectrum of factors, including experience, skills and diversity including gender.
In our Corporate Responsibility Report on page 47 we comment further on the work being undertaken below Board level in order to broaden both the opportunities and representation of women within the SIG Group.
Currently the SIG Board comprises seven Directors, with one female Director.
governance Within sig As Chairman, I take responsibility for ensuring that good governance is operated at SIG in order that we can maintain the highest standards of corporate governance to which we continually aspire.
The Board is accountable to the Companys Shareholders for good governance and this Report, the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 69 and the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 70 and 71 describe how the principles of good governance, set out in The UK Corporate Governance Code of June 2010 as issued by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, are applied within SIG.
The Companys Auditor, Deloitte LLP, are required to review whether the above statement reflects the Companys compliance with the nine provisions of the Code specified for their review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority and to report if it does not reflect such compliance.
No such report has been made.
leslie van fide Walle Chairman 13 March 2012 55 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governanCe Continued the Board As at 31 December 2011, the Board was made up of seven members comprising the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Mr. L. Van fide Walle became Non-Executive Chairman on 1 February 2011.
Mr. L. O. Tench retired as both Chairman of the Company and a Non-Executive Director on 31 January 2011.
Mrs. V. Murray resigned as a Non-Executive Director of the Company on 16 March 2011.
Mrs. Murray was also a Non-Executive Director of Carillion plc and her resignation was pursuant to that companys acquisition of Eaga plc and her future potential conflict of interest as a result of that transaction in respect of SIGs Energy Management business.
Ms. J. E. Ashdown was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 11 July 2011 and Mr. M. Ewell was appointed a Non-Executive Director on 1 August 2011.
Mr. G. W. Davies resigned as Finance Director on 30 November 2011 and left the Company on 31 December 2011.
Mr. D. G. Robertson joined the Company on 1 November 2011 and was appointed Finance Director on 1 December 2011.
Mr. M. J. Chivers retired from the Board on 31 December 2011 and left the Company on the same day.
At 1 January 2012, SIG has one female Board member equating to 14% of our Directors.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Board has satisfied itself that there is no compromise to the independence of those Directors who have other appointments in outside entities.
The Board considers that each of the Non-Executive Directors brings their own senior level of experience and expertise and that the balance between Non-Executive and Executive representation encourages healthy independent challenge to the Executive Directors and Senior Management.
The Non-Executive Directors have been appointed for their specific areas of expertise and knowledge and their wide ranging experience and backgrounds ensure that they can debate matters constructively in relation to both the development of strategy and performance against objectives set out by the Board.
Biographical details of each of the Directors, which illustrate their range of experience, are set out on page 48.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment and remuneration of both the Executive and Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 61 to 69.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established and is understood by the Board.
The Chairman at the time of his appointment met and continues to meet the independence criteria set out in the Code.
The Senior Independent Director is currently Mr. C. V. Geoghegan.
Under the Articles of Association all Directors are subject to election at the Annual General Meeting immediately following their appointment and to re-election every three years.
However in accordance with the Code, all Directors will seek election or re-election at the Companys AGM each year.
Ms. Ashdown, Mr. Ewell and Mr. Robertson will be seeking election having been appointed to the Board since the last AGM.
Board Procedures The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time-critical business needs.
The Board met formally on 12 occasions during the year and individual attendance at those and the Board Committee meetings is set out in the table on page 57.
All Board members are supplied with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
Board and Committee papers are sent out seven days before meetings take place.
The Directors are provided with opportunities for training to ensure that they are kept up to date on relevant new legislation and regulation changes, corporate governance developments and changing commercial risks.
There is an agreed schedule of matters reserved to the Board for collective decision which can be viewed on the Companys website at www.
com, which was reviewed and updated in November 2011.
These matters include: determining the strategy and control of the Group: amendments to the structure and capital of the Company and Group: approval of financial reporting and controls: approval of capital and revenue expenditure of a significant size: acquisitions and disposals above a prescribed level: and corporate governance matters and approval of Group policies and risk management strategies.
The Board has formally delegated specific responsibilities to Board Committees, including the Nominations, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
The Board will also appoint Committees to approve specific processes as deemed necessary.
For example, during the year, Board Committees were established to approve bank documentation and the preliminary and interim announcements.
To enable the Board to perform its duties effectively all Directors have full access to all relevant information and to the services of the Company Secretary whose responsibility it is for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
There is an agreed procedure whereby Directors wishing to take independent legal advice in the furtherance of their duties may do so at the Companys expense.
Directors have the right to ensure that any concerns they raise about the running of the Company or a proposed action will be recorded in the Board minutes.
Further, on resignation, if a Non-Executive Director had any such concerns, the Chairman would invite him to provide a written statement for circulation to the Board.
All Board Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Appropriate training is available to all Directors on appointment and on an ongoing basis as required.
The Terms of Reference for each of the Board Committees are available on request from the Company Secretary or on the SIG website www.
56 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Board Procedures continued From 1 October 2008, there has been a requirement that Directors must avoid a situation where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
Directors of public companies may authorise conflict and potential conflicts, where appropriate, if a companys Articles of Association permit and Shareholders have approved appropriate amendments.
Procedures have been put in place for the disclosure by Directors of any such conflicts and also for the consideration and authorisation of any conflicts by the Board.
These procedures allow for the imposition of limits or conditions by the Board when authorising any conflict, if they think this is appropriate.
These procedures have been applied during the year and are now included as a regular item for consideration by the Board at its meetings.
attendance at Board and committee meetings The following table shows the attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees during the year to 31 December 2011: Meetings Audit Meetings Remuneration Meetings Nominations Meetings Board eligible to Committee eligible to Committee eligible to Committee eligible to 12 meetings attend 4 meetings attend 4 meetings attend 10 meetings attend J. Ashdown 5 5 3 3 2 2 6 6 M. J. Chivers 10 12 N A N A N A N A N A N A C. J. Davies 12 12 N A N A N A N A 10 10 G. W. Davies 11 11 N A N A N A N A N A N A M. Ewell 4 4 2 2 2 2 5 5 C. V. Geoghegan 12 12 4 4 4 4 10 10 V. Murray 3 3 1 1 1 1 3 3 J. C. Nicholls 12 12 4 4 4 4 10 10 D. G. Robertson 1 1 N A N A N A N A N A N A L. O. Tench 2 2 N A N A N A N A 1 1 L. Van fide Walle 12 12 N A N A N A N A 9 9 Chairman.
Of the twelve Board meetings attended by Mr. Van fide Walle, ten of these were as Chairman.
This table only shows those meetings which each Director attended as a member rather than as an invitee.
Where N A appears in the table the Director listed is not a member of the Committee.
All of the Directors in office at the date of the Annual General Meeting on 11 May 2011 were in attendance at that meeting.
Directors do not participate in meetings when matters relating to them are discussed.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Senior Independent Director also meets with the other Independent Non-Executive Directors without the Chairman present.
The Board arranges to hold at least two Board meetings each year at Group business locations to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the business.
This also provides Senior Managers from across the Group the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
Board members also attend Divisional and Group management conferences whenever possible.
Board effectiveness The effectiveness of the Board and its Committees is vital to the success of the Company, and during the year, the Board continued its ongoing evaluation process to assess its performance and that of its three principal Committees.
In December 2011, as part of this programme, the Board commissioned Equity Communications Limited, an independent third party, to prepare a tailored Board Evaluation process.
This was facilitated by way of questionnaire process with the emphasis, in addition to the evaluation of the performance of the Board and its Committees, being targeted at identifying the future needs of the Board, including Board structure, succession planning, induction programmes and the Boards approach to risk and strategy.
Each Director completed their questionnaire and these were then evaluated by the independent facilitator who then prepared a report for the Chairman.
The Chairman and the facilitator presented the results of the evaluation to the Board, which discussed the results of the evaluation in detail at its March 2012 meeting.
The discussions then focused on how the actions and improvements identified through the process should be implemented.
The Board was satisfied that the evaluation of its performance was a worthwhile exercise and that the Directors had participated in an open and frank basis.
During the year a number of the Directors attended training courses and seminars on subjects and topics in conjunction with those that the Chairman had identified as being areas where training would increase the knowledge and effectiveness of the Director.
Further training is programmed for 2012.
The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Director, meet once a year without the Chairman present to assess his performance, taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
relations With shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its Shareholders, including its employee Shareholders, to ensure that its strategy and performance is understood.
This is achieved principally through the Annual Report and the Annual General Meeting.
The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all announcements issued to the London Stock Exchange, are published on the Companys website.
The Company issues regular trading updates to the market and these, together with copies of the presentations made to analysts can also be found on the Companys website.
In addition, a range of other corporate information is available to investors on the Companys website www.
57 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governanCe Continued relations With shareholders continued The Chief Executive and Finance Director are primarily responsible for direct investor relations.
The Board is kept informed of investors views through distribution and regular discussion of analysts and brokers briefings and a summary of investor opinion feedback.
In addition feedback from major Shareholders is reported to the Board by the Chairman and the Finance Director and discussed at its meetings.
Formal presentations are made to institutional Shareholders following the announcement of the Companys annual and interim results.
Contact is also maintained, where appropriate, with Shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans and policies.
The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are available to discuss governance and strategy with major Shareholders if requested and both are prepared to contact individual Shareholders should any specific areas of concern or enquiry be raised.
We respond throughout the year to correspondence received from Shareholders on a wide range of issues and also participate in a number of surveys and questionnaires submitted by a variety of investor research bodies.
Although the other Non-Executive Directors are not at present asked to meet the Companys Shareholders, they regularly attend presentations of the annual and interim results.
The Board recognises that the Annual General Meeting is the principal forum for dialogue with private Shareholders and all Shareholders are invited to attend.
All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and are available to answer any questions that Shareholders may wish to raise.
The Notice of Meeting is sent to Shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company provides a facility for Shareholders to vote electronically and the Form of Proxy provides Shareholders with the option of withholding their vote on a resolution if they so wish.
Shareholders vote on a show of hands, unless a poll is validly called and after each such vote the number of Proxy votes received for or against the resolution together with the number of absolutions is announced.
The Company Secretary ensures that votes are properly received and recorded.
Details of the Proxies lodged on all resolutions are published on the Companys website immediately after the Annual General Meeting www.
the remuneration committee The Remuneration Committee operates under written Terms of Reference which are consistent with current best practice.
The Committee comprises only independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
The Committees Report is set out on pages 61 to 69. nominations committee The Nominations Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
Its principal duty is the nomination of suitable candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Executive and Non-Executive vacancies on the Board.
Members of the Committee are not involved in matters affecting their own positions.
The Nominations Committee comprises the Chairman, Chief Executive and the independent Non-Executive Directors.
The meetings of the Committee are chaired by the Non-Executive Chairman.
The Committee meets as appropriate but at least once a year.
During the year the Committee met ten times.
A quorum is four members, at least two of whom shall be independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee reviews the structure, size diversity and composition of the Board and makes recommendations concerning the re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion of their specified term of office and in the identification and nomination of new Directors.
During the year, the Committee in recognising the impact of the Davies Report ensured that skills, experience, potential and overall balance of the Board, as well as diversity including gender were fully considered in relation to the Board appointments made during the year.
The Committee retains external search and selection consultants as appropriate.
The Committee also advises the Board on succession planning for Executive Board appointments although the Board itself is responsible for succession generally.
In general terms, when considering candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company, the Nominations Committee, in conjunction with the Board drafts a detailed job specification and candidate profile.
In drafting this, consideration would be given to the existing experience, knowledge and background of Board members as well as the strategic and business objectives of the Group.
Once a detailed specification has been agreed with the Board, the Committee would then work with an appropriate external search and selection agency to identify candidates of the appropriate calibre and with whom an initial candidate shortlist could be agreed.
The drawing up of this list is entirely consistent between external and internal candidates.
Shortlisted candidates would then be invited to interview with members of the Committee and, if recommended by the Committee, would be invited to meet the entire Board before any decision is taken relating to the appointment.
This process was followed in identifying Ms Ashdown and Mr. Ewell as candidates for appointment as a Non-Executive Director and in the case of identifying Mr. Robertson as a candidate for appointment as Group Finance Director.
Following the appointment of a new Director, the Chairman in conjunction with the Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that a full, formal and tailored induction to the Company is given.
Such induction programmes were operated for Ms J. Ashdown, Mr. M. Ewell, and Mr. D. G. Robertson who were all appointed Directors of the Company during 2011.
The proposed activities for the Committee in 2012 will be to continue to monitor and assess the Boards composition and diversity, longer term succession planning and potential further recruitment of Non-Executive Directors.
audit committee The Audit Committee operates under written Terms of Reference, which are consistent with current best practice.
The Group does not have a dedicated internal audit function.
The Board annually reviews the need for such a function.
In 2006 the Audit Committee recommended and the Board accepted that the Groups internal control and risk management systems would be further strengthened by the appointment of an outsourced internal audit function and Ernst & Young LLP were appointed in April 2006 to provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group.
The Committees Report is set out on pages 70 and 71.
58 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 risK management and internal control The Board has ultimate responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
It is the role of management to implement the Boards policies on risk and control through the design and operation of appropriate internal control systems.
Such systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, standards of risk management and risk management procedures and compliance controls.
The key elements of the existing systems of internal control, which accord with the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005, are as follows: oPen culture The Board considers that the Group operates a risk-aware culture with an open style of communication.
This facilitates the early identification of problems and issues, so that appropriate action is taken quickly to minimise any impact on the business.
ongoing Process for risK identification, evaluation and management During 2011 the Board conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
This review covered all controls including operational, compliance and risk management procedures, as well as financial.
The review is undertaken on a six monthly basis.
This process includes the following: a defined organisation structure with appropriate delegation of authority: formal authorisation procedures for all investments with clear guidelines on appraisal techniques and success criteria: clear responsibilities on the part of line and financial management for the maintenance of good financial controls and the production and review of detailed, accurate and timely financial management information: a comprehensive system of financial reporting.
An annual budget for each operating company is prepared in detail and approved by the Chief Executive.
The Board approves the overall Groups budget and plans.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget and prior year and the forecast for the year is revised where necessary.
Any significant changes and adverse variances are questioned by the Board and remedial action is taken where appropriate.
There is weekly cash and treasury reporting to the Finance Director and periodic reporting to the Board on the Groups tax and treasury position: provision to management and the Board of relevant, accurate and timely information including relevant key performance indicators, based on reliable management information systems which are continually being improved and updated: monthly reports to the Board from the Chief Executive and Finance Director: regular business unit management Board meetings periodically attended by the Chief Executive or Finance Director, Executive Board meetings and Company Board: meetings at which existing, new and evolving operational, financial and other risks are discussed, and appropriate actions to manage these risks are agreed and followed up: discussion of any significant issues or control weaknesses identified and, if considered necessary, their inclusion in reports to the Executive Board and Company Board: the maintenance of business unit risk registers: the maintenance of a Group risk register which sets out the most significant risks facing the Group and the actions being taken in mitigation, regularly updated and reviewed by the Board, and summarised in the Business Review on pages 30 to 33: operating units, both trading sites and central functions, complete comprehensive Control Self Assessment CSA Questionnaires every six months.
These questionnaires require managers to respond to questions about procedures and controls in the unit for which they have responsibility.
These are analysed by local and Group Management and all potential risks or control failure issues which are raised by the CSA process are classed in terms of escalation levels with any significant Group level issues being reported to the Audit Committee: and a structured and approved programme of internal audit visits with the implementation of recommendations made being monitored as part of a continuous programme of improvement.
annual assessment of the effectiveness of systems of internal control The Board and Audit Committee requested, received and reviewed reports from senior management, its advisers, Group internal audit and our external auditors in order to assist the Board with their annual assessment of the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Through the ongoing processes outlined above, areas for improvement in internal controls are continuously identified and action plans are devised.
Progress towards completion of actions is regularly monitored by management and the Board.
The Board considers that none of the areas of improvement identified constitute a significant failing or weakness.
The Board considers that the information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in accordance with the internal control guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the Turnbull Review Group.
59 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governanCe Continued risK management and internal control continued financial rePorting In addition to the general internal controls and risk management processes described above, the Group also has specific internal controls and risk management systems to govern the financial reporting process and preparation of the annual financial statements.
These systems include clear policies and procedures for ensuring that the Groups financial reporting processes and the preparation of its consolidated accounts comply with all relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
These are comprehensively detailed in the Group Finance Manual, which is used by the businesses in the preparation of their results.
Financial control requirements are also set out in the Group Finance Manual.
WhistleBloWing The Group has in place a Whistleblowing Policy under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
A copy of this policy is available on the companys website.
The Company also has in place a confidential hotline which is available to all of the Groups employees and provides a facility for them to bring matters to managements attention on a confidential basis.
The hotline is provided by an independent third party.
During 2011 these systems were operational throughout the Group.
A full investigation is carried out on all matters raised and a report is prepared for feedback to the complainant.
The Company Secretary is required to report to the Audit Committee biannually on the integrity of these procedures, the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2011 Group employees used this system to raise concerns about a number of separate issues, all of which were appropriately responded to.
The risk framework, as outlined above, gives reasonable assurance that the structure of controls in operation is appropriate to the Groups situation and that there is an acceptable level of risk throughout the business.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group that this has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
richard monro Company Secretary 13 March 2012 60
