SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 report of the audit Committee PurPose and aim The purpose of the Audit Committee the Committee is to make recommendations on the reporting, control, risk management and compliance aspects of the Directors and the Groups responsibilities, providing independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to executive management in these areas.
Through this process its aim is to ensure high standards of corporate and regulatory reporting, controls, risk management and compliance The Committee believes that excellence in these areas enhances the effectiveness, and reduces the risks of the business.
structure The Committee operates under Terms of Reference which can be found on the Companys website and which are available on application to the Company Secretary at the registered office.
They are reviewed annually by the Committee and changes are recommended to the Board for approval.
The main duties of the Committee set out in its Terms of Reference are: monitoring the integrity of the Companys Accounts including its Annual Report and Accounts and Interim Report: reviewing the consistency of accounting policies, including any changes: reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems: reviewing the Companys arrangements for its employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys outsourced internal audit function: reviewing the annual audit plan and receiving the Auditors reports and the Companys response: considering and making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the Companys external Auditor: overseeing the relationship with the external Auditor, including but not limited to approving its remuneration, assessing annually its independence and objectivity, taking into account relevant professional and regulatory requirements and the relationship with the Auditor as a whole, including the provision of any non-audit services: and reporting to the Board and identifying any matters on which the Committee considers that action or improvement is needed and making recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
The Committee has in its Terms of Reference the power to engage outside advisors and to obtain its own independent external advice at the Companys expense, should it deem it necessary.
During 2011 no member of the Committee nor the Committee collectively, found it necessary to obtain such separate advice beyond the advice that is directly provided to the Committee by the external Auditor, Deloitte LLP or from Ernst & Young LLP who operate the Groups outsourced internal audit function.
As part of corporate governance the Committee reviews its own performance annually and considers where improvements can be made.
The results of this review are reported to the Board.
memBershiP Throughout 2011, the Committee comprised the independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The Board considers that each member of the Committee is independent within the definition set out in the Code.
The Chairman of the Committee is Mr. J. C. Nicholls.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was most recently Group Finance Director of Old Mutual plc and prior to that, Group Finance Director of Hanson plc.
He is Audit Committee Chairman for Great Portland Estates plc and DS Smith plc.
The other members of the Committee, Ms J. E. Ashdown, Mr. M. Ewell and Mr. C. V. Geoghegan all have a wide range of business experience, which is evidenced by their biographical summaries on page 48.
Mrs. V. Murray was a member of the Committee until her resignation from the Board on 16 March 2011.
The Board makes appointments to the Committee.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
Members of the Committee undertake ongoing training as required.
meetings The Committee meets regularly throughout the year with four planned meetings, and its agenda is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar.
The agenda is mostly cyclical although each member of the Committee may request reports on matters of interest in addition to the regular items.
In 2011 the Committee met four times.
Attendance by individual members of the Committee is disclosed in the table on page 57.
The Finance Director Mr. G. W. Davies three and Mr. D. G. Robertson one attended all four of the meetings by invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The external Auditor attended meetings of the Committee on three occasions.
The external Auditor has direct access to the Committee Chairman.
The Chairman of the Board and the other Executive Directors attend certain of the meetings of the Committee at the invitation of the Committee Chairman.
The external Auditor had confidential discussions with members of the Committee without the Chairman of the Board and the Executive Directors being present on three occasions in 2011 and in March 2012 before the signing off of the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
Ernst & Young LLP, who provide an outsourced internal audit function for the Group, are invited to meetings to present their reports and attended on two occasions in 2011.
The Committee also meets with Ernst & Young LLP without the Executive Directors present and did so on two occasions in 2011.
70 Corporate governance SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 WorK of the committee The main activities of the Committee in 2011 were as follows: with the assistance of reports received from management and the external auditor, the critical review of the significant financial reporting issues in connection with the preparation of the Companys financial statements.
These included: impairment of non-current assets: post-employment benefits: taxation: provisions: and rebates payable and receivable.
assessing the scope and effectiveness of the systems established to identify, assess, manage and monitor financial and non-financial risks.
The Groups risk identification and management process is fully set out on pages 30 to 33 of the Business Review: monitoring the integrity of the Companys internal financial controls: reviewing the Groups Whistleblowing Policy: monitoring and reviewing the plans, work and effectiveness of the internal audit function, including any actions taken following any significant failures in internal controls: reviewing, with the external auditor, its terms of engagement, its audit plans, the findings of its work, and at the end of the audit process reviewing its effectiveness: reviewing the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor: and reviews and makes a recommendation concerning the reappointment of the external Auditor.
The Chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the key issues covered by the Committee identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed and makes recommendations on the steps to be taken.
The Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
internal audit The Internal Audit function provides independent assurance to senior management and the Board on the adequacy and effectiveness of SIGs risk management framework.
Internal Audit forms an independent and objective assessment as to whether: risks have been adequately identified: adequate internal controls are in place to manage those risks: and those controls are working effectively.
The results of all assignments have been reported to the Audit Committee during the year.
Any areas of weakness that are identified through this process prompt a detailed action plan and a follow up audit check to establish that actions have been completed.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during the year.
The Audit Committee notes that the Company operates a control self assessment CSA internal control process to support the internal audit process.
This process is summarised in the Corporate Governance Report on page 59. external auditor The Board is aware of the need to maintain an appropriate degree of independence and objectivity on the part of the Groups external Auditor.
The external Auditor report to the Committee on the actions taken to comply with both professional and regulatory requirements and with best practice designed to ensure its independence.
The Group has an agreed policy with regard to the provision of audit and non-audit services by the external Auditor, which was operated during 2011.
The policy is based on the principles that they should only undertake non-audit services where they are the most appropriate and cost-effective provider of the service, and where the provision of non-audit services does not impair, or is not perceived to impair, the external Auditors independence and objectivity.
It categorises such services between, Auditor permitted services, Auditor excluded services and Auditor authorised services.
The policy, which can be viewed on the Companys website www.
com, defines the types of services falling under each category and sets out the criteria to be met and the internal approvals required prior to the commencement of any Auditor authorised services.
The external Auditor cannot be engaged to perform any assignment where the output is then subject to their review as external Auditor.
The Committee regularly reviews an analysis of all services provided by the external Auditor.
The policy is reviewed annually by the Committee and is approved by the Board.
The total sum invoiced to the Group by its external Auditor for non-audit services provided in 2011 was 0.2m 2010: 0.1m.
The total sum invoiced by them for audit services in respect of the same period was 1.2m 2010: 1.2m.
The external Auditor report to the Committee each year on the actions taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure its independence, including the rotation of key members of the external audit team.
Deloitte LLP has formally confirmed its independence to the Board in respect of the period covered by these financial statements.
Deloitte LLP was invited to propose for the global audit of SIG plc in 2005 and was appointed, having previously been the auditor of certain of the Groups operations from 2003, succeeding Arthur Andersen.
The current lead audit partner took over the audit as from the year ended 31 December 2008.
Having reviewed and expressed satisfaction with the level of fees, independence, objectivity, expertise, resources and general effectiveness of Deloitte LLP, the Committee recommends and the Board agrees that a resolution for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as Auditor of the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor.
On behalf of the Board Jonathan nicholls Chairman of the Audit Committee 13 March 2012 71 SIG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 group aCCounts prepared in aCCordanCe with ifrs grouP accounts 73 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 74 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 75 CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 76 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT 77 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY 78 STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 83 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY 84 NOTES TO THE ACCOUNTS 114 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS REPORT 115 FIVE YEAR SUMMARY 72
