Directors report Governance 36 Corporate governance The board of Associated British Foods plc believes that WE FULLY SUPPORT THE NEW CODE AND THE good corporate governance represents essential protection DIRECTION IN WHICH IT IS TAKING THE PRACTICE for the Companys shareholders and remains committed to maintaining high standards of business ethics and integrity OF GOOD GOVERNANCE IN THE UK AND, IN across the group, recognising these to be vital to the PARTICULAR, THE EMPHASIS PLACED ON THE sustainable long-term performance of the Company.
In the BOARDS RESPONSIBILITY FOR PROVIDING THE Chairmans statement on pages 4 and 5, Charles Sinclair sets out a personal view on developments in corporate LEADERSHIP NECESSARY FOR THE LONG-TERM governance at ABF.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Charles Sinclair Chairmans statement on page 4 The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which is published by the Financial Reporting Council and is available from its website www.
This corporate governance report aims to provide shareholders with an understanding of how the Company has applied the principles and the provisions of the Code.
The board considers that the Company has, throughout the year ended 17 September 2011, complied with the relevant provisions set out in the Code, with the following exceptions: Code provision Status Explanation B.
3.2 The terms and conditions of Galen Weston has not entered into a formal The board of Associated British appointment of non-executive directors letter of appointment.
Foodsplc considers this appropriate due should be made available for inspection to his relationship with the Companys ultimate holding company, Wittington Investments Limited of which he is a director and shareholder.
Galen Weston receives no fees for performing his role as a non-executive director and Associated British Foods plc does not reimburse him for any expenses incurred by him in that role.
D. 2.1 The Chairman should not chair the Charles Sinclair is both Chairman and The board of Associated British Remuneration committee chairman of the Remuneration committee.
Foods plc considers that Charles Sinclair, due to his experience, is best suited to chair this committee.
No director has any involvement in the determination of his own remuneration.
The board believes that the Company has maintained robust governance while at the same time benefiting from having Charles Sinclair as the chairman of the Remuneration committee.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Role of the board Chairman and Chief Executive The board is collectively responsible to the Companys shareholders The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately for the long-term success of the Company.
It meets regularly to set held and the division of their responsibilities is clearly established, the overall strategic direction of the Company, to review its operating set out in writing, and agreed by the board to ensure that no one and financial performance and to provide oversight to ensure that the has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman, Charles Sinclair, Company is effectively controlled and resourced, including is responsible for the operation and leadership of the board, consideration of risk on the foregoing.
ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief Executive, George Weston, is responsible for leading and managing the groups To help it discharge these responsibilities and oversee control of the business within the authorities delegated by the board and the Companys affairs, the board has set out the specific business and implementation of board strategy and policy.
governance matters which are reserved for its decision.
Senior independent director Matters requiring board approval include: Tim Clarke is the Companys recognised senior independent director.
t annual and interim results and interim management statements: The role of the senior independent director is to act as a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an intermediary for other t the Companys strategic and operatingplans: directors where necessary.
He is also available to shareholders t the annual budget: should a need arise to convey concerns to the board which they have been unable to convey through the Chairman or through the t appointments to the board and as Company Secretary: executive directors.
During the year, led by the senior independent t treasury policies: director, the non-executive directors have met once without the presence of the Chairman.
Tim Clarke, as senior independent t dividend recommendation: director, is also responsible for leading the discussion on the t the issue of new shares: annual appraisal of the performance of theChairman.
t amendments to the Companys pensionscheme: The non-executive directors The non-executive directors play a key role in providing a solid t larger capital expenditure, acquisitions, disposals and investment foundation for good corporate governance and ensure that no proposals: and individual or group dominates the boards decision-making.
They t the overall system of internal control and risk management.
each occupy or have occupied senior positions in industry or public life, bring a vital external view to the boards deliberations through Certain specific responsibilities are delegated to the board their experience and insight from other sectors enabling them to committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination contribute significantly to board decision-making.
The formal committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of letters of appointment of non-executive directors are available for reference, reporting regularly to the board.
inspection at the Companys registered office with the exception Composition of the letter of appointment for Galen Weston, as explained above.
At the date of this report, the board comprises eight directors: Re-election of directors The board has decided that, in accordance with the Codes Chairman recommendations, all directors will be proposed for re-election Charles Sinclair at the 2011 annual general meeting to be held in December with Executive directors the exception of Galen Weston, who has resigned from his role as George Weston Chief Executive a non-executive director of the Company effective as at the close John Bason Finance Director of that meeting.
Non-executive directors Board meetings Tim Clarke The board held nine meetings during the year.
Board meetings Javier Ferrn occasionally take place at the offices of the groups businesses Lord Jay and, during the year under review, one of the meetings took place Peter Smith at Primark in Germany.
This gives the non-executive directors, Galen Weston in particular, the opportunity to develop their knowledge of the Galen Weston has resigned from his role as a non-executive director group and to consult with management and other employees.
of the Company effective as at the close of the 2011 annual general Non-executive directors may also make additional visits to our meeting to be held in December.
overseas businesses through the year.
During the year under review, Peter Smith visited company operations in China where With the exception of Galen Weston, the board considers that he had meetings with management at both British Sugar the non-executive directors are independent in character and Overseas in Beijing and AB Mauri China in Harbin.
judgement and that they are each free from any business or other relationships which would materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Galen Weston is not regarded as independent in view of his relationship with Wittington Investments Limited.
Biographical and related information about the directors is set out on page 35.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report Governance 38 Corporate governance continued Senior executives below board level are invited, when appropriate, Summary of board business to attend board meetings and to make presentations on the results Areas on which the board focused during the financial year included and strategies of their business units.
Directors are generally the following: provided with the papers for board and committee meetings a Strategy Annual meeting given over to the review week in advance.
This enables any director who is unable to attend of groupstrategy.
to provide comments to the Chairman, the chairman of the relevant committee or the Company Secretary, who will then relay these Governance Approved the Companys full year and comments to the relevant meeting.
The attendance of the directors at board and committee meetings Made recommendations on the 2010 during the year to 17September 2011 is shown in the tablebelow: final dividend and approved the 2011 Audit Nomination Remuneration interim dividend.
Board committee committee committee Number of Reviewed, on a rolling basis, the meetings 9413 effectiveness of the risk management Charles Sinclair 9 1 3 process and the resources devoted to George Weston 9 them by each business.
John Bason 9 Carried out an annual review of the Tim Clarke 9413 Javier Ferrn 9 1 3 material financial and non-financial risks Lord Jay 8413 facing the groups businesses.
Peter Smith 9413 Reviewed the effectiveness of the 1 Galen Weston 2 board following the performance 1 Galen Weston was unable to attend a number of board meetings due to other evaluation exercise.
However, he reviewed the relevant papers and provided comments to the Chairman as appropriate.
Reviewed and approved the Companys updated anti-bribery policy following the Information ow implementation of the UK Bribery Act 2010.
The Company Secretary manages the provision of information to Performance Reviewed regular reports to the board the board at appropriate times, in consultation with the Chairman monitoring from the ChiefExecutive.
In addition to formal meetings, the Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all directors.
The Conducted post-acquisition appraisals Chairman also holds informal meetings with non-executive directors, for North China Sugar, Jordans Ryvita without any of the executives being present, to discuss any issues and Illovo Sugar.
affecting the group, if thought necessary.
To keep the non-executive Approved the group budget for the directors informed of events throughout the group between board 2011 2012 financialyear.
meetings, regular management updates are sent to each director.
This seeks to ensure that the non-executive directors are always Received management presentations kept fully informed of the latest issues affecting the group.
from various group businesses at each meeting, on a rolling basis.
Conicts of interest procedure The Company has procedures in place to deal with the situation Received reports on meetings held with where a director has a conflict of interest.
As part of this process, .
the board: Health, safety Received regular management reports on t considers each conflict situation separately on its particular facts: and environment health, safety and environment issues.
t considers the conflict situation in conjunction with the rest of the People Considered the succession of directors conflicted directors duties under the Companies Act 2006: and first line reports.
t keeps records and board minutes as to authorisations granted by the board and the scope of any approvals given: and Various Undertook appropriate preparations for the holding of the annual general meeting.
Meeting Primark management team The board has complied with these procedures during the year.
and holding board meeting in Dsseldorf, Germany.
Considered forthcoming reforms to pension legislation in the UK.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Board performance evaluation There was a strong sense of progress in implementing proposals An evaluation to assess the performance of the board as a whole, arising out of the 2010 evaluation.
its committees and that of the individual directors is conducted on Actions implemented arising from the 2010 evaluation include: an annual basis with the aim of improving the effectiveness of the Objective Achievement board and its members and the performance of the group.
Enhanced debate The length of board meetings has been This years review was led by the Senior Independent Director, increased which has allowed more time who provides feedback to the Chairman, and took place in the final for reflective debate and discussion, quarter of the financial year.
particularly after presentations to theboard.
A discussion guide was put together and circulated to each director and the Company Secretary.
Key areas of the evaluation included: Review Strategy has become a more frequent t board structure, organisation and dynamics, including the development item on the board agenda.
environment for effective discussion, key board relationships of strategy and non-executive director involvement and challenge: Greater scrutiny The Chairman instigated board agenda t board efficiency and effectiveness, including agenda content, of risk assessment reforms which have led to more frequent quality of debate, decision-making process on significant procedures review of cross-divisional issues and a proposals, and leadership by the Chairman: regular cycle of risk reviews of specific areas leading to enhanced board oversight t strategic review and debate: and understanding.
t risk management and governance: t people issues, including successionplanning: Based on the results of the evaluation process in 2011, the board t business performance, including level and quality of considered that overall it was operating effectively and that each of reportingmeasures: the directors continues to make a valuable contribution with proper commitment to their respective roles, including of time.
The boards t board committees: and principal committees were also judged to be functioning efficiently t key issues and improvements.
There was also a particular focus on how much progress had A full list of recommended action points was drawn up and agreed been made in implementing the recommendations arising from upon and is being implemented under the direction of the Chairman the previous years evaluation and how well the board is working in including actions set out in the table below.
the context of the FRCs Guidance on Board Effectiveness issued Areas identified for action from the 2011 evaluation include: in March 2011.
Value creation Review of investment returns from recent The Senior Independent Director then undertook a confidential, major projects to be a particular focus of unattributable interview with each director and the Company board agendas.
Secretary based on the discussion guide.
The interview with the Senior Independent Director was conducted by the Chairman.
Strategy Continuing review of priorities for Following the meetings, the Senior Independent Director produced development long-term development opportunities.
a written report which was discussed with each of the Chairman and the Chief Executive, before being sent to board members Risk management The amount of time devoted to risk issues and discussed at the following board meeting.
on the board agenda to beincreased.
Succession Further development of succession planning planning processes including the issue ofdiversity.
2012 evaluation The board intends to appoint an external facilitator to lead the 2012 annual evaluation of its performance and a shortlist of possible external facilitators is being drawn up for this purpose.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report Governance 40 Corporate governance continued Board development The annual general meeting takes place in London.
Formal On joining the board, newly appointed directors are provided with a notification is sent to shareholders approximately one month in thorough induction programme, tailored to meet their needs, which advance and in any event at least 21 days before the meeting.
includes background documents describing the Company and its Other general meetings may also be convened from time to time activities.
The Company offers major shareholders the opportunity on at least 21 days notice, or where certain requirements are met to meet newdirectors.
including prior approval by shareholders by way of special resolution, 14 days notice.
The annual general meeting gives shareholders an Ongoing training and development is also provided to all directors opportunity to hear about the general development of the business at board and committee meetings.
During the year under review, and to ask questions of the Chairman and, through him, the for example, the board was briefed on the following key issues: chairmen of the key committees and other directors.
The practice t the impact of the Bribery Act 2010: has been for a short film to be shown at the meeting explaining a particular area of the groups business.
Details of the meeting and t health, safety and the environment: and the resolutions to be proposed together with explanatory notes are t pension reform in the UK.
set out in the Notice of Meeting which is sent to shareholders.
Any member attending the annual general meeting has the right to ask Board committees questions.
The Company must cause to be answered any such The board has established three principal board committees, to question relating to the business being dealt with at the meeting, which it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
They are the unless it is not in the interests of the Company or the good order Nomination committee, the Audit committee, and the Remuneration of the meeting to do so, or if to do so would involve the disclosure committee.
The membership, responsibilities and activities of these of confidential information.
Shareholders attending the meeting are committees are described later in this corporate governance report advised of the number of proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
and, in the case of the Remuneration committee, in the Remuneration All resolutions are voted on by poll and the results announced to report on page 49.
Membership of these committees is reviewed the London Stock Exchange and posted on the Companys website.
Minutes of committee meetings are made available to all directors on a timely basis.
Accountability and audit The board is required by the UK Corporate Governance Code The full written terms of reference for the Nomination, Audit and to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Remuneration committees are available on the Companys website Companys position and prospects.
In relation to this requirement, www.
co. uk and hard copies are available on request.
reference is made to the statement of directors responsibilities for Engaging with shareholders preparing the financial statements set out on page 58 of this annual The Company is committed to increasing shareholder value and report and accounts.
communicates its achievements and prospects to its shareholders The independent auditors report on page 59 includes a statement by in an accurate and timely manner.
In addition to the annual general the auditors about their reporting responsibilities.
The board recognises meeting, the Company communicates with its shareholders by that its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable way of the annual report and accounts, interim results with assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public reports, significant matters relating to the trading or development of the reports to regulators, and information required to be presented by law.
business disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange announcements and by press releases and postings on the Business model Companys website.
The Operating review on pages 16 to 27 includes a description of the Companys business model for sustainable growth detailed for The Company continues to promote effective engagement with each division of the business.
This provides an explanation of the its shareholders and, on behalf of the board, the Chairman, Chief basis on which the group generates value and preserves it over the Executive and Finance Director have met institutional shareholders long term and its strategy for delivering itsobjectives.
and analysts on a regular basis throughout the year, to discuss the Companys operation.
At each board meeting, the directors are Going concern briefed on shareholder meetings that have taken place and on the After making enquiries the directors have a reasonable expectation feedback received.
that the Company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly and The senior independent director is available to shareholders in the in accordance with the guidance contained in the document titled event that communication with the Chairman, Chief Executive or Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Investors of UK Finance Director has failed to resolve concerns or where such Companies 2009 published by the FRC, they continue to adopt the contact isinappropriate.
going concern basis in preparing the annual report andaccounts.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 Nomination committee report Governance Members The Nomination committee comprises a minimum of three During the year and at the date of this report: members at any time, a majority of whom are independent non-executive directors.
A quorum shall consist of the chairman of Charles Sinclair Chairman the board, together with not less than any two of the non-executive Tim Clarke directors of the Company.
Javier Ferrn Executive directors, members of senior management and other parties may be invited to attend meetings as appropriate.
Lord Jay The Chairman does not chair the Nomination committee when Peter Smith it is dealing with the appointment of his successor.
In these circumstances the committee is chaired by a non-executive director elected by the remaining members.
Summary of responsibilities In accordance with its terms of reference, the Nomination The committee may take independent professional advice on any committee is responsiblefor: matters covered by its terms of reference at the Companysexpense.
t SFWJFXJOH UIF TUSVDUVSF TJ[F BOE DPNQPTJUJPO JODMVEJOH UIF TLJMMT The committee retains external search consultants for appointments knowledge and experience of the board and, if appropriate, to the board.
making recommendations for changes to the board: The committee chairman reports the outcome of meetings to t MFBEJOH UIF QSPDFTT GPS CPBSE BQQPJOUNFOU CZ JEFOUJGZJOH BOE theboard.
nominating, for the boards approval, candidates to fill board The committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as vacancies as and when they arise: part of the boards performance evaluation process.
t FOTVSJOH PSEFSMZ TVDDFTTJPO QMBOOJOH BT SFHBSET CPUI UIF CPBSE and senior management appointments: and Meetings The committee met once during the year under review.
t LFFQJOH VOEFS SFWJFX UIF MFBEFSTIJQ OFFET PG UIF PSHBOJTBUJPO Key actions taken by the Nomination Committee during the year both executive and non-executive, with a view to ensuring the The principal actions undertaken by the committee in the period continued ability of the organisation to compete efficiently in under review are set out below.
The full terms of reference of the Nomination committee can be The committee reviewed the time directors needed to fulfil their viewed on the Companys website www.
roles of Chairman, senior independent director and non-executive director and was satisfied, following the conducting of the annual board evaluation, that all members of the board are devoting sufficient time to their duties.
The committee reviewed what additional steps it could take to address concerns raised about creating a more diverse board.
It was agreed that executive search agencies would be asked to ensure that half of the candidates they put forward are women.
It was noted that the committee would continue to appoint on merit.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report Governance 42 Corporate governance continued Audit committee report Governance Members The Audit committee comprises a minimum of three independent During the year and at the date of this report: non-executive directors at any time.
Appointments are for a period of three years after which Peter Smith Chairman they are subject to annual review, extendable by additional three-year Tim Clarke periods so long as members continue to be independent.
Lord Jay The committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies with recent and relevant financial experience.
Summary of responsibilities Currently, the committee chairman fulfils this requirement.
All In accordance with its terms of reference, the committee is committee members are expected to be financially literate and authorised by the board to: to have an understanding of the following areas: t NPOJUPS UIF JOUFHSJUZ PG UIF HSPVQ T GJOBODJBM TUBUFNFOUT BOE BOZ t the principles of, and developments in, financial reporting including formal announcements relating to the Companys performance, the applicable accounting standards and statements of reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in recommended practice: them before their submission to the board for approval: t key aspects of the Companys operations including corporate t PWFSTFF UIF SFMBUJPOTIJQ XJUI UIF HSPVQ T FYUFSOBM BVEJUPST policies and the groups internal control environment: including reviewing their objectivity and independence, agreeing the scope of their work and fees paid to them for audit and t matters which may influence the presentation of accounts and non-audit services: keyfigures: t NPOJUPS BOE SFWJFX UIF SPMF BOE FGGFDUJWFOFTT PG UIF $PNQBOZ T t the principles of, and developments in, company law, internal audit function: sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: t SFWJFX UIF JOUFSOBM DPOUSPM QPMJDJFT BOE QSPDFEVSFT GPS UIF t the role of internal and external auditing and risk management: identification, assessment, managing and monitoring and of financial risks: and t the regulatory framework for the groupsbusinesses.
t PWFSTFF UIF HSPVQ T XIJTUMFCMPXJOH BSSBOHFNFOUT The committee invites the Group Finance Director, Group Financial The full terms of reference of the Audit committee are available Controller, Director of Financial Control and senior representatives on the Companys website www.
of the external auditors to attend its meetings in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Other senior managers are invited to present such reports as are required for the committee to discharge its duties.
During the year, the committee held three meetings with the external auditors without any executive member of the board beingpresent.
The committee has unrestricted access to Company documents and information, as well as to employees of the Company and the external auditors.
The committee may take independent professional advice on any matters covered by its terms of reference at the Companys expense.
The committee chairman reports the outcome of meetings to theboard.
The committees effectiveness is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the boards performance evaluation process.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Meetings Typically, the committee will approve the use of the external auditors The Audit committee met four times during the year and has an to provide: accounting advice and training: employee benefit plan agenda linked to events in the groups financial calendar.
audits: corporate responsibility, IT and other assurance services: due diligence in respect of acquisitions and disposals: certain specified Key committee activities during the year tax services including tax compliance, tax planning and related In order to fulfil its terms of reference, the Audit committee receives implementation advice: and certain other services when it is in the and reviews presentations and reports from the groups senior best interests of the Company to do so and they can be undertaken management, consulting as necessary with the external auditors.
No individually During the year, the committee formally reviewed draft interim and significant non-audit assignments that would require disclosure annual reports and associated announcements.
These reviews were undertaken in the financialyear.
considered: The Company has a policy that any recruits hired directly from the t the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the external auditors must be pre-approved by the Group HR Director, groups financial statements and proposed changes tothem: and the Group Finance Director or Group Financial Controller.
t the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of The Audit committee has formally reviewed the independence of important accounting issues, areas of complexity and significant its auditors.
KPMG Audit Plc have provided a letter confirming that financial reporting judgements: they believe they remain independent within the meaning of the regulations on this matter and their professional standards.
t litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the group: and To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external t potential tax contingencies and the groups compliance with auditors, the Audit committee reviewed: statutory tax obligations.
t changes in external audit executives in the audit plan for the The committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its current year: responsibilities relating to the adequacy and effectiveness of the control environment, controls over financial reporting and the groups t a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
To fulfil these to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: and duties, the committee reviewed: t the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
t the external auditors management letters and audit highlights To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the committee memoranda: reviewed: t internal audit reports on key audit areas and significant deficiencies t the external auditors fulfilment of the agreed audit plan and in the financial control environment: variations from it: t reports on the systems of internal financial controls and risk t reports highlighting the major issues that arose during the course management: and of the audit: t reports on fraud perpetrated against thegroup.
t feedback from the businesses evaluating the performance of each The Audit committee is responsible for the development, assigned auditteam: and implementation and monitoring of policies and procedures on the t the report form the FRCs Audit Inspection Unit.
use of the external auditors for non-audit services, in accordance with professional and regulatory requirements.
These policies are The Audit committee holds private meetings with the external kept under review to meet the objective of ensuring that the group auditors after each committee meeting to review key issues within benefits in a cost-effective manner from the cumulative knowledge their sphere of interest and responsibility.
and experience of its auditors whilst also ensuring that the auditors To fulfil its responsibility for oversight of the external audit process, maintain the necessary degree of independence and objectivity.
the Audit committee reviewed: Consequently, any non-audit work to be undertaken by the auditors in excess of 300,000 is required to be authorised by the chairman t the terms, areas of responsibility, associated duties and scope of the of the Audit committee and the Group Finance Director prior to its audit as set out in the external auditors engagement letter for the commencement.
Individual assignments of less than 300,000 are forthcoming year: approved by the Group Finance Director.
The aggregate expenditure t the external auditors overall work plan for the forthcoming year: with the group auditors is reviewed by the Audit committee.
t the external auditors fee proposal: t the major issues that arose during the course of the audit and theirresolution: t key accounting and audit judgements: t the levels of errors identified during the audit: and t recommendations made by the external auditors in their management letters and the adequacy of managements response.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report Governance 44 Corporate governance continued Although KPMG Audit Plc has been the Companys auditor for The groups anti-fraud policy has been communicated to all many years, KPMG periodically changes its audit partners at a group, employees and states that all employees have a responsibility divisional and country level in accordance with professional and for fraud prevention and detection.
Any suspicion of fraud should regulatory standards in order to protect independence and objectivity be reported immediately and will be investigated vigorously.
and provide fresh challenge to the business.
Such changes are The chairman of the Audit committee will be present at the carefully planned with KPMG to ensure that the Company benefits annual general meeting to answer questions on this report, from continuity of staffing without incurring undue risk or matters within the scope of the committees responsibilities inefficiency.
Stephen Oxley, KPMG lead audit partner, has this year and any significant matters brought to the committees attention completed his five-year term allowable under auditing standards.
The Audit committee has reviewed the proposed change and transition to a new lead partner for 2011 12.
The committee has Internal control also noted the partner rotation arrangements at divisional level.
The board acknowledges its responsibilities for the groups system of internal control to facilitate the identification, assessment and The Audit committee is satisfied with the auditors effectiveness management of risk, the protection of shareholders investments and independence and has not considered it necessary this year to and the groups assets.
The directors recognise that they are conduct a tender process for the appointment of its auditors.
Having responsible for providing a return to shareholders, which is carried out the review described above and having satisfied itself consistent with the responsible assessment and mitigation ofrisks.
that the external auditors remain independent and effective, the Audit committee has recommended to the board that KPMG Audit Effective controls ensure that the groups exposure to avoidable risk Plc be reappointed as the Companys external auditor for 2011 12. is minimised, that proper accounting records are maintained, that the financial information used within the business is reliable and that the The total fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc for the year ended consolidated accounts preparation and financial reporting processes 17September 2011 were 8.5m of which 3.3m related to comply with all relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
dynamics of the group and the environment within which it operates Internal audit function are continually evolving together with its exposure to risk.
The The Audit committee is required to assist the board to fulfil its system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans assets being unprotected and to guard against their unauthorised of internal audit.
To fulfil these duties, the committee reviewed: use and the failure to achieve business objectives.
Internal controls can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against t internal audits reporting lines and access to the committee and material misstatement or loss.
all members of theboard: The directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for t internal audits plans and its achievement of the planned activity: identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the group t the results of key audits and other significant findings, the and the operational effectiveness of the related controls, which adequacy of managements response and the timeliness has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of ofresolution: approval of the annual report and accounts.
They also confirm that they have regularly reviewed the system of internal controls t statistics on staff numbers, qualifications and experience and utilising the review process set out below.
timeliness of reporting: Standards t the level and nature of non-audit activity performed by internal There are guidelines on the minimum groupwide requirements audit: and for health and safety and environmental standards.
There are also t changes since the last annual assessment in the nature and guidelines on the minimum level of internal control that each of the extent of significant financial risks and the groups ability to divisions should exercise over specified processes.
Each business respond to changes in its business and the external environment.
has developed and documented policies and procedures to comply with the minimum control standards established, including procedures The groups whistleblowing policy contains arrangements for for monitoring compliance and taking corrective action.
The board of the Company Secretary to receive, in confidence, complaints on each business is required to confirm bi-annually that it has complied accounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related with these policies andprocedures.
matters for reporting to the Audit committee as appropriate.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 High level controls All operations prepare annual operating plans and budgets which are updated regularly.
Performance against budget is monitored at operational level and centrally, with variances being reported promptly.
The cash position at group and operational level is monitored constantly and variances from expected levels are investigated thoroughly.
Clearly defined guidelines have been established for capital expenditure and investment decisions.
These include the preparation of budgets, appraisal and review procedures and delegated authoritylevels.
Internal audit The groups businesses employ internal auditors both employees and resources provided by Ernst & Young where appropriate with skills and experience relevant to the operation of each business.
All of the internal audit activities are co-ordinated centrally by the groups Director of Financial Control, who is accountable to the Auditcommittee.
All group businesses are required to comply with the groups financial control framework that sets out minimum control standards.
A key function of the groups internal audit resources is to undertake audits to ensure compliance with the financial control framework and make recommendations for improvement in controls where appropriate.
Internal audit also conducts regular reviews to ensure that risk management procedures and controls are observed.
The Audit committee receives regular reports on the results of internal audits work and monitors the status of recommendations arising.
The committee reviews annually the adequacy, qualifications and experience of the groups internal audit resources and the nature and scope of internal audit activity in the overall context of the groups risk management system set out below.
The Director of Financial Control meets with the chairman of the committee as appropriate but at least annually, without the presence of executive management, and has direct access to the Chairman of the board.
He also meets at least annually with the Audit committee, without the presence of executive management.
Financial reporting Detailed management accounts are prepared every four weeks, consolidated in a single system and reviewed by senior management and the board.
They include a comprehensive set of financial reports and key performance indicators covering commercial, operational, environmental and people issues.
Performance against budgets and forecasts is discussed regularly at board meetings and at meetings between operational and group management.
The adequacy and suitability of key performance indicators is reviewed regularly.
All chief executives and finance directors of the groups operations are asked to sign an annual confirmation that their business has complied with the Group Accounting Manual in the preparation of consolidated financial statements and specifically to confirm the adequacy and accuracy of accountingprovisions.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report Governance 46 Corporate governance continued Principal risks and uncertainties Each business is responsible for regularly assessing its health, safety Each business is responsible for its own risk management and environmental risks with managers, operators, contracting assessment which is reported to the groups Director of Financial DPNQBOJFT BOE TQFDJBMJTU TUBGG XPSLJOH UPHFUIFS UP JEFOUJGZ IB[BSET Control annually.
Our decentralised business model empowers Appropriate operational procedures and controls are put in place the boards and management of our businesses to identify, to mitigate risks and all employees are provided with appropriate evaluate and manage the risks they face on a timely basis.
Key information, training and supervision.
Further details of our risk risks and internal control procedures are reviewed at group level mitigation activities can be found in our Corporate Responsibility by theboard.
We require all businesses to implement appropriate levels of risk The board reviews annually the material financial and non-financial management to ensure compliance with all relevant legislation, risks facing our businesses and, on a rolling cycle basis, reviews the our group health, safety and environment policies, our overriding effectiveness of the risk management process and the resources business principles and group policies relating to them, taking that our individual businesses devote to them.
The principal risks into account business needs and local circumstances.
currently identified by our businesses and reviewed by the board are: Issue Risk Mitigation PEOPLE Product safety Reputational damage caused by food Food safety put before economic considerations.
Consistently high standards maintained in sourcing and handling of raw Non-compliance with regulatory requirements.
Safety concerns over use of Bisphenol-A Food safety systems regularly reviewed for efficacy and compliance.
Documented and tested product recall procedures regularlyreviewed.
New scientific research monitored proactively.
Independent audit processes in place which provide a level of assurance on product safety.
All sites have quality and food safety audits carried out by local quality controlstaff.
Health and nutrition Health concerns over fat, sugar and salt Our recipes are regularly reviewed and reformulation is conducted content of foods.
as necessary to optimise the nutritional profile of products.
Our UK Grocery group has signed the UK Governments Responsibility Deal on Public Health and associated pledges to reduce salt, remove trans-fats and to promote healthy eating and lifestyle options to ouremployees.
Guideline Daily Amount or equivalent nutritional information provided to consumers in the UK andAustralia.
Products marketed responsibly, following accepted codes of practice.
Workplace health Potential for fatal accidents and serious injuries Group health and safety policy in place.
and safety Increased financial investment in health and safety management.
Information and guidance provided to our businesses.
Internal and external audits of health, safety and management reporting extended.
Non-compliance with internationally International Labour Organisation conventions are taken into account Employee rights recognised standards.
and we strive to observe the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights in the management of all businesses.
Inability to recruit and retain high calibre people at all levels necessary to achieve Staff throughout the group are recruited, trained and rewarded according business performance targets and maintain to performance alone.
Groupwide whistleblowing policy in place and kept under review.
Failure to plan for succession to key Each business has a succession plan which is reviewed with Management roles could lead to a lack of management group management twice a year, and with the board, annually.
succession continuity and sub-optimal operational or Development of our senior managers is co-ordinated by the financial performance.
Group HR Director and the Head of Executive Development.
A small number of executive search companies have been briefed to introduce us to talented executives from other companies who could add value to thegroup.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Issue Risk Mitigation PEOPLE Input costs, Damage to brands caused by supply chain Extensive audit programme for labour standards ofsuppliers.
weakness e. g. poor conditions for workers.
suppliers and Continued work, in partnership with suppliers and NGOs, to improve supply chain Disruption to raw material supplies and working conditions e. g. via training.
reliability production caused by problems with suppliers, Business continuity and disaster recovery planning regularlyreviewed.
natural disasters and other incidents.
Penalties imposed or reputational damage All group businesses required to sign up to the groups Business Ethical business suffered through bribery, corruption or Principles and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy with training provided practices unfaircompetition.
ENVIRONMENT Long-term increase in energy prices.
Compliance with the groups Environment Policy.
Climate change Physical threats to operations from climate Best available techniques employed to reduce energy consumption change e. g. flooding.
statutory requirement for all sites subject to the EUs Pollution Prevention and Controlregime.
Altered weather patterns affecting crop productivity.
Own electricity generated where possible, e. g. through combined heat and power plants and use of bagasse waste sugar cane fibre.
Agricultural raw materials sourced from a wide range of geographical locations and suppliers.
Substantial investment to improve environmental risk management and energy efficiency.
Unacceptable impact on environment and Plant and process changes assessed in advance before authorisation Air pollution offence caused to local communities by sought.
As a minimum, comply with emission standards in country emissions to air.
Legal sanction and reputational damage Responsibility assigned to senior executives in all businesses and Disposal of waste because of non-compliance with regulations specialists employed.
As a minimum, comply with standards in and waste water and licences.
Our UK Grocery group supports the Courtauld 2 Commitment to reduce packaging waste, the Food and Drink Federation Fivefold Environmental Ambition and the Institute of Grocery Distribution Water Savings Initiative.
Waste reduced, re-used or recycled whereverpracticable.
Water shortages and increased cost of water.
Water-intensive sites in areas of water stress identified, and efforts Water availability focused on water reduction in these areas.
Investing heavily in the quality of our water usage data to enable improved monitoring and management of our water use.
Resource efficiency Unnecessary costs from inefficient use of Use of raw materials optimised.
Packaging waste minimised consistent with food safety and productprotection.
Fuel consumption in transport minimised.
Palm oil Reputational damage from unsustainable Group policy introduced to buy all palm oil from sustainable sources sourcing of palm oil.
Genetically Consumer concern over use of GM Recognised as a sensitive issue for some consumers and trends food ingredients.
modified GM crops Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors report Governance 48 Corporate governance continued Issue Risk Mitigation FINANCIAL AND REGULATORY Penalties for failing to comply with the 1998 Clear policy direction and close support from specialist in-house Competition rules Competition Act, the 2003 Enterprise legal department.
Act, relevant EU law and all relevant Compulsory awareness training.
Demand for our products declines due to Mitigated by diversity of business portfolio and geographic reach.
Global economic uncertainty over economic outlook and impact slowdown and Substantial investment in research and development, product quality, on disposable incomes.
changing consumer advertising and promotion, and focus on cost management.
demand Financial, currency Loss sustained as a result of failure of internal Adherence to the groups financial control framework and controls or fraud, and exposure to foreign Anti-Fraud Policy.
and commodity currencies, interest rates, counterparty credit risks Treasury operations are conducted within a framework of risk, liquidity risk, and changes in market board-approved policies and guidelines.
prices especially for energy and commodities.
Sufficient funding is maintained by way of external loans and committed bank facilities which are renewed or extended on a timely basis having regard to the groups projected funding needs.
Financial transactions are dealt through financial institutions with a credit rating of A or better.
Details of the groups accounting and risk management policies with respect to financial instruments and associated quantitative and qualitative disclosures are set out in note 24 on pages 93 to 104.
Failure to comply with local tax law resulting in The group has a financial control framework and a board-adopted Tax compliance underpayment of tax and exposure to related Tax Policy requiring all businesses to comply fully with all relevant interest and penalties.
In-house tax specialists are employed and local external tax advisor support is taken as appropriate.
Provision is made for known issues based on managements interpretation of country-specific tax law and the likely outcome.
Any interest and penalties on tax issues are provided for in the tax charge.
Tax benefits are not recognised unless it is probable that the position taken is sustainable.
Management reviews each material tax benefit to assess whether a provision should be taken against full recognition of the benefit on the basis of potential settlement through negotiation and or litigation.
The loss of one of our key sites could present Our businesses have business continuity plans in place to manage the Loss of a significant operational difficulties.
impact of such an event and group insurance programmes to mitigate major site the financial consequences.
Failure to recognise political or cultural We remain vigilant to future changes and the increased risk presented Regulatory differences in the many countries in which by emerging markets.
and political we operate could directly impact the success We engage with governments and NGOs to ensure the views of our of ouroperations.
stakeholders are represented and we try to anticipate, and contribute to, important changes in public policy.
Our financial control requirements are consistently applied wherever we operate.
Risk of overspending initial cost estimates, All major projects are managed by dedicated teams who work in close Major capital overrunning construction timelines and failure liaison with business management.
projects and to meet design specifications.
acquisitions Project plans are reviewed and approved by group management and, for larger projects, by the board.
Updates on progress are provided throughout theproject.
Associated British Foods Annual Report and Accounts 2011
