Corporate Governance The Board of Directors 811 5 10 4 2 1 Sir John Buchanan 3 Adrian Hennah 5 Genevive Berger Chairman Chief Financial officer Independent Non-Executive Director Joined the Board as an Independent Non-Executive Joined the Board as Chief Financial officer in Appointed Non-Executive Director in March 2010.
Director in 2005, appointed Chairman and June2006.
Chairman of Nominations Committee in April 2006.
Genevive is a scientist with a PhD in Physics and Adrian has had extensive financial and Biology as well as being an MD, and has held a management experience in a number of companies Sir John has broad international experience gained number of senior business roles as Chairman of the including GlaxoSmithKline and Invensys, where he in large and complex international businesses.
He Health Advisory Board for the European held the position of Chief Financial officer.
His role has substantial experience in the petroleum Commission and Professor at the University of Paris, at Smith & Nephew is strategic as well as financial industry and knowledge of the international investor Le Piti-Saptrire Teaching Hospital and Director and he is responsible for driving margin community.
He has held various leadership roles in General of the French Centre National fide La performance and addressing operational strategic, financial, operational and marketing Recherche Scientique.
She is currently, Chief improvements.
positions, including executive experience in Research & Development officer at Unilever plc and different countries.
He is a former Executive Director NV which she originally joined as a Non-Executive Other Directorships and Group Financial officer of BP, serving on the BP Director.
Non-Executive Director of Reed Elsevier PLC Other Directorships Member of Supervisory Board of Reed Other Directorships ElsevierNV None Senior Independent Director and Deputy Board Committee Membership Board Committee Membership Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc None Ethics & Compliance Committee Chairman of International Chamber of Commerce UK Ltd Member of Advisory Board of Ondra Bank 4 Ian Barlow 6 Richard fide Schutter Chairman of UK Trustees for the Christchurch Independent Non-Executive Director Earthquake appeal Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of Audit Committee Appointed Non-Executive Director in January 2001 Board Committee Membership Appointed Non-Executive Director in March 2010 and Senior Independent Director in April 2011. and Chairman of Audit Committee in May 2010.
Nominations Committee Richard has had extensive US corporate experience Ian is a Chartered Accountant and has had at Chief Executive and Chairman level in a number extensive financial experience both internationally of major corporations with primarily a scientific, 2 Olivier Bohuon and in the UK.
Prior to his retirement in 2008, he chemical, engineering or pharmaceutical focus was Senior Partner, London at KPMG and Chief Executive officer including GD Searle, Monsanto, Pharmacia previously Head of their UK tax and legal Joined the Board and appointed Chief Executive Corporation and DuPont Pharmaceuticals.
During his career with KPMG, he acted officer in April 2011. as Lead Partner for many large international Other Directorships organisations operating extensively in North Olivier has had extensive international experience Non-Executive Chairman of Incyte Corporation America, Europe and Asia.
within a number of pharmaceutical and healthcare Non-Executive Director of Navicure Inc companies.
Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, he Other Directorships Non-Executive Director of Sprout was President of Abbott Pharmaceuticals, a division Pharmaceuticals Chairman of WSP Group plc of Abbott Laboratories based in the US, where he Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the was responsible for the entire business, including Board Committee Membership Audit Committee of the PA Consulting Group R&D, Global Manufacturing and global support Nominations Committee Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the functions.
Audit Committee Audit Committee of Brunner Investment Trust Ethics & Compliance Committee Chairman of The Racecourse Association Other Directorships Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Director of the Board of Her Non-Executive Director of Virbac Group Majestys Revenue and Customs Board Committee Membership Board Committee Membership Nominations Committee Audit Committee 48 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance 13 9 7 6 12 7 Pamela Kirby 9 Joseph Papa 11 Rolf Stomberg Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director Chairman of the Ethics & Compliance Committee Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Appointed Non-Executive Director in 1998.
Appointed Non-Executive Director in March 2002 Appointed Non-Executive Director in August 2008 Retiring from the board following the Annual and Chairman of Ethics and Compliance Committee and Chairman of Remuneration Committee in April General Meeting on 14 April 2012. in April 2011.
Rolf has a wide board experience within a range of Pamela has extensive commercial and product Joseph has had nearly 30 years experience in the diverse international industries.
He held a number development experience within the international pharmaceutical industry working for a number of of leadership positions at BP over a number of years pharmaceutical and healthcare industry.
Her last companies both in the US and Switzerland.
He is until his retirement in 1997, when he was Chief executive position was Chief Executive of Quintiles now Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo, one Executive officer of BP Oil and a member of the BP Transnational Corp in the USA, having previously of the largest over the counter pharmaceutical Board.
He is now a Non-Executive Director of a held senior positions in various pharmaceutical companies in the US, having held senior positions number of international companies.
companies including AstraZeneca and F. Hoffmannat Novartis, Cardinal Health Inc. and Pharmacia.
She is now a Non-Executive Director of a Other Directorships number of international companies.
Other Directorships Chairman of Lanxess AG Chairman and Chief Executive of Perrigo Non-Executive Director of Hoyer GmbH, Other Directorships Company Non-Executive Director of Biesterfeld AG Non-Executive Chairman of Scynexis Inc. Non-Executive Director of Severstal OAU Non-Executive Director of Informa plc Board Committee Membership Non-Executive Director of Ruspetro Plc Non-Executive Director of Victrex plc Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Member of the Board of Simmons Board Committee Membership Audit Committee & Simmons LLP Ethics and Compliance Committee Nominations Committee Audit Committee Board Committee Membership Remuneration Committee Ethics & Compliance Committee Remuneration Committee 10 Ajay Piramal Independent Non-Executive Director 12 Susan Henderson Appointed Non-Executive Director in January 2012.
Company Secretary 8 Brian Larcombe Ajay is one of Indias most respected businessmen.
Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed Company Secretary in May 2009.
He enabled the Piramal Group to transform from a Appointed Non-Executive Director in March 2002. textile centric group to a $2.0bn conglomerate in Susan has nearly 30 years experience as a diversied areas.
He has extensive industry and Brian spent his career in private equity with 3i company secretary in a wide range of companies market knowledge and international experience Group.
After leading the UK investment business for including Prudential plc, Amersham plc and RMC particularly in India and China.
He has held a a number of years, he became Finance Director and Group plc.
Her work has covered Board support, number of global healthcare leadership positions in then Chief Executive of the Group following its corporate governance, corporate transactions, both India and internationally.
share registration, listing obligations, corporate otation.
He is well known in the City and has held a social responsibility, pensions, insurance and number of Non-Executive Directorships.
Other Directorships employee and executive share plans.
Susan is a Chairman of Piramal Healthcare, Piramal Glass, Other Directorships member of the GC100 Group Executive Committee Allergan India Limited, IndiaREIT fund advisors and the CBI Companies Committee and is a Non-Executive Director of gategroup and IndiaVentures Advisors frequent speaker on corporate governance related HoldingsAG Chairman of Board of Governors of Indian matters.
Non-Executive Director of Incisive Media Institute of technology, Indore Holdings Limited Member of Board of Deans Advisors at Harvard Business School Board Committee Membership Chairman of Pratham India Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Board Committee Membership None 49 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
