Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement Compliance Statement We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance The Non-Executive Directors meet regularly prior to each Board and comply with all the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance meeting without management in attendance.
The roles of NonCode the Code.
The Companys American Depositary Shares are Executive Directors and in particular the Senior Independent Nonlisted on the NYSE and we are therefore subject to the rules of the NYSE Executive Director are dened as follows: as well as to the US securities laws and the rules of the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
We comply with the requirements of the SEC Non-Executive Directors and NYSE except that the Nominations Committee is not comprised Providing effective challenge to management wholly of independent Directors, as required by the NYSE, but consists of a majority of independent Directors in accordance with the Code.
We Assist in development of strategy shall explain in this Corporate Governance Statement and in the Serve on the Board Committees Directors Remuneration Report how we have applied the provisions and principles of the FSA Listing Rules, the Disclosure & Transparency Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Rules DTR, and the Code throughout the year.
Chairing meetings in the absence of the Chairman Board Acting as sounding board for the Chairman on Board related matters The Board is responsible for determining the strategy of the Chief Acting as an intermediary for the other Directors where necessary Executive officer and his Executive team implement that strategy.
The Available to shareholders on matters which cannot otherwise chart on the next page gives more detail about the structure of the beresolved Board, the matters we deal with and the key activities we undertook in2011.
Leading annual evaluation into the Boards effectiveness Leading search for a new Chairman, as necessary Roles of Directors Whilst we all share collective responsibility for the activities of the Board, Independence of Non-Executive Directors some of our roles have been dened in greater detail.
In particular, the We are sensitive to the need for our Non-Executive Directors to remain roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive officer independent from management in order to exercise our independent are clearly dened.
oversight and effectively challenge management as necessary.
The Board has determined that all Non-Executive Directors are independent Chairman in accordance with both UK and US requirements.
None of our Building a well balanced Board Non-Executive Directors or their immediate families has ever had a material relationship with the Group either directly as an employee or Chairing Board meetings and setting Board agenda as a partner, shareholder or officer of an organisation that has a Ensuring effectiveness of the Board and ensuring annual review relationship with the Group.
None of them receive additional undertaken remuneration apart from Directors fees, nor do they participate in the Encouraging constructive challenge and facilitating effective Groups share option plans, performance related pay schemes or communication in the Board pension schemes.
Nor do they serve as Directors of any companies or Promoting effective Board relationships afliates in which any other Director is a Director.
Ensuring appropriate induction and development programmes Now that Olivier Bohuon has settled into his new role and we are Ensuring effective two way communication and debate with beginning to implement our new strategy, we are in a position to shareholders analyse the appropriate Board balance and structure for the future.
Weknow that we will need different skills and experiences and, in Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and particular, we would like to have a greater representation from Emerging sustainability matters Markets, which is a key Strategic Priority for us.
The appointment of Promoting high standards of corporate governance AjayPiramal at the beginning of 2012 goes some way towards Maintaining appropriate balance between stakeholders achievingthis.
Rolf Stomberg has served on the Board for 14 years and will be retiring Chief Executive officer from the Board following this years Annual General Meeting.
We are continuing to look for suitable Non-Executive Directors and, in due Developing and implementing Group strategy course, other longer serving Directors will step down.
Recommending the annual budget and five year strategic and nancialplan Ensuring coherent leadership of the Group Managing the Groups risk prole and establishing effective internalcontrols Regularly reviewing organisational structure, developing executive team and planning for succession Ensuring the Chairman and Board are kept advised and up to date regarding key matters Maintaining relationships with shareholders and advising the board accordingly Setting the tone at the top with regard to compliance and sustainability matters 52 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Board Membership Non-Executive Chairman Sir John Buchanan Chief Executive officer Olivier Bohuon appointed on 1 April 2011 Chief Financial officer Adrian Hennah 8 Independent Non-Executive Directors Richard fide Schutter Senior Independent Director Ian Barlow Genevive Berger Pamela Kirby Brian Larcombe Joseph Papa Ajay Piramal appointed 1 January 2012 Rolf Stomberg to retire on 12 April 2012 David Illingworth retired as Chief Executive on 14 April 2011 Role of the Board as set out in the schedule of matters reserved to the Board Strategy Approving the Group strategy including major changes to corporate and management structure, acquisitions, mergers, disposals, capital transactions over $10m, annual budget, financial plan, business plan, major borrowings and finance and banking arrangements Approving changes to the size and structure of the Board, overseeing succession planning and the appointment and removal of Directors and the Company Secretary Approving Group polices relating to corporate social responsibility, health and safety, Code of Conduct and Code of Share Dealing and other matters Performance Reviewing performance against strategy, budgets and financial and business plans Overseeing Group operations and maintaining a sound system of internal control Determining dividend policy and dividend recommendations Approving the appointment and removal of the auditors and other professional advisors and approving significant changes to accounting policies or practices Approving the use of the Companys shares in relation to employee and executive incentive plans Risk Determining risk appetite, regularly reviewing risk register and risk management processes Shareholder Communications Approving preliminary announcement of annual results, annual report, half yearly report, quarterly interim management statements, the release of price sensitive announcements and any listing particulars, circulars or prospectuses Maintaining relationships and continued engagement with shareholders Key activities in 2011 in addition to regular annual activities Appointment of Olivier Bohuon as Chief Executive officer Approval of new strategy and updated organisational structure Approval of risk management programme Approval of five year plan Review of effectiveness of Board Review of on-going Board composition 9 Scheduled meetings 3 Telephone Update Calls 4 Day Strategy Review and visit to our China operations 2 Day visit to our York and Hull operations 53 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Board and Committee attendance The table below details attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings held throughout the year: Ethics and Remuneration Audit Nominations Compliance Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 9 meetings 4 meetings 6 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings Sir John Buchanan 9 4 Olivier Bohuon i 7 3 David J. Illingworth ii 3 1 Adrian Hennah 9 Ian Barlow 9 6 Genevive B. Berger iii, iv 8 2 Pamela J. Kirby 9 4 4 Brian Larcombe 9 4 6 Joseph C. Papa 9 4 6 4 Richard fide Schutter 9 4 6 4 4 Rolf W. H. Stomberg 9 4 6 4 i Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011. ii Retired from the Board on 14 April 2011. iii Appointed to the Ethics and Compliance Committee on 14 April 2011. iv Attended all scheduled meetings and was unable to attend some meetings arranged at short notice because of prior commitments.
From time to time Directors also attend Committee meetings at the invitation of the Committee Chairman, even if they are not members of the Committee, in order to gain a better understanding of the activities of that Committee.
Board development programme Month Activity In 2011, the Board development programme focused on continuing to Visit to Advanced Wound Management Factory in September increase our understanding of the business and markets in which the Suzhou, China Group operates.
Throughout the year, we receive regular updates from our business operations across the world.
It is however very much Visit to Emerging Markets Head Ofce in Shanghai, more real to visit these operations, to view the processes and to meet China the people running and working in the businesses.
This gives us an Presentation on the opportunities and challenges of in-depth understanding of the opportunities and challenges employees doing business in China face on a daily basis and helps to inform our decisions.
Meeting our key employees around the world also helps us with succession planning.
Presentation on the challenges of developing a Strategy in emerging markets We have commenced an induction programme for Ajay Piramal who joined the Board on 1 January 2012.
He has received a brieng on the Visit to Surgical Skills Centre in York November responsibilities and duties of a Director of a UK Listed company as well as a number of key corporate documents.
A programme of events is Visit to Advanced Wound Manufacturing factory and being planned for his first visit to London as a member of our Board, Head Ofce in Hull when he will meet with senior employees and have the opportunity to visit some of our key UK locations.
54 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Board evaluation Management of Conicts of Interest Towards the end of 2011, Richard fide Schutter, the Senior Independent None of us nor our connected persons has any family relationship with Director led a review into the effectiveness of the Board and its any other Director or officer nor has a material interest in any contract to Committees as a whole as well as reviewing individual contributors.
He which the Company or any of its subsidiaries are or were a party during asked us to complete an online questionnaire and then interviewed the year or up to 21 February 2012. each of us individually.
With the appointment of a new Chief Executive Each of us has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 to avoid a officer during the year and the subsequent development of the situation in which we have or may have a direct or indirect interest that updated Strategic Priorities and organisational structure, we felt that it conicts or possibly may conict with the interests of the Company.
This would be more beneficial to use an external facilitator for our duty is in addition to the existing duty that we owe to the Company to effectiveness review in 2012, once some of the changes have had time disclose to the Board any transaction or arrangement under to settle.
Richard fide Schutter reported back to us on his findings, which consideration by the Company.
If we become aware of any situation we discussed in detail in February 2012. which may give rise to a conict of interest, we inform the rest of the The review concluded that the Board works effectively and has an Board immediately and the Board is then permitted under the articles of appropriate balance of experience and skills.
Non-Executive Directors association to authorise such conict.
The information is recorded in the particularly valued receiving regular reports from Olivier Bohuon Companys Register of Conicts together with the date on which between meetings and having meetings with myself without authorisation was given.
In addition, we certify, on an annual basis, that management present prior to each Board meeting.
We were also the information contained in the Register is correct.
satisfied with the positive start made by Olivier Bohuon as Chief When the Board decides whether or not to authorise a conict, only the Executive officer and welcomed the progress he was making in Directors who have no interest in the matter are able to participate in implementing the new strategy and in building a strong team.
the discussion and a conict is only authorised if we believe that it We identied certain areas for continued improvement throughout 2012: would not have an impact on our ability to promote the Companys success in the long-term.
Additionally, we may, as a Board determine Ensuring that we spend more time in Board meetings on key strategic that certain limits or conditions must be imposed when giving issues and not allowing time to be spent on operational matters that authorisation.
We have identied no actual conicts which have impact that priority required approval by the Board.
We have, however, identied seven situations which could potentially give rise to a conict and these have Implementing a more streamlined process for the appointment of been duly approved by the Board and are reviewed on an annual basis.
Non-Executive Directors Re-appointment of Directors Gaining a better understanding of succession planning below Board level In accordance with the Code, with effect from the Annual General Meeting held in 2011, all Directors, including Ajay Piramal who was Taking more time to review our competitors and their strategies better appointed on 1January 2012, offer ourselves to shareholders for re-election annually.
In 2012 RolfStomberg will be retiring from the Reviewing our past decisions on a systematic basis Board and will not offer himself for re-election as noted previously.
Retiring Directors retain ofce until the conclusion of the Annual Company Secretary and Independent Advice General Meeting.
In addition, each Director may be removed at any The Company Secretary, Susan Henderson, is responsible to the Board time by the Board or the shareholders.
for ensuring that we comply with all corporate governance requirements and are kept updated on our responsibilities.
We all have access to her, individually and collectively.
We may also, from time to time, obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, if we judge it necessary in order to full our responsibilities as Directors.
If we are unable to attend a Board meeting or Board Committee meeting, we ensure that we are familiar with the matters to be discussed and make our views known to the Chairman or the Chairman of the relevant Committee prior to the meeting.
55 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors Indemnity Arrangements Share capital Each Director is covered by appropriate directors and ofcers liability As at 21 February 2012, the Companys total issued share capital with insurance and there are also Deeds of Indemnity in place between the voting rights consisted of 895,845,540 Ordinary Shares of 20 US cents Company and each Director.
These Deeds of Indemnity mean that the each.
60,322,610 Ordinary Shares are held in treasury and are not Company indemnifies Directors in respect of any proceedings brought included in the above gure.
by third parties against them personally in their capacity as Directors of As at 21 February 2012, notication had been received from the the Company.
The Company would also fund on-going costs in undernoted investors under the DTR in respect of interests in 3% or defending a legal action as they are incurred rather than after more of the issued Ordinary Shares with voting rights of the Company.
In the event of an unsuccessful defence in an action against them, individual Directors would be liable to repay the Number of Company for any damages and to repay defence costs to the extent % Shares funded by the Company.
Invesco 44,901,016 5.02 Liaison with shareholders BlackRock, Inc. 44,811,205 5.02 The Executive Directors meet regularly with investors to discuss the Companys business and financial performance both at the time of the Newton Investment Management Limited 44,337,465 4.98 announcement of results and at industry investor events.
During 2011, the Executive Directors held meetings with institutional investors, Legal and General Group plc 35,675,739 3.99 including investors representing approximately 47% of the share capital In addition to the above the Company is aware that Walter Scott & as at December 2011.
Partners Limited hold approximately 38m Ordinary Shares 4.2%.
As part of this programme of investor meetings, during 2011, as Otherwise, the Company is not aware of any person who has a Chairman of the Company, I met with investors representing 13.5% of significant direct or indirect holding of securities in the Company and is the share capital.
Over the last three years, I have met investors not aware of any persons holding securities which may control the representing in aggregate 22.8% of the share capital.
There are no securities in issue which have special rights as Joseph Papa met with shareholders holding 14.3% of the share capital to the control of theCompany.
to discuss remuneration policies and plans and to introduce himself as the new Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Dividend We receive a short report at every Board meeting reviewing our major The Board has proposed a final dividend of 10.80 US cents per share shareholders and any significant changes in their holdings since the which, together with the interim dividend of 6.60 US cents, makes a previous meeting.
Olivier Bohuon and Adrian Hennah routinely advise total for 2011 of 17.40 US cents.
The final dividend is expected to be us of any concerns or issues that shareholders have raised with them paid, subject to shareholder approval, on 9 May 2012 to shareholders in their meetings.
We also receive copies of analysts reports on the on the register of Members at the close of business on 20 April 2012.
Company and our peers between Board meetings.
Annual General Meeting The Companys website www.
com contains information The Companys Annual General Meeting is to be held on 12 April 2012 of interest to both institutional investors and private shareholders, at 2pm at The Royal Society, 6-9 Carlton House Terrace, London, SW1Y including financial information and webcasts of the results 5AG.
Registered shareholders have been sent either a Notice of Annual presentations to analysts for each quarter, as well as specic General Meeting or notication of availability of the Notice of Annual information for private shareholders relating to the management of their General Meeting, as appropriate.
Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers We have adopted a Code of Ethics for senior financial ofcers, which is available on the Groups website www.
This applies to the Chief Executive officer, Chief Financial officer, Group Financial Controller and the Groups senior financial ofcers.
There have been no waivers to any of the Codes provisions nor any amendments made to the Code during 2011 or up until 21February 2012.
56 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance This system of internal control has been designed to manage rather Evaluation of internal controls procedures than eliminate material risks to the achievement of our strategic and Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not internal control over financial reporting as dened in Rule13a-15 f and absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Because of 15d-15 f under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. inherent limitations, our internal controls over financial reporting may We, as a Board, are responsible overall for reviewing and approving the not prevent or detect all mis-statements.
In addition, our projections of adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls operated by the Group, any evaluation of effectiveness in future periods are subject to the risk including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in management.
We have delegated responsibility for the review of conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or financial, ethical compliance and quality management systems controls procedures may deteriorate.
This process complies with the Turnbull to the Audit Committee, which reviews the internal control process, on working party guidance, revised October 2005 and additionally an annual basis and evaluates its effectiveness to ensure that it contributes to our compliance with the obligations under the Sarbanesremains robust and to identify any control weaknesses.
The latest Oxley Act 2002 and other internal assurance activities.
There has been review covered the financial year to 31 December 2011 and included no change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting during the period up to the approval of this Annual Report.
The main elements the period covered by this Annual Report that has materially affected, or of this annual review are as follows: is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
The Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer have evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Groups disclosure Principal accountant fees and services controls and procedures as at 31 December 2011.
Based upon this Fees for professional services provided by Ernst & Young LLP, the evaluation, the Chief Executive officer and Chief Financial officer Groups independent auditors in each of the last two scal years, in concluded on 22February 2012 that the disclosure controls and each of the following categories were: procedures were effective as at 31December 2011.
2011 2010 Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate $ million $ million internal control over financial reporting.
Management assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting as Audit 3 3 at 31 December 2011 in accordance with the requirements in the US under s404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In making this assessment, Audit related fees they used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Tax 2 2 Organisations of the Treadway Commission in Internal ControlIntegrated Framework.
Based on their assessment, management Other concluded and reported that, as at 31December 2011, the Groups 55 internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.
Audit fees include fees associated with the annual audit and local statutory audits required internationally.
A more detailed breakdown of Having received the report from management, the Audit Committee audit fees may be found in Note 3 of the Notes to the Group accounts.
reports to the Board on the effectiveness of controls.
Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting rm Disclosure of information to the auditors issued an audit report on the Groups internal control over financial In accordance with Section 418 of the Companies Act 2006, the reporting as of 31 December 2011.
This report appears on page 83.
Directors serving at the time of approving the Directors Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge and belief, there is no relevant audit There is an established system of internal control throughout the Group information of which the auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, are unaware and and our divisions.
The main elements of the internal control framework the Directors also confirm that they have taken reasonable steps to be are as follows: aware of any relevant audit information and, accordingly, to establish that the auditors are aware of such information.
The management of each Division is responsible for the establishment and review of effective internal financial controls within their Division.
Auditors The Group Finance Manual sets out, amongst other things, financial Ernst & Young LLP have expressed their willingness to continue as and accounting policies and minimum internal financial control auditors and resolutions proposing their reappointment and to standards.
authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting as approved by the The Internal Audit function agrees an annual work plan and scope of AuditCommittee.
work with the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviewed reports from the internal auditors on Directors Report their findings on internal financial controls.
The Directors Report includes the following sections: Business Review pages 14 to 45, Corporate Governance pages 46 to 76 and The Audit Committee reviews the Group Whistleblower procedures.
The Audit Committee reviews regular reports from the Group Financial Corporate headquarters and registered ofce Controller and the Taxation and Treasury functions.
The corporate headquarters is in the UK and the registered ofce address is: Smith & Nephew plc, 15 Adam Street, London WC2N 6LA, UK.
Registered in England and Wales No.
57 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Committees of the Board We delegate some of the Boards detailed work to four Committees.
Each of these has their own terms of reference, which may be found on the Groups website at www.
The Company Secretary or her designate is secretary to each of the Committees.
The Chairman of each Committee reports orally to the Board and minutes of the meetings are circulated to all members of the Board.
Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Ian Barlow Joseph Papa Membership Membership Ian Barlow Chairman Independent and financial expert Joseph Papa Chairman Independent Brian Larcombe Independent Brian Larcombe Independent Joseph Papa Independent Pamela Kirby Independent Richard fide Schutter Independent Richard fide Schutter Independent Rolf Stomberg Independent Rolf Stomberg Independent Six Meetings Four Meetings Main Responsibilities Three matters agreed by written resolution Ensure Integrity of financial statements, reviewing significant financial Main Responsibilities reporting judgments and compliance with accounting standards, Determine remuneration policy for Executive Directors and senior policies and practices ensuring compliance with UK and US executives statutory requirements Approve individual remuneration packages for Executive Directors Monitor announcements relating to Groups financial performance and Executive Ofcers at least annually and any major changes to Monitor effectiveness of internal controls and compliance with s404 individual packages throughout the year Sarbanes Oxley Determine the use of long-term incentive plans and oversee the use Review operation of Groups risk management processes and the of shares in all executive and employee plans control environment mitigating compliance and quality management Approve appropriate performance measures for short-term and system risk long-term incentive plans for Executive Directors and senior Recommend the re-appointment of the external auditors, monitor executives and review their performance, and the effectiveness of the audit Determine pay-outs under short-term and long-term incentive plans process for Executive Directors and senior executives Receive reports on fraud and whistleblowing Approve Directors Remuneration Report ensuring compliance with Agree internal audit plans and review internal audit reports related governance provisions Monitor the effectiveness of the internal audit function Maintain constructive engagement on remuneration issues with shareholders Key Activities in 2011 in addition to main responsibilities Have regard to remuneration policies and practices across the Reviewed plans for reformatting the Annual Report Group Reviewed the risk management process Assumed responsibility for the review of the audit of Quality Key Activities in 2011 in addition to main responsibilities Management Systems Approved package for incoming Chief Executive officer and Considered the management of strategic risk by the Tax function retirement arrangements for outgoing Chief Executive Reviewed the operations of the Disclosures Committee Approved joining and leaving packages for all direct reports to Chief Executive officer Received and considered a report from the Treasury function Undertook comprehensive review of remuneration arrangements for Received and considered an external report on the effectiveness of top 70 senior executives to align remuneration with the updated the internal audit function Group strategy Undertook engagement programme with major shareholders to explain new remuneration arrangements 58 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Ethics & Compliance Committee Nominations Committee Pamela Kirby Sir John Buchanan Membership Membership Pamela Kirby Chairman Independent Sir John Buchanan Chairman Independent on appointment Joseph Papa Independent Olivier Bohuon Richard fide Schutter Independent Richard fide Schutter Independent Genevive Berger Independent Rolf Stomberg Independent Four Meetings Four Meetings Main Responsibilities One matter agreed by written resolution Review ethics and compliance programmes Main Responsibilities Review policies and training programmes Review size and composition of Board Review compliance performance based on monitoring auditing and Oversee Board succession plans investigations data Recommend Director appointments Review hotline issues and calls Review Groups internal and external communications relating to Key Activities in 2011 in addition to main responsibilities ethical and compliance issues Undertook the search for a new Chief Executive officer and recommended the appointment of Olivier Bohuon Review external developments and compliance activities Receive reports from the Executive ethics and compliance meetings Reviewed and updated the parameters for the search for additional and from the Chief Compliance officer and the Chief Legal officer Non-Executive Directors.
Recommended changes to the composition and chairmanship of Board Committees Key Activities in 2011 in addition to main responsibilities Recommended the appointment of Ajay Piramal as Non-Executive Reviewed implications of UK Bribery Act and approved updates to Director processes as appropriate Considered the implications of the Davies Report and revised policy Reviewed updates on compliance programme for distributors on building a diverse Board Reviewed internal reports into the effectiveness of our compliance Reviewed our use of search rms arrangements in China 59 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Audit Committee Strategic Priorities and identied the mitigating action in place to control Dear shareholder, these risks.
This will assist the Board and senior management to I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Audit concentrate on the key strategic risks and their management faced by Committee in 2011.
The membership and the principal duties of the the Group.
These are both downside risks something going wrong Committee are set out in the table on page 58 of this report.
and upside risk missed opportunities.
The members are all independent Directors and bring relevant We continued to review the Groups approach to internal financial expertise to the committee from their current or prior roles as Chief control and the operation of the risk management process.
We also Executives of substantial businesses both in the UK and USA and from evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups systems to identify and their roles as Non-Executive Directors at other corporations.
I myself am manage material risks.
the designated finance expert being a Chartered Accountant and former senior partner at KPMG UK, retiring in 2008.
Receipt of functional reports In addition to the usual matters, which fall to the Audit Committee, such During the year, we received reports from the Tax and Treasury as approving the financial results for the year, half year and the functions including how they manage risk.
quarterly interim management statements and the review of applicable accounting policies and going concern assumptions, the Audit Review of the work of the external auditors Committee reviewed a number of topics during 2011.
We assessed the performance of Ernst & Young, our external auditors.
This was done throughout the year through review of their regular Review of format of Annual Report reports on the scope and outcomes of their work.
These reports As you will have noticed, we undertook a thorough review of the style included accounting matters, governance and control and accounting and format of the Annual Report during 2011.
We wanted to present our developments.
In addition we utilised formal year-end feedback from all Group to you in a clearer more user friendly manner, so that you could our operating units as a result of which we asked for improvements to nd your way more easily around the document to the information you be made in two operating locations.
We reviewed the inspection need.
We have explained our Strategic Priorities and their relation to our reports from the Auditor Oversight Boards in the UK and the US.
We Key Performance Indicators, risk and remuneration policies.
We have also ensured that the audit-related, tax and other services received included more tables, charts and pictures and adopted a more from the external auditors were pre-approved in accordance with the personal style in explaining our approach to governance.
We are Auditor Independence Policy described below.
Finally we reviewed the mindful of proposals from the Department of Business Innovation And fees of the auditors using benchmarking against groups of comparable Skills regarding Narrative Reporting and regard the work done in size and complexity.
Our conclusions were that the external audit was refocusing the Annual Report this year, as being a good base on which carried out effectively and with the necessary objectivity and to build the report of the future.
independence and this is the basis for our recommendation to the Board and shareholders that Ernst & Young be reappointed.
Review of accounting policies As noted we reviewed and concluded on the appropriateness of the Auditor Independence Policy Groups principal accounting policies, practices and accounting We have determined a schedule of approved non-audit services for the judgments concentrating on the critical accounting policies requiring Group external auditors to undertake.
Our Auditor Independence Policy managements judgement, namely the valuation of inventory, review of prohibits the external auditors from performing services which would the carrying value of goodwill, intangible and tangible assets and the result in the auditing of their own work, participating in activities valuation of retirement benets, contingencies and provisions.
normally undertaken by management, acting as advocates for the Group and creating a mutuality of interest between the auditors and the Compliance Group by, for example, being remunerated through a success fee We reviewed compliance with accounting standards, accounting policies structure.
On an annual basis, we pre-approve the budget for fees and practices, accounting and reporting issues, going concern relating to audit and non-audit work, including taxation compliance assumptions and the UK Corporate Governance Code and section 404 services, in accordance with a listing of particular services.
In the event of the Sarbanes Oxley Act.
No concerns were raised with us in 2011 that limits for these services are expected to be exceeded or the Group about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other wants the external auditors to perform services that have not been matters.
pre-approved, my approval is required.
The Committee is subsequently advised of any such services and fees.
In this way all services provided Review of Internal Audit function by the external auditors during the year were pre-approved by the We reviewed the Internal Audit function, its programme of work and its Audit Committee.
The Auditor Independence Policy also governs the resourcing requirements, specically in the area of internal controls over policy regarding the audit partner rotation in accordance with the financial reporting, ethical compliance, quality management systems Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standards in the UK and the SEC rules see below, assessing the effectiveness of the risk management in the US.
During the year the second partner on the account was process and the prevention and detection of fraud.
We were assisted in replaced under these rules, a transition that was handled well by Ernst this by an external review carried out by .
Partners and senior audit staff may not be recruited by the concluded that the internal audit function was effective and respected Group unless two years have expired since their previous involvement across the Group having adapted successfully to an expanding remit to with the Group.
No such recruitment has occurred.
address the changing needs of the business.
Internal control and risk management Quality Management Systems audit On behalf of the Board, we reviewed the system of internal financial In 2010, our Internal Audit function assumed responsibility for the review control and satisfied ourselves that we are meeting required standards of our quality management systems, for our systems that monitor our both for the year ended 31 December 2011 and up to the date of manufacturing activities for compliance with standards set by regulatory approval of this Annual Report.
authorities, including the FDA in the US, the MHRA in the UK and other comparable bodies worldwide.
We continued to review the work of the Internal Audit function in this area in 2011.
This work included monitoring controls that mitigate quality management system risk.
Review of risk management process We examined and updated the way we manage risk within the organisation and undertook a mapping exercise to link the key risks identied within our businesses with the key risks identied by the Ian Barlow Board at our Strategy Review.
We then linked these risks back to our Chairman of Audit Committee 60 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Use of search rms Dear shareholder, During the year, we reviewed our use of search rms.
When brieng I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Nominations Committee in 2011.
The membership and the principal duties of the search rms, we explain the importance to us of building a diverse Committee are set out in the table on page 59 of this report.
board and request that shortlists include candidates from a wide range of backgrounds.
We dealt with the following important matters in 2011.
Consideration of diversity issues Appointment of Olivier Bohuon We also considered the Davies Report into Women on Boards and our We completed the search for a new Chief Executive officer, response to the issues it raised.
recommending to the Board in February that Olivier Bohuon be appointed.
Olivier joined the Board in April and became Chief Executive We are strongly committed to diversity in its broadest sense and over the years have attempted to recruit Board members from a wide range officer on 14 April 2011 following the Annual General Meeting.
Review of Board composition We already have two female Directors Pamela Kirby and Genevive We reviewed the composition of the Board, recognising that whilst Berger and aspire to increase the number of women on the Board to stability was important through a period of change, it was also around 25% by 2015. important to refresh and build a Board for the future.
We will, however, continue to recruit on merit and for us gender is only We have identied that Rolf Stomberg, Richard fide Schutter, Pamela one diversity measure.
We welcome the existing diversity on our Board Kirby and Brian Larcombe have all served on the Board for over 9 years where we enjoy a broad perspective given our differing skills and and that, therefore, some may consider their independence to be experiences.
This includes professionals, with backgrounds ranging impaired.
We have analysed the skills that the Board would lose when from UK and US corporate careers to notable scientists who are vital in these Directors leave the Board and the skills we will need to ensure we bringing understanding of the importance of innovation and the have the most effective Board to see us into the future.
We have scientific challenges we face as a business.
We also have a broad identied that the Board needs the following skills and experience: range of nationalities represented on our Board, from UK, US, India, Europe and New Zealand.
Emerging market experience, ideally in China or India US medical devices experience European healthcare experience Our search, is therefore focusing on these three key areas.
As and when we nd suitable candidates willing to join our Board, we can replace some of the longer serving Directors.
We are reluctant to release hard working and experienced colleagues who are active contributors to our boardroom discussions until we appoint suitable Sir John Buchanan Directors to take their place.
Chairman of Nominations Committee Appointment of Ajay Piramal We completed the search for an additional Non-Executive Director and recommended to the Board in December that Ajay Piramal be appointed.
We approached Ajay directly to consider joining our Board, because of his well-established and renowned track record both in the Healthcare industry and specically in the Emerging Markets of India and China, which we identied as one of our Strategic Priorities.
61 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Statement continued Ethics & Compliance Committee Communication and training Dear shareholder, In addition, we continued to monitor the Groups internal I am pleased to present my report on the activities of the Ethics & Compliance Committee in 2011.
The membership and the principal communications and training in relation to ethics and compliance duties of the Committee are set out in the table on page 59 of this policies and reviewed the materials used to train our third party sellers.
All employees have received a copy of the Code of Conduct which sets report.
out the basic legal and ethical principles for carrying out business and The following are some of the key issues we have focused on in 2011. applies both to employees and those who act on the Groups behalf.
It sets out in detail how persons covered by the Code of Conduct are UK Bribery Act expected to interact ethically with healthcare professionals and We considered the implications of the UK Bribery Act on our operations government ofcials.
It also covers the broader issues of ethics and and practices.
We already had a well-developed global compliance compliance throughout the business and includes a code of business programme in accordance with laws such as the US Foreign Corrupt principles.
A copy of the Code of Conduct can be found on the Groups Practices Act FCPA but recognised the need to make various website www.
changes to adapt our programme to reect the requirements of the UK The Code of Conduct includes our whistle-blowing policy, which Bribery Act.
We therefore discussed and approved applicable changes enables employees and members of the public to contact us to our existing processes.
anonymously through an independent provider.
All calls and contacts are investigated and the appropriate action taken, including reports to Compliance activities in Emerging Markets senior management, or the Board, where warranted.
We received regular reports from the Chief Compliance officer on our compliance programme in China, the specic compliance challenges Settlement with US Securities and Exchange Commission faced by our people in this region and the measures taken to address SEC and US Department of Justice DOJ these challenges, particularly our work with third party sellers.
In January 2012, we reviewed and approved the final terms of the settlement between the Company and the SEC and DOJ in connection Oversight of ethics and compliance programmes with their FCPA investigation of the medical devices industry.
This has We continued to monitor the effectiveness of our global ethics and been a matter that we, as a Committee have monitored closely since compliance programmes.
This included reviewing Group policies in this the formation of the Committee in 2008. area and considering compliance, monitoring and audit reports.
We also received regular reports on the number and nature of investigations conducted and calls to our hotline.
Pamela Kirby Chairman of Ethics & Compliance Committee 62 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Other Committees Executive Risk Committee Olivier Bohuon chairs our Executive Risk Committee which includes the Executive Directors and Executive Ofcers of the Group.
As an integral part of our planning and review process, the management of each of our divisions identies the risks applicable to their business, the probability of those risks occurring, the impact if they do occur and the actions required and being taken to manage and mitigate those risks.
The Executive Risk Committee meets twice-a-year to review the major risks they identify across the Group and the mitigation processes and plans.
As appropriate, the Executive Risk Committee may re-categorise risks or require further information or mitigating action to be undertaken.
We receive an annual report from the Executive Risk Committee, which details the significant risks categorised by potential financial impact on profit and share price and by likelihood of occurrence.
Details of new, key or signicantly increased risks, along with actions put in place to mitigate such risks, are also reported to us as appropriate.
We have provided further information on the principal risks identied through this process in Risk factors on pages 16 to 18 of this Annual Report.
Disclosures Committee Olivier Bohuon chairs the Disclosures Committee which includes the Chief Financial officer and various additional senior executives.
The Committee meets as required and approves the release of all major communications to investors, to the UK Listing Authority and to the London and New York Stock Exchanges.
Sir John Buchanan Chairman 22 February 2012 63 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
