Corporate Governance Executive Ofcers Olivier Bohuon is supported in the day-to-day management of the Group by a strong team of Executive Ofcers: Mike Frazzette President, Advanced Surgical Devices Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2006 as President of the Endoscopy business.
Since July 2011, he has headed up our Advanced Surgical Devices division and is responsible for the Orthopaedic, Trauma and Endoscopy business in Established Markets.
He is based in Andover, Massachusetts.
Previous Experience Mike has held a number of senior positions within the US medical devices industry.
He was President and Chief Executive officer of Micro Group, a US manufacturer of medical devices and spent 15 years at Tyco Healthcare becoming President of each of the Patient Care and Health Systems divisions.
Mark Augusti Helen Maye President, Clinical Therapies Biologics Head of Group Human Resources Joined Smith & Nephew in 2003 and since January Joined Smith & Nephew in July 2011.
She is based 2008, has led the Clinical Therapies and Biologics in London and leads the Global Human Resources businesses.
He is based in Raleigh, NorthCarolina.
He will leave the Group on completion of the Clinical Previous Experience Therapies disposal announced on 4January 2012.
Helen has more than 30 years experience across a Previous Experience variety of international and global roles in medical Mark has held a number of senior positions within devices and pharmaceuticals, including the Orthopaedics and Biologics businesses of manufacturing, supply chain and human resources.
Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, Previously, she was Divisional Vice President of he worked for GE Medical Systems in the US and Human Resources at Abbott Laboratories.
Mark is also a Non-Executive Director of Hutchinson Technology Inc. 50 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Roger Teasdale Francisco Canal Vega Kelvin Johnson President, Advanced Wound Management President, Emerging Markets President, International Markets Joined Smith & Nephew in 1989 within the Wound Joined Smith & Nephew in January 2012.
He is Joined Smith & Nephew in 1980 and was Management business.
He was appointed based in Dubai and leads the Emerging Markets appointed to lead the International Markets division, President of Advanced Wound Management in division, focusing particularly on achieving market covering all countries outside the Established and May2009.
leading growth in Brazil, Russia, China andIndia.
Previous Experience Previous Experience Previous Experience Roger has held a number of key roles within the Smith Francisco has held senior management positions in Kelvin has held a number of key international roles & Nephew Group in both the UK and the US and has global companies including Gambro AB, Excelsior with Smith & Nephew, rstly in South Africa and been responsible for leading the transformation of the and Baxter International and has lived and worked then leading the Emerging Market strategy.
He has wound business in recent years.
in many countries including China, Japan, US and spent some time leading the Groups increased Spain.
Francisco was also formerly a Board Member focus in China.
Ros Rivaz Gordon Howe Jack Campo Chief Technology officer Senior Vice President, Chief Legal officer Global Planning andDevelopment Joined Smith & Nephew in November 2011.
She is Joined Smith & Nephew in June 2008 and heads responsible for global operations, IT systems, Joined Smith & Nephew in 1998 and, since August up the Global Legal function.
Since late 2011 he has Corporate Sustainability and Regulatory and Quality 2007, has headed up the Global Planning and been based in Andover, Massachusetts.
Affairs and is focused on improving efficiency in Business Development teams.
He is based in Previous Experience Smith & Nephews processes.
Ros is based in Memphis, Tennessee.
Prior to joining Smith & Nephew, Jack held a Previous Experience number of senior legal roles within the General Previous Experience Gordon has held a number of senior management Electric Company including 7 years at GE Healthcare Ros has held senior management positions in positions within the Smith & Nephew Group rstly GE Medical Systems in the US andAsia.
global companies in the areas of supply chain in the Orthopaedics division and more recently at management, logistics, manufacturing, Group Level.
Prior to joining the Company, he held procurement and systems, including, Imperial senior roles at United Technologies Corporation.
Chemical Industries, Tate & Lyle, Diageo and Premier Foods.
She has 30 years experience across all areas of operational excellence.
51 Smith & Nephew Annual Report 2011 Accounts and other information Corporate Governance Business Review Strategy, KPIs & Risk management Overview
