Corporate governance statement Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the period 1 August 2010 to 31 July 2011 the Company has been in full compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council and available on its website www.
uk, except that the value of any fees received by executive directors in respect of external non-executive directorships is not disclosed in the Directors remuneration report, as this is not considered relevant to the Company.
Directors The Board The Board determined that the following is a helpful summary of its role: Good corporate governance is about helping to run the Company well.
It involves ensuring that an effective internal framework of systems and controls is put in place which clearly defines authority and accountability and that promotes success whilst permitting the management of risk to appropriate levels.
It involves the exercise of judgement as to the definitions of success, the appropriateness of risk and the levels of delegation to the executive.
The exercise of this judgement is the responsibility of the Board and involves consideration of processes and assumptions as well as outcomes.
It also involves the creation of a sensitive interface for the views of shareholders and other stakeholders to be given appropriate consideration when reaching these judgements.
The executive team is required to provide such information to the Board as the Board needs to enable it to exercise its judgement over these matters.
There is a very fine distinction between the approval of processes and their definition.
Wherever possible it is the role of the Board to approve process rather than initiate or define it.
Only exceptionally would the Board intervene to initiate or define.
The Board also sets the tone for the Company.
The way in which it conducts itself, its attitude to ethical matters, its definitions of success and the assessment of appropriate risk all define the atmosphere within which the executive team works.
Good corporate governance is not about adhering to codes of practice although adherence may constitute a part of the evidence of good governance but rather about the exercise of a mindset to do what is right.
One of the challenges facing any Board is the way in which the non-executive and the executive directors interact.
It is clear that they each have the same legal responsibility but it is generally unrealistic to expect executive directors to speak individually with the same freedom as the non-executive directors.
Equally executive directors who just toe the executive line in contradiction to their own views may not be effectively contributing to good governance.
A well-functioning Board needs to find the right balance between hearing the collective executive view and being aware of the natural internal tensions in an executive team.
One of the consequences of both increasing the watchdog role of the Board and finding this balance between individuality and team behaviour is driving more and more Boards to have fewer and fewer executive directors.
In our circumstances as a holding company for a number of businesses, the reduced Board size works effectively and an appropriate balance is struck.
Notwithstanding the tensions created by many external expectations, which may be wholly or in part unrealistic, a successful board should, ideally, be composed of a group of respected, experienced, like-minded but diverse people who coalesce around a common purpose of promoting the longterm success of the Company, provide a unified vision of the definitions of success and appropriate risk, endeavour to support management i. e. those who honestly criticise at times but encourage all the time and who create confidence in all stakeholders in the integrity of the business.
A Board meeting should feel like a meeting at which everyone is participating to solve problems together.
Above all, all participants should be able to say after a Board meeting that value has been added as a result of the meeting taking place.
This added value will come in many forms: challenge, advice, clarity, imagination, support, sharing of problems, or creating strategic intent.
The list is not exhaustive.
Board membership is for 365 days of the year.
Board responsibilities do not start and end with formal meetings.
Board members, on the Companys and their own initiative, should endeavour to engage outside of meetings to bring their experience to the assistance of the executive team whenever possible.
Above all there should be a sense of value added from the engagement of the Board members in all their interaction with the Company, formal or otherwise.
As at 26 September 2011, the Board comprises Mr Brydon Chairman, Mr Bowman Chief Executive, Mr Turner Finance Director and five independent non-executive directors: Messrs Angelici, Challen and Chambers: Ms Quinn: and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
Mr Challen is the senior independent director.
Biographies of these directors, giving details of their experience and other main commitments, are set out on pages 62 and 63.
The Board and its committees have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
The wide-ranging experience and backgrounds of the non-executive directors ensure that they can debate and constructively challenge management in relation to both the development of strategy and the evaluation of performance against the goals set by the Board.
The Board normally holds formal meetings at least six times a year to make and review major business decisions and monitor current trading against plans which it has approved.
It additionally exercises control by determining matters specifically reserved to it in a formal schedule which only the Board may change: these matters include the acquisition or divestment of significant companies or businesses, the issue of shares, significant contractual commitments, the review of the effectiveness of risk management processes and major capital expenditure.
Once a year, the Board meets with a particular focus on long-term strategy and developments affecting the Company.
Additional meetings are arranged as necessary to deal with urgent items.
70 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts The Board sets the Companys values and standards and has adopted a Code of Business Ethics which is referred to on page 57.
The executive directors and senior management team are responsible for the Companys financial performance, the day-to-day management of the Companys businesses and implementation of the strategy and direction set by the Board.
The Chairman meets the non-executive directors without the executive directors present at least twice a year.
The senior independent director meets the other non-executive directors without the Chairman present at least annually.
Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The following table shows the number of Board and Board Committee meetings held during the financial year ended 31 July 2011 and opposite each directors name the number of meetings they were eligible to attend and the number actually attended.
However, directors attend many other meetings and make site visits during the year.
For example, as part of his induction and familiarisation process, Mr Angelici visited a large number of the Companys sites in the UK, USA and France.
In April 2011 the Chairman and Sir Kevin Tebbit joined the Chief Executive and members of senior management at meetings in Washington, D. C. with Senators, Congressmen and representatives of the Companys US customers.
In May 2011 the Board visited the John Crane facility in Lutin, in the Czech Republic.
The Board views directors contributions as measured beyond meeting attendance records.
Board Meetings Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Eligible to Name attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended attend Attended D. H. Brydon 9 9 5 4 2 2 P. Bowman 9 9 P. A. Turner 9 9 B. F. J. Angelici 9 9 3 2 5 5 2 2 D. J. Challen 9 9 3 3 5 5 2 2 S. J.
Chambers 9 8 3 2 5 5 2 2 A. C. Quinn 9 9 3 3 5 5 2 2 K. R. Tebbit 9 8 3 3 5 4 2 1 indicates not a member of that Committee in 2010 2011 Chairman and Chief Executive The Board has established clearly defined roles for the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the Chief Executives responsibility to ensure delivery of the strategic and financial objectives.
Board balance and independence There is a balance of executive and non-executive directors such that no individual or small group can dominate the Boards decision taking.
Throughout the financial year at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, has comprised independent non-executive directors.
In deciding the chairmanship and membership of the Board Committees, the need to refresh membership of the Committees is taken into account.
All the non-executive directors are considered to be independent and Mr Brydon was considered independent at the time of his appointment as Chairman.
Appointments to the Board The Nomination Committee has a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, which are made on merit and against objective criteria, having due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Board are satisfied that the directors are able to allocate sufficient time to their responsibilities relating to the Company.
The Nomination Committee and the Board have each considered the recommendations of the Davies Report on Women on Boards, as reported in the Chairmans statement on page 13.
Information and professional development The Board is provided with detailed information several days in advance on matters to be considered at its meetings and non-executive directors have ready access to the executive directors.
Non-executive directors are provided with information and updates between meetings.
Regular site visits are arranged and non-executive directors are encouraged to visit sites independently.
During site visits, briefings are arranged and the Directors are free to discuss aspects of the business with employees at all levels.
Newly-appointed directors undergo an induction programme to ensure that they have the necessary knowledge and understanding of the Company and its activities.
They undertake briefing sessions on corporate governance, strategy, stakeholder issues, finance and risk management and HR strategy, as well as meetings and site visits to business locations in the UK and overseas.
Each directors individual experience and background is taken into account in developing a programme tailored to his or her own requirements.
The Chairman consults with the directors on their respective training and development requirements.
The suitability of external courses is kept under review by the Company Secretary who is charged with facilitating the induction of new directors and with assisting in the ongoing training and development of directors.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense should this be required.
71 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Conflicts of Interest Under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act a director must avoid a situation where he or she has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the companys interests.
The requirement is very broad, and could apply, for example, if a director becomes a director of another company or a trustee of another organisation.
The 2006 Act allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts where appropriate and where the articles of association contain a provision to this effect, as the Companys Articles do.
The Board has put procedures in place for directors to report any potential or actual conflicts to the other members of the Board for their authorisation where appropriate.
Each director is aware of the requirement to seek approval of the Board for any new conflict situations, as they may arise.
The process of reviewing conflicts disclosed, and authorisations given, is repeated at least annually.
Any conflicts or potential conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a register of directors conflicts which is maintained by the Company Secretary.
Performance evaluation The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and each director.
In respect of the year ended 31 July 2011 the Board evaluation was led by Professor Rob Goffee of the London Business School, using a combination of questionnaires and individual interviews.
The results of the evaluation are used to inform the Boards approach going forward.
Professor Goffee has no other connection with the Company.
The directorships in listed companies and other significant commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are shown on pages 62 and 63.
It is confirmed that the Chairman and the non-executive directors have sufficient time to fulfil their commitments to the Company: that the Chairman does not hold the office of chairman of another FTSE 100 company: and that no executive director holds more than one non-executive directorship of another FTSE 100 company.
Re-election All directors stand for election by the shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM following their appointment.
The Board has resolved that all directors who are willing to continue in office will stand for re-election by the shareholders each year at the AGM.
Non-executive directors are appointed for a specified term of three years, subject now to annual re-election at each AGM, and reappointment for a second threeyear term is not automatic.
Any term for a non-executive director beyond six years is subject to a particularly rigorous review.
Remuneration Information regarding the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 74 and the Directors remuneration report is on pages 76 to 84.
Accountability and audit Financial reporting The Board is required to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects in the Annual Report and in interim and other public reports.
The Board is satisfied that it has met this obligation.
A summary of the directors responsibilities for the financial statements is set out on page 85.
The going concern statement required by the Code is set out in the Group directors report on page 65.
Internal control The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in achieving its particular objectives and maintains sound risk management and internal control systems to safeguard shareholders investments and the Companys assets.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed at least annually, by the Audit Committee, covering all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
The Audit Committee carried out such a review during the year ended 31 July 2011.
The Financial Reporting Councils report Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code October 2005 provides guidance.
The Company has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the Companys financial reporting process and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures that: pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS : require representatives of the businesses to certify that their reported information gives a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the business and its results for the period: and review and reconcile reported data.
The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring these internal control and risk management systems.
The Companys internal control is based on assessment of risk and a framework of control procedures to manage risks and to monitor compliance with procedures.
The procedures for accountability and control are outlined below.
The Companys internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed and, by their nature, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material loss to the Company or material misstatement in the financial accounts.
The Group has an embedded process for the identification, evaluation and management of significant business risks.
The process is reviewed through the Audit Committee and monitored by the Group Internal Audit Department.
The Company has during the year identified and evaluated the key risks, including ethical matters and information provision, and has ensured that effective controls and procedures are in place to manage these risks.
In the highly regulated environment of the industries in which the Company operates, procedures are codified in detailed operating procedures manuals and are reinforced by training programmes.
These are designed to ensure compliance not only with the regulatory requirements but also with general principles of business integrity.
72 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Group overview Chairman and Chief Executive Operating and financial review Risks and responsibility Governance Accounts A key element in any system is communication: the executive directors and senior corporate staff meet regularly with representatives from the businesses to address financial, human resource, legal, risk management and other control issues.
Throughout the financial year the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the effectiveness of internal control and the management of risks.
In addition to financial and business reports, the Board has reviewed mediumand longer-term strategic plans: management development programmes: reports on key operational issues: tax: treasury: risk management: insurance: legal matters: and Audit Committee reports, including internal and external auditors reports.
Audit Committee and Auditors The Audit Committee makes formal and transparent arrangements for considering how financial reporting and internal control principles are applied and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the independent external auditors,  LLP.
Relations with shareholders Dialogue with shareholders The Chief Executive, the Finance Director and the Director, Investor Relations communicate with institutional investors through analysts briefings and extensive investor roadshows in the UK, US and continental Europe, as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements, meetings with management and site visits.
Members of the Board, and in particular non-executive directors, are kept informed of investors views, in the main through distribution of analysts and brokers briefings.
At least twice a year a report is made to the Board on the number and types of meetings between the Company and institutional shareholders.
The Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the other non-executive directors are available to meet shareholders on request.
Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting All directors normally attend the Companys AGM and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors after the formal proceedings have ended.
It is intended that there shall be a poll vote on each resolution at the 2011 AGM.
The audited, final results of the poll votes will be released to the London Stock Exchange and published on the Companys website, www.
com, as soon as is practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
All the directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees, were available at the 2010 AGM to answer shareholders questions.
The notice of the AGM and related papers were sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
Board Committees The full terms of reference of the following Board Committees are available upon request and on the Companys website, www.
Audit Committee The members of the Committee during the financial year were Mr Challen Chairman of the Committee, Mr Angelici, Mr Chambers, Ms Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
The Board has determined that the Committee members have the skills and experience necessary to contribute meaningfully to the Committees deliberations.
In addition, the Chairman of the Committee has requisite experience in accounting and financial management.
The Committee meets at least three times a year to monitor the integrity of the Companys financial statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process, corporate governance issues and, in particular, the implementation of the Companys Code of Business Ethics and the arrangements for employees to raise confidentially and anonymously, if they so choose concerns about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting and other matters.
It is responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the Company and the external auditors is maintained, including reviewing non-audit services and fees and implementing the Companys audit partner rotation policy.
The Committee has primary responsibility for making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment and removal of the external auditors.
The Committee also reviews annually the Groups systems of internal control: the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group: and the effectiveness of the internal audit function: it is responsible for approving the appointment and removal of the Director, Internal Audit.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and its effectiveness and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The annual review of the Committees terms of reference was conducted in July 2011.
In the year to 31 July 2011, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by reviewing: the Groups financial statements and interim results statement prior to Board approval and the external auditors detailed reports thereon: the audit fee and non-audit fees payable to the Groups external auditors: the external auditors effectiveness and plan for the audit of the Groups 2010 11 accounts, which included confirmations of auditor independence and the proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: an annual report on the Groups systems of internal control and their effectiveness, reporting to the Board on the results of the review and receiving regular updates on key risk areas of financial control: the risks associated with major business programmes: and the internal audit functions terms of reference, its 2010 11 work programme and regular reports on the key issues arising from its work during the year.
The Committee has authority to investigate any matters within its terms of reference, to access resources, to call for information and to obtain external professional advice at the cost of the Company.
73 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued No-one other than the members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings.
However, the Chairman: Finance Director: Group Financial Controller: Director, Tax and Treasury: Director, Internal Audit: and external auditors are normally invited to attend.
Others may be invited to attend by the Committee.
The papers for and minutes of each Committee meeting are sent to all directors.
At least once a year, there is an opportunity for the external auditors, the Director, Internal Audit and the Director of Business Ethics to discuss matters with the Committee without any executive management being present.
The Director, Internal Audit, the Director of Business Ethics and the external auditors have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
The Committee reviews the nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors in order to ensure that objectivity and independence are maintained.
Under the audit independence policy, approved by the Committee, certain non-audit services may not be provided by the external auditors, certain services, not exceeding 10,000 in fees, require the approval of the Finance Director and all other services require the approval of the Chairman of the Committee.
Where the cost of the services is expected to exceed 100,000, the engagement will normally be subject to competitive tender.
The external auditors have in place processes to ensure that their independence is maintained including safeguards to ensure that where they provide non-audit services, their independence is not threatened.
The external auditors have written to the Audit Committee confirming that, in their opinion, they are independent and the Audit Committee concurs with that view.
Remuneration Committee Mr Chambers Chairman of the Committee, Mr Angelici, Mr Brydon, Mr Challen, Ms Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit were members of the Committee throughout the financial year.
The Committees responsibilities and terms of reference are described in the Directors remuneration report on page 76.
The Committee reviews its terms of reference and effectiveness annually and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
The annual review of the Committees Terms of Reference was conducted in July 2011.
Nomination Committee During the financial year the members of the Committee were: Mr Brydon, as Chairman of the Committee, Mr Angelici, Mr Challen, Mr Chambers, Ms Quinn and Sir Kevin Tebbit.
The Committee leads the process for identifying and makes recommendations to the Board regarding candidates for appointment as directors of the Company and as Company Secretary, giving full consideration to succession planning and the leadership needs of the Group.
It also makes recommendations to the Board on the composition of the Nomination Committee and the composition and chairmanship of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It reviews regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board, including the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and the independence of the non-executive directors, and makes recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
The Committee meets periodically when required.
No-one other than members of the Committee is entitled to be present at meetings but the Chief Executive is normally invited to attend and external advisers may be invited by the Committee to attend.
During the year, the Committee reviewed the Companys talent management and succession plans.
On 26 September 2011, the Committee agreed to amend Mr Bowmans service contract to remove the references to a retirement age: the remaining terms of the contract, including the notice periods, remained unaltered.
The Committee has access to such information and advice both from within the Group and externally, at the cost of the Company, as it deems necessary.
This may include the appointment of external search consultants, where appropriate.
The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and effectiveness and recommends to the Board any changes required as a result of such review.
Disclosure & Transparency Rule 7 This statement complies with sub-sections 2.1: 2.2 1 : 2.3 1 : 2.5: 2.7: and 2.10 of Rule 7 of the UK Listing Authority Disclosure & Transparency Rules.
The information required to be disclosed by sub-section 2.6 of Rule 7 is shown in the Group directors report on page 66 and is incorporated in this Corporate governance statement by reference.
74 Smiths Group plc Annual Report 2011
