Overview Business Review Governance Financial Statements Additional Information CORpORAte gOveRnAnCe HOW We FulFIl OuR COmmItment tO tHe uk CORpORAte gOveRnAnCe COde The Company is committed to the principles Dear Shareholders independence of their fellow Directors.
This contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code I am pleased to present this introduction to included, in particular, the Boards long tenured the Code that was issued in 2010 by the Financial our 2011 Corporate Governance Report the Directors, who are believed to bring a valuable Reporting Council for which the Board is CG Report, which describes how we have quality and effectiveness to the Board as a accountable to shareholders.
implemented and applied the principles of the whole.
The CG Report sets out full details of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
processes we undertake to ensure Director The Company has applied the principles set out in SOCO is committed to the highest standards independence is retained and how the Board the Code, as described below and, in connection of governance, and we welcome the seeks to balance the benefits of experience and with Directors remuneration, in the Directors recommendations of the new Code.
Additionally, the CG Report Remuneration Report.
the annual re-election of all Directors was describes changes to the Boards Committee implemented at the last Annual General Meeting memberships, which are intended to provide full Statement of Compliance with the Code of Shareholders AGM, giving shareholders the participation of its newest Directors and to allow Throughout the year ended 31 December 2011, opportunity to examine the contributions and them to benefit from the experience of former the Company has complied with the provisions set continued effectiveness of each Director.
Our 2011 Board evaluation was externally The 2011 Board evaluation additionally identified Board of Directors A facilitated in this first year following the Code diversity as a matter for increased scrutiny in The Boards role is to provide entrepreneurial recommendation for external facilitation at least consideration of the announced intent to revise leadership and develop strategy, values and once every three years.
The Directors expressed Code provisions addressing this.
The Board standards while maintaining prudent and effective an appreciation for the fresh perspective and recognises the benefits of diversity and has controls to assess and manage risk.
The Board is new insight brought about by the externally established gender diversity in particular as responsible for ensuring that the Company meets facilitated process.
The facilitators report a priority for future recruitment, in addition its obligations to stakeholders and has adequate indicates that the Directors consider the Board to the continued attention to individual merit, resources to meet its strategic objectives.
The to be effective and are satisfied with the manner experience, independence and complementary Board of Directors, whose names and biographical in which the Board carries out its role.
details are set out on pages 44 to 45, comprises attentive to self-criticism, the evaluation process nine Directors in addition to the Chairman.
After was utilised to identify areas where the The following pages provide further detail of how an assessment process set out in more detail effectiveness of the Board might be improved.
we fulfil our commitment to good corporate below, six of these nine, including the Senior The CG Report seeks to describe how we intend governance, and in particular those principles Independent Director, have been identified in the to benefit from this process.
related to the role and effectiveness of Annual Report of the Directors on page 48 as the Board.
independent in character and judgement giving full The independence of Directors was identified as consideration to those circumstances that the a matter against which the external facilitator Code states may appear relevant.
Notwithstanding would apply particular scrutiny.
The facilitator Rui fide Sousa this, the Board is satisfied that each of the reported that each Director expressed, in Chairman Companys Directors strictly abides by their legal confidence, the strong belief in the continued and ethical duties owed to the Company to act objectively and in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Chairman and Chief Executive The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separated and their responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive collectively are responsible for the leadership of the Company.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role SOCO International plc 51 Annual Report and Accounts 2011
