Corporate governance Introduction The Board met eight times during the year: the majority Corporate governance has always been, and remains, of the meetings were held at the Companys head office the responsibility of the whole Board which is committed in Cheltenham, with one meeting being held in the USA to to the principle of good governance.
The Board aims for coincide with a visit to Spirax Sarco Inc. and one meeting best practice since this will enable the Board to discharge being held at the Companys premises at Runnings Road its obligation to promote the success of the Company for in Cheltenham so as to allow the Directors to visit the newly the benefit of the shareholders and other stakeholders in reorganised manufacturing facilities and the new Technology the Company.
There was regular contact outside the formal meetings between the Chairman, the Chief Executive and Compliance the other Directors.
As required by the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority this Report explains how the Company applies All Directors are expected to attend all Board meetings and the principles and complies with the provisions of the relevant Committee meetings unless prevented by other prior Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance commitments or illness.
Directors unable to attend specific Code the Governance Code published in June 2010 Board or Committee meetings are sent the relevant papers which applied to the Company throughout the year ended in advance of the meetings and asked to provide comments 31st December 2011. in advance of the meetings to the Chairman of the Board or Committee as appropriate.
In addition, all Board or Subject to the ratio of Executive and Non-Executive Committee members receive copies of the minutes of Directors which is explained below the Board is of the meetings as a matter of course.
opinion that the Company met the requirements of the Governance Code throughout the year under review.
The following table identifies the attendance of individual The Board reviews, on an ongoing basis, its practices Directors at the eight Board meetings held in 2011: so as to ensure compliance with the Governance Code Attendance and responsibility for day to day compliance is, where W H Whiteley 8 appropriate, delegated to individual Directors or officers M E Vernon 8 of the Company.
G Bullock 7 The Board maintains contact with major shareholders to N H Daws 8 ensure that there are opportunities for discussion of the 1 M E Gibbin 5 Companys governance policies and strategy.
Three major shareholders availed themselves of the opportunity to meet D J Meredith 8 the Chairman during the year.
K Rajagopal 8 2 Disclosures required under DTR 7.2.
6 can be found A J Scrivin 4 on pages 34 and 35.
C G Watson 8 The Board of Directors 1 Mr M E Gibbin resigned from the Board on During the year the Board comprised the Chairman, 19th October 2011. three independent Non-Executive Directors and between 2 Mr A J Scrivin retired from the Board on 31st July 2011. three and five Executive Directors.
Current Directors' details are set out on pages 32 and 33.
The positions of Chairmans commitments Chairman, Chief Executive and Senior Independent Director The Chairmans other significant commitments are set out were held by separate individuals and there is a clear in his biography on page 33.
During the year the Chairman division of responsibility between the Chairman and the retired from his position as Chairman of the British Valve Chief Executive.
For the period from 1st January 2011 to 31st July 2011, the Senior Independent Director Company did not comply with Governance Code provision Throughout the year, Mr G Bullock was the Senior B.
1.2 as the number of Executive Directors exceeded the Independent Director.
number of independent Non-Executive Directors.
From Re-election of Directors 31st July 2011 until 19th October 2011 there were equal Although the Companys Articles of Association require numbers of Executive Directors and independent Nonthat all Directors appointed to the Board other than at Executive Directors and from 19th October 2011 there an Annual General Meeting of the Company are required to have been more independent Non-Executive Directors offer themselves for re-election at the next following Annual than Executive Directors.
The Board is responsible for the General Meeting and thereafter at three yearly intervals, the Groups business operations and the Executive Directors Board resolved in 2010 that, in order to comply with the are present on the Board in order to provide first-hand provisions of the Governance Code, all Directors should information and contributions to the running of the business.
stand annually for re-election by the shareholders at the The Group has a devolved management structure, which Annual General Meeting.
requires local management initiative across the Groups global spread of operating companies, its broad product range and wide customer base.
Board membership of the Executives is key to the overall management of the Group, which employs a relatively flat management structure.
This also provides the independent Non-Executive Directors with regular direct access to the Executive management team.
The divisional structure will be retained with Regional General Managers providing support to Executive Directors in each of the divisions.
36 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Appointment of Directors i Accounts and audit The Board and the Nomination Committee the Committee Approval and acceptance of: are responsible for the selection and appointment of new Preliminary and annual reports and accounts, half-yearly Directors to the Board and a formal and rigorous process is reports and interim management statements followed during the selection and appointment of Directors, Accounting policies and practices and any changes including the use of external consultants to advise the thereto: the use of any off-balance sheet structures Committee in arriving at nominations for appointment Any proposed audit qualification of the accounts to the Board.
The Audit Committees recommendations for The recommendations of the Women on Boards report appointment or removal of the external auditor.
produced by Lord Davies of Abersoch have been carefully ii Strategic and policy considerations considered by the Board and a statement on the Boards Review and or approval of: position on the issue was made available on the Groups website: www.
com in September The Groups overall corporate strategy and annual 2011 and a copy was sent to Cranfield University who are business plan assisting Lord Davies in his work.
Changes related to the Companys status as a listed company or major structural changes to the Group It is the Boards considered view that its overriding duty to Codes of ethics and business practice, in light of the the Company and the shareholders is to appoint the best Directors duty to promote the success of the Company possible candidates to the Board regardless of gender, for the benefit of the members as a whole race or disability.
Appointment of, or changes to, principal professional However, in making recommendations for appointment to advisers the Board, the Committee recognises the need to access Environmental policy the widest pool of candidates for consideration and the Health and safety policy Committee will therefore ensure that any consultants Any matter which could reasonably be expected to engaged by the Committee to assist it in finding suitable have a material effect on the reputation or standing of the Group.
candidates will be required to observe the recommendations of Lord Davies.
iii Risk management Conflicts Reviewing the effectiveness of risk management Under the Companies Act 2006 and the provisions of the and internal control on an ongoing basis, including Companys Articles of Association, the Board is required receiving and reviewing regular reports on to consider potential conflicts of interest.
The Company has internal control established formal procedures for the disclosure and review Carrying out an assessment at least annually of any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest which the of significant risks and effectiveness of risk Directors may have and for the authorisation of such conflict management and internal control policies: and matters by the Board.
To this end the Board considers and, reporting to shareholders on such matters if appropriate, authorises any conflicts, or potential conflicts, Prosecution, defence or settlement of litigation, of interest as they arise and reviews any such authorisation arbitration or other proceedings material to the annually.
New Directors are required to declare any conflict, Company Group and, for this purpose, litigation, or potential conflict, of interest to the Board at the first Board arbitration or other proceedings shall be deemed meeting after his or her appointment.
The Board believes material if the proceedings are for an amount in excess that the procedures established to deal with conflicts of of 5 million or if the penalty likely to be suffered may interest are operating effectively.
Board procedures iv Transactions The Board continuously assesses and reviews key priorities Approval of the following: and business issues for the Company and its operating Major investment and capital projects in excess companies over the short and longer term.
Investments or projects in excess of are submitted to the Board, together with the agenda for 500,000 sanctioned by the Executive team will be meetings, a week in advance of each meeting.
At each reported to the Board scheduled meeting of the Board except the meeting held in Acquisitions and disposals of operating companies June of each year the Board considers key issues affecting Acquisitions and disposals of other assets or liabilities the Company and its performance.
This includes reports above 1 million from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director.
Material contracts which are in the ordinary course The Board meeting held in June of each year is a two of business with a value of above 1 million day meeting and is held for the purpose of considering Contracts not in the ordinary course of business the Groups business strategy and goals and assessing Contracts in which a Director or other related party progress against these goals.
This meeting is normally is interested held at one of the operating companies sites so as to Any binding commitment to enter into a material allow the full Board the opportunity to visit operations strategic alliance, joint venture, partnership or profit around the world.
sharing arrangement The Board deals with those matters reserved to it for Giving security over significant assets.
decision, details of which are posted on the Groups v Finance website, and include the following matters: Approval of: Treasury Policy or amendments thereto Any financing or currency arrangement above the limit of the Finance Committee.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Corporate governance continued vi Regulatory requirements Board evaluation Ensuring compliance with the Listing, Prospectus, The Board recognises the value of a formal process whereby Disclosure and Transparency Rules there is a comprehensive and honest assessment of the Approval of all circulars, prospectuses and equivalent Boards performance.
Accordingly the Board undertakes documents save that approval of routine documents a formal evaluation of its performance each year using may be delegated to a committee a methodology devised by Towers Watson.
Approval of announcements concerning matters decided The 2011 review adopted the same format as that used in by the Board 2010 in order to allow a constant basis for measuring the Delegation of authority to issue an urgent announcement outputs of the evaluation.
The review concluded that the without the need to call a Board meeting, in order to Board continues to perform well.
In particular, the following comply with the Companys regulatory obligation to points were noted: announce inside information as soon as possible Dividend policy, approval of the interim dividend and The Board continues to have increased exposure to recommendation of the final dividend various departments in the Group and the objective Calling General Meetings of shareholders of Directors to have Board meetings at locations around Setting of general Group policy on charitable and the Group continues to be met political donations The performance of the Chairman and the Chairmen Issue of shares or other securities other than on notice of Board Committees continues to be highly rated.
of exercise of employee share options or repurchase In accordance with the provisions of the Governance Code, of shares the Board intends that Board evaluations will be externally Changes relating to the Companys share capital.
facilitated at least every three years.
vii Directors and senior employees Board training and development Approval of: All new Directors appointed to the Board receive Nomination Committees recommendations on a comprehensive induction to the Company and its Board appointments and removals and Board business, including: succession issues A detailed briefing pack from the Company Secretary Remuneration of Non-Executive Directors including copies of the Companys Articles of Terms of engagement other than remuneration package Association, the terms of reference of the Board and of Executive Directors Board Committees and details of the Groups risk Appointment and removal of Company Secretary management process Board policy on the duration of contracts with Directors Briefings on key areas of the business and its products both Executive and Non-Executive and services The procedures in place or to be put in place for the Visits to key sites to enable the new Director to familiarise authorisation of Directors conflict matters falling within himself herself with the business section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 and any The provision of formal training on the duties of a public changes to these procedures company director from a recognised external training The authorisation of any conflict matter arising for any provider such as the Institute of Directors.
Director of the Company under section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 and the terms and conditions The Directors have full access to the advice and services of attaching to such authorisation the Company Secretary and, if necessary, the Directors may Terms of reference and membership of Board seek independent legal advice at the Companys expense in Committees respect of their duties.
Delegation of the Boards powers The Directors receive regular presentations from heads of Procedure for Directors in the furtherance of their departments and senior members of staff so as to enhance duties to take independent professional advice, and deepen the Directors understanding of the business.
at the Companys expense In addition, it is the Boards intention for at least one Board Assessment of which Non-Executive Directors meeting each year to be held at a location outside of are independent Cheltenham so as to increase the exposure of the Directors Approval of training and development programmes to different operations within the business.
During the for Directors as relating to their duties as Directors year the Directors have also received briefings on the UK Approval of performance evaluation programmes Bribery Act.
for Board, Committees and individual Directors.
The Company provides Directors and Officers insurance viii Employment issues for Board members, directors of the Groups operating Agreement to: companies and senior officers of the Company.
Major changes in the rules or funding of the Shareholder relations pension schemes The Group conducts regular dialogue with institutional Major changes in employee or Directors share schemes shareholders and provides such information as is permitted and major changes in the allocation of share options.
within the guidelines of the Listing Rules.
In particular, major shareholders have been approached with a view to discussing the Companys governance and strategy with the Chairman, Mr M E Vernon and Mr D J Meredith.
As required by major shareholders, Mr G Bullock, the Senior Independent Director, is available to listen to their views on any areas of concern they may have.
38 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Reports are made to the Board of all meetings with major In accordance with the Governance Code, Mr C G Watson is shareholders and analysts including, in particular, briefings identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
after half year and final results.
The key responsibility of the Committee is to review the During the year, the Directors have conducted briefings with effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting and major shareholders and analysts, including visits to North controls.
Accordingly the Committee is authorised by the Board to: America and Europe.
The Company also hosts visits from shareholders and analysts and a well attended Investor Day Monitor and review the integrity and the audit of the was held in Cheltenham in September 2011.
Companys financial statements The preliminary results announcement may be accessed Review the Companys internal financial controls by investors on the Groups website: Monitor and review the work and effectiveness www.
The Annual Report of the Companys internal audit function and Accounts is also posted on the Groups website.
Oversee the Companys relationship with its external auditor including reviewing their independence.
All shareholders are invited to participate in the Annual General Meeting, where the chairmen of the Audit, During the year the Committee received detailed reports Nomination and Remuneration Committees will be available from senior management and KPMG Audit plc as the to answer questions.
The results of proxy votes are declared Companys external auditor.
In particular the Committee at Annual General Meetings after each resolution has been considered audit strategy and fees, received various updates dealt with on a show of hands.
Details of the proxy votes on tax and internal audit and reviewed the interim and yearreceived will be published on the Groups website following end financial statements and press release.
The Committee the Annual General Meeting.
also met privately with the external auditor in the absence of management.
KPMG Audit plc has been the external auditor Board Committees of the Group since the 1950s.
The Committee makes a The Board delegates specific responsibility in carrying out recommendation, through the Board, to shareholders for some of its functions to Board Committees in accordance the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external with terms of reference set by the Board.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Groups Committees are the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and choice of external auditor.
The detailed terms of reference for each of these Committees are set out on the The Committee requires operating companies to complete Groups website and a summary of these terms of reference a quality of service questionnaire annually which enables the is set out below in the reports of the Committees work Committee to assess the performance of the auditor.
during the year After due consideration, the Committee has recommended i Audit Committee to the Board that a resolution to reappoint KPMG Audit plc be proposed at the 2012 Annual General Meeting and the Board has approved this recommendation.
The Committee, with the approval of the Board, has put in place policies that restrict the types and the amount of non-audit work that can be carried out by the external auditor.
The Committee is provided with a report of all non-audit work carried out by the external auditor and a full breakdown of fees related to non-audit work.
A summary of these fees is contained in note 6 on page 65.
These policies, restrictions and reporting requirements allow the Committee to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is maintained.
In accordance with the International Standard on Auditing UK and Ireland 260 and the Ethical Statement issued by The Group aims to maintain high standards of the Accounting Practices Board, the external auditor has corporate governance and reporting and the confirmed, in writing to the Directors, its independence Committee has worked hard to support this.
as auditor of the Company.
Clive Watson, Chairman, Audit Committee During the year under review, the members of the Committee and the attendance at the three meetings of the Committee were as follows: Attendance C G Watson Chairman 3 G Bullock 3 K Rajagopal 3 All the above are adjudged to be independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, Mr W H Whiteley and Mr D J Meredith attend meetings of the Committee in order to assist with its deliberations.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Corporate governance continued ii Nomination Committee The Committee is actively considering the issues of Board diversity as well as continuing to progress robust succession plans.
Bill Whiteley, Chairman, Nomination Committee A majority of the Committees membership is comprised During the year under review the Committee considered: of independent Non-Executive Directors, and its members, The overall management succession strategy for the together with their attendance at the four meetings held Group and its operating companies during the year, were: A review of the senior management structure of Attendance the Group The composition of the Board of Directors in relation to W H Whiteley Chairman 4 both gender diversity and background experience.
The G Bullock 4 Committee is actively committed to seeking female K Rajagopal 3 representation on the Board M E Vernon 4 The Committee has also discussed the need to better C G Watson 3 prepare female managers for more senior roles in the Group and to ensure that female candidates are The Company Secretary is the Secretary to the Committee.
considered for senior level recruitments into the Group recognising with concern the relative shortage of The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: qualified female senior managers in the industrial Make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the engineering industry appointment, reappointment or replacement of Directors The reappointment of Dr K Rajagopal as an independent Keep under review the structure and composition of Non-Executive Director upon the expiry of his current the Board and to recommend any proposed changes appointment on 9th February 2012. to the Board With regard to Dr K Rajagopals reappointment, the Consider succession planning arrangements Chairman and the Committee confirmed that, following for Directors.
formal performance evaluation, Dr K Rajagopals In making recommendations for appointments to the Board, performance continues to be effective and to demonstrate the Committee has regard to the overall balance of the skills, commitment to the role.
As this was a reappointment of an knowledge and experience of Board members against the existing independent Non-Executive Director, no external current and perceived future requirements of the Company search consultancy or open advertising was used.
and to the benefits of diversity, including gender.
iii Remuneration Committee A detailed report on the membership and the work of the Committee is included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 43 to 51.
40 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 iv Risk Management Committee At the start of 2011 the Committee completed its formal review of the Group Register of Risks and began to implement an additional bottom up review process to strengthen the Groups risk management process.
Mark Vernon, Chairman, Risk Management Committee The Committees membership, and attendance at the three The Company Secretary is responsible for sending a meetings held during the year, was as follows: questionnaire to each Group operating company twice per year at the half year and full year end which requires Attendance assurance from the General Manager of the relevant M E Vernon Chairman 3 operating company that each operating company has N H Daws 2 effectively implemented all material controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls required D J Meredith 3 by the Committee, and is taking appropriate steps to guard W G Stebbings 3 against the risks identified by the Committee.
Each General N J Anderson from 1st September 2011 1 Manager is required to explain what steps have been taken A Grandi from 12th December 2011 1 to guard against or mitigate the risks.
The output from these A J Scrivin from 1st January to 31st July 2011 2 questionnaires is then reviewed by the Committee and the results reported to the Board.
Any issues arising from the M E Gibbin from 1st January to 19th October 2011 2 replies to the questionnaires are followed up by the The Committee completed the review of the Groups appropriate Director or the Company Secretary to ensure Register of Risks which began, with the assistance of Willis any necessary corrective action is taken.
the Groups insurance broker, in 2010 when a meeting was The Committee also decided that, with effect from held with Willis and the Risk Management Committee, at 1st January 2012, operating companies would additionally which a number of the Non-Executive Directors participated, be required to complete a bottom up risk review so as to to review the then current Register of Risks.
As a result allow operating companies to consider in detail any separate of this review a new Register of Risks was established in risks to which each operating company might be subject and February 2011 and now forms the basis of the Groups what steps they propose to take to eliminate or mitigate management and review of risks and informs the content such risks.
of the risk returns which are sent to all Group operating companies.
The Groups Register of Risks sets out the risks In addition, the Risk Management questionnaires are utilised to which the Committee believes the Group may be exposed to follow up outstanding actions from internal audit reports and the principal risks are set out on pages 26 and 27 in the so as to ensure that issues identified by internal audits are Financial Review.
closed off in an appropriate manner.
Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 Corporate governance continued Financial controls Whistleblowing The Finance Committee considers financing and investment If any employee in the Group has reasonable grounds for decisions concerning the Group, including the giving of believing that the Group Management Code or any Group guarantees and indemnities, and monitors policy and control Policies are being breached by any person or group of mechanisms for managing treasury risk within the limits laid people and does not feel able to voice the matter with his down from time to time by the Board.
or her manager, he or she is able to contact the Company Secretary or Group HR Director in Cheltenham with full The Committee comprises: details.
The Company Secretary or Group HR Director Mr W H Whiteley Chairman will ensure that a the circumstances are properly Mr M E Vernon investigated and b the employment of the person Mr D J Meredith contacting the Company Secretary or Group HR Director will be protected appropriately.
Financial reporting systems include comprehensive annual plans approved by the Board and monthly notifying of actual Internal audit financial results with appropriate comparisons made against The Board has an established internal audit function which plan and the previous years results.
allows each of the Group operating companies to be audited at least every three years and those judged to be in higher Forecast operating results for the year are regularly updated.
risk territories will be audited more frequently.
All businesses Capital investment is subject to approval under a clear acquired by the Group are subject to internal audit within one policy.
This includes annual plans, appropriate authorisation, year from the date of acquisition.
Internal audit resource is detailed investment appraisal, post-investment review and supplemented by experienced qualified accounting staff from due diligence requirements where businesses are being principal Group operating companies and a professional acquired.
Forward currency contracts are implemented auditing firm, BDO International.
Reports are made to the centrally under the control of the Group Treasury Function.
Audit Committee and the Board as a whole.
No significant Internal controls matters were raised in the reports made in the 16 operating The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal companies audited during the year.
controls and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst the role Going concern of management is to implement Board policies on risk and The Groups business activities, together with the main control.
There is an ongoing process for identifying and trends and factors likely to affect its future development, managing risks faced by the Group which has been in place performance and position, and the financial position of the for the year under review and up to the date of approval Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The reviews cover facilities, are set out in the Business Review and Financial and assess the effectiveness of all material controls, Review on pages 16 to 27.
In addition note 32 on pages including financial, operational and compliance controls 88 to 93 to the financial statements includes the Groups and risk management systems.
This ensures that proper objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital, accounting records have been maintained, that financial its financial risk management objectives, details of its information used within the business is reliable and that the financial instruments and hedging activities, and its consolidated accounts preparation and financial reporting exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
process comply with all relevant regulatory reporting requirements.
The system of internal controls is designed The Group has considerable financial resources together to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to with contracts with a diverse range of customers and achieve the business objectives.
suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
No one customer accounts for more than 1% of Group The Board believes from its annual reviews that the system turnover.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the of internal controls is embedded in the business and regular Group is well placed to manage its business risks review allows for assessment of new and changing risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries and after conducting a formal review In pursuing these objectives, internal controls can provide of the Groups financial resources at their March 2012 Board only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Meeting, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that misstatement or loss.
the Company and the Group have adequate resources to As required by the UK Listing Authority, the Company has continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
complied throughout the year and up to the date of this Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis Report with the Governance Code provisions on internal in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
controls, having established the procedures necessary to Directors responsibilities implement the guidance issued by the Turnbull Committee The Statement of Directors Responsibilities is set out on and by reporting in accordance with that guidance which page 52. is publicly available at www.
All Group operating companies are required annually to complete self-certification questionnaires regarding compliance with the policies, procedures and minimum requirements for an effective system of internal controls.
Self-certification is given by both the General Manager and the Finance Manager of the operation.
42 Spirax-Sarco Engineering plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
