spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Board of directors Alex Walker 65 Bill Burns 44 Eric Hutchinson 56 Chairman Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer Alex was appointed to the Board in December 2006 Bill was appointed to the Board in November 2008.
Eric was appointed to the Board in January 2000. and was appointed Chairman of the Company in March 2010.
He chairs the Nomination Committee He is responsible for formulating the Groups He is responsible for overseeing the financial and attends other Committee meetings by invitation.
objectives and strategy for approval by the Board.
operations of the Group and setting its financial Working with the CFO he sets the annual budget and strategy in conjunction with the Audit Committee Alex is responsible for leading the Board and medium term plan and is responsible for reporting and the Board.
He also oversees the overall ensuring that it operates in an effective manner.
performance against plan to the Board.
Bill also plays framework for financial forecasting, planning, As Chairman, he is responsible for setting Board a key role in identifying and executing acquisitions analysis and reporting.
agendas and ensuring sufficient time is available and disposals.
for discussing all agenda items, particularly key Before his appointment to the Board, Eric had strategic issues.
He is also responsible for Before his appointment to the Board, Bill was Chief previously been responsible for all financial Executive Officer of the Communications Group.
In reporting and control within the Group.
He joined promoting a culture of openness and debate within this position he was responsible for the overall the Company in 1983, was appointed Chief the Board and ensuring constructive relations leadership, strategy, investments, coordination of Accountant in 1987 and became Head of Corporate between the executive and non-executive directors resources and leveraging of the Companys breadth Accounting in 1997. and effective communication with shareholders.
and depth of technology across all of the Eric holds a degree in History from the University of Alex was chief executive of Yule Catto & Co. plc Communications Groups business units.
Leicester and undertook postgraduate research in until August 2006 and, until April 2010 was a non-executive director, chairman of the Prior to this position, Bill served as Executive Vice Contemporary History at Trinity College, Oxford.
He remuneration committee and member of the President of the Communications Group and as is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified audit and nomination committees of Rotork plc.
President, Service Assurance Broadband and was Accountants and a member of the Financial responsible for global sales and corporate marketing Reporting Review Panel.
Alex is a non-executive director of Zotefoams plc.
In this role, he drove critical business changes to improve profitability and grow market share.
Before joining the Company in November 2004, Bill held several executive leadership positions at Tellabs, Inc. including senior vice president Global Marketing, senior vice president Europe, Middle East and Africa and vice president Competitive Service Provider Sales.
Bill holds a degree in Telecommunications Engineering from Pennsylvania State University, a Business Administration degree from College Misericordia and a Master of Business Administration degree from Temple University.
