spirent communications plc annual report 2011 Directors statement on corporate governance continued The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive Performance evaluation Performance evaluation of the Board and its Committees was carried accurate, timely and clear information.
They receive regular updates on business performance and receive presentations from the out during the year by each director completing questionnaires and the results being collated and analysed by the Company Secretary executive directors and other senior managers at Board meetings.
In addition, regular site and customer visits are arranged for who prepared a report for Board discussion.
The Board discussion concluded that the Board and its Committees operated well and non-executive directors during which briefings are arranged and the directors have the opportunity to discuss aspects of the business were effective, however, it would welcome the opportunity to broaden diversity and further strengthen industry experience.
with employees at all levels.
Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretary ensures good and timely information flows The Chairman communicates regularly with the non-executive between the Board and its Committees and makes sure that Board procedures are complied with.
The Company Secretary also updates directors and this contact provides an ongoing opportunity to assess performance and to discuss the performance of the executive directors and advises the Board on all regulatory and governance matters.
The Chairman has concluded that during the year under review the commitment and application of the nonThere is a policy whereby the non-executive directors and the Board Committees may take independent professional advice at the executive directors was of a high standard, including each having sufficient time to attend all Board and appropriate Committee meetings Companys expense in order to fulfil their duties.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, and to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
whose removal may only be effected with the approval of the Board.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director met with the independent non-executive directors on 2 November 2011, in the Board appointments, induction and training The Board has in place a procedure for the appointment of new absence of the Chairman, to assess the Chairmans effectiveness.
The independent non-executive directors were of the opinion that directors to the Board which complies with the Code and was applied to the appointment of Sue Swenson on 1 February 2012.
Mr Walker gave sufficient time to his role as Chairman of the Company and was effective in that role during the year under review.
Following appointment to the Board and its Committees, all directors The Board is actively considering the provisions under the Code relating receive an induction tailored to their individual requirements to ensure they have the necessary knowledge and understanding of the to the use of external facilitators in the performance evaluation process and it is anticipated that an external review will be conducted in 2012.
New directors are briefed on their legal and other duties and obligations as directors of a UK listed company.
Board Committees Visits to different facilities and meetings with senior management are organised, to assist the new director in developing an understanding Certain of the matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision have been delegated to three Committees with clearly defined terms of of how the Group operates and the key issues that it faces.
reference which, together with the composition of each Committee, are reviewed annually.
The terms of reference for the Audit, Nomination The process outlined above of regular business updates, site and customer visits ensures that the non-executive directors remain and Remuneration Committees can be found on the Companys website at www.
close to, and have a deep understanding of, our business.
In addition, the updates from the Company Secretary ensure that the Board is Audit Committee fully appraised of all corporate governance matters.
Directors are also encouraged to attend external courses.
During 2011, the Audit Committee comprised Ian Brindle Chairman, Duncan Lewis and Tom Maxwell.
Sue Swenson was appointed to the The Companys Articles of Association require that all directors seek Committee on 1 February 2012.
All of the Committee members are independent non-executive directors, making the composition of the election by shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and that all directors retire and seek re-election at Committee compliant with the Code.
The Code also requires that the Audit Committee includes at least one member who has recent, least every three years.
However, commencing in 2011 and in accordance with the Code, all directors stand for re-election annually.
significant and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers that both Ian Brindle and Tom Maxwell provide such experience.
