Scottish and Southern Energy 60 Annual Report 2011 Audit Committee effectiveness of the Companys members and meetings internal audit function: Attendance Membership at meetings kk monitoring and reviewing the objectivity and independence of the external Ren Mdori Auditors taking into consideration the Committee Chairman 3 3 scope of their work and fees paid for Thomas Thune Andersen 3 3 both audit and non-audit services: Nick Baldwin 3 3 kk monitoring and reviewing the significant Richard Gillingwater 3 3 risks identified by each business unit as well as the mitigating action against The Board has determined that each those risks: Ren Mdori member of the Committee is independent kk monitoring and reviewing the Audit Committee Chairman and that the membership meets the arrangements by which employees requirements of the 2008 Code.
Ren can in confidence raise concerns about Mdori is identified as having recent and any possible improprieties in financial relevant financial experience through his and other matters: and position as Finance Director of a major kk reviewing the significant financial international listed company.
The Finance Director, Generation and Supply activities in 2010 11 Director, Head of Group Internal Audit and The Audit Committee had three meetings the external Auditors normally attend and in the year.
The key activities of the Audit report at Audit Committee meetings.
The Committee during the year are set out below: Company Chairman also regularly attends Audit Committee meetings.
Senior Financial statements management including the Group Treasurer, kk reviewed the financial statements in Group Financial Controller, Managing the 2010 report and accounts and the Director, Energy Portfolio Management, interim results.
As part of this review the Managing Director, Corporate Affairs and Committee received from the external Director of Portfolio Support may also be Auditors a report on their audit of the invited to present reports.
During the year, annual report and accounts and their the Committee met privately with the review of the interim results: and external Auditors, and separately with kk reviewed the annual and interim results the Head of Group Internal Audit.
The Company Secretary was Secretary Control environment and risk management to the Audit Committee during the year.
kk received six-monthly reports by Group Internal Audit setting out the audit The Committee has unrestricted access programme, its progress against the to Company documents and information programme, the results of key audits and as well as to management and the external other significant findings, the adequacy Auditors.
The Audit Committee Chairman of managements response and the reports the outcome of Committee meetings timeliness of resolution of actions: to the Board.
kk reviewed and agreed the Group Internal Audit Plan for the year ending 31 March role 2012: The Audit Committee assists the Board in kk received six-monthly reports from the effective discharge of its responsibilities energy trading and treasury setting for financial reporting and internal control, out strategy, market developments, together with the procedures for the any significant risks and the controls identification, assessment and reporting of in place to mitigate these risks: risks.
The Audit Committees remit, which kk received six-monthly reviews from Group is set out in its terms of reference, includes Internal Audit on the Internal Control responsibility for: Risk Assessment setting out the Group Risk Map and Residual Risk Map: kk ensuring that the Companys financial kk reviewed Post-Investment Appraisal reports and formal announcements Reports: and represent an accurate, clear and kk received reports under the Group balanced assessment of the Companys whistleblowing policy and reviewed position and prospects: the implementation of this policy.
kk monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys External audit process accounting systems, internal control kk reviewed the effectiveness of the overall policies and procedures and risk audit process for 2010 11, meeting with management systems: the Auditors and management kk monitoring and reviewing the separately to identify any areas of 61 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information concern in the preparation of the Upon the recommendation of the Audit financial statements: Committee and approval of the Board, kk reviewed independence and objectivity resolutions to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc and agreed the terms of appointment, as Auditors, and to authorise the Directors areas of responsibility, associated to fix their remuneration, will be proposed duties and scope of the audit as set at the forthcoming AGM.
out in the engagement letter for the forthcoming year: Ren Mdori kk reviewed and agreed the audit fees, Chairman fees for non-recurring work and the regulatory reporting fee: kk reviewed internal control and key accounting and audit issues: and kk reviewed recommendations made by the Auditors and the adequacy of managements response.
Independence of Auditors kk reviewed changes in the Audit team: and kk reviewed the extent of non-audit services provided by the Auditors in accordance with the established policy where: a competitive tender process is required where non-audit fees exceed a threshold of 30,000 for general advice and 75,000 for tax-related advice: the Committee must be satisfied that the work was best handled by the Auditors because of their knowledge of the Group: and the Committee must be satisfied that the objectivity and independence of the Auditors was not affected by the work.
The Audit Committee continued to monitor the level of non-audit work undertaken by the Auditors.
The non-audit work awarded during the year included: kk taxation advice including general consultancy, acquisitions and disposals: kk accounting due diligence: and kk regulatory accounts.
Full disclosure of the audit and non-audit fees paid during the year is made in note 4 to the Financial Statements.
KPMG Audit Plc has been the external auditor of the enlarged Group since 1999.
Under its terms of reference, the Audit Committee has responsibility for recommending to the Board the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the external Auditors.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the Auditors is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The external Auditors are required to rotate the audit partners responsible for the Group audit every five years and the current lead partner has been in place for two years.
