Scottish and Southern Energy 50 Annual Report 2011 The SSE team of members, it is expected that salary Fundamental to the Companys success be involved in its Community at Heart adjustments will be processed in July 2011 is the professionalism and enthusiasm employee volunteering scheme, which and backdated to April 2011. of employees, guided by SSEs Teamwork aims to give 20,000 days of employee value, which states: We support and value time to assisting worthwhile projects Pay arrangements in SSEs Contracting our colleagues and enjoy working together within the communities that SSE serves.
division are in line with national construction in an open and honest way.
Within SSE, employee participation is The Board of Directors encouraged through adherence to the rights Companys Teamwork value.
The appraisal SSE has in place a comprehensive range The Board is accountable to SSEs process for employees, including the senior of policies to safeguard the interests of shareholders for the good conduct of management team, specifically evaluates employees and potential employees.
Like all the Companys affairs and is collectively their performance in Teamwork, along responsible organisations it has in place an responsible for creating and sustaining with performance in respect of SSEs other actively-managed equal opportunities policy, in shareholder value through the overall core values: Safety, Service, Efficiency, keeping with the spirit as well as the letter of management of the Company, while ensuring Sustainability and Excellence.
In keeping with the law in the UK and elsewhere, designed to that a sound system of internal control and these values, SSE produced and distributed ensure fair and equal treatment of employees risk management is in place.
How the in April 2011 an updated code of business and potential employees across the seven Board works is set out on pages 52 to 55. practice, Doing the right thing.
It highlights, protected characteristics, as defined in the summarises and complements a range of Equality Act 2010 sex, race, religion or belief, The Management Board ethics-related policies which SSE has in disability, pregnancy and maternity, sexual place.
It takes account of recent legislation orientation and gender reassignment.
The The Management Board is the group such as the UKs Bribery Act 2010.
Employment Equality Age Regulations of Executive Directors and other senior 2006 have now been incorporated into the executives which is responsible for In addition to a wide range of internal Equality Act 2010.
There were no occasions implementing strategy and policy as agreed communication media and events, employee during 2010 11 when SSE was found to have by the Main Board and for the operational participation in SSE is also encouraged failed to comply with legislation on equality.
management of all of SSEs businesses.
Of through the Chief Executives Blog, interthe 53 senior managers who report directly active online forums, divisionand  to members of the Management Board, specific employee surveys, Director-led Along with the rights summarised above, 11 are women: and of the 45 members of regional roadshows and the Licence to SSE also believes that employees have the four Committees of the Management Innovate scheme, which enables employees responsibilities, summarised in eight People Board, 12 are women.
to research, review and test-trial new ideas.
Principles, adopted in 2008 and built around its core value of Teamwork: Other employees Employee engagement SSE recognises the value in retaining an kk Take all active steps to ensure there The Executive Directors and senior executives engaged workforce and has started to run is no intimidation or discrimination: and managers are among the 20,249 people an annual survey of employee engagement kk Engage in safe, healthy and directly employed by SSE on 31 March 2011. with the Company and what it is trying to  working Most of these people work in the United achieve.
The results of the 2010 survey, practices: Kingdom: around 500 are employed in the which were shared with all employees, kk Always know and understand what Republic of Ireland: and 18 work in mainland showed that SSE has a workforce committed is expected of you in your job: Europe.
Of all employees, 73% are men and to meeting business needs and that a large kk Maintain respect and support for 27% are women.
The average age of SSEs number of employees see their longer term colleagues at all times: employees is 39 years.
In 2010 11, there was future with SSE.
As expected, a number of kk Work continuously to improve team a 9.5% turnover of employees, compared actions arose from the survey, and these and individual performance: with 8.7% in the previous year.
kk Obtain constructive feedback on your performance from your line manager: participation Joint negotiating and kk Receive appropriate training, SSE believes that there is a commonality of consultative committee development and rewards: and interest between employees and customers SSE benefits from a well-established kk Know and embrace the Companys and shareholders.
To reinforce that it: Joint Negotiating and Consultative core values.
Committee which includes lay and full-time kk encourages employees to become and representatives from four recognised trade Through the application of these remain customers by providing them unions.
In April 2011, SSE and the JNCC principles, SSE seeks to maintain a positive with a 10% discount on its prices for made a joint announcement stating that both organisational culture and to provide a electricity and gas supply, plus discounts parties have reached, in principle, agreement fulfilling place for people to work.
on energy efficiency installations, central on a three-year package, featuring pay heating and wiring maintenance and increases, performance pay, flexible working training and development telephone and broadband services: patterns, job stability, family-friendly working The skills and competencies of employees kk provides opportunities for employees policies and an additional days holiday.
are critical to the energy sector in the UK, to become and remain shareholders They have also reached agreement on the establishment of Joint Business Committees, the Republic of Ireland and elsewhere.
in SSE through a Share Incentive Plan complementing the work of the JNCC by SSE needs to ensure the safe and efficient and a Sharesave Scheme.
Employee focusing on issues that affect particular operation of its businesses and the reliable participation in these schemes is now parts of SSE.
Subject to acceptance of the provision of services to customers.
In addition, 44% and 35% respectively: and offer, which is the subject of a full ballot SSE needs to develop new skills and kk provides opportunities for employees to 51 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information flexibility to manage new technologies.
It is, Over 1,800 Licences to Innovate were issued Suppliers and contractors therefore, critical that employees of SSE during 2010 11, of which over 300 were have the training, development and work implemented.
A number of Licences have SSE depends upon an extended team, experience they need to fulfil their potential.
Others have of suppliers and contractors, upon whom In order to do this, SSE uses a range of contributed to improved performance in it relies for the long-term success of its delivery media for training.
specific areas, such as safety, service and business.
It aims to promote responsible sustainability.
In Generation, for example, a practices within its supplier and contractor During 2010 11, SSE invested 1.54m Licence to Innovate resulted in a temporary base.
SSEs aims in this area are to: in externally-provided training, taking the technical solution being applied to a turbine total to 6.3m over the last three years.
issue at a hydro electric scheme which kk ensure safe working by contractors This helped to deliver training to 4,900 allowed a full outage to be deferred until operating on sites for SSE: employees.
In addition, SSE employs almost the summer months, allowing the scheme kk integrate human rights, labour, 100 people in its Training and Development to continue generating electricity during environmental and ethical considerations teams and extensive in-house training was the wetter winter months.
into its main procurement processes: given to a large number of employees during kk raise awareness of human rights, labour, the year.
SSE has technical and general SSEs focus on innovation complements its environmental and ethical concerns training centres at Thatcham and Perth.
work in research and development, where amongst buyers, traders and suppliers: These centres enable people to train in new processes, services, products and kk understand where human rights, labour, the types of environment in which they technologies are created, enabling it to environmental and ethical risks lie in its will eventually work, providing a realistic remain a successful company in the future.
supply chain: and experience in a safe, controlled setting.
SSEs corporate research and development kk identify specific procurement activities function prioritises actionable projects where the risks and or opportunities SSE recognises that the continued success of focused on the day after tomorrow which merit further investigation and conduct its business requires the ongoing development can be delivered by employees, working such investigations as required.
of employees, as well as the effective with external organisations.
The projects recruitment, retention and development of are focused on two key areas: offshore wind SSE provides advice and guidance to talented people into its business.
As part of energy: and energy usage.
In total, during suppliers on an individual basis and to this process, SSE has in place a succession 2010 11, and working with partners, SSE potential suppliers via the SSE website.
planning process that is supported by a initiated research and development projects There is an emphasis on encouraging detailed set of development options for with a value of almost 10m.
suppliers and those involved in tender individuals.
In addition, SSE offers a range processes to propose innovative ways of structured development programmes SSE also maintains a long-term outlook of meeting SSEs needs in a way that suited to the needs of school leavers, through the work of its Central Research Unit, minimises environmental impact.
trainees, trainee engineers, graduates which examines in detail issues which could and apprentices.
In 2010 11, 100 people affect SSE and its customers over the next 10, SSE has for several years subscribed to were recruited through these schemes.
These range from electricity the Verify scheme, which is operated by an storage to developments in communication independent company, Achilles.
It assesses Innovation, research methods in energy demand management.
the environmental, health and safety and and development quality commitment of potential suppliers Community and and contractors.
SSE expects existing and The SSE team of people has extensive charitable activities potential suppliers and contractors to knowledge, expertise and know-how.
New co-operate fully with the Verify process.
ideas, improvements to process and design SSE encourages its employees to be active The Achilles carbon reduction programme and innovation have been key to SSEs citizens in the communities in which they allows suppliers to measure, manage and successes to date and are fundamental live and work.
In April 2010 it launched its report their organisational footprint via to the Companys ability to adapt to the Community at Heart employee volunteering CEMARS Certified Emissions Management challenges of the future.
During the year almost 5,000 and Reduction Scheme.
By the end of Excellence value states that: We strive to employees took part in the scheme, 2010 11, SSE had successfully encouraged get better and smarter and more innovative providing practical help to 320 separate seven of its main suppliers to sign up to the and be the best in everything we do.
SSE also successfully completed the process itself and again achieved As a spur to employee participation, idea SSEs focus on safety is reflected in Make CEMARS certification.
generation, continuous improvement and it Zero, which rewards business units that operational excellence, SSE maintains deliver a full year without any lost-time SSEs Director of Procurement is the Chair and promotes a systematic approach to or reportable injuries with a donation to a of the Steering Group of the Achilles Carbon implementing ideas that add value.
This charity of the business units choice.
Through Reduction Programme, indicating SSEs is through the Licence to Innovate scheme, these and other schemes, such as financial commitment to improving measurement under which any employee can suggest support for community programmes near and management of carbon throughout the ideas for improving the way SSE operates, its wind farms, SSE set aside over 5.2m supply chain.
During 2011 12, SSE expects consistent with its core values.
People with for charitable and community programmes to complete a series of reviews on the ideas with significant potential are granted in the UK during 2010 11. approach to corporate responsibility of a Licence to Innovate, under which they can key suppliers falling within higher risk spend two months researching further their During 2010 11 SSE expects to develop categories such as personal protective proposal.
Subject to the outcome of the plans for new visitor facilities at some of equipment, other workwear, catering research, the idea may then be piloted its major sites, with enhanced educational and security, especially those which have prior to full implementation.
