63 Overview Nomination Committee Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information selection process will generally involve members and meetings interviews with a number of candidates, Attendance Membership at meetings using the services of a professional search firm specialising in Board level recruitment.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Committee and Board Chairman 2 2 The Committee also reviews succession Thomas Thune Andersen 2 2 planning and leadership needs in the course Nick Baldwin 2 2 of its work taking into account the risks and Richard Gillingwater 2 2 opportunities facing the Company, and from Ren Mdori 1 2 this identifies the skills and expertise Lady Rice 2 2 Lord Smith of Kelvin required from the Board and senior Ian Marchant 2 2 Nomination Committee Chairman management team.
The Committee is chaired by the Company activities in 2010 11 Chairman and its membership comprises The Nomination Committee had two of all the non-Executive Directors and the meetings during the year.
assessed the roles required for future nonExecutive Director positions, and appointed The Company Chairman would not chair an external search firm, which was used to the meeting if it was dealing with any matter identify suitable candidates for the two nonconcerning the chairmanship of the Board.
Executive Director roles announced on 27 In this case the meeting would be chaired April 2011 and referred to on page 49.
The by a non-Executive Director elected by the Nomination Committee also reviewed Board remaining members.
Members of the Committee membership, and the Directors Committee do not take part in discussions conflicts of interest.
when their own performance or when their continued appointment is being considered.
Lord Smith of Kelvin Chairman The Company Secretary is Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
role The Nomination Committees role is to review the leadership needs of the Board and senior management, with a view to ensuring SSEs continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace.
The Nomination Committees remit, which is set out in its terms of reference, includes responsibility for: kk reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and its committees and making recommendations to the Board on any desired changes: kk reviewing the succession plans for the Executive Directors: kk making recommendations to the Board on suitable candidates to fill vacancies for non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors: kk ensuring that the procedure for appointing new Directors is rigorous and transparent and that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria for purpose: and kk reviewing potential conflicts of interest of Directors.
Before an appointment is made the Committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the Board to ensure that any new appointment complements these qualities.
Candidates from a wide range of backgrounds are considered and the
