Scottish and Southern Energy 48 Annual Report 2011 Board of Directors The Board of Directors 01 02 03 the Board of Directors 04 05 01 lord Smith of kelvin 02 lady Rice CbE 03 Gregor Alexander 04 ian marchant 05 Ren mdori 06 Colin hood 07 Alistair Phillips-davies 08 Thomas Thune Andersen 09 Richard Gillingwater CbE 10 Jeremy beeton from 1 July 2011 11 katie bickerstaffe from 1 July 2011 06 07 08 09 10 11 The Management Board the management Board 01 02 03 01 david Franklin 02 Rob mcdonald 03 Jim mcPhillimy 04 mark mathieson 05 Paul Smith 06 Alan young 07 John morea in attendance ian marchant, Colin hood, Gregor Alexander and Alistair Phillips-davies are also members of the management board.
04 05 06 07 49 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information Hiscox Ltd. Richard is a member of the Audit, The Board of Directors The Management Board Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
David Franklin is Managing Director, Energy Lord Smith of Kelvin Alistair Phillips-Davies Portfolio Management.
He joined SSE in 1990 and Chairman is responsible for SSEs participation in wholesale Generation and Supply Director Robert joined the Board as a non-Executive markets for electricity and gas and markets for Alistair was appointed Generation and Director in June 2003 and became Chairman in coal, oil and carbon dioxide emissions allowances.
Supply Director in December 2010 after taking January 2005.
He is also: Chairman of the Weir responsibility for Generation Operations: previously Group plc: a non-Executive Director of Standard Rob McDonald is Managing Director, Regulation he was Energy Supply Director since joining the Bank Group Ltd: Chairman of Glasgow 2014 Ltd, and Strategy.
He joined SSE in 1997 and is Board in 2002.
He has worked in the energy the organising committee for the Commonwealth responsible for regulation, energy economics, industry since 1997, when he joined Southern Games: and Chancellor of the University of the legal services, new ventures and strategy.
Alistair has Board level responsibility West of Scotland.
Robert is Chairman of the for generation, energy trading, electricity and Nomination Committee and a member of the Jim McPhillimy is Managing Director, Group gas supply, energy efficiency, customer service, Remuneration Committee.
He joined SSE in 1995 and is responsible sales, marketing and energy services.
He chairs for the Groups corporate services including the Risk and Trading Committee.
Ian Marchant safety, human resources, IT and procurement.
Chief Executive Ren Mdori Mark Mathieson is Managing Director, Networks.
Ian was appointed Chief Executive in 2002, having Audit Committee Chairman He joined SSE in 1988 as a graduate trainee and is been Finance Director since 1998.
He has worked responsible for SSEs electricity networks, lighting Ren joined the Board as a non-Executive Director in the energy industry since 1992, when he joined services and telecoms businesses.
He is Finance Director of Anglo Southern Electric.
He is also: a member of the American plc and is a non-Executive Director of UK Business Council for Sustainable Energy: Paul Smith is Managing Director, Generation.
Anglo Platinum and DB fide Beers Investments.
Chairman of the Scotland 2020 Delivery Group: a He joined SSE in 1998 and is responsible for all He is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of Ofgems Environmental Advisory Group: of SSEs operational generation and gas storage member of the Nomination Committee.
a member of the Energy Research Partnership: businesses, which includes coal, gas, hydro and a non-Executive Director of John Wood Group all operational onshore and offshore wind.
Gregor Alexander plc and Maggies Cancer Centres: and became Chairman of the Engineering Construction Forum Finance Director Alan Young is Managing Director, Corporate in 2009.
Ian is a member of the Nomination Gregor was appointed Finance Director and joined Affairs.
He joined SSE in 2001 and is responsible Committee and the Risk and Trading Committee.
the Board in 2002, having previously been Group for corporate communications, public affairs, He has Board-level responsibility for energy Treasurer and Tax Manager.
He has worked in the community programmes and research and networks, regulation and corporate affairs energy industry since 1990, when he joined Scottish development.
and is Lead Director for the environment.
He has Board-level responsibility for finance, human resources, IT, procurement and John Morea attends meetings of SSEs Colin Hood other Group services.
He is also the sponsoring Management Board.
He has 27 years industry Board member for SSEs business development Chief Operating Officer experience and is the Chief Executive Officer of in Ireland.
Gregor is a Director of SGN, and is a SGN, which owns and operates gas distribution Colin was appointed Chief Operating Officer in member of the Risk and Trading Committee.
networks in Scotland and southern England and 2002, having joined the Board as Power Systems in which SSE has a 50% stake.
He has worked in the energy Thomas Thune Andersen industry since 1977, when he joined Scottish Hydro Ian Marchant, Colin Hood, Gregor Alexander Electric.
He has Board level responsibility for SSEs Non-Executive Director and Alistair Phillips-Davies are also members large capital projects and is SSEs Lead Director Thomas joined the Board as a non-Executive of the Management Board.
for Health and Safety matters and is Chairman Director in January 2009.
He is the Chairman of of the Safety, Health and Environment Advisory Lloyds Register Group, Vice Chairman of the VKR Committee.
Colin is a Director of SGN and became Holding Group VELUX and a non-Executive Director The Board of SGN a non-Executive Director of FirstGroup plc in May of Petrofac Plc.
He was CEO of Maersk Oil and he 2009 and non-Executive Director of Southern is a member of the Audit, Nomination, and Safety, Water in early 2011.
SSE is entitled to appoint four out of the eight Health and Environment Advisory Committees.
Directors on SGNs Board reflecting its 50% shareholding in SGN.
The SSE employees who Lady Rice CBE Jeremy Beeton serve on the Board of SGN are: Colin Hood, Chief Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Operating Officer: Gregor Alexander, Finance Susan joined the Board as non-Executive Director Jeremy will join the Board as non-Executive Director: Rob McDonald, Managing Director, in July 2003 and became Senior Independent Director in July 2011.
He is the Director General Regulation and Strategy: and Jim McPhillimy, Director in 2007.
She is Managing Director of of the UK Government Olympic Executive.
He was Managing Director, Group Services.
When Colin Lloyds Banking Group Scotland.
Susan is also a previously Principal Vice President of Bechtel Ltd, Hood steps down from the Board of SGN later non-Executive Director of the Court of the Bank where he had responsibility for the management this year, he will be replaced by Natalie Bruce, of England, where she chairs the Audit and Risk and delivery of Bechtels worldwide civil engineering SSEs Head of Metering.
Committee, and of Scotlands Futures Forum.
She projects infrastructure and aviation business lines.
chairs the Boards of the Edinburgh International Book Festival and the Edinburgh Festivals Forum.
Katie Bickerstaffe Susan chairs the Remuneration Committee and Non-Executive Director is a member of the Nomination Committee.
Katie will join the Board as non-Executive Director in July 2011.
She is currently Group Richard Gillingwater CBE People, Marketing and Property Director Non-Executive Director of DSG international plc, a role she has held since Richard joined the Board as a non-Executive June 2008.
Katie was previously Managing Director Director in May 2007.
He is Dean of Cass Business of Kwik Save, and Group Retail Director and Group School and is non-Executive Chairman of CDC HR Director at Somerfield.
Her earlier career Group plc and a Senior Independent Director of included roles at Dyson, PepsiCo and Unilever.
