Scottish and Southern Energy 52 Annual Report 2011 How the Board works Director later in the year.
On 1 April 2011, the framework of corporate governance of the Group: and Nick Baldwin resigned from his position as The Board is accountable to the Companys kk approval of key policies such as safety, non-Executive Director.
On 27 April 2011, shareholders for the good conduct of the health and environment.
it was announced that Jeremy Beeton and Companys affairs.
This report explains how Katie Bickerstaffe would be joining the the Company applies the principles of the The list is reviewed regularly by the Board Board on 1 July 2011.
Full biographical Combined Code on Corporate Governance and is published on the SSE website.
details are set out on page 49. the 2008 Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008.
The Board also has overall responsibility After all of these changes have taken for risk management, which is reported place, the Board will comprise the The Board confirms that the Company in detail on pages 56 to 59.
Chairman, three Executive Directors and has, throughout the period under review, six independent non-Executive Directors.
complied with all provisions set out in roles of chairman and chief Executive This gives the Board a good balance of Section 1 of the 2008 Code.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief independence and experience, ensuring Executive are separate and clearly defined.
that no one individual or group of individuals In May 2010, the Financial Reporting Council has undue influence over the Boards issued the UK Corporate Governance Code, The Chairman: decision-making.
which will apply in place of the 2008 Code kk is responsible for the operation, to accounting periods beginning on or after leadership and governance of the Board non-Executive Directors 29 June 2010.
The Board has agreed that ensuring that the Board operates The non-Executive Directors are chosen each Director shall be subject to annual effectively whilst providing appropriate for their wide range of skills and experience.
re-appointment with effect from the 2011 challenge to management: Each non-Executive Director is appointed Annual General Meeting AGM.
kk identifies individual Director training for a fixed term of three years.
This term needs and conducts the performance may then be renewed by mutual agreement.
Organisation and structure evaluation: and The non-Executive Directors appointment kk meets with shareholders, analysts and letters are available on the SSE website.
role of the Board other representatives of institutional The Board is collectively responsible to the investors, and participates in both the The non-Executive Directors: Companys shareholders for the long-term interim and annual results presentations success of the Group and for its overall and AGM.
kk scrutinise, measure and review the strategic direction, its values and its performance of management: governance.
It provides the leadership The Chairman regularly meets with kk assist in the development of strategy: necessary for the Group to meet its business managers and employees at locations kk review the Group financial information: objectives whilst ensuring that a sound and key sites throughout the Group.
kk ensure systems of internal control system of internal control and risk and risk management are appropriate management is in place.
The Chief Executive: and effective: kk leads the other Executive Directors and kk through the Audit Committee, review articles of association the management team in the day-to-day the relationship with the external The powers and duties of the Directors running and operations of the Group: Auditors: and are determined by legislation and by the kk implements the strategy and policy as kk review the remuneration of and Companys Articles of Association, which agreed by the Board: and succession planning for the Board.
are available on the SSE website.
The kk represents the Company to external Articles of Association provide that the stakeholders, including shareholders, The Chairman and non-Executive Directors Company may change its name by customers, suppliers, regulatory and met twice during the year without the resolution of the Directors.
The Directors government authorities, and the Executive Directors being present.
intend to change the Company name to community.
senior independent Director In discharging his responsibilities, the Chief Lady Rice is the Senior Independent Board decisions Executive is advised and assisted by the Director.
She is available to meet with major A formal list of matters is specifically Management Board and its Committees shareholders on request and attended the reserved to the Board for its decision, which oversee the operational and financial performance of, and issues facing, the City presentation of SSEs results.
The Management Board was set undertook management visits during the up in January 2011, and its role is explained year.
Lady Rice carried out the Chairmans kk Group strategy: on page 54. performance evaluation, together with the kk annual budget: other non-Executive Directors and with kk approval of interim and final financial Biographical information on the Chairman input from the Executive Directors.
statements: and Chief Executive are set out on page 49. kk interim dividend payments and Director independence recommendation of final dividends: Balance of the Board The Board considers that the Chairman kk significant changes in accounting The composition of the Board and its was independent on appointment and all policy and practice: Committees is regularly reviewed to ensure non-Executive Directors are independent kk the Groups corporate governance that the balance and mix of skills and for the purposes of the 2008 Code.
The and system of internal control: experience is maintained.
continuing independent and objective kk Board and Committee membership: judgment of the non-Executive Directors kk major acquisitions, mergers, disposals As announced on 9 December 2010, Colin was confirmed in the annual Board and capital expenditure: Hood will stand down as an Executive performance evaluation process.
kk changes in the capital and structure 53 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Board evaluation process also Board effectiveness All Directors have access to the advice confirmed that the performance of the and services of the Company Secretary.
Directors standing for re-appointment information and professional development continued to be effective and that they The Directors receive detailed financial and The Company continues to operate continue to demonstrate commitment in operational information to allow them to advanced performance coaching for some their respective roles.
Biographical details monitor effectively the performance of the of the Executive Directors and for other for all the Directors are set out on page 49. business.
Board and Committee papers are members of senior management which is issued for review in advance of meetings.
designed to develop and enhance individual attendance at Board and At each Board meeting, the Chief Executive and Company performance.
Board committee meetings presents an update report on all aspects There is normally full attendance at of the Groups business and the Finance Executive Directors other directorships Board and Committee meetings, although Director presents a report on financial Executive Directors may be invited to occasionally there may be non-attendance performance.
The Board also receives become non-Executive Directors of other due to unforeseen circumstances or prior regular updates on the progress and companies.
Approval may be given to accept commitments which could not be performance of investments and other such invitations recognising the benefit rearranged.
If unable to attend a meeting, decisions made by it.
to the individual and to the Company.
Any the Director will provide comments and such appointments are included in the feedback to either the Chairman, Committee During the year, the Board and Committees biographical information set out on page 49.
Chairman or Company Secretary who were kept up to date with developments ensures that the comments received through a programme where briefings are conflicts of interest are raised at the meeting.
given by Executive Directors and senior During the year a review of the Directors management on their business areas.
interests and appointments was carried The Board has six scheduled Board Additional specialist briefings and out by the Company Secretary.
The Board meetings during the year.
These start with presentations were given on areas such considered and authorised each Directors reported actual or potential conflicts of an evening meeting when the Board is often as corporate governance, regulation, public interest at the Board meeting in January given a presentation by senior management affairs, health and safety, major projects, 2011.
In accordance with the Companys on a particular topic.
Occasionally the and the Companys major business activities Articles of Association and relevant evening is used for meetings with external generally.
Separate more informal meetings legislation, each Director abstained from stakeholders.
The meeting then continues were also held with senior management.
approval of their own position.
The Board the following day and is often followed by continues to monitor and review potential a meeting of one of the Board Committees Meetings, briefings and site visits were conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
such as the Remuneration Committee or arranged for the non-Executive Directors the Safety, Health and Environment Advisory during the year.
The briefings covered performance evaluation Committee.
In addition to the scheduled subjects such as operational activities The Board, its Committees and the meetings the Board has six update and major projects, and the visits included individual Directors participate in an annual conference calls which are held in the wind farms and other major projects sites.
months between the bi-monthly scheduled Board meetings.
These calls usually last for On joining the Board, Directors receive a The Board evaluation process this year around one hour and are used to update the comprehensive induction course tailored to was carried out by internal questionnaire Board on the business performance and their individual requirements which includes and individual meetings.
This followed and brief the Board on any current issues.
A meetings with the Executive Directors and built on the approach taken in the previous Board decision or approval may be required senior management, visits to key sites, and evaluation programme which last year was at the update conference call if the matter meetings with key stakeholders.
It also carried out by an external party and which cannot wait until the following scheduled covers a review of the Groups governance, was fully explained in the 2010 Annual Board meeting.
In these circumstances the policies, structure and business including Report.
The Board was updated regularly decision of the Board is recorded by written details of the risks and operational issues during the year on progress with the resolution or minute.
The table sets out the facing SSE.
recommendations made in the external attendance of the Directors at the scheduled report.
This year the outcome of the Board meetings.
The Board believes that given the experience questionnaire and meetings was reported and skills of the Directors and the briefings at the Board meeting held in January 2011. and induction process referred to above, any The matters considered at the Board further personal training needs can be left to attendance at Board meetings meeting included the process for risk the discretion of the individual.
The Company oversight, succession planning makes the necessary resources available Board meetings arrangements throughout the Group, should any Director request training.
and the key performance indicators Lord Smith of Kelvin 6 6 which are reported to the Board.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors Gregor Alexander 6 6 to be able to take independent professional Thomas Thune Andersen 6 6 The Directors also participated in detailed advice, if necessary, at the Companys Nick Baldwin 6 6 reviews of individual performance which expense.
The prior approval of the Chairman Richard Gillingwater 6 6 were carried out in separate meetings with is required where the cost of such advice is Colin Hood 6 6 the Chairman.
The process for evaluating likely to exceed 10,000.
Any advice obtained Ian Marchant 6 6 the Chairman was managed by the Senior shall be made available to the other Ren Mdori 6 6 Independent Director which involved a members of the Board, if the Board so Alistair Phillips-Davies 6 6 separate meeting with the non-Executive requests.
This procedure was not required Lady Rice 6 6 Directors and included feedback from the to be used during the year.
Scottish and Southern Energy 54 Annual Report 2011 How the Board works continued Executive Directors.
The review concluded Trading Committee now reports to the based on a mutual understanding of that the Board and the Committees were Management Board.
The Board believes that this is operating effectively.
Each of the Directors Board comprises the four Executive fundamental to ensuring that the Companys continued to make an effective contribution Directors and six Senior Executives strategy is understood and that any questions to the work of the Board and its representing the key areas of the business.
or issues are dealt with in a constructive way.
Committees, was well informed and The Chief Executive Officer of Scotia Gas demonstrated full commitment to their Networks attends meetings of the The Company maintains regular contact with duties.
The Board was satisfied that the Management Board.
The Management institutional shareholders, fund managers performance evaluation process identified Board meets monthly and the minutes of and analysts through a programme of the main areas for further review and the the meeting are distributed to the Directors dialogue, meetings, presentations, events external evaluation process will be repeated for information.
The Company Secretary is and site visits led by the Chief Executive every three years as recommended by the Secretary of the Management Board.
The Head of Investor UK Corporate Governance Code.
Relations has day-to-day responsibility The relationship between the Board, its for communications with institutional Board committees Committees and the management of the shareholders.
Brokers reports and analysts Company is summarised as shown in the briefings are regularly distributed to During the year, there were five principal table below.
The Board receives regular reports Board committees.
The terms of reference on the various issues raised by institutional of these committees are set by the Board, Engagement with shareholders shareholders, fund managers and analysts are reviewed regularly, and are available on and major stakeholders which allow Directors to form a view of the the SSE website.
Membership is determined priorities and concerns of the Companys by the Board, on the recommendation of the Disclosure and Governance committee stakeholders.
As part of the induction Nomination Committee and in consultation The Companys Disclosure and Governance programme for Directors, arrangements with each committee chairman.
Minutes of Committee is responsible for overseeing the are made for analysts to meet with newly Board committee meetings apart from the Companys framework for the identification, appointed Directors.
Remuneration Committee minutes are release and control of announcements and included on the agenda, and reported at, other information of interest to shareholders The Chairman attended the Companys the next Board meeting.
The interim and preliminary results presentations Committee assists in developing the investor in May 2010 and November 2010.
The Details of each Board Committee, including relations strategy and reviews and implements Chairman meets major institutional membership, meetings, role and activities governance developments.
The Disclosure shareholders from time-to-time to gain in 2010 11, are set out in the committee and Governance Committee comprises the a first-hand understanding of key issues.
Chief Executive, Finance Director, Company Secretary, Managing Director Corporate Lady Rice, the Senior Independent management Board Affairs, Head of Investor Relations and the Director, is available to shareholders if Following a review of the management Assistant Company Secretary.
The Disclosure they have concerns that contact through the structure within SSE, a Management and Governance Committee meets when normal channels has either failed to resolve Board was set up in January 2011.
The required and had seven meetings in the year.
She attended Management Board is responsible for the interim results presentation in implementing policy and strategy set by the relations with shareholders November 2010.
Board and for the operational management The Company continued to develop an of all SSEs businesses.
The Risk and effective dialogue with all shareholders, SSEs website contains up-to-date information for shareholders and other interested parties including share price information, announcements and news releases, investor and analyst presentations, and a section containing information on Governance structure from 1 april 2011 shareholder services.
The Companys Annual Report and other shareholder circulars are also published on the SSE website.
Board of Directors communications with shareholders Shareholders have a choice of how to receive their Company communications such as the Safety, Health Annual Report.
The Company recognises Audit Nomination Remuneration and Environment the benefit of electronic communications Committee Committee Committee Advisory Committee and encourages shareholders to receive electronic communication.
As recognition of the reduced cost and environmental Management impact of this form of communication, Board the Company, on behalf of shareholders, makes a donation to the World Wildlife Funds International Forest Programme Safety, Health Business Disclosure and for every shareholder that elects for email Risk and Trading and Environment Development Governance communication or receives Company Committee Committee Committee Committee documentation via the SSE website.
55 Overview Strategy Group performance Segmental performance Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information The Companys objective is to ensure that it is able to perform its core purpose of providing the energy people need in a reliable and sustainable way.
Its principal public policy goal at present is to ensure that there is in place a framework to enable it to invest in secure and lower-carbon supplies of energy in the UK and Ireland.
annual General meeting kk ongoing dialogue with Ministers and The Companys AGM will be held at the officials in government, including the Perth Concert Hall, Mill Street, Perth PH1 devolved administrations in the UK: 5HZ on Thursday, 21 July 2011 at 12 noon.
kk submissions to government and Details of the business to be proposed at Parliamentary consultations and the meeting are contained in the Notice inquiries: of Annual General Meeting.
kk meetings with, and briefings of, elected members of all parties in legislatures: The AGM provides an opportunity for the kk engagement with local authority elected Board to communicate with shareholders members and officials: and provide an update on the performance kk active participation in relevant trade and plans of the Company.
All Directors associations and bodies: and attend the AGM and shareholders are kk discussions and work with noninvited to ask questions and to meet with governmental organisations and other the Directors and senior managers both relevant organisations such as charities.
before and after the meeting.
The Companys objective is to ensure that communications with other stakeholders it is able to perform its core purpose of The Directors have a programme of events providing the energy people need in a to meet with a range of external stakeholders reliable and sustainable way.
Its principal representing the public sector, investment public policy goal at present is to ensure community, environmental affairs, and that there is in place a framework to enable consumer interests.
The purpose of these it to invest in secure and lower-carbon events is to discuss the Companys position supplies of energy in the UK and Ireland.
on a range of business, policy and public interest issues and to learn more about their views, hear their suggestions and address any areas of concern.
More generally, working with public policy makers is a vital area for the Company, given the high profile of energy and environment-related issues in the UK and elsewhere.
The Company engages with stakeholders in seven main ways: kk constructive engagement with Ofgem, which is responsible for promoting competition, wherever appropriate, and regulating the monopoly companies which run the gas and electricity networks:
