Audit Committee report fees of less than 0.1m 2010: 0.4m were discussed by the Audit 7.1 Composition of the Audit Committee Committee and considered appropriate given the current size of the Group The membership of the Audit Committee is summarised in section 6.7.
Garry and the level of corporate activity undertaken during the year.
The Watts is the current Chairman of the Audit Committee and is a Chartered Committee believes that the level and scope of non-audit services does not Accountant, a former audit partner, a former Finance Director and Chief impair the objectivity of the auditors and that there is a clear benefit obtained Executive of FTSE 350 companies and is also a member of the audit from using professional advisors who have a good understanding of the committee of a large quoted NYSE listed company.
He is competent in both Groups operations.
Other accounting or consulting firms have been used accounting and auditing matters.
The designated Committee member with where the Group recognises them as having particular areas of expertise or recent and relevant financial experience is therefore Garry Watts.
Phil White is where potential conflicts of interest for the auditors are identified.
a former Finance Director and former Chief Executive of a FTSE 350 company and is also a Chartered Accountant.
7.4 Policy on the Auditors Providing 7.2 Operation of the Audit Committee Non-Audit Services The Audit Committee met four times during the year and has also met a Procedures in respect of other services provided by the auditors are: further time in June 2011.
The Committee retains discretion as to who from Audit related services These are services that the auditors must undertake outside the Committee should attend its meetings but generally invites the or are best placed to undertake by virtue of their role as auditors.
Such following to attend: services include formalities relating to bank financing, regulatory reports, The Group Finance Director: and certain shareholder circulars.
The auditors would generally provide all The Director of Finance & Company Secretary: such services.
The Deputy Company Secretary, who is Secretary to the Committee: Tax consulting It is the Groups policy to select the advisor for each Representatives from the external auditors: specific piece of tax consulting work who has the most appropriate skills and experience for the work required.
The Group uses a range of advisors Representatives from the Risk Assurance Function.
for tax consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the In addition, the Group Tax Director is expected to present to the Committee work being undertaken.
General consulting For other consulting work, the Group will select an Other directors, including the Chairman of the Company, are also welcome to advisor after taking account of the skills and experience required and the attend meetings of the Committee and do so from time to time.
expected cost of the work.
The Group uses a range of advisors for general The Committee receives reports from major business functions including the consulting, including the auditors where they are best suited to the work Risk Assurance Function internal audit, which is outsourced and managed being undertaken.
The auditors are only permitted to provide general by Deloitte.
It also receives reports from the external auditors.
It considers the consulting when the Group, the Audit Committee and the auditors are scope and results of the audit, the half-year and annual financial statements satisfied that there are no circumstances that would lead to a threat to the and the accounting and internal control systems in place throughout the audit teams independence or a conflict of interest that could not be Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the cost effectiveness, independence effectively mitigated.
and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Groups website at 7.5 Review of Risk Assurance Function http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees audit.
pdf The Audit Committee has the responsibility for making recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and remuneration of the Group Risk Assurance Function internal auditors.
There have been no instances of 7.3 Review of External Auditors disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the The Audit Committee has responsibility delegated from the Board for making Risk Assurance Function.
recommendations on the appointment, reappointment, removal and The Audit Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship remuneration of the external auditors.
There have been no instances of between the Group and the Risk Assurance Function.
This review includes a disagreements between the Board and the Audit Committee relating to the consideration of independence and objectivity, the overall level of fees, the external auditors.
quality of the risk assurance process, and the role of the function in the Subject to the annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders, the Audit context of the broader sources of risk assurance.
Committee conducts a continuous review of the relationship between the The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the risk assurance Group and the auditors.
This review includes: function on an annual basis.
the consideration of audit fees that should be paid and advance approval of any other fees in excess of 50,000 per annum which are payable to 7.6 Speaking Up Policy auditors or affiliated firms in respect of non-audit activities: The Audit Committee reviews the Groups Speaking Up policy, which the consideration of the auditors independence and objectivity: provides a mechanism for employees with serious concerns about the the nature and scope of the external audit and the arrangements which interests of others or the Group to come forward.
The Committee ensures have been made to ensure co-ordination where more than one audit firm that appropriate arrangements are in place to receive and act proportionately or offices of the same firm are involved: and upon a complaint about malpractice.
The Committee takes a particular discussions on such issues as compliance with accounting standards.
interest in any reports of possible improprieties in financial reporting.
Any known instances of fraud affecting the Group are reported to the Audit The Committee formally assesses the effectiveness of the external audit Committee.
process on an annual basis.
Whilst the Group has no set frequency for tendering the external audit, the Groups external audit was last tendered in 2002 and resulted in a change of external auditors.
The audit engagement partner last changed in 2006 and will change again in 2011.
The Group is not aware of any restrictions that would limit its choice of external auditors.
Garry Watts The Audit Committee, having considered the external auditors performance Chairman of the Audit Committee during their period in office, recommends re-appointment.
The audit fees of 0.8m 2010: 0.7m for  LLP and non-audit related 29 June 2011 Stagecoach Group plc | page 29
