Nomination Committee report The succession of Sir George Mathewson as the Chairman of the Company, 8.1 Composition of the Nomination taking the place of Robert Speirs with effect from 1 January 2011, was Committee considered by the Committee and recommended to the Board.
In the light of The membership of the Nomination Committee is summarised in section Sir Georges experience with and knowledge of the Group, the Committee 6.7.
The Committee also includes, by invitation, the other Non-Executive considered that he was the best candidate for the role.
The Committee also recognises that as co-founder of the Company, the Chief Executive has had a long and integral association with the Company.
This close 8.2 Operation of the Nomination Committee association of Chief Executive and Company brings different challenges in The Nomination Committee is responsible for evaluating the balance of skills, planning for the succession of the Chief Executive.
Whilst the Committee knowledge and experience of the Board, and where appropriate suggesting recognises that the Chief Executive remains committed to his role for the new appointments.
Based on its assessment, the Committee will prepare a foreseeable future, it nevertheless reviews the succession plans for the Chief description of the role and the required attributes for each particular Executive and other executive management.
Given the importance of appointment.
The description will include a job specification, the estimate of succession planning, the views of all directors are considered and not just the the time commitment expected, and the Groups policy on directors having views of the members of the Committee.
Potential candidates will be asked to disclose their other commitments and confirm that they will have sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The Directors are also required to report any significant changes in their other commitments as they arise.
The Committee will identify suitable candidates and make proposals for each appointment, although final appointments are the responsibility of the Board as a whole.
Potential new non-executive directors are chosen based on a shortlist Sir George Mathewson compiled by the Nomination Committee taking account of known candidates Chairman of the Nomination Committee and candidates suggested by the Groups advisors.
For example, the selection 29 June 2011 of the directors appointed to the Board over the last two years were made following a recruitment process that involved the use of external recruitment consultants and the consideration of a number of candidates.
Non-executive directors receive a letter of appointment.
For any new appointments, the letter of appointment sets out the expected time commitment.
No Director of the Company is currently a chairman of a FTSE 100 company.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available on the Groups website at http: www.
com scg csr corpgov committees nom.
pdf Following the retirement of Robert Speirs as Chairman and his replacement as Chairman by Sir George Mathewson, one of the Companys independent nonexecutive directors, the appointment of Will Whitehorn as an additional nonexecutive director to the Board helps maintain the balance of skills and experience of the Board.
Will brings with him a background in brand development and wide-ranging experience across a range of business sectors that will bring valuable insight to the Board.
8.3 Succession Planning Arrangements The Board and the Nomination Committee recognise the importance of succession planning to ensure that the Group continues to prosper in the longer term.
The Group operates a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of responsibility and authority, and oversight from head office.
This structure provides the opportunity for managers to develop in some of the Groups smaller business units before progressing to wider and more responsible roles.
The Group has a history of developing good managers who have progressed to take on senior positions within the Group.
The Group operates a graduate recruitment programme, and some of the graduates recruited have gone on to become managing directors of individual business units, both in the UK and North America.
The Nomination Committee is mindful of the need to ensure appropriate succession arrangements are in place for the Directors.
The Nomination Committee and the Board seeks to identify new directors and senior managers to ensure succession of directors is conducted in a managed way, without significant disruption to the ongoing business of the Group.
