Corporate governance report The Combined Code suggests that independent non-executive directors 6.1 Introduction should make up at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman.
The Stagecoach Board is accountable to shareholders for the Groups Throughout the period from 1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011, the Board activities and is responsible for the effectiveness of corporate governance considers that it complied with this Combined Code requirement.
The current practices within the Group.
This section of the report sets out Stagecoach position is shown in the above table.
It also includes the disclosures In determining the independence of non-executive directors, the Board recommended by the Financial Reporting Council FRC Combined Code on considers a number of factors.
In particular the Board satisfies itself on the Corporate Governance the Combined Code, and describes how the following questions: principles of good corporate governance that are set out in the Combined Does the director provide a robust and effective challenge to executive Code have been applied.
In line with best practice, separate reports are management?
provided from each of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee, Is the director prepared to challenge others beliefs, assumptions and Health, Safety and Environmental Committee and Remuneration Committee.
viewpoints for the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
The Stagecoach Board is committed to maintaining a corporate governance Does the director effectively contribute to constructive debate by the structure appropriate to the Group and its strategy.
Good corporate Board and its Committees?
governance remains central to delivering the Groups objectives.
As explained Is the director willing to defend his or her own beliefs and viewpoints for later in this report, we have again reviewed the effectiveness of the Board and the overall good of the Group and its shareholders?
its Committees and we consider the corporate governance structure to remain appropriate for the Group.
Does the director have a sufficiently sound and detailed knowledge of the Groups business that enables him or her to effectively question strategy and executive managements running of the business?
6.2 Compliance with the Combined Code Ewan Brown, one of the five independent non-executive directors shown in The FRC issued the current edition of the Combined Code in June 2008, the above table, has served on the Board since 1988 and is a non-executive which applies to accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2008 and director of Noble Grossart, which is an advisor to the Company.
The Company is available on the FRCs website at recognises and understands investor concerns over longer-serving nonhttp: www.
The Directors believe executive directors but nevertheless continues to regard Ewan Brown as that throughout the year ended 30 April 2011 the Group complied with all of independent.
Ewan Browns long association with the Group enables him to the recommendations of the Combined Code.
The Group also complies with provide a robust and effective challenge to management because of the the corporate governance requirements of the Financial Services Authoritys sound and detailed knowledge of the Groups business that he has developed.
Listing Rules, and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Board believes that Ewan Browns length of service, when taken in the In May 2010, the FRC renamed the Combined Code as the UK Corporate context of the Board as a whole, enhances his effectiveness as a nonexecutive director and that he remains independent in character and Governance Code and made changes to it.
This new edition of the Code the 2010 Code applies to the Companys financial year that began on 1 May judgement.
During the period from the resignation of Bob Speirs as Chairman on 31 December 2010 until the appointment of Will Whitehorn as 2011.
Where appropriate, this report sets out changes made to comply with the 2010 Code.
a non-executive director on 1 May 2011 the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised seven directors of whom four, including Ewan Brown, were considered by the Board to be independent.
Without the inclusion of Ewan Brown as independent, the majority of the Board would not have been 6.3 Composition of the Board independent during this period.
Following the appointment of Will The Companys Board now comprises the following directors: Whitehorn on 1 May 2011, five of the eight of the members of the Board, excluding the Chairman, are considered by the Board to be independent..
Date of Independent appointment NonIn recognition of the factors suggested by the Combined Code for if later than Independent Executive Other 1 May 2010 Chairman Director Director determining independence, Ewan Brown does not serve on the Remuneration Committee or the Audit Committee and stood for annual Sir George Mathewson election in 2010.
Following the introduction of the 2010 Code, all directors Chairman 3 will stand for election or re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Ewan Brown Non-Executive Director 3 6.4 Operation of the Board Helen Mahy The Board is generally scheduled to meet six times each year.
Additional Non-Executive Director 3 meetings of the Board are held to consider matters arising between scheduled Garry Watts Board meetings, where a decision of the Board is required prior to the next Senior Independent scheduled meeting.
In addition to the formal meetings of the Board and its Non-Executive Director 3 Committees, the Directors are in more frequent but less formal contact with Phil White each other and with the Groups management on a range of matters.
Non-Executive Director 1 June 2010 3 The Chairman ensures that meetings of the Board and shareholders are Will Whitehorn properly conducted and is responsible for setting and moving forward the Non-Executive Director 1 May 2011 3 Boards agenda.
Leadership of the Board by the Chairman is not the same as Ann Gloag the leadership required from the Group Chief Executive to turn the Boards Non-Executive Director 3 strategic and policy decisions into actions.
The Group Chief Executive has daySir Brian Souter to-day responsibility for all business of the Group and carries out the agreed Chief Executive 3 strategy and policies of the Board.
The split of the Chairmans and Chief Martin Griffiths Executives responsibilities is in writing and has been approved by the Board.
Finance Director 3 The Directors biographies appear on pages 18 and 19 of this Annual Report and illustrate the Directors range of experience, which ensures an effective Janet Morgan and Iain Duffin left the Board on 30 June 2010.
Robert Speirs Board to lead and control the Group.
The Non-Executive Directors bring an left the board on 31 December 2010. independent viewpoint and create an overall balance.
page 24 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:39 Page 25 The Executive and Non-Executive Directors have a complementary range of 6.5 Operational management of the Group experience that ensures no one director or viewpoint is dominant in the The Board delegates the operational management of the Group to the Group decision-making process.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors Chief Executive and Group Finance Director Executive Directors.
The periodically meet without the Executive Directors being present.
In addition, Executive Directors maintain day-to-day contact and meet regularly face-tothe Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive face or in video conferences with non-board senior management.
There are Director, meet without the Chairman at least annually.
three principal operating divisions UK Bus: headed by a Managing Director, All the Directors meet regularly with other senior management and staff of North America: headed by a Chief Operating Officer and UK Rail: headed by the the Group, have access to confidential advice from the Company Secretary Executive Directors, which each comprise a varying number of autonomous and may take independent legal or other professional advice at the Groups business units, each headed by a chairman or managing director who is expense where it is considered necessary for the proper discharge of their responsible for the day-to-day performance of the business unit.
Each chairman duties as directors.
The Company Secretary, whose appointment and removal or managing director is supported by his her own management teams.
is a matter for the Board as a whole, is responsible to the Board for ensuring Two of the joint ventures in which the Group has an interest, Virgin Rail the Board procedures are complied with.
Group and Twin America LLC, are managed independently of the Group.
Each All the Directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the is headed by its own Chief Executive.
The Group has two representatives on Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
Following the the Board of Virgin Rail Group and three representatives on the Board of Twin introduction of the 2010 Code, all directors will stand for election or reAmerica LLC.
The other trading joint venture in which the Group has an election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting and future Annual General interest, Scottish Citylink Coaches Limited, has a joint board.
responsible for the day-to-day management of that business.
Each director receives induction training on appointment and subsequently such training, briefings and site visits as are considered necessary to keep abreast of matters affecting their roles as directors.
Training can encompass 6.6 Performance evaluation health, safety, environmental, social and governance matters.
The Chairman The Board assesses its own performance and the performance of each endeavours to ensure that all the Directors attend the Annual General individual Board members: this assessment is co-ordinated and directed by the Meeting, providing an opportunity for shareholders to meet the Directors Chairman with the support of the Company Secretary.
The Senior Independent and to address questions to them.
Non-Executive Director co-ordinates the Boards assessment of the performance of the Chairman.
As part of the assessment process, the NonThe number of full Board meetings during the year was six.
The full Board typically meets once a year at an operational location and regular Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors being present.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Chairman being present.
The communication is maintained by the Chairman with other directors between meetings to ensure all directors are well informed on strategic and Chairman obtains feedback from each individual director on the performance of the Board and other Board members this involves the completion of a operational issues.
In May 2011, the Board visited the Groups North American operations.
Some of the Directors also attended health and safety questionnaire and a follow-up discussion.
In the same way, the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director obtains feedback from each individual meetings of operating companies during the year.
The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee visits operating locations around the Group to director on the performance of the Chairman.
A similar process is undertaken to assess the performance of each of the Boards committees.
From the gain greater understanding of the how the Group addresses health, safety and environmental matters.
effective date of the 2010 Code, the Group plans to use external facilitation of its performance evaluation no less frequently than every third year.
The Board has a number of matters reserved for its consideration, with The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and its principal responsibilities being to agree the overall strategy and investment committees.
Each director has assessed the effectiveness of the Board and policy, to approve major capital expenditure, to monitor performance and risk each committee of which he or she is a member.
management procedures of senior management, to ensure that there are proper internal controls in place and to consider major acquisitions or The assessment of effectiveness included consideration of: disposals.
The Directors have full and timely access to information with Board The effectiveness of the formal Board and committee meetings: papers distributed in advance of meetings.
Notable matters that the Board considered during the year ended 30 April 2011 included: The nature and extent of the Boards interaction with the management of the Group: The acquisition of the East London Bus Group, completed in October 2010: The timeliness, relevance and accuracy of the information provided to the Approval of the new bank facilities committed to February 2016, Board and its committees: completed in February 2011: Consideration of the ongoing Greater Anglia and West Coast rail franchise The allocation of the Boards time between differing priorities including bids: the time spent on strategic considerations relative to other matters: and Assessing the Groups overall strategy in light of developments in the bus The composition of the Board and its committees.
and rail sector: The Board has considered the results of these assessments and has concluded Reviewing the composition of the Board and agreeing the appointment of that overall the Board and its committees continue to operate in an effective new directors: and constructive manner.
Evaluating the Groups capital structure.
Succession planning for the Chairman was identified as an important area The Board keeps the roles and contribution made by each director under and the Nomination Committee oversaw the retirement of Bob Speirs, the review and changes in responsibilities are made where necessary to improve appointment of George Mathewson as Chairman and the appointment of the Boards effectiveness.
To provide a more manageable process and better Will Whitehorn as an additional Non-Executive Director.
control, certain of the Boards powers have been delegated to committees.
Minutes are taken of each meeting of the Board and its Committees.
Where any director has significant concerns that cannot be resolved about the running of the Group or a proposed action, these concerns are recorded in the minutes.
It is also the Groups policy that where a director resigns, the director is asked to provide a written statement to the Chairman of any concerns leading to his or her resignation.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 25 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:39 Page 26 Corporate governance report 6.7 Composition of Committees The composition of the various Board Committees has been updated to reflect the changes in the composition of the Board, as summarised below: Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Number of members of Committee: 3 Number of members of Committee: 3 All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
All members are independent Non-Executive Directors.
Chairman and designated member with recent Chairman and relevant financial experience Phil White Garry Watts Other members Other members Garry Watts Helen Mahy Will Whitehorn Phil White Nomination Committee Health, Safety and Environmental Committee Number of members of Committee: 4 Number of members of Committee: 4 All members are independent Non-Executive Chairman except Sir George Mathewson who is Helen Mahy Chairman of the Company Other members Chairman Martin Griffiths Sir George Mathewson Ann Gloag Other members Phil White Ewan Brown Garry Watts Will Whitehorn 6.8 Reports from the Committees Reports from each of the Committees of the Board are set out on pages 29 to 38 of this Annual Report.
6.9 Individual director participation at meetings The following is a table of participation in full Board meetings, meetings of committees and the Annual General Meeting by director during the year ended 30 April 2011: Health, Safety PARTICIPATION Full Board Audit Remuneration and Environmental Nomination Annual General IN MEETINGS meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Meeting Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Actual Possible Robert Speirs 55 n a n a n a n a n a n a 11 1 1 Sir Brian Souter 66 n a n a n a n a n a n a n a n a 11 Martin Griffiths 66 n a n a n a n a 55 n a n a 11 Ewan Brown 66 n a n a n a n a n a n a 11 1 1 Iain Duffin 222 2 2 2 1 1 n a n a 00 Ann Gloag 56 n a n a n a n a 55 n a n a 11 Helen Mahy 66 3 3 n a n a 55 n a n a 11 Sir George Mathewson 66 n a n a 44 n a n a 11 1 1 Janet Morgan 222 2 n a n a 11 0 1 0 0 Garry Watts 66 4 4 4 4 n a n a 11 1 1 Phil White 55 2 2 2 2 3 4 n a n a 11 page 26 | Stagecoach Group plc 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:39 Page 27 The Board has designated specific individuals to oversee the internal control 6.10 Relations with shareholders and risk management processes, while recognising that it retains ultimate The Board endeavours to present a balanced and understandable assessment responsibility for these.
The Board believes that it is important that these of the Groups position and prospects in communications with shareholders.
processes remain rooted throughout the business and the managing director The Group holds periodic meetings with representatives of major of each operating unit is responsible for the internal control framework within institutional shareholders, other fund managers and representatives of the that unit.
Self-assessment of risk conducted by the Directors and senior management is The programme of investor relations includes presentations in London of the ongoing and has been considered at several levels, with each division full-year and interim results and meetings with institutional investors in the maintaining a separate risk profile.
Investor and analyst feedback is sought after presentations The Group Risk Assurance or internal audit function, which is outsourced to to ensure key strategies, market trends and actions being taken are being and managed by Deloitte LLP, reports to the Audit Committee and is utilised in effectively communicated and shareholder objectives are known.
Written monitoring risk management processes to determine whether internal responses are given to letters or e-mails received from shareholders.
The controls are effectively designed and properly implemented.
A risk-based annual report is published in hard copy and on the Groups website.
approach is applied to the implementation and monitoring of controls.
The The Board receives regular updates on the views of shareholders through monitoring process also forms the basis for maintaining the integrity and briefings from the Chairman and the Executive Directors, reports from the improving where possible the Groups risk management process in the context Companys brokers and reports from the Companys Financial PR consultants.
of the Groups overall goals.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders The Audit Committee reviews Group Risk Assurance plans, as well as external where contact through the normal channels is inappropriate, or has failed to audit plans and any business improvement opportunities that are resolve concerns.
recommended by the external auditors.
All shareholders are welcome to attend and participate at the Annual General The Groups risk management process does not specifically cover joint Meeting and any other general meetings.
The Group aims to ensure that all ventures, but the Group maintains an overview of joint ventures' business risk the Directors are available at the Annual General Meeting to answer management processes through representation on the boards and in the case questions.
The Annual General Meeting provides an opportunity for of Virgin Rail Group, its audit committee.
Stagecoach management shareholders to question the Chairman and other directors on a variety of representatives also meet regularly with representatives of joint ventures to topics and further information is provided at the Annual General Meeting on ensure that they follow appropriate risk management procedures.
the Groups principal business activities.
It is the Companys policy to propose a separate resolution at the Annual General Meeting for each substantially separate issue.
Resolutions are taken on a show of hands and details of all 6.12 Internal control proxy votes lodged forand against, or withheld, in respect of each resolution are given to the meeting.
Details of the proxy votes are also published on the The wider process described above and the key procedures noted below, Groups website at enable the Directors to confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of http: www.
com scg ir shareholder agm.
The Company the system of internal control of the Group during the year.
The key and its registrars have established procedures to ensure that votes cast are procedures, which the Directors have established, are as follows: properly received and recorded.
an annual budgeting process with periodic re-forecasting of out-turn, identifying key risks and opportunities.
All budgets are presented to a panel consisting of executive directors and or senior managers by each 6.11 Risk management business units management team, before being approved by the Board.
The Group has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing reporting of financial information to the Board encompassing income the significant risks that it faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process.
statement, cash flow, balance sheet and key performance indicators.
Group The principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group are discussed on pages management monitors the results throughout each financial year.
14 to 16. a Risk Assurance function which reviews key business processes and The Board considers acceptance of appropriate risks to be an integral part of business controls, reporting directly to the Audit Committee.
business and unacceptable levels of risk are avoided or reduced and, in some third party reviews commissioned periodically by the Group of areas where cases, transferred to third parties.
Internal controls are used to identify and significant inherent risks have been identified, such as health and safety, manage risk.
The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for establishing treasury management, insurance provisioning, pensions strategy and and maintaining the Groups system of internal control, and for reviewing its competition policy.
The Groups system cannot provide absolute assurance but is a decentralised organisational structure with clearly defined limits of designed to provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that any risks or responsibility and authority to promote effective and efficient operations.
problems are identified on a timely basis and dealt with appropriately.
The control over the activities of joint ventures through Stagecoach Group has established an ongoing process of risk review and certification by representation on the boards of the entities together with regular contact the business heads of each operating unit.
between Stagecoach management and the management of the relevant Certain of the Groups businesses are subject to significant risk.
business risk is assessed for its probability of occurrence and its potential a performance management appraisal system, which covers the Groups severity of occurrence.
Where necessary, the Board considers whether it is senior management based on agreed financial and other performance appropriate to accept certain risks that cannot be fully controlled or mitigated objectives, many of which incorporate managing risk.
significant emphasis on cash flow management.
Bank balances are The Groups risk management process was embedded throughout the reviewed on a daily basis and cash flows are compared to budget on a fourbusinesses for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2011 and up to weekly basis.
the date of the approval of this report.
The Board has carried out a review of reporting to the Board and or its Committees on specific matters including the effectiveness of the Groups internal control environment and such reviews updated key risks, taxation, pensions, insurance, treasury management, are supported on an ongoing basis by the work of the Audit Committee.
The foreign exchange, interest and commodity exposures.
The Board regulates Board is satisfied that processes are in place to ensure that risks are treasury management policies and procedures.
Stagecoach Group plc | page 27 78189 Front FINAL 78189 StCchV10 FRONT 05 07 2011 11:39 Page 28 Corporate governance report defined capital expenditure and other investment approval procedures, The Audit Committee and the Board review the draft consolidated including due diligence requirements where material businesses are being financial statements.
The Audit Committee receives reports from acquired or divested.
management and the external auditors on significant judgements, changes in accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and other each operating unit maintains internal controls and procedures pertinent matters relating to the consolidated financial statements.
A written certificate is provided at least annually by the management of each business confirming that they have The financial statements of all material business units are subject to reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the external audit.
The Group uses the same firm of auditors to audit all Group companies.
The a competition compliance programme, which the Board has approved and Group auditors review the audit work papers for material joint ventures that which is subject to regular monitoring.
are audited by a different firm of auditors.
Any control weaknesses that these procedures identify are monitored and addressed in the normal course of business.
None of the weaknesses 6.14 Pension schemes identified in the year to 30 April 2011 have resulted in any material losses, The assets of the Groups pension schemes are held under trust, separate contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Groups from the assets of the Group and are invested with a number of independent Annual Report.
This process is considered to be an integral part of the fund managers.
There are eleven trustees for the principal UK scheme of maintenance and improvement of our risk management procedures.
whom three are employee representatives nominated by the members on a regional basis and two are pensioner trustees.
The chairman of the trustees of the principal UK scheme is a professional trustee who served for eight years as 6.13 Process for preparing consolidated financial a fund member elected representative on the National Association of Pension statements Funds investment council.
He also sits independently as an elected The Group has established internal control and risk management systems in representative of all railway employers on the board of the Railways Pension relation to the process for preparing consolidated financial statements.
The Scheme, of which he is the Trustee Chairman of the Railways Pension Scheme key features of these internal control and risk management systems are: trustees.
The other trustees of the principal UK scheme include senior Group The Risk Assurance function and management conducts various checks on and UK Bus executives.
A Pensions Oversight Committee was in operation throughout the year.
This Management regularly monitors and considers developments in Committee is chaired by a non-executive director, Ewan Brown, and also accounting regulations and best practice in financial reporting, and where comprises one executive director and other members of senior management.
appropriate, reflects developments in the consolidated financial The Committee operates at a strategic level and its remit covers all matters statements.
Appropriate briefings and or training are provided to key affecting the Groups pension schemes from the perspective of the Groups finance personnel on relevant developments in accounting and financial shareholders and other stakeholders, and it will consider, develop and reporting.
The Audit Committee is also kept appraised of such propose recommendations to the Board in respect of such issues as may developments.
The Committee reviews pension scheme funding, investment strategy, A written certificate is provided annually by the management of each risk management, internal controls surrounding pension matters and the business unit confirming that the internal financial controls have been related administration for all of the employee pension schemes of the Group.
reviewed and highlighting any departures from the controls system that the Group has determined to be appropriate practice.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by a local finance manager prior to being submitted to the Group Finance function.
The financial statements of each business unit are subject to review by the Group Finance function for unusual items, unexplained trends and completeness.
Any unexplained items are referred back to local management to explain.
The Group Finance function compares the financial statements of each business unit to the management accounts received during the year and obtains explanations for any material differences.
The Groups consolidation, which consolidates the results of each business unit and makes appropriate adjustments, is subject to various levels of review by the Group Finance function.
The draft consolidated financial statements are reviewed by an individual independent from those individuals who were responsible for preparing the financial statements.
The review includes checking internal consistency, consistency with other statements, consistency with internal accounting records and arithmetical accuracy.
