BoArd of dirECtors ANd sECrEtAry Report & Financial Statements 2011 The Board brings together a wealth of experience across differing sectors and businesses on an international basis.
Most importantly, all share a passion for the business and have a desire to maximise the opportunities available.
russEll ClEMENts Chief Executive Officer Russell Clements has served as SThrees Chief Executive Officer since 2004 having previously held the position of Deputy Chief Executive Officer since 2001.
He worked for VNU Business Publications, before joining Computer Futures in 1986 shortly after its inception as the groups second employee.
He subsequently served as Sales Director and Managing Director of Computer Futures.
Russell holds a degree in Government from the University of Essex and is also a graduate of the Advanced Management Program at the Wharton Business School, University of Pennsylvania.
He is former Chairman of the Association of Professional Staffing Companies APSCo.
gAry EldEN Chief Strategy Officer Gary Elden was appointed to the Board in July 2008, having been with the Group since 1990, when he joined Computer Futures.
He has held a number of senior positions, including that of founding Managing Director of Huxley Associates.
In his role as Chief Strategy Officer, he has responsibility for the expansion of the Groups international operations and non-ICT disciplines.
AlEX sMitH Chief Financial Officer Alex Smith joined SThree in May 2008, having held a number of senior financial and operational roles in the leisure and retail sectors.
Most recently he held the position of Integration Finance Director at TUI Travel PLC.
Prior to this he was Finance Director of First Choices UK Mainstream business, at WH Smith plc, as Managing Director of its Travel Retail business and held senior financial roles at Travelodge and Forte PLC.
Alex has a degree in Economics from Durham University and is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
stEvE HorNBuCklE Group Company Secretary Steve Hornbuckle was appointed to the role in October 2006.
Steve has over twenty years company secretarial experience, having held Deputy and Assistant Secretary positions within a variety of listed companies, including Intertek Group plc, BPB plc, Kidde plc, Railtrack Group plc, London & Manchester Group plc and English China Clays plc.
Steve is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Secretaries ICSA, sits on the ICSA Company Secretaries Forum and Investor Relations Society Policy Committee and was voted Company Secretary of the Year in 2011.
20 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 BOARd OF dIRECTORS ANd SECRETARy ClAy BrENdisH Chairman Clay Brendish, CBE joined the SThree Board in May 2010 as Non Executive Chairman.
Clay is currently Non Executive Chairman of Anite Group plc.
Clay has Non-Executive Directorshipship with Herald Investment Trust plc.
He is a trustee of Economist Newspapers Limited a Director of The Test and Itchen Association Limited and a member of the Administrative Board of the Elster Group SE.
In August 2011 Clay retired as a Non-Executive Director of the BT Board and in May 2001 Clay retired as Deputy Chairman of CMG plc, a European ICT company that was established in 1964.
Clays appointment as Deputy Chairman followed CMGs merger with Admiral plc in June 2000.
Prior to the merger Clay was Executive Chairman of Admiral plc that he co-founded in 1979.
Admiral plc employed over 2500 people in 8 countries.
As Chairman, Clay had primary responsibility for the strategic direction of Admiral, investor relations and acquisitions.
toNy wArd Non Executive Director Senior Independent Non Executive Director Tony Ward, OBE was appointed to the SThree Board in August 2006 and to the SThree Remuneration and Nomination Committees in October 2006.
Tony currently chairs the Remuneration Committee and has over thirty years experience in a variety of senior executive roles with blue chip companies, including BAA plc, Kingfisher plc and Grand Metropolitan Group plc.
He joined BAA in 1997 as Group HR Director and was Services Director from 1999 until March 2007, being responsible for activities including IT, Security, Rail and Airside Operations.
Tony was a board director of BAA plc between November 1999 and July 2006.
Tony is a Non Executive Director of the OCS Group Limited, an advisor to Manchester Square Partners LLP, and a Consumers Association Council Member: a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Personnel Development: a former Deputy Chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality: and a graduate of the University of Leeds.
AliCjA lEsNiAk Non Executive Director Alicja Lesniak was appointed to the SThree Board in May 2006, to the SThree Audit Committee in July 2006, the Remuneration Committee in February 2008 and the Nomination Committee in April 2008.
Alicja is currently a Non Executive Director of Channel 4 and Next Fifteen Communications Group plc and was, until 30 September 2009, CFO of Aegis plc and has over thirty years experience in fast moving service businesses, in the latter twenty years holding senior financial and managerial roles within the advertising media sector, including seven years with BBDO Worldwide, latterly as Chief Financial Officer for BBDO EMEA, and seven years at WPP Group plc, where she held positions as Chief Financial Officer for Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide and Managing Director of J Walter Thompson in the UK.
Prior to joining the advertising sector she held senior management positions with Arthur Andersen & Co, having originally qualified as a Chartered Accountant with them in 1976.
Alicja is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales and holds a degree in Mathematics from Imperial College.
PAul BowtEll Non Executive Director Paul Bowtell was appointed to the SThree Board and as Chairman of the SThree Audit Committee, in November 2007 and Nomination Committee in April 2008 and is currently a Non Executive Director of Capita Group plc and Chief Financial Officer of Gala Coral Group.
Paul has extensive experience gained from senior finance roles in a variety of companies including most recently as Chief Financial Officer of TUI Travel PLC, but also with First Choice Holidays PLC and British Gas, a subsidiary of Centrica plc, where he was appointed Finance Director in 2002.
Prior to that, Paul was with WH Smith plc, where he held a number of corporate centre roles before becoming Finance Director of the UK Retail business, as well as senior tax roles at Forte and Arthur Andersen.
Paul is an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
NAdHiM ZAHAwi Non Executive Director Nadhim Zahawi, MP was appointed to the SThree Board and to the Remuneration and Audit Committees in May 2008.
Nadhim is the former CEO and co-founder of YouGov plc, a leading international online market research agency and became MP for Stratford on Avon in May 2010.
He is a member of the Business Innovation and Skills Select Committee of the House of Commons.
He is the author of Masters of Nothing The crash and how it will happen again unless we understand human nature.
He was previously European marketing director at Smith & Brooks, with responsibility for marketing brands such as Warner Bros, Disney and Barbie.
Nadhim is a patron of Peace One Day and holds a degree in Chemical Engineering from UCL.
SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 21
