CorPorAtE govErNANCE rEPort for the year ended 27 November 2011 The Board believes that high standards succession planning, as well as our of corporate governance are intrinsic to work on diversity and values: the Companys culture and values.
In They are the basis for the accountability particular: of Executive management to the Board They are central to its core values and and of the Board to the Companys strategy, including integrity, professional shareholders.
excellence and sustainability, as stated The following table outlines how the throughout this Annual Report: Company has applied the main supporting They underpin the objectivity of our principles and provisions of the UK Steve Hornbuckle processes in support of financial and Corporate Governance Code, published Group Company Secretary risk management, the design and by the Financial Reporting Council in May operation of remuneration structures, 2010 the Code.
Relevant section of the Code Commentary including relevant Code provision A.
1 The Role of the Board The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership and overall control of the Group, setting a framework of prudent and effective controls to enable risks to be properly assessed and managed.
Its primary role is to create value for stakeholders, to agree and approve the Groups long-term strategic objectives and to develop robust corporate governance and risk management practices, whilst ensuring that the necessary financial and other resources are in place to enable those objectives to be met.
In undertaking this, the Board also reviews management performance and sets the Companys values and standards, with all Directors acting in what they consider to be the best interests of the Company, consistent with their statutory duties.
Certain powers are delegated to the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committees, with details of the roles and responsibilities of these Committees being set out under the relevant section below.
In addition, the Board has agreed Terms of Reference for its other formal committees in order to facilitate more efficient working practices and these include the Executive Committee, the Investment Committee, a Routine Business Committee, a Disclosure Committee and CR Committee, all of which provide a clear framework of delegated authorities.
In December 2011, all terms of reference were updated in accordance with the Code and ICSA best practice guidelines.
1.1 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group and has identified key financial and operational areas that require regular reporting and which enable the performance of Executive management to be reviewed and monitored.
These are set out in a schedule of matters reserved to the Board, which is reviewed on a regular basis.
The schedule outlines all matters requiring specific consent of the Board, which include, inter-alia, the approval of Group strategy and operating plans, the annual budget, the Annual Report, the Interim Report and related announcements, major divestments and capital expenditure, large acquisitions and disposals, the recommendation of dividends and the approval of treasury and risk management policies.
The schedule therefore facilitates structured delegation, subject to certain financial limits and provides a practical framework for executive management reporting, which seeks to achieve the objectives of maintaining effective financial and operational controls, whilst allowing appropriate flexibility to manage the business.
The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available on the Companys website, www.
1.2 The Directors of the Company, including biographies, are set out earlier in this Annual Report, with further details of Board Committee membership being set out below.
The number of, and attendance at, Board and Committee meetings during the SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 37 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT year, is also shown in a table below.
Almost all meetings were fully attended and, outside these, there was frequent contact between Directors on a range of matters.
1.3 Appropriate insurance cover is in place in respect of legal action against the Directors.
2.1 There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief responsibilities Executive Officer, set out in writing and approved by the Board so that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
3 The Chairman The Chairman leads the Board in the determination of its strategy and achieving its objectives and is responsible for co-ordinating the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, timing and setting its agenda but he has no involvement in the day-to-day running of the Groups business.
The Chairman allows adequate debate by all, whilst facilitating the effective contribution of the Non Executive Directors NEDs, overseeing Board induction and evaluation, ensuring constructive relations between Executive and NEDs and that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information to undertake Board affairs and facilitate effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer has direct charge of the Group on a day-to-day basis and overall responsibility to the Board for the operational and financial performance of the Group, under a job description which clearly sets out these responsibilities.
As stated below, on appointment, the Chairman met the independence criteria set out under the Code.
4.1 Tony Ward is appointed as the Senior Independent NED and is available to Directors NEDs shareholders to discuss strategy or governance issues or should there be matters of concern that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the normal channels.
4.2 The Chairman meets with the NEDs without the Executive Directors being present, either before or after each Board meeting and this is formally minuted, whilst the Senior Independent Non Executive Director SID holds annual discussions with the other NEDs without the Chairman being present and also with the Executives, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
4.3 Each Director ensures that if he she has any concerns which cannot be resolved, about the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are recorded in the minutes, whilst upon resignation, Non-Executives are invited to provide a written statement to the Chairman for circulation to the Board, of any concerns.
1 Composition of the The Board comprises a balance of Executive and NEDs who bring a wide range of skills, Board experience and knowledge to its deliberations.
The NEDs fulfil a vital role in corporate accountability and have a particular responsibility to ensure that the strategies proposed by the Executive Directors are fully discussed and critically examined, not only in the best long term interests of shareholders, but also to take proper account of the interests of customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The NEDs are all experienced and influential individuals and through their mix of skills and business experience they contribute significantly to the effective functioning of the Board and its Committees, ensuring that matters are fully debated and that no one individual or small group dominates the decision making process.
Directors have a wide range of experience of various industry sectors relevant to the Groups business and each member brings independent judgement to bear in the interests of the Company on issues of strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
The Board is of sufficient size to match business needs and members have an appropriate and varied range of skills, vital to the success of the Group.
The composition and performance of the Board and each Committee is regularly evaluated so as to ensure that the balance of skills, expected 38 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT time commitment, knowledge and experience is right and the Directors can thereby ensure that the balance reflects the changing needs of the Groups business, being refreshed as necessary.
Most importantly of all, Board members feel a strong cultural affinity with the Group, engaging fully as a committed team and in a wide variety of activities with our various employees around the globe, whether it be an office visit or the annual sales conference.
1.1 Excluding the Chairman, the other NEDs have been determined by the Board throughout the year as being independent in character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, each Directors judgement.
1.2 The Board comprises a Non Executive Chairman, who is not classed as independent because of his position but who met the independence criteria set out in the Code on appointment, three Executive Directors and four independent NEDs, thus complying with the Code, which requires at least half of the Board to consist of independent NEDs.
2 Appointments to Appointments to the Board are the responsibility of the full Board, upon the theBoard recommendation of the Nomination Committee and after appropriate external consultation, bearing in mind the Boards existing balance of skills and experience, the specific role needs identified, and with due regard for diversity, including gender.
Succession planning aspects are regularly reviewed by the Committee, in order to ensure an orderly progression refreshment of senior management Board members and maintain an appropriate balance of skills, experience and diversity both within the Company and on the Board.
See also the Chairmans Trading & Governance Overview section earlier in the Annual Report.
2.1 2 Under the direction of the Nomination Committee, each formal selection process is conducted, using external advisors, consisting of a series of interview stages, involving Directors and other senior Executives, against the background of a specific role definition and objective criteria.
Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under the relevant section below.
2.3 NEDs are initially appointed for three year terms, with all Directors being subject to annual re-election.
The Companys Articles of Association also deals with removal, appointment, election re-election of Directors.
3.1 The Nomination Committee last initiated a search for a new Director in late 2009, preparing a detailed job specification and setting out an assessment of the time commitment expected, in that instance for Clay Brendish.
All potential Director candidates are required to disclose any significant outside commitments prior to appointment and must undertake that they have sufficient time to meet these, in addition to Company business, particularly in the event of a crisis.
3.2 Upon joining, each NED receives a formal appointment letter which identifies their responsibilities and expected minimum time commitment, being typically two days per month.
These letters are available for inspection at the Companys registered office.
4 Development At scheduled Board and Committee meetings, Directors receive detailed reports presentations from management on the performance of the Group or specific areas of focus responsibility.
NEDs attend the Groups annual conference in order to join senior management from each geographic area to discuss current initiatives, whilst Board meetings are also regularly held at office locations globally, in order to allow Directors to meet local managers and improve their understanding of the business.
Directors are briefed regarding their responsibilities and on other relevant regulatory, legal, governance or accounting matters.
Regular updates are provided on all relevant topics, as required SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 39 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT and Directors are encouraged to attend external seminars on areas of relevance to their role in order to facilitate their professional development.
These measures help to ensure that the Directors continue to develop their knowledge of the Groups business and get to know its senior management, as well as being aware of their general responsibilities.
In addition, the Board encourages Executive Directors to accept external appointments in order to broaden their experience, although currently no such positions are held.
4.1 An induction programme is tailored for new appointments to ensure that it is appropriate for their role, dependent on previous experience.
Directors and other senior Executives attend analysts briefing sessions and major shareholders may, upon appropriate request, meet new NEDs.
4.2 As part of the annual Board evaluation process, the Chairman assesses and agrees any training and development needs in respect of individual Directors, including on environmental, social and governance ESG matters, if appropriate.
Subject areas identified to be addressed during the 2011 evaluation exercise include risk management, brand, regional and sectoral knowledge.
5 Information and Board and Committee meeting papers are circulated well in advance of the relevant Support meeting and where a Director is unable to attend he she is provided with a copy of the papers and has the opportunity to comment on the matters under discussion.
Minutes of all Committee meetings are circulated to all the Directors, irrespective of Committee membership.
The Group Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring good information flows between the Board Committees and senior individuals NEDs, as well as assisting in other areas and has primary responsibility for advising the Board, via the Chairman, on all governance matters.
5.1 Directors are entitled to obtain independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the performance of their duties as Directors, although no such advice was sought during the year.
All Committees are serviced by the Group Company Secretarys team and are appropriately resourced.
5.2 Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that its procedures are complied with and to assist in arranging any additional information as required.
The appointment and removal of the Group Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole and the last appointment was made in October 2006.
6.1 2 As recommended by the Code, the Board, for the first time, commissioned Lintstock Ltd, an independent third party, to undertake its annual Board Committee evaluation exercise.
Lintstock Ltd have no other relationship with the Group.
The first stage of this review involved agreeing with Lintstock Ltd the context for the evaluation and tailoring each questionnaire.
Respondents were then requested to complete these online, addressing the performance of the Board, Committees, Chairman and individuals, with anonymity of respondents ensured, in order to promote an open and frank exchange of views.
Questionnaires addressed the following issues: Board composition, expertise and dynamics: Board support, time management and Board Committees: Strategic, operational and risk oversight: Succession planning and human resource management: and Priorities for change.
The results of this analysis were issued in January 2012 and recommendations are to be implemented as the year progresses, with regular one on one sessions also planned.
Subsequent evaluations will build upon the lessons gained in this and ongoing annual 40 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT evaluations, to ensure that recommendations resulting from each review are followed up and that year on year progress is measured.
As part of this process, the Chairman also discusses the individual performance of Directors, in consultation with other Directors.
The evaluation process is considered to be both formal and rigorous and assessments concluded that, overall and individually, the performance of the Board, each Committee and each Director was and is effective and that Directors demonstrate full commitment in their respective roles.
6.3 The SID holds annual discussions with the other NEDs without the Chairman being present and also with the Executives, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
7.1 Although the Companys Articles of Association permit Directors to remain in office for up to three years before Annual General Meeting AGM re-election, all Directors will retire and seek re-election annually, as recommended by the Code.
7.2 Reference to performance and commitment of Directors, as well as an explanation of the reason why each retiring Director should be re-elected, are all provided in the Notice of AGM.
The Company also complies fully with the Code in respect of its AGM voting arrangements and RNS disclosure.
C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and The Overview, Chairmans and other officers sections of this Annual Report, taken Business Reporting together, provide information relating to the Groups activities, its business and strategy and principal risks and uncertainties faced by the business, including analysis using financial and other KPIs where necessary.
These, together with the Directors Remuneration Report, Corporate Governance and Corporate Responsibility Reports, provide an overview of the Group, including environmental and employee matters and gives an indication of future developments in the Groups business.
This provides a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects, in accordance with the Code.
C. 1.1 The Directors responsibility for preparing the accounts and the statement by the auditors about their reporting responsibilities are set out in the Directors Report and Independent Auditors Report, respectively.
C. 1.2 An explanation of the business model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group is included as part of the Overview, Chairmans and other officers sections of this Annual Report.
C. 1.3 A going concern statement is included in the Directors report.
C. 2 Risk Management C. 2.1 The Boards statement regarding its review of the effectiveness of the Groups risk and Internal Control management and internal control systems is set out below and is reviewed annually.
C. 3 Audit Committee Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under and Auditors the relevant section below.
SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 41 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT D. Remuneration D. 1 Level and The Directors Remuneration Report sets out in full, the policies and practices which Components demonstrate the Companys implementation of this Code principle and provisions.
D. 2 Procedure Details of the composition, work and responsibilities of this Committee are set out under the relevant section below and in the Directors Remuneration report.
E. Relations with Shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with Communications with shareholders are given a high priority.
The Company produces Shareholders Annual and Interim Reports for shareholders and the Companys website contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities, investor presentations and published financial results.
Shareholders can also subscribe for e-mail alerts of important announcements made.
There are regular meetings with institutional shareholders, whilst ensuring that price sensitive information is released at the same time to all, in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing Authority.
Presentations are made after the Company has published its full and half yearly results and there is also regular dialogue on specific issues, such as the appointment of a new Chairman, the tracker share model, introduction of and changes to the LTIP and on other key remuneration issues.
E. 1.1 The Chairman, Senior Independent and other NEDs are available to shareholders to discuss governance or strategy issues or should there be matters of concern that have not, or cannot, be addressed through the Executive Directors.
During the year, both the Chairman and SID conversed with shareholders, with appropriate feedback being provided to the Board.
E. 1.2 Views of analysts, brokers and institutional investors are sought on a nonattributed basis via periodic sentiment surveys and these, as well as regular analyst and broker publications, are circulated to all Directors to ensure that they develop a full understanding of the views of major shareholders.
Any issues or concerns can be raised at the Board and Directors routinely receive regular reports on share price, trading activity and sector updates.
E. 2 Constructive use of The Board views the AGM as a valuable opportunity to communicate with private and AGM institutional investors and welcomes participation.
E. 2.1 The Company proposes a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and the proxy appointment forms for each resolution provide shareholders with the option to direct their proxy to vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote.
E. 2.2 The Companys registrars ensure that all valid proxy appointments received for the AGM are properly recorded and counted and a schedule of proxy votes cast is made available to all shareholders attending the meeting.
There is also full disclosure of the voting result via RNS and on the Companys website as soon as practicable after the AGM.
E. 2.3 All Board members are encouraged to attend the AGM and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available to answer questions.
E. 2.4 The Notice of AGM is posted at least twenty working days prior to the date of the meeting and the Companys website contains copies of all Notices issued.
42 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT Board and Committee Composition from the Group Company Secretary or and Attendance in accordance with downloadable from www.
1.2 of the Code In addition to the scheduled Board As stated, the Board has established meetings held during the year, the Board various Committees, each with clearly met for an off site strategy session, for the defined terms of reference, procedures AGM and annual conference.
In December 2011, the of Board Committee meetings held and Committees terms of reference were attendance thereat is set out in the table updated, in the light of the Code and ICSA below.
best practice guidelines and approved by the Board.
Copies are available on request Required attendance as a formal member Actual attendance Directors Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Russell Clements 10 N A N A N A 10 4 5 2 Gary Elden 10 N A N A N A 10 N A N A N A Alex Smith 10 N A N A N A 10 4 N A N A Clay Brendish 10 N A N A 2 9 N A 1 2 Paul Bowtell 10 4 N A 2 10 4 N A 2 Alicja Lesniak 10 4 5 2 10 4 5 1 Tony Ward 10 N A 5 2 10 N A 5 2 Nadhim Zahawi 10 4 5 N A 8 4 5 1 Directors were unable to attend meetings reporting issues and judgements due to one unavoidable other business contained within them: to review the commitment Clay Brendish or two Companys internal financial controls, unavoidable parliamentary commitments internal control and risk management Nadhim Zahawi, although full Board systems and reporting thereon, including packs were distributed and separate advising on risk appetite, tolerance and discussions held on matters of relevance.
strategy, as well as risk exposures and assessment: advising on proposed Audit Committee in accordance with strategic transactions, including C. 3.1 to C. 3.7 of the Code conducting due diligence appraisals and The Audit Committee consists of Paul focussing on risk aspects: assessing Bowtell Chairman, Alicja Lesniak material breaches of risk limits: advising and Nadhim Zahawi, and accordingly on risk performance and remuneration comprises at least three independent aspects: reviewing arrangements by NEDs as required by the Code.
The Chief which Group employees may raise Executive Officer, the Chief Financial concerns about possible improprieties in Officer, the Group Company Secretary financial reporting or other such matters and the external auditors attend all and ensuring appropriate follow up: meetings at the request of the Committee.
assessing procedures for detecting fraud Paul Bowtell is a Chartered Accountant or preventing bribery: overseeing the and is considered by the Board to have remit of the risk management function: recent and relevant financial experience, to monitor and review the effectiveness given his current role as Chief Financial of the Companys internal audit function: Officer of Gala Coral Group.
to make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the shareholders for their The Committees principal responsibilities approval in general meeting, in relation are set out in its terms of reference and, to the appointment, re-appointment and broadly, are: to monitor the integrity of removal of the external auditor and to the financial statements of the Company approve the remuneration and terms of and any formal announcements relating engagement of the external auditor: to to the Companys financial performance: annually review and monitor the external reviewing any significant financial SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 43 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT auditors independence and objectivity restricting the Groups choice of external and the effectiveness of the audit process, auditor.
taking into consideration relevant UK The Committee has set clear guidelines professional and regulatory requirements: on non audit work which may or may not to develop and implement policy on the be undertaken by the external auditor and engagement of the external auditor to closely monitors this.
Policy provides that supply non-audit services, taking into non-audit work may be carried out by the account relevant ethical and professional external auditor only where that work does guidance regarding the provision of nonnot impair independence or objectivity audit services by the external audit firm, and where the Committee believes that reporting to the Board, identifying any it is in the Groups best interests to make matters in respect of which it considers use of the external auditors knowledge that action or improvement is needed of the business, skills and experience.
and making recommendations as to the Such work has included detailed local steps to be taken and generally to identify statutory audits or services required and report on any business areas where due to legislation, as well as assurance action or improvement are needed and work and other specialist services where recommend actions to be taken.
no internal resource is available.
The The Committee considers matters Committee continuously monitors the relating to the recommendation quality and volume of this work, the level for appointment, re-appointment, of fees incurred, as well as safeguards, remuneration and terms of engagement in order to assess whether to use other of the Companys external auditor, accounting firms or appropriately qualified  LLP PwC.
organisations and, as a result, last year Both the Committee and the external appointed BDO LLP to provide the auditors themselves have safeguards Groups general tax advice.
in place to ensure that objectivity and In accordance with APB Ethical Standards independence is maintained, including and FRC guidance, our policy clearly the periodic rotation of the audit partner.
specifies: i which types of non audit work In addition to the annual appointment of are excluded, for example, book-keeping: the external auditors by the shareholders, design, implementation and operation the Committee regularly reviews their of systems: actuarial and internal audit independence taking into consideration control functions: executive management relevant UK professional and regulatory functions and legal or other financial requirements.
The Committee reviews services: ii the types of work for which performance and fees charged, including external auditors can be engaged without compensation structure and meets with referral to the Committee, i. e. provided the external auditor at least once a year such services are specifically listed within without management present.
the policy and fall below 50,000: and iii The Committee considers that the for which types of work a referral to the relationship with the external auditors is Committee is necessary, i. e. non listed working well and remains satisfied with services or those listed within the policy their effectiveness.
Accordingly, to date, it which are above 50,000. has not considered it necessary to require Details of fees paid to the external PwC to re-tender for the audit work.
The auditors for both audit and non audit work external auditors are required to rotate are given in the Notes to the financial audit partners responsible for the Group statements.
The Committee has fully audit every five years and the current lead evaluated this work against its policy and audit partner has been in place for three remains comfortable that it is appropriate years.
There are no contractual obligations and the fees justified.
For 2011, much 44 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT of this work related to specific projects, Committee engages external search including the continuation of the Groups consultants with respect to both Executive corporate simplification project, for which and Non-Executive Board appointments, comparative quotes were obtained, as well and considers applicants from all as tax restructuring, however the level of backgrounds, as was the case for the non audit fees was significantly reduced most recent appointment, being Clay compared to the prior year and was also Brendish.
In this, and in other cases, the less than the total audit fees incurred in the Committee first conducted an evaluation year.
of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in the Following its creation, the Group has light of this, prepared an appropriate further enhanced its internal audit function, description of the role and capabilities which is now at an appropriate size and required for the particular appointment, mix of skills for the business and the with the successful appointee being Committee firmly believes that this function selected from candidates proposed by remains effective and continues to add external advisors and chosen entirely on significant value.
The Group has in place a dedicated In terms of succession planning, the independent whistle blowing hotline, Group has continued its Top 60 as part of the arrangements set up and leadership initiative, bringing together monitored by the Committee, so that key managers from around the globe at employees are able to report any matters regular sessions, in order to identify and of concern, where this does not conflict develop the most talented individuals with local laws or customs.
As part of this initiative, Egon Zehnder International Nomination Committee in carried out detailed evaluations of senior accordance with B.
2.2 and individuals below Board level, with B.
2.4 of the Code succession plans then prepared for The Nomination Committee consists of each.
See also the Chairmans Trading & Clay Brendish Chairman, Tony Ward, Governance Overview section earlier in the Alicja Lesniak and Paul Bowtell and Annual Report.
accordingly comprises a majority of independent NEDs as required by the Remuneration Committee in Code.
accordance with D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 of the Code The Nomination Committees terms of The Remuneration Committee is reference are, broadly: to regularly review responsible for making recommendations the structure, size and composition to the Board on Group policy for including the skills, knowledge and the remuneration of the Chairman, experience and diversity of the Board, the Executive Directors, the Group make recommendations with regard Company Secretary and certain key to any changes and to review and senior management posts and for the prepare relevant job descriptions for determination, within agreed terms of new appointees.
The Committee also reference, of additional benefits for each of considers future succession planning the Executive Directors, including pension for Board and other senior Executive rights and any compensation for loss of roles, reviewing leadership and other office.
The Committee is also responsible role needs, bearing in mind the balance for the implementation and operation of of skills, knowledge, experience and he Groups employee share incentive diversity already on the Board, so as to arrangements.
The Committee comprises maintain an appropriate balance.
The SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 45 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT at least three independent NEDs as nonfinancial risks and the relationship required by the Code.
Full information between the cost, or benefit, resulting on the composition, role and operation from the risk management or internal of the Remuneration Committee and control systems.
remuneration details are disclosed in the In order to manage the business Directors Remuneration Report.
effectively, the Board continually assesses Effectiveness of the Companys risk actual results compared with the management and internal control budgeted and forecast performance of the systems in accordance with C. 2.1 of Group, as well as other key performance the Code indicators, some of which are detailed in The Board has overall responsibility the Overview, Business Model & Strategy for monitoring the effectiveness of the section of this Annual Report.
Companys risk management and internal Assessment of risk and Enterprise control systems in order to safeguard Risk Management ERM framework shareholders investments and the The Board, through the Audit Committee, Groups assets.
Executive Directors and has overall responsibility for risk senior management are responsible for management activities and implementing the implementation and maintenance policies to ensure that all risks are of the systems, which are subject to evaluated, measured and kept under periodic, and at least annual, review review by way of appropriate KPIs and by the Board, via the Audit Committee this forms the basis for the Groups where appropriate.
As explained above, ERM framework.
Under this framework, in response to business requirements, the all Executive, Regional and Country Group has also created an internal audit Directors, key support functions and function in order to facilitate this process.
other relevant parties take ownership The Board, via the Audit Committee, of their related risks, creating specific monitors the continuous process by sub-Group risk registers, with risks being which critical risks to the business are categorised according to probability identified, evaluated and managed and and financial impact and measured this process explicitly includes the risks according to strictly defined criteria, as and opportunities to enhance value set out under the Board approved risk arising from ESG matters.
The process is management policy.
More significant risks consistent with the Turnbull Guidance on are distilled to form the Groups key risk Internal Control and has been in operation register, which is closely monitored by the for the period under review and up to the Committee and risks include, amongst date of approval of this Annual Report.
others, those relevant to the processes for financial reporting and the preparation of The Board assesses the Companys consolidated accounts, with appropriate risk management and internal control mitigation measures.
systems, including material controls such as financial, operational and compliance As part of these processes, regular controls and enterprise risk management strategy and risk leadership workshops ERM systems.
These are designed to are held, bringing together Executive manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of Directors, Regional MDs, Country failure to achieve the Groups objectives, Directors and key function heads, and can only provide reasonable, not with ERM specialists in attendance, absolute, assurance against material misunderpinned as follows: statement or loss.
The Board considers, Country Directors own localised risk in assessing what constitutes reasonable registers, with regular presentations accuracy, the materiality of financial and 46 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT made to the Board which include of ESG matters to the business of progress on risk mitigation, with the Company.
Adherence to these underlying reviews of risks integrity: procedures and disclosure of relevant issues is monitored by the internal audit Audit Committee meetings may function and also reviewed by external include presentations by MDs Country ERM specialists, as part of the overall Directors, etc, on their approach risk management framework.
to business risk management and tracking of improvement areas: The Board has reviewed but has not identified any significant ESG risks to A Board approved risk management the Companys short and long-term policy and procedure document are in value or opportunities to enhance value.
place, communicated Group-wide: The Board has received adequate Group risk appetite has been defined information to make this assessment and formalised, with strategic and by way of its ERM procedures and, localised measures agreed, monitored where necessary, has taken account of via appropriate KPIs, with remuneration ESG matters in the training of Directors also being subject to specific risk as well as ensuring inclusion in bonus targets: structures.
Job descriptions include reference to The Board has ensured that the risk responsibilities.
Company has in place effective systems for managing and mitigating The Groups ERM arrangements have significant risks.
Where relevant, these been designed to meet, as closely as incorporate performance management possible, the appropriate BSI standard systems and appropriate remuneration BS 3100 on risk management processes.
Consequently, the Group has continued to reap the benefits of its enhanced ERM There are no ESG-related risks and framework through improved strategic opportunities that may significantly and individual region sector focus on affect the Companys short and long key risk areas, with greater clarity on risk term value or the future of the business.
ownership, identification of opportunities as well as threats, whilst also facilitating Going concern better monitoring of progress, mitigation The Board has reviewed the Groups measures and ensuring appropriate budget for the financial year ending forward looking assessment, including, 25 November 2012 and medium term where relevant, ESG matters.
financial projections, for the next three years.
After taking account of the cash Association of British Insurers ABI flow projections, including proposed guidelines on responsible investment capital expenditure and considering the disclosures availability of borrowing facilities, the Board In respect of the Companys compliance has concluded that it is appropriate to with the ABI guidelines on responsible prepare the accounts of both the Group investment disclosures, the Board and the Company on the going concern confirms the following, in relation to its basis.
responsibilities, policies and procedures, with appropriate KPIs detailed within the Overview, Business Model & Strategy section of this Annual Report: As part of its ERM procedures, the Board takes account of the significance SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 47 CORPORATE gOvERNANCE REPORT Corporate and Environmental Responsibility The Board recognises that the Group has a responsibility to act ethically in relation to the physical and social environment in which it operates, and that failure to do so could adversely impact on the Groups long and short term value as a result of financial penalty and or loss of stakeholder support.
It takes such responsibilities seriously, paying due regard to international and local laws in all its dealings.
Further details are disclosed in the Corporate Responsibility Report.
Share capital Information on the Companys share capital is set out within the Directors Report.
Steve Hornbuckle Group Company Secretary 27 January 2012 48 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011
