dirECtors rEPort for the year ended 27 November 2011 The Directors present their Annual Report we generally resist pricing and margin on the activities of the Group, together pressures across our specialist activities.
with the financial statements and auditors The Groups strategy is to grow its report for the year ended 27 November international businesses more aggressively 2011. in new geographies particularly outside Europe and sectors, to focus on more Principal risks and uncertainties specialist niches, which tend to be A commentary on the Boards main areas less competitive, whilst also improving of risk mitigation focus during 2011 is the efficiency and operations of our included in the Overview, Business Model businesses generally.
However, some of Steve Hornbuckle are still in a development phase, pricing the principal risks facing the business Group Company Secretary pressure is less of a risk and our strategy generally are set out as follows: is to rapidly grow our businesses in these territories.
In all markets we are subject Macro-economic environment to both existing and new competition cyclicality The performance of the from both small start-ups as well as large Group has a relationship and dependence multi-nationals, as costs of entry can be on the underlying growth of the relatively low, although these costs have economies of the countries in which it gradually risen with increased levels of operates in so far as it impacts client and compliance required from local regulators candidate confidence.
some improvement in certain markets, the situation was by no means fully recovered Commercial relationships insolvency by historical standards.
This risk is risk The Group benefits from close mitigated in part by maintaining: commercial relationships with key clients, predominantly in the private sector, a balance of temporary and permanent although it is not dependent on any single recruitment: key client.
The Group is always subject a broad exposure across geographies to the risk that some customers might be and sectors: unable to fulfil obligations and even more so in a poor economic climate.
a flexible cost base that enables us to react swiftly to changes in market Availability of candidates The conditions by increasing or reducing availability of highly skilled quality costs as appropriate: and candidates is essential to operating in niche high margin areas and changes a strong balance sheet with committed in the other risk areas can affect debt facilities.
Expanding into A key part of the Groups strategy newer geographies sectors can provide is to continue to grow the size of its protection against potentially lower international businesses to reduce the candidate availability in some more mature Groups reliance on any one specific markets.
Contractual risk Clients increasingly Competitive environment The require more complex levels of Group continues to face competitor risk compliance in their contractual in the markets where the provision of arrangements.
The Group takes these permanent and temporary recruitment responsibilities seriously and contracts is most competitive and fragmented, are therefore closely controlled via the being generally the UK, Ireland and the Groups centralised Legal and Business Netherlands.
There is strong competition Administration functions and subject for clients and candidates, although to regular audit in order to reduce non- 22 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 dIRECTORS REPORT compliance risks.
The Group sets out clear suppliers provide critical IT infrastructure guidance on the approval of contractual and the performance and robustness terms and monitors the application of these suppliers is monitored to thereof, especially any exceptions to the ensure business-critical processes are standard liability insurance position, which safeguarded as far as is practicably require approval via the Legal Department possible.
IT systems are periodically or Group Company Secretary.
The placing reviewed to ensure they remain effective of temporary workers generally represents and project management teams review greater risk for the organisation than risks associated in upgrading key systems, permanent placements and wherever utilising robust management tools which possible contractual clauses place monitor progress across the life of any responsibility for supervision and control IT project.
The business also continues directly with the client, excluding any to review and enhance its ability to cope consequential loss and limiting the Groups with a significant data or other loss via its aggregate liability.
People The Group is heavily reliant on Regulatory environment and the ability to recruit, train and develop legislative changes The specialist people to meet its growth strategy.
At recruitment industry is governed by the same time, the Groups business increasing levels of compliance, which model demands flexibility to expand or vary from country to country and market consolidate, depending on the economic to market.
The Group is committed to environment.
In response to this, the meeting all of its regulatory responsibilities Group is focused on engaging with and and continues to strengthen its internal developing its key managers in each controls and other processes with respect sector geography and is committed to legal and contractual obligations.
to ensuring it has competitive pay and As employment laws are changed or benefits structures, clearly linked to harmonised, this creates new risks and performance, combined with a succession opportunities.
The contract market is planning process.
Through training more heavily regulated and changes in and development, it seeks to provide legislation such as changes in managed individuals with leadership, sales, key service company legislation or to contract customer management and general worker rights may impact the Group.
The business skills that support the Groups Group therefore ensures that its policies, expansion needs, whilst providing processes and systems reflect best a rewarding and challenging career.
practice, wherever possible in order to Regional and Country managers are also meet the legal requirements of the markets focused on allocating resources in respect in which it operates.
of the best Group opportunities available.
Foreign exchange The Group has Information Technology IT significant operations outside the UK and The Group is reliant on delivering its is consequently exposed to movements service to clients through a number of in exchange rates.
As the business mix technology systems.
These are housed moves further towards international, in various locations and the Group has the impact of foreign exchange will capacity to cope with a data or system become a more significant issue.
The loss as a result of a significant event Board therefore regularly reviews its through the establishment of disaster treasury strategy to ensure that it remains recovery sites that are physically based appropriate and currently the Group does in separate locations to the ongoing not actively manage its exposure to foreign operations.
A number of important SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 23 dIRECTORS REPORT exchange risk by the use of financial number of contractors but is not reliant on instruments.
Post balance sheet events There are no significant agreements to There have been no significant events which the Company is party that take since the balance sheet date other than effect, alter or terminate upon a change the RBS revolving credit facility, put in of control of the Company following a place in January 2012. takeover offer, with the exception of the RBS revolving credit facility agreement, in Results and dividends place from January 2012.
Information in respect of the Groups profits, dividends and other key financial The Company does not have agreements information is contained within the with any Director or employee that would Overview, Chairmans and other officers provide compensation for loss of office sections of this Annual Report.
or employment resulting from a takeover, except that provisions of the Groups share Directors and their interests plans and tracker share Minority Interest The Directors of the Company, including arrangements, may cause options, awards biographies, are shown within the Board or minority shareholdings to vest on a of Directors and Secretary section, earlier takeover.
in this Annual Report, with further details of Board Committee membership being Share capital set out in the Corporate Governance Details of the authorised and issued share Report.
All Directors served throughout capital of the Company, together with the financial year and, in accordance with movements during the year are shown in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the notes to the financial statements.
will retire at the 2012 AGM and submit Tracker share arrangements themselves for re-election, with further minority interests or MI model information contained in the Notice of The Group regards its tracker share Meeting.
model as a key factor in its success and Other than employment contracts and it is planned to create more of these each Minority Interest loans to Gary Elden, none year, on similar terms to those previously of the Directors had a material interest created, subject to shareholder approval.
in any contract with the Company or its Entrepreneurial employees within the subsidiary undertakings.
Key terms of Group often create ideas for new business the Directors service contracts, interests opportunities, which the Group may in shares and options and tracker share elect to pursue and develop.
Historically Minority Interest loans are disclosed in the Group has engaged with such key the Directors Remuneration Report.
employees in setting up new brands for Supplier payment policy, essential the purpose of pursuing these new ideas, contractors and change of control which have typically evolved organically It is Group policy to comply with terms out of one of the existing SThree of payment negotiated with suppliers.
businesses, with the relevant managers Where payment terms are not negotiated, then being given the opportunity to the Group endeavours to adhere to the manage and develop that new brand.
SThree plc acts Typically, those managers of the new as a holding company for the Group and SThree brand will be able to invest, at the does not trade and consequently does Companys discretion, in the new venture not have an average creditors payment and share in its success as well as the risk period.
Trade creditors of the Group at of failure.
27 November 2011 were equivalent to As in prior years, only the Groups key 26 days purchases 2010: 24 days.
The entrepreneurial employees may be invited Group has business relationships with a to invest in the creation of any new tracker 24 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 dIRECTORS REPORT share business.
In order to receive equity appropriate to put only one resolution ownership such employees must invest to shareholders each year, with each in any stake at fair value and be actively authority being granted for five years, engaged in that business for a minimum although automatically renewed at each term of between three and five years.
following AGM, or any adjournment Should the employee wish to dispose thereof.
of their stake, the Company retains The proposed resolution, together with the pre-emption rights.
standard terms upon which the tracker The minimum term for each new tracker shares are normally based, are outlined share stake is set at the outset and will within the notice of AGM.
normally be five years, but will never be Substantial shareholdings less than three years, in order to allow the As at the date of this document, the Group flexibility to adapt to the individual Group has been notified, in accordance needs of its brands and businesses and with the Companies Act, of the following differing rates of growth.
significantinterests in the ordinary share Although there are a number of different capital of the Company, although any businesses in which key employees are interests of Directors which amount to invited to invest, each invitation will be over3% are shown in the Directors on generally similar terms to that used interests table within the Directors previously and it is normally therefore Remuneration Report.
Number Percentage Name of shareholder of shares shareholding AXA 5,153,356 4.23% Blackrock 6,137,031 4.99% William Frederick Bottriell 9,327,764 7.66% F&C Management 6,096,679 5.02% Fidelity 6,028,475 4.95% HBOS plc 6,983,314 5.21% JO Hambro 6,223,977 5.19% JP Morgan Asset Management UK Limited 7,021,061 5.07% Legal & General Group plc 4,841,179 3.97% Martin Currie Investment Management Limited 4,314,627 3.12% Standard Life Investments Limited 11,330,732 9.46% Sunil Wickremeratne 10,691,874 8.78% Authority to make purchases of Directors indemnities, insurance and own shares conflicts of interest The Company is, until the date of Section 236 of the Companies Act the forthcoming AGM, generally and 2006 allows companies the power to unconditionally authorised to buy back extend indemnities to Directors against a proportion of its own ordinary shares.
liability to third parties excluding criminal During the year various share purchases and regulatory penalties and also to were made, which are held as treasury pay Directors legal costs in advance, shares and the Directors will seek to provided that these are reimbursed to the renew the authority to purchase up to Company should the individual Director 10%of the Companys issued share be convicted or, in an action brought capital at the AGM.
by the Company, where judgement is SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 25 dIRECTORS REPORT given against the Director.
The Group becoming disabled, every effort is made currently has a Directors and Officers to ensure that employment continues insurance policy in place which provides within the existing or a similar role.
The Board also confirms that the Groups policy to support disabled there are appropriate procedures in place employees in all aspects of their training, to ensure that its powers to authorise development and promotion where it Directors conflicts of interest are operated benefits both the employee and the effectively.
Corporate governance Community The Group is committed to Please refer to the separate Corporate providing support to the community and Governance Report.
society through a number of charitable activities.
During the period the Group Financial instruments made charitable donations of 47,855 Information in respect of financial 2010: 64,957 although no donations for instruments is set out in the notes to the political purposes of any kind were made financial statements.
Corporate Responsibility CR Annual General Meeting AGM The Board pays due regard to The AGM of the Company will be held on environmental, health and safety and 19 April 2012, at 5th Floor, 215-227, Great employment responsibilities and devotes Portland Street, London, W1W 5PN.
A appropriate resources to monitoring separate notice details all business to be compliance with and improving transacted.
The Chief Executive Officer has responsibility for these areas at Board Auditors level, ensuring that the Groups policies As required by Section 418 2 of the are upheld and providing the necessary Companies Act 2006, each Director in resources.
Further information is contained office, at the date of this report, hereby in the Corporate Responsibility Report, confirms that: whilst information on employee share so far as the Director is aware, there is plans and share ownership is contained in no relevant audit information of which the Directors Remuneration Report.
the Companys auditors are unaware: Health and safety The Group is and committed to providing for the health, he she has taken all steps that he she safety and welfare of all its employees.
ought to have taken as a Director in Every effort is made to ensure that country order to make him herself aware of health and safety legislation, regulations any relevant audit information and to or similar codes of practice are complied establish that the Companys Auditors with.
are aware of such information.
Employees The Group is committed  LLP have to achieving equal opportunities and indicated their willingness to continue in complying with anti-discrimination office.
Accordingly, a resolution will be legislation and all employees are put to the forthcoming AGM proposing encouraged to train and develop their re-appointment as auditors for the their careers.
Group policy is to offer ensuing year.
the opportunity to benefit from fair employment, without regard to sex, sexual Statement of Directors orientation, marital status, race, religion or responsibilities belief, age or disability.
The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors The Group gives full and fair consideration Remuneration Report and the financial to the employment of disabled persons for suitable jobs.
In the event of employees 26 SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 dIRECTORS REPORT statements in accordance with applicable for taking reasonable steps for the law and regulations.
prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each The Directors are responsible for financial year.
Under that law the Directors the maintenance and integrity of the have prepared the Consolidated Group Companys website.
Legislation in and Company financial statements in the United Kingdom governing the accordance with International Financial preparation and dissemination of financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted statements may differ from legislation in by the European Union.
Each of the Directors, law the Directors must not approve the whose names and functions are listed financial statements unless they are above confirm that, to the best of their satisfied that they give a true and fair view knowledge: of the state of affairs of the Consolidated the Consolidated Group and Company Group and the Company and of the profit financial statements, which have been or loss of the Company and Consolidated prepared in accordance with IFRSs Group for that period.
In preparing these as adopted by the European Union, financial statements, the Directors are give a true and fair view of the assets, required to: liabilities, financial position and profit of select suitable accounting policies and the Consolidated Group and Company: then apply them consistently: and make judgements and accounting the Directors report, together with estimates that are reasonable and the Overview, Chairmans and other prudent: officers sections of this Annual Report, provide a fair review of the development state whether applicable IFRSs as and performance of the business adopted by the European Union have and the position of the Consolidated been followed, subject to any material Group and Company, together with a departures disclosed and explained in description of the principal risks and the financial statements: uncertainties that it faces.
prepare the financial statements on By order of the Board the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping Steve Hornbuckle adequate accounting records that Group Company Secretary are sufficient to show and explain the 27 January 2012 Companys transactions and disclose Registered Office: with reasonable accuracy at any time the 5th Floor, financial position of the Company and the 215-227, Great Portland Street, Consolidated Group and enable them London, W1W 5PN to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Consolidated Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Consolidated Group and hence SThree plc Report & financial statements 2011 27
