Corporate Governance Report Year ended 28 February 2011 Above all other objectives, the Board is there to ensure that the Group provides long term and sustainable growth for its shareholders.
Good corporate governance assists in the promotion of this Senior Independent Director growth by ensuring that there is effective authority and Alan Kelsey is the Senior Independent Director of the Group.
The base that Nick Watts was the Senior Independent Director until the date the Group uses for this is the 2008 Combined Code issued of his resignation.
His role is to: by the Financial Reporting Council and appended to the Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which Listing Rules and which sets out best practice of how a cannot be dealt with by the Chairman, Chief Executive company should be run.
Officer or Chief Financial Officer.
The purpose of this report is to show how the Group complies with the Code and, on the rare occasions where it does not, Attend institutional and analyst briefings, in addition to the 41 explain the reason for non-compliance.
Chief Executive Officer and his team.
The Directors believe that the Group has complied throughout Meet with the Non-Executive members of the Board at the period with the code provisions set out in the 2008 least once a year without the presence of the Chairman or Combined Code.
the Executive Directors in order to review the Chairmans Printed copies of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance performance in his role and also the Chairmans and the UK Corporate Governance Code applicable for financial relationship with the Chief Executive Officer.
years commencing on or after 29 June 2010 can be obtained free of charge from the Financial Reporting Council FRC Company Secretary and Independent Advice Publications by emailing customerservices@cch.
co. uk or telephone 44 0 208 247 1264 or online at frcpublications.
The Company Secretarys role is to act as advisor to the Board on matters relating to Corporate Governance and, in The Board - Chairman and Chief Executive Officer conjunction with the Chairman, to ensure good information flows between the Board, its various committees, the NonThe positions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are held Executive and Executive Directors and Senior members of the by different individuals in order to provide segregation of roles.
The Chairmans role is to manage the Board of Directors, The Non-Executive Directors have access to his advice and ensure that the Non-Executive Directors are committed to their services in addition to independent, professional advice if positions and are able to contribute to the management of the required at the Groups expense.
The Chief Executive Officers role is to implement strategy laid Matters reserved for the Board and how it operates down by the Board of Directors and to manage the Group and its operations.
In accordance with the Code, the Board has agreed a formal schedule of matters requiring its decision.
This schedule is The Board of Directors is collectively responsible for the success available on the Groups website.
In summary, those matters of the Group.
reserved to the Board include: Strategy of the Group.
Board Balance and Independence Being alert to market and other prevalent conditions and The Board now consists of eight individuals six of whom their potential consequence on the Group and the including the Chairman are independent Non-Executive environment in which it operates.
Directors and two are Executive Directors.
Over the past year this Board has had the appropriate balance and skill set to Continuing review of Group performance against its advise on the Groups growth.
It was recognised that the Board would benefit from NonConsideration and approval of financial results, dividend Executive Directors who have more operational and industry policy and payments.
On 7 March 2011, William Stobart and Capital structure and any debt funding of the Group.
David Irlam stepped down as Executive Directors, but they have maintained key management roles within the Group.
Approval of financial and other commitments above those On the same date Nick Watts and Daniel Dayan stepped delegated to the Executive.
On 23 May 2011 Paul Monitoring internal control and risk management.
Orchard-Lisle, Alan Kelsey and David Beever were appointed Appointment of the Executive Directors on the as Non-Executive Directors.
recommendation of the Nomination Committee.
The NonExecutive Directors offer themselves for re-election each year.
The Executive Directors offer themselves for reelection every three years.
Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Report The Board has met for eight scheduled meetings during the knowledge and experience on the Board is maintained.
course of the 12 months under review and attendance at such When dealing with the appointment of a successor to the Board Meetings by individual Directors is set out below.
Chairman, the Senior Independent Director will Chair the In addition, it has met with members of the senior management Committee instead of the Chairman.
When the Committee team on 14 October 2010 to discuss the Groups vision and has found a suitable candidate, the Chairman of the strategy and review business planning and risk mechanisms.
Committee will make the proposal to the whole Board and the appointment is the responsibility of the whole Board following recommendation from the Committee.
of meetings attended possible Information, Induction and Professional Development Rodney Baker-Bates 88 The Chairman is responsible for ensuring all Directors receive Andrew Tinkler 88 comprehensive information on a regular basis to enable them to perform their duties properly.
Board papers are normally William Stobart resigned 07 March 2011 88 distributed five days in advance of scheduled Board Meetings.
Ben Whawell 88 New Directors receive appropriate induction on joining the 42 David Irlam resigned 07 March 2011 78 Board, typically including meeting members of the senior management team and visits to operational sites.
All Directors Nick Watts resigned 07 March 2011 88 have access to the advice and services of the Company Michael Kayser 88 Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Daniel Dayan resigned 07 March 2011 88 Jesper Kjaedegaard 88 Board Director Evaluation and Training The Chief Executive Officer conducts annual appraisals with Board meetings are an opportunity, for example, for the NonExecutive Directors and has regular one-to-one discussions Executive Directors to challenge performance of the various about their performance with them, as does the Chairman divisions against targets and KPIs set, to review transactions with the Chief Executive Officer.
which have taken place since the preceding meeting and to The Board undertake a regular cycle of training on Corporate receive reports from the Boards committees.
Board proceedings are recorded in comprehensive minutes Each year the Board undertakes a review of the effectiveness which permit any Director to record their views if they have of the governance arrangements.
In the prior year the Board any concerns which the Board cannot satisfactorily resolve.
appointed an independent consultant whose evaluation No such concerns were voiced during this period.
included the following: Appointments to the Board A review of the Board and key committee papers for the The Board has established a Nomination Committee which is preceding 12 months and other background materials: required to meet at least once a year or more often, if so Interviews of current Board members, a former Nonrequired, in order to make recommendations to the Board on the composition, balance and membership of the Board.
Executive Director and the Company Secretary.
The Audit Committee The Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee leads the process for Board The Audit Committee is to establish formal and transparent appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on arrangements for considering how to apply the financial the structure, size and composition of the Board and succession reporting and internal control principles and to maintain an planning for Directors and Senior Executives.
appropriate relationship with the external auditors.
The Committees members are the NonExecutive Directors.
The Audit Committee monitors the integrity of the financial For new potential Non-Executive Board members, the statements, internal financial controls and internal audit Nomination Committee meets and agrees to appoint an functions.
The Committee also makes recommendations to external consultant to assist with the selection of a shortlist of the Board in relation to the appointment of the Groups potential Non-Executive Directors.
Once this shortlist is presented, the Nomination Committee The objectivity and independence of the auditors is reviewed meets and undertakes a formal, rigorous and transparent and considered to be safeguarded.
The non-audit fees paid to procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board the auditors are expected to be less than the Group audit fees.
Careful consideration is given by the Nomination Committee to ensure that any appointees to the Board have enough time available to devote to the role and that the balance of skills, Corporate Governance Report Audit Committee Membership possible improprieties in financial or other matters.
Arrangements include independent investigation of such The Audit Committee is chaired by Michael Kayser and its other matters and appropriate follow-up action.
members are Rodney Baker-Bates and David Beever.
The Company Secretary acts as its secretary.
Internal Control and Risk Management Michael Kayser is considered by the Board and the Nomination Committee to hold the requisite recent and relevant financial The Directors responsibilities in connection with the financial experience.
statements are set out in the Directors Report on page 38.
The Board, through the Audit Committee, is responsible for the Groups The quorum for an Audit Committee meeting is any two system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Only members of the Audit Committee and the Company Secretary are permitted to attend meetings.
The Board considers risk assessment, implementation of However, the Chief Financial Officer and the Groups external mitigating actions and internal control to be fundamental to auditors will normally be invited to attend meetings.
Internal control gives the Board reasonable but not absolute assurance.
The Board has an At least once a year, the Audit Committee will meet with the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing external auditors without the Chief Financial Officer or any significant risks faced by the Group and maintains a risk register.
The system of internal control is based upon: Attendance at Audit Committee meetings The Boards overall responsibility.
The Group has an organisational structure with established The terms of reference of the Audit Committee from 1 March 2008 which are available on the Groups website require it to lines of accountability, as well as clearly defined levels of meet at least three times per year.
During the period under authority.
review, the Audit Committee met on six occasions, with Regular, and at least annual review, by the Board and the attendance as set out in the table below: Audit Committee.
Compliance with the Turnbull Guidance 2005.
Number of Audit Committee meetings in the period 6 Support by company policies in other areas such as finance.
Member Number of meetings attended Management rather than elimination of the risk of failure to achieve strategic objectives.
It can also only provide Michael Kayser 6 reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Rodney Baker-Bates 5 misstatement or loss.
Daniel Dayan 5 The Audit Committee and the Board have reviewed the effectiveness of internal control including financial, Shareholder Relations operational and compliance controls together with risk management in accordance with the Code over the period The Company is committed to maintaining good of this report, and to the date of its publication and confirm communications with shareholders.
Senior executives, that no significant failings or weaknesses have been including the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Chief identified.
If they had been, the Board confirms that the Financial Officer, have dialogue with individual institutional necessary actions would have been taken to remedy them.
shareholders in order to develop an understanding of their views which are periodically fed back to the Board.
The Audit Committee review the independence of the auditors at the interims and at year end.
Twice a year general presentations are given to analysts and The Group has a business systems internal audit function investors covering the annual and half year results.
In addition which reviews performance against the agreed policies and members of the Board meet with institutional investors and procedures.
The Board has considered extending this to all analysts on a periodic basis.
aspects of financial controls and procedures and concluded The Company Secretary generally deals with enquiries from that it is not necessary.
com contains published information and press releases.
Corporate Responsibility Whistleblowing Policy Richard Butcher, Deputy CEO and Company Secretary, takes Board level responsibility for developing and implementing the The Board has prepared and approved a whistleblowing Groups policy and approach for corporate responsibility.
policy which has been circulated within the Group.
This policy This includes its arrangements for matters relating to people, includes arrangements for employees to raise concerns about society and the environment.
