40 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 10 Corporate Governance Statement Remuneration Committee A description of the work of the Remuneration Committee is made available in section 12 pages 48 to 53.
Board and Committee attendance The table below gives details of Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the financial year ended 1 May 2011: Audit Nomination Remuneration Board meeting Committee Committee Committee Maximum number 11 4 4 5 Peter Bamford 11 4 Keith Edelman 10 4 5 Steven Glew 11 4 5 Indira Thambiah 10 4 4 Ken McCall 11 4 Julian Dunkerton 11 4 Theo Karpathios 11 James Holder 10 Diane Savory 11 Chas Howes 11 During the year, additional Board meetings were held as required to respond to the needs of the Group.
From time to time, Committee meetings are attended by non-members by invitation from the relevant Chairman.
Attendance is set out in the various Committee reports.
Directors conflicts of interest The Companys Articles of Association permit the Directors to consider and, if thought fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Group.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict, the non-conflicted Directors must act in a way they consider would be most likely to promote the success of the Group, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving their authorisation, or subsequently, if they think it is appropriate.
Any authorisation given is recorded in the Board minutes.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has considered and authorised any Directors reported potential conflicts to date.
The Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Nomination Committee Peter Bamford is Chairman of the Nomination Committee and the other committee members are Keith Edelman and Julian Dunkerton.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman and Keith Edelman are both independent Non-executive Directors and represent the majority of the Committee reference provision A.
The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating candidates for appointment to the Board, having assessed the skills and experience required by the Group.
All appointments to the Board are considered, while maintaining a suitable balance of skills and experience as required by the Group from time to time, and role descriptions are drawn up accordingly reference provision A.
The Chairman and all Non-executive Directors have declared their other significant commitments, including all other Board positions, to the Board prior to being appointed reference provisions A.
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors are aware of their on-going obligation to disclose any changes to their other commitments as they arise.
4.4 of the Code, a broad indication of the time involved with other significant commitments is disclosed by the Non-executive Directors.
