30 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 8 Board of Directors Peter Bamford Non-executive Chairman Peter is Chairman of the Board and of the Nomination Committee.
He is also Nonexecutive Chairman of MCPC-PRS Alliance Limited known as PRS Music and a Nonexecutive Director of Rentokil Initial Plc.
Peter was a Director of Vodafone Group Plc from 1998 to 2006 and prior to this held senior positions with WH Smith Plc, Tesco Plc and Kingfisher Plc.
Julian Dunkerton Chief Executive Officer Julian is responsible for the UK Retail Division in addition to his role as CEO.
He has worked exclusively in the retail sector for over 25 years, co-founding Cult from a market stall in Cheltenham and turning it into a successful retail chain.
Together with James Holder, Julian established the Superdry clothing brand eight years ago, and is widely regarded as one of the most knowledgeable retailers in the UK fashion industry.
James Holder Brand and Design Director James is responsible for brand and product development, and heads up SuperGroups team of in-house designers.
He created the Bench clothing brand in 1992, which became the premier English skate-wear brand in the niche skate BMX market.
In 2003, James and Julian developed the Superdry brand.
Chas Howes Group Finance Director Chas is responsible for Finance, IT and HR.
A qualified accountant, Chas previously held senior roles at Diageo Plc United Distillers and Guinness, Allied Domecq, Fosters Group Plc and the Burton Group, before becoming Group Finance Director at La Senza Limited.
He has worked both in the UK and Japan, undertaking operational, central and regional roles.
Chas joined the business in 2007.
Theo Karpathios Chief Executive Officer Wholesale and International Theo is responsible for international expansion and supplier relationships.
He started his first business venture in 1987 by supplying clothing to Cult in its infancy.
In 1996 he began his own retail business High Jinks, focusing on branded mens and ladies street-wear and in 2000 launched a second retail concept Skate of Mind, dedicated to skateboarding hardware and apparel.
He built up his business to eight standalone stores, which he sold in 2004 and joined the business in 2005.
