42 SuperGroup Plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 10 Corporate Governance Statement The Takeover Directive In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Regulations DTR, 7.2.
6R and the Companies Act 2006 CA2006, a statement on the Takeover Directive is included within section 9 on pages 33 to 34.
Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups systems of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness annually as set out in C. 2.1 of the Code.
As part of the process that the Board has put in place to review the effectiveness of the internal control system, there are procedures in place to capture and evaluate weaknesses.
In accordance with the revised guidance for Directors on internal control the Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group.
This process was put in place prior to the IPO in March 2010 and was further reinforced with the appointment of KPMG in June 2010 as the Groups internal auditors.
This process was in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
These systems are there to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can provide only reasonable, and not complete assurance against material misstatement or loss.
As noted above, during the year of reporting, the Audit Committee appointed KPMG as the Groups internal auditors.
KPMG have commenced a review of internal controls and put in place an internal audit plan for the year ahead.
This internal audit plan has allocated responsibility for identifying and evaluating significant risks to the relevant business area, on a continuing basis and this is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
The report was approved by the Board of Directors on 4 August 2011 and signed on its behalf by: Wendy Edwards Company Secretary 4 August 2011 Registered Office: Unit 60 The Runnings Cheltenham Gloucestershire GL51 9NW 20130.04 08 08 2011 Proof 15
