Synergy Health plc 34 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Report of the Directors Corporate Governance Going concern Combined Code Compliance The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to The Board is committed to the highest standards of Corporate affect its future development, performance and position are set out in Governance, the system by which the Company is directed, managed the Business Review on pages 4 to 17.
The financial position of the and controlled in the interests of its stakeholders.
In the year to 3 April Company, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities 2011, the Company was subject to the Combined Code on Corporate are described in the Finance Directors Report on pages 18 to 21.
Governance Combined Code published in June 2008 by the In addition, notes 18 to 19 to the financial statements include the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Directors are of the opinion Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: that the Company has been in compliance with the conditions of the its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial Combined Code up to the date of this report except where any noninstruments and hedging activities: and its exposure to credit risk compliance is disclosed and explained.
In May 2010, the FRC published its new corporate governance code The Company has considerable financial resources together with dated June 2010 replacing the Combined Code which will now be long term contracts with a number of customers and suppliers across known as the UK Corporate Governance Code.
From 4 April 2011, different geographic areas and market places.
As a consequence, the the Company is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Directors believe that the Company is well placed to manage its The Board has carefully considered the UK Corporate Governance Code business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic and is confident that its corporate governance policies and procedures outlook.
The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company are appropriate and will ensure that it remains able to comply with or has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the explain clearly any divergences from the proposed new UK Corporate foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis Governance Code.
of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The following statements set out the principles and methods to which This statement in respect of the business as a going concern has they adhere.
been prepared in accordance with Going Concern and Liquidity Risk: Guidance for Directors of UK Companies 2009, published by the The statement of Directors responsibilities in respect of the Annual Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
Report and the financial statements is set out in the Report of the Directors on page 32.
Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this report The Board confirm that so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit As at 3 April 2011, and as at the date of this report, the Board of information of which the Groups auditors are unaware: and each Directors was made up of five members, comprising a non-executive Director has taken all steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to chairman, two further non-executive Directors and two executive make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish Directors.
The non-executive Directors are considered by the Board that the Groups auditors are aware of that information.
to be independent of management and free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent Auditors judgement.
The non-executive Directors are considered to reflect A resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors of the a suitable breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
D K Nichol is Company is to be proposed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Annual General Meeting Biographical details of the Directors currently in office are shown on The Annual General Meeting will be held on 27 July 2011 at the offices page 30.
The Companys policy relating to the terms of appointment of Investec Bank plc, 2 Gresham Street, London, EC2V 7QP.
The notice and the remuneration of both executive and non-executive Directors is convening the meeting together with explanatory notes for the special detailed in the Remuneration Report on page 39. business are set out in a shareholder circular, which will be posted with the Annual Report and Financial Statements and proxy voting papers.
The procedure for appointing Directors is detailed in the Nomination Full details of all the resolutions to be proposed are provided in the Committee section below.
The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis Responsibility statement of the Directors in respect of the annual as required.
The Board met 11 times during the year, and attendance financial report for each is set out on page 37.
We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: The Boards primary role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership and The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the applicable to review the overall strategic development of the Group as a whole.
set of accounting standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, In addition the Board sets the Groups values and standards and liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the ensures that it acts ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and are understood and met.
The Directors report includes a fair review of the development The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for decision, and performance of the business and the position of the issuer and which it reviews and agrees annually but also delegates specific the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, responsibilities to a senior committee, the Senior Executive Board together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties SEB and certain Board committees.
On behalf of the Board T C Mason Group Company Secretary 7 June 2011 B6 B$5 BS LQGG Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 35 Specific responsibilities reserved for the Board include: who is charged with ensuring that the Board procedures are followed and that good corporate governance and compliance is implemented Setting and amending the Groups overall business strategy, within the Group.
Together with the Group Chief Executive and the strategic business plan and the annual operating budget.
Group Company Secretary, the Chairman ensures that the Board is Approval of the Annual Report & Financial Statements, interim kept properly informed and consulted on all issues reserved for it.
dividends and recommendation of the final dividend.
The role of Chairman and Group Chief Executive is separate and Approval of any changes to the Companys capital structure clearly defined with the division of responsibilities set out in writing including the raising of additional capital and the purchase of the and approved by the Board.
The Chairmans principal responsibilities Companys shares.
are to chair the Board and shareholder meetings and to ensure the effective running of the Board.
The Group Chief Executives principal Approval of any significant changes in accounting policies responsibility is leading the SEB in the day to day running of the Groups or practices.
The Chairman and Group Chief Executive meet regularly Approval of contracts with annual revenue in excess of 5 million.
Approval of any investment or disposal of the share capital of another In accordance with best practice the Chairman addresses the company greater than 5% of the Companys share capital.
developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with a view to developing its effectiveness as a team and ensures that each Director refreshes and Approval of the acquisition of assets with a consideration in excess updates his or her individual skills, knowledge and expertise.
of 10 million, and any disposal of assets greater than 2.5 million.
During the year, the Board conducted a detailed evaluation of its own Approval of any capital expenditure in excess of 10 million.
performance and that of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Major changes in the rules of the company pension schemes, Committees by means of a written questionnaire.
The evaluation or changes of trustees or fund management arrangements.
focused on several areas including Board structure, meeting administration, meetings and their content, strategy, Board Approval of changes to the employee share and other incentive committees, communication and information, and governance.
schemes and the allocation of executive share options.
The results of the evaluation were considered and discussed by All Stock Exchange related issues including approval of the Board.
Performance evaluations, including skills brought to the communications to the Stock Exchange.
Board and the contributions each Director made to it, were carried out for each Director.
Establishing Board membership and powers including the appointment and removal of Board members and the Group There was a change in Chairman during the year.
Directors have not yet held formal meetings to consider the Chairmans performance but this will be undertaken during the forthcoming Establishing Terms of Reference and membership of the financial year.
The Board has arranged to hold Board meetings at Group business Approval of all Related Party Transactions.
locations to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the Setting the remuneration of the auditors and making business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Group recommendations for the appointment or removal of auditors.
with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to meet the Directors on more informal occasions.
The non-executive Directors Approving any major changes in policy with respect to risks covered are also invited to attend the Groups Leadership Conference, which by insurance.
Approving all treasury matters including the setting of policies to enter Succession planning is a matter for the whole Board rather than for a into contracts that are not in the ordinary course of business and committee.
The Companys Articles of Association provide that one authorising bank facilities including bank borrowing, other loans and third of the Directors will seek re-election at the AGM every three years.
internal rate swaps, and approval of all foreign currency transactions However, all Directors will now submit themselves for annual re-election in excess of 5 million.
by shareholders at the Companys AGM in accordance with the UK Overseeing the Groups main controls and their effectiveness.
Additionally, new Directors may be appointed by the Board but are subject to election by shareholders Other matters including health and safety and risk management.
at the first opportunity after their appointment.
The Board sets aside at least two consecutive days each year to Following their appointment, a formal comprehensive and tailored conduct a review of its strategy with the SEB and other senior executives induction is given to all Directors, including visits to key locations in attendance for certain sessions as appropriate.
within the Group and meetings with members of the SEB and other key executives.
Directors receive papers several days in advance of Board meetings and also have access to the advice and services of the Companys advisers.
Although the non-executive Directors are not formally required to meet the shareholders of the Company, their attendance at presentations of The Board has established a procedure for Directors, if deemed the annual and interim results is encouraged.
necessary, to take independent professional advice at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the Group Company Secretary, B6 B$5 BS LQGG Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are Synergy Health plc 36 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Corporate Governance Board committees The Committee met three times during the year and the Directors The SEB comprises the Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, attendances for each meeting is shown in the table below.
Executive the Group Company Secretary, the Group Commercial Director and the Directors are invited to attend meetings and provide reports as and CEOs of each of the Regions of the Group and meets at least monthly.
The Committee meets with external auditors without management present at least once during the year.
The SEB is primarily responsible for: The Committee has direct access to the Groups auditors and liaises The management of all the Groups businesses: with executive management to review the effectiveness of internal controls.
Delivering the strategy and the agreed business plans and budgets which have been signed off by the Board: KPMG Audit plc were appointed as Auditors to the Company in 2006, and are re-appointed annually by shareholders.
To ensure objectivity, Making key commercial decisions within the framework of the agreed key members of the audit team rotate off the Companys audit.
During business plan and strategy: the year, the Committee reviewed KPMG Audit plcs fees, effectiveness Monitoring all risks operational, financial and reputational : and whether the agreed audit plan had been fulfilled and the reasons for any variation from the plan.
The Committee also considered its Reviewing and maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups system robustness and the degree to which KPMG Audit plc was able to of internal control on a day to day basis: and assess key accounting and audit judgements and the content of the Managing the business in a manner appropriate for a FTSE 250 management letter.
The Committee concluded that the audit was company.
effective and that the relationship and effectiveness of the external Auditor be kept under review.
KPMG Audit plc also audits the Remuneration Committee subsidiaries of the Group.
At the date of this report, the Remuneration Committee comprises D K Nichol Chairman and the two non-executive Directors, R E Lerwill The Committee has developed and implemented a policy on the and C F Baroudel, all of whom were independent in accordance with supply of non-audit services by the external auditors to ensure their the definition set out in the Combined Code.
The Committee met four continued objectivity and independence.
The Committee is satisfied times during the year and Directors attendance for each meeting is that the provision by KPMG Audit plc of non-audit services does not shown in the table on page 37.
The Chairman of the Remuneration impair their independence or objectivity.
The Committee has approved Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any the range of services that may be provided by KPMG Audit plc.
questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
These include transaction due diligence and accountancy assistance on projects.
Subject to approved authorisation limits, the services The Remuneration Committee has the following key duties: require prior authority from either the Group Finance Director, the Reviewing and making recommendations on the Companys Chairman of the Audit Committee or the full Audit Committee.
framework of executive remuneration and cost including all The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the Annual General emoluments, pension entitlements and other benefits of the Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised executive Directors and as appropriate other senior executives.
This includes agreeing the level of cash bonuses that are paid: The Audit Committee has the following key duties: Determining, on behalf of the Board, the executive Directors To review the annual financial statements and interim reports prior to remuneration by reference to individual performance and approval, focusing on changes in accounting policies and practices, market data: major judgemental areas, significant audit adjustments, going Setting and confirming the rewards under the Groups Long Term concern and compliance with accounting standards, Stock Exchange Incentive Plan LTIP : and and legal requirements: Reviewing the operation of executive share option schemes and the To monitor the Groups systems of internal control: granting of such options.
To consider the appointment of the auditors and their remuneration Audit Committee including allocation of non-audit fees to ensure that their At the date of this report the Audit Committee comprised R E Lerwill independency and objectivity is maintained: Chairman and also the two non-executive Directors D K Nichol and To meet with the auditors to discuss the scope of the audit issues C F Baroudel all of whom were independent in accordance with the arising from their work and any matters the auditors wish to raise: and definition set out in the Combined Code.
To review the Groups corporate review procedures and any The Company recognises the fact that in accordance with the statement on internal controls prior to endorsement by the Board.
Combined Code, following his appointment as Chairman of the Company, R E Lerwill should not also chair the Audit Committee.
Nomination Committee An additional suitably qualified non-executive Director is being sought The Nomination Committee meets when required and at the date of this via external recruitment consultants, to chair the Audit Committee.
report comprised R E Lerwill Chairman and also the non-executive It is hoped that an appointment will be made in the near future.
Only members of the The appointment of an additional non-executive Director will be Committee are entitled to be present at meetings but others may be considered within the terms of reference of the Nomination Committee.
invited by the Committee to attend if appropriate.
Each member of the Committee brings relevant financial experience The Nomination Committee is responsible for considering all potential from senior executive levels.
The expertise and the experience of the appointments to the Board and for making suitable proposals to the members of the Committee are summarised on page 30.
Board in relation to potential appointments.
It meets as and when Board appointments or other senior positions within the Group are made.
B6 B$5 BS LQGG Synergy Health plc Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 37 The Board has agreed formal, rigorous and transparent procedures The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to be followed by the Committee in making its recommendations to achieve the Groups objectives.
The systems provide reasonable, and appointments to the Board.
The Committee has access to such not absolute, assurances against material mis-statement or loss.
information and advice both within the Group and externally, at the Such systems are reviewed by the Board to deal with changing cost of the Company, as it considers necessary.
This may include the circumstances.
appointment of external executive search consultants where considered The Group does not have an internal audit function, although this is appropriate.
The Committee met twice during the year.
continually under review by the Board and the Audit Committee.
The For the appointment of C F Baroudel as non-executive Director Board is presently of the view that having reviewed and considered the on 22 September 2010, the Company engaged a firm of external current control environment, it is still adequate given the Groups size search consultants, to handle the search and recruitment process.
The Nomination Committee was fully involved with both the recruitment The Group has a Group finance function that reports to the Group and assessment of potential candidates.
A shortlist of candidates was Finance Director and is independent of the business units to ensure put through a rigorous assessment process and final candidates were objectivity and control when preparing Group financial information.
interviewed by the whole Nomination Committee.
The Group finance function undertakes financial reviews of the regional The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to all Board finance functions on an ad hoc basis and provides technical and committees.
Directors attendance record Assessment of business risk The attendance of Directors at relevant meetings of the Board and its A system of business risk identification, assessment and evaluation Committees was as follows: has been in place during the year within the management process Audit Remuneration Nomination throughout the Group, through a formal risk management framework Board Committee Committee Committee led by the Group Director of Risk Management.
This is explained in the Total number of meetings 11 3 4 2 reports of Principal Risks and Uncertainties and Corporate and Social Responsibility on pages 22 and 24 respectively.
The Board regularly R E Lerwill 10 of 11 3 of 3 4 of 4 2 of 2 reviews strategic risks.
R M Steeves 11 of 11 i Control environment G Hill 10 of 10 The Groups operating procedures include a comprehensive system for D K Nichol 11 of 11 2 of 3 4 of 4 2 of 2 reporting financial and non-financial information to the Board including: ii C F Baroudel 4 of 6 2 of 2 1 of 1 The definition of authorisation limits, both financial and otherwise.
iii I M Jacques 0 of 1 Detailed appraisal documents are produced for any major capital iv S G Wilson 3 of 5 1 of 1 1 of 3 2 of 2 projects: v M L M Smit 2 of 5 A review of annual budgets and forecasts against budgets that are Notes: produced at least twice a year: i G Hill was only entitled to attend 10 Board meetings following his appointment as a A review of monthly management accounts at Group and operational Director on 26 April 2010. level, including financial performance, together with balance sheet ii C F Baroudel was only entitled to attend 6 Board meetings following her appointment as a and cash flow analysis, which are reported against budget, forecasts Director on 22 September 2010. and prior year with major variances explained: iii I M Jacques resigned as a Director on 26 April 2010.
A risk management report for each Board meeting, focusing on any iv S G Wilson resigned as a Director on 22 September 2010. new risks arising and management of existing risks.
v M L Smit resigned as a Director on 22 September 2010.
On an annual basis the Group finance function undertakes a review Directors conflict of interest of financial controls as part of its year end process, which is considered There are procedures in place to deal with Directors conflict of interest by the Board.
The annual review gives a comprehensive update on arising under Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 and such the previous years report and outlines actions taken to redress any procedures have operated effectively during the year.
weaknesses in each regional business and across Group functions.
Articles of Association The review also highlights areas where improved controls have been The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by Special implemented and key actions to be addressed in the coming financial Resolution at a General Meeting of shareholders.
year, which are monitored by both the Board and the Audit Committee.
Internal control Control procedures The Directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for the Detailed operational procedures that embody key controls have been Group systems of internal control and for reviewing the effectiveness of developed for each of the Groups businesses.
The implications of those controls.
change in law and regulations are taken into account within those procedures.
The Board has taken into account the relevant provisions of the Combined Code, the Turnbull report and the Listing Rules and an ongoing process has been established for identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the Group.
B6 B$5 BS LQGG Financials Governance Operating and financial review Our strategy Who we are Synergy Health plc 38 Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Corporate Governance Monitoring process There are clear procedures for monitoring the system of key controls.
The significant components are: Cyclical and random reviews of operational and financial controls by the Director of Risk Management, the Groups quality managers, the Head of IT, senior finance managers and the Group finance team: Review by the Audit Committee of the process for identifying and assessing risks and of the effectiveness of controls via the work of external audit and direct access to Group and operational management.
The Board confirms that it has considered the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls described above for the financial year and up to the date of this report.
Relationship with shareholders The Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Group Company Secretary are responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Company places considerable importance on communication with the shareholders, including its employee shareholders.
Apart from the Annual General Meeting, the Company communicates with its shareholders by way of the Annual Report & Financial Statements, which are available to all shareholders either in paper form or electronically and can be accessed via the Companys website http: www.
The Groups annual and interim results, as well as all announcements issued by the London Stock Exchange, are published on the Companys website.
The Company also communicates with its institutional shareholders through a combination of analysts briefings throughout the year but particularly at the interim and year end results stage.
Business at the Companys Annual General Meeting will cover the Annual Report & Financial Statements, the Directors Remuneration Report, election and re-election of Directors, re-appointment and remuneration of auditors, political donations and political expenditure, authority to allot shares, disapplication of pre-emption rights, purchase by the Company of its own shares, notice period for general meetings and re-approval of the Save As You Earn Share Option Scheme.
Full details and an explanation of these resolutions are set out in the Notice of Meeting.
The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions are counted before the Annual General Meeting and the results will be made available at the meeting after shareholders have voted on each resolution on a show of hands.
All results, statements and Company announcements are accessible to all shareholders via the Groups website http: www.
All shareholders are invited to the Annual General Meeting at which they have the opportunity to put questions to the Board.
