Governance Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 34 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Report from the Chairman The Board has reserved to itself a schedule of matters which This section of the annual report sets out how the Board and its includes setting long-term objectives for the Group and the Committees apply the principles of good governance in the UK strategies to be employed in achieving them, setting policies Corporate Governance Code the Code which was published in the areas of safety, health and the environment, recruitment in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council.
and employment, risk management and treasury and, subject to materiality thresholds, decisions on the raising of capital, financial I am pleased that we were able to strengthen the effectiveness of commitments, capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals and the Board by the appointment of Mr N A Johnson, who will succeed the prosecution, defence and settlement of litigation.
With regard to gender diversity we have taken note of the recommendations contained in the Davies Report During 2011 the Board held six scheduled meetings to review on 'Women on Boards.
The Board will be seeking to address these current and projected performance and to determine strategic points over time as it makes new appointments.
The directors receive in advance full information on all well advanced to recruit three new independent non-executive matters to be discussed at Board meetings as well as a detailed directors to maintain Board balance following the retirement of review of performance prepared by the Chief Executive.
The Board myself and Dr Dobbie at the end of the forthcoming Annual General has established Audit, Nomination and Remuneration committees Meeting and the resignation of Mr D D Fournier.
Our full statements on compliance and the application of the In addition arrangements are made each year for the Board main principles of the Code are set out in the following sections to visit up to two of the Groups operational sites and meet local of this report.
Ad hoc site visits are facilitated for individual non-executive directors on request.
During 2011 the Board held a Peter Wood meeting at the offices and research & development facilities in Marl, Chairman Germany.
In conjunction with the Board meeting presentations were given by the senior management of the Polymer Division and the Statement of compliance directors visited the Groups plants at the Marl chemical park.
The Company considers that it has complied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2011 with the provisions set out The Board has delegated to the Chief Executive responsibility in the Code except in relation to the composition of the Board and for the development and preparation of the business plan for the its Committees and the annual re-election of all directors.
Further Group and the annual Group budget for recommendation to the details on these matters and how they have been addressed Board.
As the senior executive director, the Chief Executive is are set out in this report.
responsible for all aspects of day-to-day operational control of the Group and execution of the Group strategy.
The Chief Executive Application of the Code has established and chairs an Executive Committee whose other The main principles of the Code were applied as follows: members are the Finance Director, the Chief Executive of the Polymer Division, the Deputy Finance Director, the Company Leadership and effectiveness Secretary and the Director of Group Human Resources to assist Operation of the Board him in the performance of his duties and which meets once The activities of the Company are controlled by the Board which, a month.
The Chairman has available to him the minutes of the during 2011, comprised two executive directors and five nonExecutive Committee and all directors receive a monthly trading executive directors until 1 September 2011 when Mr N A Johnson summary and commentary from the Finance Director and an was appointed and the number of non-executive directors increased update report from the Chief Executive.
Mr D D Fournier was appointed with effect from 1 January 2012 and he resigned on 13 March 2012.
The roles of Chairman Board membership and balance and Chief Executive are clearly divided between Mr P S Wood The Chairman, Chief Executive and senior independent director who heads the Board in his capacity as non-executive Chairman are identified on page 30.
The Chairmen and members of the Audit, and Mr A M Whitfield who has responsibility for the running of Nomination and Remuneration Committees are identified below.
the Companys business as Chief Executive.
The non-executive The Board considers Mr D D Fournier was and that Dr A A Dobbie, directors all have wide business and boardroom experience gained Mr N A Johnson and Mr J K Maiden are independent in accordance in a broad range of business sectors.
with the provisions of the Code.
Governance Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 35 During 2011 the Company was not in compliance with the Performance evaluation requirement of Code provision B.
1.2 for half the Board, excluding Performance evaluations of the Board, its committees and the Chairman, to comprise independent non-executive directors.
its directors were carried out in the last year by the following Following a recruitment exercise in 2011 the Board returned to internal processes: compliance with this requirement with effect from 1 January 2012 until 13 March 2012 when Mr Fournier resigned from the Board.
a n assessment of the performance of individual non-executive The Board is seeking to return to compliance and has a well directors is carried out by the Chairman through a rolling advanced recruitment process in hand for this purpose.
programme of one-to-one discussions using performance evaluation questions as the centrepiece for those discussions.
The Board held a total of six meetings in 2011.
In addition the Every non-executive director is assessed in this way once a year: Chairman held one separate meeting with the non-executive t he performance of the executive directors was reviewed in directors without the executive directors being present to August 2011 at a meeting of the non-executive directors chaired appraise the performance of the executive management.
The by the Chairman: non-executive directors also met once without the Chairman to a m eeting of the non-executive directors in the absence of the appraise his performance.
Chairman chaired by the senior independent director was held in November 2011 to evaluate the performance of the Chairman, The table below shows the number of meetings of the Board, Audit, taking into account the views of the executive directors: and Remuneration and Nomination Committees held during the year t he Board and its Committees carry out an annual selfand the number of meetings attended by each director.
Where a assessment of performance led by the Chairman and the director is unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting his views Chairman of each committee respectively.
The results of on agenda items are canvassed in advance of the meeting and assessment questionnaires completed by those Chairmen incorporated into the discussions.
were reviewed by the relevant committees and the Board and were shared with and discussed by the Board as a whole Number of at its meeting in November 2011. meetings held Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 6 5 4 2 The Board is formulating its policy on the extent and frequency of any externally facilitated evaluation.
Number of meetings attended Non-executive directors are appointed for three-year terms.
D C Blackwood 6 6 N A N A N A All directors will submit themselves for annual election for the A G Catto 6 6 N A N A N A first time with effect from the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
A A Dobbie 6 6 5 5 4 4 2 2 The Board did not comply with this provision of the Code in 2011 N A Johnson 2 2 N A N A N A as it wished to fully consider its implications before doing so.
Lee Hau Hian 6 6 N A N A N A Board committees J K Maiden 6 6 5 5 4 4 2 2 The Board has formally established Nomination, Audit, and A M Whitfield 6 6 N A N A 2 2 Remuneration Committees, each with their own terms of reference P S Wood 6 6 N A N A 2 2 which set out their respective roles and the authority delegated A ppointed on 1 September 2011. to them by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available upon request from the Company Secretary and can The Committee has not implemented early adoption of the also be downloaded from the Companys website.
During 2011 amendment to the Code requiring reporting on boardroom diversity the Nomination, Audit and Remuneration Committees did not policy, including gender, associated objectives and progress toward comply with the composition requirements of Code Provisions B.
The Committee will be giving consideration during C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 respectively until 9 November 2011 when 2012 as to how to implement these requirements with effect from Mr Johnson joined the Committees.
All non-executive directors 2013 as required by the Code.
have a standing invitation to attend Committee meetings unless they are notified otherwise.
Induction and training Induction arrangements are in place in order to ensure new directors receive a full formal and tailored induction on appointment.
The Chairman reviews and agrees the training and development needs of the directors and the skills and knowledge of the Board as a whole are updated by briefings provided by the Companys internal resources and materials and seminars offered by external advisers.
Governance Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 36 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Audit Committee The current auditor was first appointed in 2002 and its appointment During 2011 the Audit Committee comprised Mr J K Maiden was reviewed by the Committee in 2009.
The senior statutory Chairman and Dr A A Dobbie until 9 November 2011 when auditor is subject to retirement every seven years and in accordance Mr N A Johnson joined the Committee.
Mr Maiden is considered with this requirement Mr R Knight replaced Mr S Henderson with by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience for effect from the 2011 audit.
Details of audit and non-audit fees the purposes of Provision C. 3.1 of the Code due to his current paid to them in 2011 are set out in note 6 on page 64.
Non-audit financial position outside the Group.
The Committee has established fees principally relate to tax compliance and advisory services.
a detailed remit regarding the application of financial reporting and The Board accepts the Committees recommendation that the internal control principles, which covers: current auditor be proposed for reappointment at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
m onitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial The Committee met formally five times during 2011 and carried performance and reviewing significant financial reporting out the following main activities: judgements contained therein: and r eviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups R eviewed the financial statements in the 2010 annual report internal control and risk management systems.
and the 2011 interim statement: Reviewed the scope and effectiveness of the external audit The Finance Director and senior members of his department M onitored the effectiveness of the internal controls attend meetings of the Committee as part of the review of the and risk management: Groups interim and financial statements prior to their submission R eceived reports from the external auditor on the major to the Board.
The Committee meets periodically with the findings of its work: Companys auditor to discuss the adequacy of the Groups Approved the annual audit plan: financial management, internal controls and information systems.
The Committees remit also includes the review of the terms of engagement, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the In addition the Chairman of the Committee had regular dialogue auditor including the extent of non-audit services and fees payable with the auditor during the course of the year.
As well as complying to the auditor which is carried out and discussed with the auditor on with the terms of its remit during the year the Committee carried a periodic basis.
With regard to seeking to ensure the independence out a review of its content.
and objectivity of the auditor, the Audit Committees policy is to avoid the auditor providing services in areas which may create or Nomination Committee be perceived to create a conflict of interest.
Accordingly, other During 2011 the Nomination Committee comprised Mr P S Wood than in circumstances where time constraints render it impractical Chairman, Dr A A Dobbie, Mr J K Maiden and Mr A M Whitfield.
or assignments are of a minor nature, the auditor is not invited to On 9 November 2011 Mr N A Johnson joined the Committee.
tender or propose for services of the following nature: corporate The Committee is responsible for: the regular review of the finance, legal, information technology and systems, recruitment or structure, size and composition of the Board and the making of remuneration, accounting, internal audit or control, acquisition due recommendations with regard to any changes: leading the process diligence, valuations or appraisals, actuarial or general business for Board appointments and nominating candidates for nonconsulting.
In addition the auditor has been requested not to provide executive positions: and considering succession planning.
services to executive directors or senior executives.
Non-executive directors are required to disclose any relationship they have with The Committee led the process for nominating Mr N A Johnson the auditor.
and Mr D D Fournier for appointment as independent non-executive directors.
This process involved a thorough review of a range For 2011 the Group did not have a dedicated internal audit function of candidates put forward by a recruitment consultancy, which and use was made periodically of outsourced internal audit services.
conducted an extensive search process.
The diversity including During 2011 the Committee reviewed this in view of the significant gender of the Board was taken into account by the Committee: increase in the size of the Group as a result of the acquisition of however an appropriate female candidate could not be found for PolymerLatex.
The Committee has concluded that whilst there nomination at that time.
are in place appropriate procedures for assuring the integrity and effectiveness of the Groups governance, risk management and The Nomination Committee held two formal meetings during 2011 control processes these should be supplemented by a formalised and a number of informal meetings and telephone calls as well as programme of outsourced internal audit services.
The Board has numerous interviews in connection with the nomination process accepted this recommendation and this new function will operate referred to above.
from the first quarter of 2012 with reports being made to the Committee twice a year.
Governance Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 37 The election by the Board of Mr Johnson as Chairman to succeed Accountability Mr Wood with effect from the close of the 2012 Annual General An explanation of the directors responsibility for preparing the Meeting was based on the specification for the role as fulfilled financial statements, their report that the business is a going by Mr Wood.
In addition, in making the appointment the Board concern, a responsibility statement and their statement as to assessed the expected time commitment required of Mr Johnson disclosure of information to the auditor are set out on pages 46 in the role of Chairman and was satisfied that this was not at and 32 respectively.
Statements by the auditor about its reporting odds with his other significant commitments which are set out responsibilities are set out on pages 47 and 90 respectively.
A report on the approach to internal control is set out below.
The directors endeavour to make the annual report and financial As a result of the resignation of Mr Fournier, the retirement statements as informative and understandable as possible.
of Mr Wood and Dr Dobbie and Mr Johnson assuming the role of Chairman, there is an immediate need for the appointment Internal control of one additional independent non-executive director and the The Board of Directors has ultimate responsibility for the Groups need for two further independent non-executive directors to be system of internal control and sets appropriate policies to ensure appointed by May 2012 in order for continued compliance with that the Code requirements on internal control are met.
Accordingly the Committee has a well The system of internal control deployed within the Group is designed advanced recruitment process in hand.
to reduce the risks of failure to meet business objectives, but these risks cannot be eliminated.
The internal control system adopted can Remuneration Committee therefore only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance about All matters relating to the Remuneration Committee and meeting such business objectives or against material mis-statement remuneration are covered in the Remuneration report, set out or loss.
The Groups internal controls over the financial reporting and Relations with shareholders consolidation processes are designed under the supervision of the Dialogue with institutional investors is conducted on a regular basis Group Finance Director to provide reasonable assurance regarding by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director and meetings take the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation and fair place following the announcement of interim and full year results presentation of the Groups published financial statements for and at other times according to circumstances.
external reporting purposes in accordance with IFRS.
The Board has adopted a set of shareholder communication An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing principles in order to ensure that Board members develop an significant business risks faced by the Group has been in place understanding of the views of the Groups major shareholders.
This has since been built upon so as to embed further These principles require the Chairman to be present with the the process into the businesses and to enhance the usefulness of Chief Executive and the Finance Director at sufficient shareholder the relevant processes and information, and has been operated presentations and meetings that he fully understands the issues throughout 2011 and up to the date of approval of the annual report and concerns of major shareholders.
and accounts, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Chief Executive reports on shareholder relations at each The system is applied at all material subsidiaries, and a bottom Board meeting.
Communications with shareholders relating to up risk profile is created by evaluating the information at business, corporate governance matters are conducted by the Chairman divisional and Group level.
Individual directors within Yule Cattos with the assistance of the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination businesses identify and assess key risks associated within their and Remuneration Committees.
Written reports on all meetings area of responsibility based on formal management information and between non-executive directors and institutional shareholders interaction with colleagues, customers, suppliers and other parties.
and their representative bodies are presented to the Board at the first opportunity following such meetings as is all correspondence The individual submissions are consolidated, reviewed and agreed with them.
at a board meeting of each subsidiary.
A business risk report is prepared that is closely linked to business strategy and takes The Board seeks to encourage participation of all shareholders, account of key internal and external factors.
Risks are prioritised and in particular private investors, at the Companys Annual General using a common risk matrix, which forms the basis of a single Meeting and endeavours to ensure all Board members are in corporate risk report that is reviewed and discussed by the Yule attendance.
In particular, the Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit Catto Audit Committee.
and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The Company makes use of its website www.
com to communicate with its shareholders where it publishes interim and full year results, Company announcements, share price and corporate governance and other investor information.
Governance Yule Catto & Co plc Annual Report 2011 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The individual business risk reports are formally reviewed at a Board Environmental, social and governance matters meeting of the subsidiary every six months, out of which a revised In January 2007 the Association of British Insurers ABI published report is submitted which identifies changes in the risk environment.
a revised version of its guidelines on responsible investment disclosure.
These guidelines require statements on the extent The process was last reviewed by the Yule Catto Board of Directors to which environmental, social and governance matters are taken in March 2011.
The nature of the risks identified as a result of this into account by the Board and identified, assessed, managed process during the year primarily relate to matters of an operational and monitored, particularly in relation to the risks and opportunities and financial nature and the most significant of those which faced they present to the value of the Company.
the Group in 2011 are reviewed in the reports of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and the Directors Report.
The Company is a member of the FTSE4Good Index.
Risks associated with safety, health and the environment are, Environmental matters by the nature of the Groups business, always of the utmost concern The maintenance of high standards of environmental together with and the Corporate Social Responsibility report on pages 20 to 29 health and safety protection is central to the Companys business.
reviews the Groups performance in this connection in 2011.
A separate statement on safety, health and environmental SHE matters has been a feature of the annual report for a number The processes which are used by the Board either directly or, of years.
The Corporate Social Responsibility report statement where appropriate, through the Audit Committee to review the on pages 20 to 29 incorporates the ABI guidelines and includes effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems a report on the initiatives the Company has adopted regarding including in relation to the financial reporting process and the sustainable development.
process for preparing consolidated accounts include the following: Social and ethical matters a r eview of the external audit work plan: The Board takes account of social and ethical matters as part c onsideration of reports from management and external of its review of internal control which, by virtue of its approach parties, including the auditor, on the system of internal to risk identification, covers areas which encompass social and financial control and any material control weaknesses: ethical matters.
a q uarterly review of safety, health and environmental performance: The Board is conscious of its responsibility to the communities d iscussion with management of the actions taken on any in which the Groups businesses operate and is supportive of local possible problem areas for the business identified by Board initiatives by management.
members or in the audit report: and c onsideration of a consolidated risk management report setting The Board is also aware of the reputational risk associated with out the main conclusions from the internal control process.
social and ethical issues and has a Group-wide code of business conduct on corruption and anti-competitive activities, which is In addition, the Board: available on the Companys website and upon request from the receives copies of the minutes from all Audit Committee meetings: Company Secretary.
The purpose of this code is to ensure that the c onsiders the role of the Group insurance programme: Groups employees have a clear understanding of the principles that r eceives regular written and oral reports from management are important in these areas when conducting the Groups business.
on all aspects of production, operations, financial and risk The application of the code is explained to senior management management matters: and at regular intervals and they are charged with its communication i n compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code throughout their businesses supported by internal and external the Board regularly reviews and approves the effectiveness training.
A compliance procedure involving annual certification by of the Groups system of internal controls.
the senior management of each operating company and a procedure for maintaining a register of, and where appropriate gaining prior The Board confirms that a review of the effectiveness of the approval for, gifts, entertainment and corporate hospitality operates Companys risk management and internal control systems was throughout the Group.
A report is made to the Audit Committee carried out in 2011. annually on the code and the Companys whistleblowing procedure.
Governance The Boards approach to governance, training of directors and identification and assessment of risk is set out above.
