28 Corporate governance Chairman: Charles Dunstone 46 Skills and experience: Charles founded the External appointments: Charles is Chairman of the Carphone Warehouse, and created TalkTalk Princes Trust, Chairman of Carphone Warehouse in 2002.
Since that date he has directed the Group plc and a Non-Executive Director of both development of TalkTalk to become one of The Daily Mail and General Trust PLC and the leading fixed line telecommunication Independent Media Distribution PLC.
Executives: Dido Harding 43 Amy Stirling 41 David Goldie 47 Skills and experience: Dido joined TalkTalk Skills and experience: Amy has been the Chief Skills and experience: David joined TalkTalk when in February 2010.
Prior to that date Dido was Financial Officer of TalkTalk since 2006, having the Opal business was acquired by Carphone Sainsburys convenience director, having been been with the Carphone Warehouse since 2000.
David has over 25 years appointed to Sainsburys operating board in Amy has played a key role in the management and experience in the telecommunications industry March 2008.
Dido joined Sainsburys from Tesco integration of the significant businesses acquired and has been instrumental in the establishment PLC where she held a variety of senior roles.
by TalkTalk over the past six years.
External appointments: Dido is a Non-Executive External appointments: Amy has no external External appointments: David holds a Non-Executive Director of The British Land Company PLC.
role at The Fulwood Academy and is also a Board member of the Northwest Regional Development Agency.
Non-Executives: Roger Taylor 46 John Gildersleeve 66 Ian West 47 Skills and experience: Roger was Chief Financial Skills and experience: John was an Executive Skills and experience: Ian has been involved in Officer of Carphone Warehouse from January Director of Tesco PLC, and joined the Board the telecoms and media sector for over 20 years.
2000, and played a key role in the creation and of Carphone Warehouse in June 2000 before He was at BSkyB for 11 years and held various growth of its group including TalkTalk.
becoming Chairman in July 2005. roles including managing director of the subscription business and also managed the External appointments: Roger is also Chief Executive External appointments: John is a Non-Executive introduction of Sky Digital.
Since he left in 2000 Officer of Carphone Warehouse Group plc.
Director of Carphone Warehouse Group plc he co-founded Top Up TV in 2003. and The British Land Company PLC.
External appointments: Ian is a supervisory board member of Kabel Deutschland.
John Allwood 59 Brent Hoberman 42 Skills and experience: John was the Chief Skills and experience: Brent co-founded Operating Officer and latterly Group Finance lastminute.
com in 1998, and was their Chief Director of Mecom Group plc, and prior to this Executive Officer until it was sold in 2005. he was managing director of Telegraph Media Brent has subsequently founded and is Group Ltd, Chief Executive of Orange UK and Chairman of mydeco and made.
External appointments: Brent is Governor of External appointments: John is a member of the University of the Arts College, London, and a Exeter University Council and a Non-Executive Non-Executive Director of Guardian Media Group Director of Carphone Warehouse Group plc.
Brent also co-founded PROfounders Capital which is an early stage digital venture fund.
Company Secretary Advisors Tim Morris Corporate Brokers: Principal Bankers: Credit Suisse Europe Ltd, Barclays PLC 1 Cabot Square, London, E14 4QJ HSBC Bank plc ING Bank NV Barclays Capital Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC 5, The North Colonnade, Canary Wharf, London E14 4BB Registrar: Auditor: Equiniti Limited, Deloitte LLP, Aspect House, Spencer House, 2 New Street Square, Lancing, West Sussex, BN99 6GU London, EC4A 3BZ TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 29 Board Committees Make recommendations to the Board in relation to the The Board has established four Committees: Audit, Remuneration, appointment, reappointment and removal of the external Nomination and Compliance: the first three as required by the auditor and to approve their remunerations and terms Code, the fourth to ensure the compliance of the Group within of engagement: the regulatory environment in which it operates.
Review and monitor the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, Audit Committee taking into consideration relevant UK professional and The Committee currently comprises the following independent regulatory requirements: and Non-Executive Directors: John Allwood Chairman, John Gildersleeve and Ian West.
Jessica Burley was also Review the Companys policy on the engagement of the a member during the financial year up until her resignation external auditor to supply non audit services.
John Allwood is the member with context the Committees remit requires it to report to the recent and relevant financial experience see Directors the Board identifying any matters in respect of which it biographies.
Roger Taylor is also a member but for the considers that action or improvement is needed and to reason stated above is not considered independent.
All make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
of the Committee members have extensive commercial In light of the assessments and review undertaken, the experience.
The Committee met formally three times during Committee recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be the year.
All members attended each meeting, although only retained as auditor of the Company.
This recommendation one meeting took place after the appointment of Ian West.
was endorsed by the Board.
There were no Committee meetings between the date of Jessica Burleys resignation and Ian Wests appointment.
The policy relating to the provision of non audit services by the external auditor specifies the types of work from which The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board on any the external auditors are excluded: for which the external significant issues that may have arisen at the Board meeting auditor can be engaged without referral to the Committee: following each Committee meeting.
During the year, all and for which a case by case decision is required.
In order requirements of the Code in respect of the Committee were to safeguard the auditors objectivity and independence, met.
The work undertaken by the Committee is described the ratio of non audit fees to audit fees is monitored by the within the following sections of this Report.
Any work proposed in excess of fifty percent Chief Financial Officer and other senior management attend of the audit fee is referred to the Committee.
Amounts below the Committee meetings by invitation of the Committee.
this are discussed with the Chairman of the Committee.
Representatives of the Companys external auditor and other senior executives from Finance, Tax and Treasury, Legal and A statement of fees paid or accrued for services from the Business Assurance also attend these meetings by invitation external auditor during the period is set out below: of the Committee.
The external and internal auditors have direct access to the Committee during formal meetings and time is set aside for them to have private discussion with the m 2011 2010 Committee, in the absence of management attendees.
Fees payable to the Companys During the period, the formal calendar of items considered auditor for the audit of the Companys annual accounts 0.1 0.1 at each Audit Committee meeting within each annual cycle embraced the Code requirements to: Audit of the Group and its subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 0.7 0.6 Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Audit services provided Company, and any formal announcements relating to to all Group companies 0.8 0.7 the Companys financial performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: Reporting in respect of capital Review the Companys internal financial controls and market transactions 1.8 its internal control and risk management systems and Other assurance services 1.8 to make recommendations to the Board: Review the Companys arrangements by which employees Taxation services 0.1 0.4 may raise concerns in confidence: Other services 0.1 0.2 Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys All other services 0.2 0.6 internal audit function: Total Group auditors remuneration 1.0 3.1 TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 30 Corporate governance continued Certain non audit services are pre-approved by the Nomination Committee Committee depending upon the nature and size of the service.
During the year the Committee comprised the following Tax services principally comprise technical advice associated Non-Executive Directors: John Gildersleeve Chairman, with relevant UK and international fiscal laws and regulations Roger Taylor and Ian West.
Jessica Burley was also a member and, in particular, assessment of the potential implications during the financial year up until her resignation in November of proposed corporate transactions or restructuring.
Other 2010, after which John Allwood took her place on an interim services principally represent advice provided and project basis.
The Committee met once during the year in January management support received for the set up of the Groups 2011 and each member attended that meeting.
Having undertaken a review The Committee is responsible for succession planning of the non audit related work, the Committee has satisfied at Board level, overseeing the selection and appointment itself that the services undertaken during the year did of Directors, regularly reviewing the structure, size and not prejudice the external auditors independence.
composition of the Board and making its recommendations At each of its meetings the Committee reviewed and considered to the Board.
It assists in evaluating the commitments of reports on Risk and Business Assurance on the status of the individual Directors and the balance of skills, knowledge Groups risk management systems, findings from the internal and experience on the Board.
In this regard, it proposed audit function concerning internal controls, and reports on the the appointment of Ian West following the resignation of status of any weaknesses in internal controls identified by Jessica Burley.
the internal or external auditor.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following each Committee meeting.
The Committees terms of reference, which are available on The Committees terms of reference, which are available on request from the Company Secretary and are published on the request from the Company Secretary and are published on the Groups website www.
Regulatory Compliance Committee Remuneration Committee The members of this Committee are John Gildersleeve The Committee currently comprises the following independent Chairman, Dido Harding Chief Executive Officer, David Non-Executive Directors: John Gildersleeve Chairman, Goldie Group Commercial Director, Tim Morris, Company Brent Hoberman and Ian West.
Roger Taylor is also a member Secretary and other senior executives of the Group.
There of the Committee but for the reasons stated in this report were four formal meetings of the Committee during the year.
he is not considered independent.
Jessica Burley was also a The purpose of the Committee is to provide the Board with member during the financial year up until her resignation on visibility of how the Group remains compliant with those 16 November 2010, after which John Allwood took her place regulations affecting its businesses from time to time.
Its on an interim basis prior to the appointment of Ian West.
members therefore include those senior executives who The Committee met formally three times during the period are operationally responsible for implementing permanent and each member attended every meeting save for Roger changes necessary to ensure the Group remains compliant.
Taylor, who did not attend the meeting on 27 January 2011 Such members are accountable to the Committee and the because of a prior engagement.
Other Directors including Board for the successful delivery of such changes.
the Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary, the This Committee now meets ahead of each formal Board Group Director of Human Resources, and advisors attended meeting and other meetings are scheduled at other times by invitation of the Committee.
A detailed description of the depending on those regulatory matters currently affecting Committees remit and work during the period is contained the Group.
in the Remuneration Report on pages 32 to 38.
The Chairman of the Committee updates the Board following Risk management and internal control each Committee meeting.
The Company has established a risk management program that assists management throughout the Company to identify, The Committees terms of reference, which are available assess and mitigate business, financial, operational and on request from the Company Secretary and are published on compliance risks.
The Board views management of risk as the Groups website www.
com, comply with integral to good business practice.
The program is designed the Code.
to support managements decision making and to improve the reliability of business performance.
TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011 Overview Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information 31 The risk management program is supported by the Business Auditor Assurance and Internal Audit functions.
Deloitte LLP were appointed on incorporation and have expressed their willingness to continue in office as the To ensure that all parts of the Group have a good auditor and a resolution to re-appoint them will be proposed understanding of risk, members of this team have conducted at the forthcoming AGM.
risk workshops and reviews within each of the main functions in the past year, culminating in an assessment of key business Communication with investors risks by the Executive Directors and key management.
The Board believes it is important to explain business These risk assessments have been wide ranging, covering developments and financial results to the Companys risks arising from the regulatory environment, strategy, counter Shareholders and to understand any shareholder concerns.
parties and organisational change associated both with major The principal communication media used to impart projects and acquisitions.
The risk management process information to Shareholders are news releases including operates throughout the Group, being applied equally to results announcements and Company publications.
In all the main business units and corporate functions.
A risk such communications, care is taken to ensure that no price report and update is provided at each Board and Audit sensitive information is released.
The Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have The output of each assessment is a list of key strategic, lead responsibility for investor relations.
They are supported financial, operational and compliance risks.
Associated action by a dedicated Investor Relations Director who, amongst other plans and controls to mitigate them are also put in place matters, organises presentations for analysts and institutional where this is possible and to the extent considered appropriate investors.
There is a full program of regular dialogue with by the Board taking account of costs and benefits.
Changes in major institutional Shareholders, fund managers, analysts, the status of the key risks and changes to the risk matrix are retail brokers and credit investors, upon which the Chairman reported regularly at each Board Meeting.
ensures that the Board receives regular updates at Board The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system meetings.
The Board also receives periodic reports on of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The investors views of the performance of the Company.
All the Board delegates to Executive management the responsibility Non-Executive Directors and, in particular, the Chairman and for designing, operating and monitoring these systems.
The Senior Independent Director, are available to meet with major systems are based on a process of identifying, evaluating Shareholders, if such meetings are required.
The Company and managing key risks and include the risk management plans also to communicate with Shareholders through the processes set out above.
AGM, at which the Chairman will give an account of the progress of the business over the last year, and a review of The systems of internal control were in place throughout the current issues, and provides the opportunity for Shareholders year and up to the date of approval of the annual report and to ask questions.
The effectiveness of these systems is periodically reviewed by the Audit Committee in accordance Further financial and business information is available on the with the revised guidance in the Turnbull Report.
These systems Groups website, www.
are also refined as necessary to meet changes in the Groups business and associated risks.
The systems of internal control are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of law and regulations.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal controls in operation during the year and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and financial statements and this was approved by the Audit Committee and the Board.
This is supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the risks faced by the Group, by the Business Assurance and Internal Audit functions.
For more information visit: www.
com TalkTalk Telecom Group PLC | Annual Report 2011
