Governance Corporate governance With the ongoing evolution of best practice in UK corporate governance, the Board continues to work hard to ensure it keeps up to date with these changes.
We value our reputation as a well-run company and will continue to commit significant effort to maintaining it.
Statement from the Chairman As Chairman I am responsible for ensuring Board effectiveness review that the Board operates effectively.
During In light of the significant changes to the Board the year, we undertook a number of actions to and Group over the previous 18 months, and enhance further the governance structure and the length of time that had elapsed since the last thereby improve the Boards effectiveness.
external Board effectiveness review conducted These included: in 2008 the Board agreed that the 2011 review should be externally facilitated.
Details of this Establishment of a Corporate review are on page 38.
Responsibility Committee In light of the output from the 2010 Board Developments in corporate governance Effectiveness review, the Board established a We continued to monitor the changes to the Corporate Responsibility CR Committee with corporate governance landscape.
Following the effect from 1 July 2010.
The CR Committee is publication of the new UK Corporate Governance responsible for reviewing and monitoring the Code, which applies to Tate & Lyle from 1 April processes and measures used to manage social, 2011, all directors will be standing for re-election environmental and ethical risks.
During the year, at the forthcoming AGM.
We also reviewed and this new Committee reviewed a number of issues updated the schedule outlining the role and including the Groups safety performance, product responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive quality processes, environmental performance and Senior Independent Director during the year and diversity and inclusion initiatives.
Further to bring it into line with evolving best practice.
detail is provided on page 42.
Looking ahead, we will continue to develop Use of non-executive directors time our processes, procedures and systems as We also undertook a comprehensive review of both Tate&Lyle and our wider governance the Board and Committees programmes and use environment evolve.
In the past, all non-executive directors generally served on Sir Peter Gershon each Board Committee.
Following the review, the Chairman directors agreed that all non-executive directors would serve on the Nominations Committee 26 May 2011 and at least one other Committee.
Details of the current Committee memberships are on page 33.
In addition, we restructured the Board agenda to facilitate greater discussion and reduced the number of scheduled Board meetings from eight to six per annum, although we recognised that, as a result, the scheduled meetings would have to be longer and that we would need to meet on an ad hoc basis more frequently than in the past.
We also established an annual programme of independent site visits whereby each non-executive director undertakes at least one solo site visit a year, in addition to the Group Board visit.
This will increase both Board visibility across the Group and also the non-executive directors understanding of our operations.
Between us, the non-executive directors and I have visited a total of 12 sites during the year.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 35 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Governance Corporate governance Compliance with the Combined Code Other responsibilities are delegated to Board Throughout the period 1 April 2010 to 31 March Committees, details of which are given on pages 2011 the Company has been in full compliance 40 to 44.
The directors responsibilities for the with the June 2008 issue of the Combined Code preparation of financial statements are explained on Corporate Governance the Code, published in the Directors statement of responsibilities on by the Financial Reporting Council and available page 59 and their statement on going concern on its website www.
This report, together with the Directors Board balance and independence remuneration report and the disclosures contained At the date of this report, the Board comprises in the risk management section on pages 19 to 21, nine directors: the Chairman, who has no provide details of how the Company applies the executive responsibilities: two executive principles and complies with the provisions of directors: and six non-executive directors.
The names and biographies of the directors are on pages 32 to 33.
Board of directors The Board is collectively responsible for promoting Richard Delbridge ceased to be a director on the success of the Company and for providing 22July 2010 and Robert Walker succeeded entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of him as Senior Independent Director on the prudent and effective controls that enable risk to same day.
William Camp was appointed be assessed and managed.
It sets the Companys a non-executive director with effect from objectives, ensures that the Company has the 1 May 2010. necessary financial resources and people to meet With the exception of the Chairman, them, and reviews management performance.
who is presumed under the Code not to be The Board also sets the Companys values and independent, the Board considers all the nonstandards and ensures that its obligations to executive directors to be independent.
The shareholders and others are met.
Senior Independent Director, Robert Walker, is available to shareholders if they have any issues or concerns, and leads the annual Matters reserved to the Board review of the Chairmans performance.
The non-executive directors have a wide The schedule of matters reserved to the range of skills and knowledge and combine Board for decision includes approval of: broad business and commercial experience Group strategy: with independent and objective judgement.
annual budget and operating plans: The terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors can be inspected major capital expenditure, acquisitions at the Companys registered office and will or divestments: be available for inspection at the Annual dividends: General Meeting AGM.
full-year and half-year results and interim Chairman and Chief Executive management statements: The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Board and Company Secretary are separated and their responsibilities are appointments: clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible senior management structure and for the leadership and workings of the Board responsibilities: and ensuring its effectiveness, while the Chief treasury policies: Executive is responsible for running the business directors conflicts of interest: and and implementing strategy and policy.
systems of internal control and risk The other significant commitments of the management.
Chairman, Sir Peter Gershon, are set out on page 32.
The Board is satisfied that they do not restrict him from effectively carrying out his duties as Chairman.
Board meetings A total of 13 Board meetings were held during the year ended 31 March 2011: one of the six scheduled Board meetings was held at the Groups offices in Lafayette, Indiana, USA.
The seven ad hoc meetings were required to consider the development and implementation of the Groups strategy and business disposals.
36 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Directors attendance at Board meetings Board support All directors have access to the advice and services Number of Number of meetings of the Company Secretary, Robert Gibber, who is meetings attended also the General Counsel and a member of the Group Directors as at 31 March 2011 Executive Committee.
The Company Secretary and the Deputy Company Secretary are responsible for Sir Peter Gershon 13 13 ensuring that Board processes are followed and Javed Ahmed 13 13 that applicable rules and regulations are complied Tim Lodge 13 12 with.
The appointment and removal of the Company Liz Airey 13 13 1 Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
William Camp 11 11 Evert Henkes 13 10 There is also a formal procedure whereby, in the 2 Douglas Hurt 13 9 furtherance of their duties, directors can obtain Robert Walker 13 13 independent professional advice, if necessary, Dr Barry Zoumas 13 13 at the Companys expense.
Former directors 3 Richard Delbridge 7 6 Directors conflicts of interest As permitted under the Companies Act 2006, the 1 Appointed 1 May 2010.
Companys Articles of Association allow directors 2 Douglas Hurt is Finance Director at IMI plc.
Prior to his to authorise conflicts of interest and the Board has appointment to the Tate & Lyle Board on 10 March 2010, he a policy and procedures for managing and, where indicated that he would be unable to attend a total of four appropriate, authorising, actual or potential conflicts scheduled meetings due to pre-existing commitments.
Under those procedures, directors Douglas Hurt submitted detailed comments and questions to the Chairman prior to each meeting that he was unable are required to declare all directorships or other to attend to ensure his views and comments could be appointments to organisations that are not part of the communicated in his absence.
Group and which could result in actual or potential 3 Retired 22 July 2010. conflicts of interest, as well as other situations which could result in a potential conflict of interest.
Where a director is unable to attend a meeting, his or her comments on the briefing papers are given The Board is required to review directors actual in advance to the relevant Chairman.
or potential conflicts of interest at least annually.
Directors are required to disclose proposed new The rolling programme of items for discussion by appointments to the Chairman before taking them the Board was fully reviewed and revised during on, to ensure that any potential conflicts of interest the year in light of changes to the Board schedule can be identified and addressed appropriately.
Meetings have been Any potential conflicts of interest in relation to restructured to facilitate further open discussion, proposed directors are considered by the Board and all directors participate in discussing strategy, prior to their appointment.
trading, safety, financial performance and risk management.
Information, induction and professional development All substantive agenda items have comprehensive The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, briefing papers circulated five working days is responsible for ensuring that the directors receive before the meeting.
Members of executive accurate, timely and clear information on all management attend Board meetings and make relevant matters.
On appointment to the Board, new directors receive During the year, the Chairman continued to hold a background reading about the Group and details short discussion with the non-executive directors of Board procedures and other governance related collectively both immediately before and after each matters.
In addition, the directors participate in a scheduled Board meeting.
comprehensive induction programme, including site visits to the Groups operations in Europe and Board allocation of time the USA and meetings with senior management The chart below shows the approximate time the across the Group.
Board has spent discussing agenda items during the year, separated into broad categories.
Directors receive ongoing training and updates on relevant issues as appropriate, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience.
A Governance number of training sessions were held during the 18% year.
These included a session on the UK Bribery Act, provided jointly by the Groups internal and Operations Strategy external lawyers, and one on food technology which 12% 34% was provided by members of the faculty at Purdue University, Lafayette, Indiana, USA.
Finance risk Capital expenditure 33% and investment The Company Secretary helps directors undertake 3% any other professional development they consider necessary to assist them in carrying out their duties.
Visits to external events or organisations are also arranged for the Board to help non-executive directors in particular to gain a deeper insight into the Groups operating environment.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 37 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Governance Corporate governance Performance evaluation The Board effectiveness review also included a A review of the Boards effectiveness is review of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration undertaken each year.
The main outcomes of the Committees and each Committee undertook an 2010 evaluation, which was led by the Chairman, evaluation of its own work and effectiveness during are summarised below: the year.
The results of the reviews were discussed by the Board which concluded that each Committee Recommendation Action operated effectively throughout the year.
The CR Committee will be subject to an effectiveness review More specialist The directors received in the 2012 financial year, after its first full year presentations and detailed presentations during of operation.
training sessions to be the year and also training included in the Board on areas including food During the year, the non-executive directors met agenda.
technology and the UK Bribery Act.
without the Chairman, under the chairmanship of the Senior Independent Director, to appraise the More opportunity to A programme of independent Chairmans performance the Senior Independent interact with a broader site visits was implemented Director having first sought the views of the range of employees.
during the year which enables executive directors.
In addition, the Chairman held the directors to meet more a private meeting with the non-executive directors employees around the Group.
to appraise the Chief Executives performance.
A Corporate The CR Committee was Shareholder communications Responsibility established on 1 July 2010 Committee should be and met for the first time in The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and established.
Details on VP Investor and Media Relations maintain a the Committee are on page 42. regular programme of visits and presentations to major institutional shareholders both in the UK and overseas.
The Chairman and Senior The Board agreed that the 2011 Board Independent Director participate in this programme effectiveness review be externally facilitated.
as appropriate and the Chairman provides feedback As part of the process, Sheena Crane, a Board to the Board on any matters raised with him by specialist consultant, held one-to-one meetings major shareholders.
The Chairman also undertook with each director, the Company Secretary and separate visits to major institutional shareholders Deputy Company Secretary.
The main themes of during the year.
and observations on the Boards effectiveness were summarised in a report to the Board.
It The Investor Relations department provides the concluded that the Board continued to operate Board with a report on any meetings with major in an effective manner but made a number of institutional shareholders at each scheduled Board recommendations for improvements including meeting.
All directors receive copies of analysts those recommendations summarised below.
reports on the Company and the Board is briefed Progress on agreed actions is being monitored periodically by the Companys financial advisers on by the Company Secretary and will be reported investors perceptions of Tate & Lyle and its investor in the annual report 2012. relations activities.
The non-executive directors are encouraged to attend the full-year and half-year Recommendation Action results presentations.
In light of the changes to The review is underway and the Companys strategic the output from that review The Company aims to present a balanced and clear focus, future Board will be reported in the annual assessment in all its public reports as well as in composition should be report 2012. those to regulators.
Key announcements, financial subject to a detailed reports and other information about the Group review during 2011. can be found on the Companys website at www.
A Board diversity The Chairman is leading the strategy should be project to develop the Board developed.
Annual General Meeting AGM The 2011 AGM will be held at the Queen ElizabethII Personal development Personal development plans Conference Centre in London, on Thursday 28 July plans should be are being established.
Full details are set out in the developed for each of the Notice of Meeting.
non-executive directors and the Chairman.
Shareholders who attend the AGM have the opportunity to put questions to the Board on It would be useful for the Deep dive topics are matters relating to the Groups operations and Board to have a series being identified and will of deep dive sessions be included in the performance.
All resolutions are decided by means every year.
of a poll and the votes received in respect of each resolution, together with the level of abstentions, are notified to the London Stock Exchange and With regard to the performance of individual published on the Companys website.
Shareholders directors, the review concluded that all directors are offered the choice of receiving shareholder continue to make an effective contribution to the documentation, including the annual report, Boards work, are well prepared and informed electronically or in paper format as well as the about issues they need to consider, and that their choice of submitting proxy votes either commitment remains strong.
Individual feedback electronically or by post.
was also provided to each director.
38 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Internal control reasonable assurance that transactions are The Board has overall responsibility for the recorded as necessary to permit the preparation Groups system of internal control, which is of financial statements in accordance with designed to safeguard the assets of the Group International Financial Reporting Standards: and to ensure the reliability of financial information assurance that representatives of the for both internal use and external publication and businesses have certified that their reported to comply with the Turnbull Committee guidance.
information provides a true and fair view of the The schedule of matters reserved to the Board state of the financial affairs of the business and ensures that the directors control, among other its results for the period: and matters, all significant strategic, financial and that reported data has been reviewed and organisational issues.
Responsibilities Monitoring effectiveness The Board delegates to executive management The Board receives reports from the Chief the responsibility for designing, operating and Executive, Chief Financial Officer, business monitoring both the system and the maintenance division presidents and other senior executives of effective internal control.
Procedures are in to enable it to assess on an ongoing basis the place for identifying, evaluating and managing effectiveness of the systems of internal control any significant risks that face the Group.
The Audit Committee procedures are designed to manage rather than periodically reviews the effectiveness of the system eliminate risk, and can provide only reasonable and of internal control through reports from the internal not absolute assurance against material errors, audit function.
The internal audit function follows losses, fraud or breaches of laws or regulations.
a planned programme of reviews that are aligned Mandatory written policies and procedural to the risks existing in the Groups businesses.
manuals exist for all businesses, compliance with It has the authority to review any relevant aspect which is reviewed by the Board annually.
These of the business and a duty to report on any internal control procedures provide that all major material weaknesses.
projects require technical, financial and Board approval, while all capital expenditure within each 2011 review of effectiveness project requires senior management approval at The Board, with the assistance of the Audit appropriate stages.
Adherence to internal control Committee and Corporate Responsibility procedures is ensured by a regular reporting Committee, conducted an assessment of the system that details both technical progress of effectiveness of the systems of risk management projects and the Groups financial affairs.
All and internal control during the financial year and material joint ventures follow the Groups formal up to the date of this annual report.
The review, systems of internal control, and their internal co-ordinated by the internal audit function, control procedures are regularly reviewed by included a Group-wide certification that the Groups internal audit function.
appropriate internal controls were in place to facilitate the Boards review of effectiveness.
Risk assessment and evaluation form an integral part of the annual planning process.
Each business The internal audit function monitored and division documents its strategic objectives and the selectively checked the results of this exercise, significant risks in achieving them.
The divisions ensuring that the representations made were report regularly on progress towards fulfilment, consistent with the results of its work during the whilst the key risks are reviewed regularly by year.
Where weaknesses have been identified, the Board.
There is a comprehensive budgeting remedial action plans were also reported.
The and planning system for all items of expenditure results of this exercise were summarised for with an annual budget approved by the Board.
the Audit Committee, Corporate Responsibility Results are reported against budget on a monthly Committee and the Board.
basis, with significant variances investigated and the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer This assessment is carried out every year.
In undertake regular financial and operational reviews the event that any significant losses were to be of the business divisions.
Revised forecasts for the incurred during any particular year as a result of financial year and financial projections for future a failure of controls, a detailed analysis would years are prepared on a regular basis.
be provided to the Audit Committee, Corporate Responsibility Committee if appropriate, Financial reporting and the Board.
The Company has in place internal control and risk management systems in relation to the The Board confirms that no significant weaknesses Companys financial reporting process and the were identified in relation to the review conducted Groups process for preparation of consolidated during the year and accordingly no remedial accounts.
They include policies and procedures action is required.
which provide: that transactions and disposals of assets Further information on risk is on pages 19 to 21. are accurately and fairly reflected: Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 39 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Governance Corporate governance Audit Committee Main responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee currently comprises three non-executive directors, and oversees the Groups The main responsibilities of the financial reporting and internal controls and Committee include: provides a formal reporting link with the external auditors.
Its terms of reference, which are reviewed overseeing the Groups financial reporting annually by the Board, are available on the process and monitoring the integrity Companys website, www.
of the financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups The Committee met six times during the year.
financial performance: Membership of the Committee and attendance during the year were as follows: reviewing significant financial reporting issues and accounting policies and Number of disclosures in financial reports: Number of meetings meetings attended reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Directors as at 31 March 2011 internal control procedures and risk management systems: Liz Airey Chairman of the Committee 6 6 reviewing the effectiveness of the internal Evert Henkes 6 5 audit function: Douglas Hurt 6 5 overseeing the Boards relationship with the Former members external auditors: 1 Richard Delbridge 3 3 2 Robert Walker 2 2 reviewing and monitoring the external 2 Dr Barry Zoumas 2 2 auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: and 1 Retired 22 July 2010. making recommendations to the Board on 2 Until 30 June 2010. the appointment or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors.
All the Committee members have extensive management experience in large international organisations.
It is a requirement of the Code Independence of the external auditors that at least one Committee member has recent The Groups external auditors are and relevant financial experience: Liz Airey, an  LLP PwC and the investment banker and former finance director Committee operates a policy to safeguard the of Monument Oil and Gas plc, and Douglas objectivity and independence of the external Hurt, Finance Director at IMI plc, both meet auditors.
This policy sets out certain disclosure this requirement.
requirements by the external auditors to the The Chief Financial Officer, VP Group Audit Committee: restrictions on the employment of and Assurance, VP Group Financial Controller the external auditors former employees: partner and representatives of the external auditors are rotation: and procedures for the approval of nonnormally invited to attend each meeting of the audit related services provided by the external Committee.
The Chairman of the Board and Chief auditors.
During the year, the Committee reviewed Executive also attend meetings of the Committee the processes that the external auditors have by invitation.
in place to safeguard their independence and received a letter from them confirming that, in The minutes of each meeting are circulated to their opinion, they remained independent.
The VP Group Audit and Assurance and the external auditors have direct access to, The Committee closely monitors the level of audit and meet regularly with, the Chairman of the and non-audit related services they provide to the Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
Non-audit related services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to The Committee maintains a formal calendar of the annual audit or where the work is of such a items for consideration at each meeting and within nature that a detailed understanding of the Group the annual audit cycle to ensure that its work is in is necessary.
A policy for the engagement of the line with the requirements of the Code.
external auditors to supply non-audit related services has been implemented to formalise these arrangements which requires Audit Committee approval for certain categories of work and fee levels.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit related work is included in Note 8 of the financial statements.
Having undertaken a review of the non-audit related services provided during the year, the Committee is satisfied that these services did not prejudice the external auditors independence.
40 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Work undertaken during the year Review of the effectiveness of the During the year and up to the date of this external auditors annual report, the work undertaken by the Audit conducting an internal review of the external Committee included: auditors in the year which concluded that the external audit process was operating effectively Consideration and review of full-year and and PwC continued to provide a good service half-year results and interim management to Tate & Lyle.
The Committee agreed that statements there was no need to undertake a tender meeting prior to the Board meetings at which for the audit: the annual report and financial statements, reviewing the fees paid to other audit firms the half-year report and interim management for services during the year ended 31 March statements were approved to review significant 2011 and noting that there were no contractual accounting policies, financial reporting issues obligations that would restrict the Committees and judgements and reports from the choice of external auditors should it decide that external auditors.
any change was appropriate: and External audit recommending to the Board that PwC continue reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit to act as auditors to the Group.
PwC have process, the external auditors strategy and indicated their willingness to continue in office, plan for the half-year review and full-year audit, and a resolution that they be re-appointed will and the qualifications, expertise, resources and be proposed at the AGM.
independence of the external auditors: Review of the effectiveness of the internal agreeing the terms of engagement and fees audit function of the external auditors for the audit: undertaking a review of the effectiveness of the reviewing the policy on auditor independence internal audit function.
The review concluded and the basis of the provision of non-audit that the internal audit function continued related services by the external auditors: to strengthen and was making a significant contribution to the internal governance of the meeting with representatives of the external Group.
Further development will be necessary auditors in the USA while on a scheduled site to ensure that the internal audit function visit : and continues to meet the Groups needs which will undertaking a review of the effectiveness of evolve with the implementation of the Groups the external auditors.
In addition, some opportunities to improve processes and practices were Risk management framework and identified and are being implemented.
internal audit receiving and considering regular reports from the VP Group Audit and Assurance on the Groups risk management system, findings from reviews of internal financial controls, and the remit, organisation, annual plan and resources of the internal audit function: reviewing the strength of the internal controls framework and considering the annual review of internal controls on behalf of the Board: and undertaking a detailed review of the governance and controls in place within the business processes transformation programme.
Terms of reference and Audit Committee effectiveness updating its terms of reference to reflect evolving best practice and the implications of the new Committee structure, whereby responsibility for certain items, including the whistleblowing process, are passed to the CR Committee.
The Board approved the updated terms of reference: and undertaking an effectiveness review which concluded that the Committee was considered to be operating effectively.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 41 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information Governance Corporate governance Work undertaken during the year Corporate Responsibility During the year and up to the date of this annual Committee report, the work undertaken by the CR Committee included: The Corporate Responsibility CR Committee Safety was established with effect from 1 July 2010, reviewing the output of the external review in light of the conclusions of the 2010 Board of the Groups safety performance and the effectiveness review a summary of which is on resultant action plan, and monitoring its page 38 to provide greater oversight on key areas implementation.
The CR Committee currently comprises the Chairman of the Company Product safety and three non-executive directors.
Its terms of undertaking a review of the quality assurance reference are available on the Companys processes within the Group.
Diversity and inclusion reviewing the Groups approach to diversity and The Committee met three times during the inclusion, along with initiatives put in place by year.
Membership of the Committee and their management.
attendance during the year were as follows: Environment Number of Number of meetings reviewing the actions being undertaken to meetings attended improve the Groups performance further.
Directors as at 31 March 2011 The Committee also undertook the annual Sir Peter Gershon Chairman review of internal controls in relation to the above of the Committee 3 3 areas.
Further information on the work of the Liz Airey 3 3 Committee and the Groups approach to corporate William Camp 3 2 responsibility reporting is contained in the Dr Barry Zoumas 3 3 Corporate responsibility report on pages 26 to 31.
The Committee has established a formal calendar of items for consideration at each meeting and Nominations Committee will meet at least four times each full year.
The minutes of each meeting are circulated to the The Nominations Committee currently comprises Board.
The Chief Executive, Executive VP Human the Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive Resources, VP Group Audit and Assurance and and all of the non-executive directors.
Its terms other members of the senior management team as of reference, which are reviewed annually by the invited by the Committee usually attend meetings.
Board, are available on the Companys website, www.
Main responsibilities of the The Committee met four times during the Corporate Responsibility Committee year.
Membership of the Committee and their attendance during the year were as follows: The main responsibilities of the Number of Committee include: Number of meetings meetings attended monitoring the Groups overall approach to corporate responsibility and ensuring it is Directors as at 31 March 2011 in alignment with the Group strategy: Sir Peter Gershon Chairman of 4 4 1 approving, or where appropriate the Committee recommending to the Board for approval, Javed Ahmed 4 4 CR policies: Liz Airey 4 4 2 William Camp 4 4 reviewing the effectiveness of the Evert Henkes 4 4 Groups policies and procedures relating Douglas Hurt 4 2 to the provision of a safe environment: Robert Walker 4 4 Dr Barry Zoumas 4 4 reviewing the implementation of appropriate environmental policies: Former directors 3 Richard Delbridge 1 1 monitoring the effectiveness of workplace policies concerning employee relations, 1 Except when the Committee is dealing with the appointment equal opportunities, travel, entertainment of a successor to the Chairman, when the Senior Independent and conflicts of interest: Director chairs the Committee.
reviewing the arrangements by which 2 Appointed 1 May 2010. employees may, in confidence, raise 3 Retired 22 July 2010. concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting, The Committee has a formal calendar of items for financial control or other matters consideration at each meeting and meets at least whistleblowing : and twice a year.
satisfying itself that the Group has appropriate policies, systems and controls in place in respect of the risks falling within the Committees remit.
42 Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 Remuneration Committee Main responsibilities of the Nominations Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises independent non-executive directors and the The main responsibilities of the Chairman of the Board.
Its terms of reference, Committee include: which are reviewed annually by the Board, reviewing the size and composition of the are available on the Companys website, Board, including succession planning, and www.
the leadership needs of the Group generally: The Committee met six times during the recommending candidates for appointment year.
Membership of the Committee and their as executive and non-executive directors attendance during the year were as follows: and as Company Secretary, taking into Number of account the balance of the Board and the Number of meetings required blend of skills and experience, meetings attended bearing in mind the need for diversity: Directors as at 31 March 2011 making recommendations on the processes Evert Henkes Chairman of the 6 6 for the appointment of the Chairman of the Committee Board: and 1 William Camp 6 6 reviewing annually the performance of each Sir Peter Gershon 6 6 member of the Group Executive Committee Robert Walker 6 6 and reporting on that review to the 2 Former members Remuneration Committee.
Liz Airey 1 1 Richard Delbridge 1 1 Douglas Hurt 1 1 Dr Barry Zoumas 1 1 Work undertaken during the year During the year and up to the date of this annual 1 Appointed 1 May 2010. report, the work undertaken by the Nominations 2 Until 30 June 2010.
Committee included: Board composition The Committee meets as required, usually before reviewing the successional needs of the each Board meeting, and has a formal calendar Board on a regular basis during the year.
The minutes of each No additional non-executive directors were meeting are circulated to those non-executive recruited during the year.
William Camp, directors who are not members of the Committee.
who joined the Board on 1 May 2010, was The Committee determines the remuneration recruited during the financial year ended packages of each executive director and the other 31March 2010 and details of the recruitment members of the Group Executive Committee.
process were disclosed in the annual These include base salary, bonus, long-term report 2010. incentives, benefits and terms of employment, Committee membership including those upon which their service may be reviewing the membership of all Board terminated.
The Committee also determines the Committees following the Boards decision base salary, long-term incentives and benefits of to establish a Corporate Responsibility certain other senior executives.
Its recommendations regarding with the Chief Executive, the Committee excluding Committee composition were approved by the Chairman, Sir Peter Gershon determines the the Board.
The remuneration Performance evaluation of non-executive directors is determined by the undertaking a performance evaluation of executive directors and the Chairman.
More each of the members of the Group Executive information on policy, practice and the workings Committee and reporting its conclusions to of the Committee can be found in the Directors the Remuneration Committee.
Terms of reference and Nominations Committee effectiveness updating its terms of reference to reflect evolving best practice.
The Board approved the revised terms of reference: and undertaking a review of effectiveness which concluded that the Committee was considered to be operating effectively while identifying a number of areas for focus, including the development of a strategy on Board diversity for approval by the Board in the first half of the 2012 financial year.
Tate & Lyle Annual Report 2011 43 Financial statements Governance Business review Shareholder information
