Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Corporate Governance The Board takes corporate governance very seriously.
This Report explains the processes in place for the delivery of long-term success, compliance and shareholder value.
to the Board as Group Legal Director and Company Secretary in Dear shareholder July 2011.
Going forward, diversity will be a key consideration when In line with recent best practice, I am pleased, for the first time, to contemplating the refreshment of the Board as it was in the changes made to the Board over the past year.
open the Corporate Governance Report with a personal statement from me on the Companys approach to corporate governance.
The The Board now enters a new phase in its development as we have Board takes corporate governance very seriously and this has been become a focused primarily UK developer and housebuilder with a demonstrated over many years, with full compliance with the UK very clear strategy.
Consistent with the 2011 AGM all Directors will be Corporate Governance Code the Code and its predecessor versions.
subject to election or re-election at the 2012 AGM this is now a requirement of the Code and we complied with it ahead of schedule This Report therefore sets out and explains in clear terms the processes in place which are essential for the delivery of long-term success whilst last year.
Biographical details of each Director can be found on pages 28 to 29. ensuring that we comply with all applicable laws and regulations as well as, of course, meeting the requirements of our shareholders and their A key part of my role as Chairman of the Board is to ensure that the representative bodies.
Board retains an appropriate level of independence in order to allow In addition, this Report explains what your Board of Directors actually the Non Executive Directors to challenge the Executive constructively whilst also supporting them to implement the strategy and run the does and describes how it is responsible for setting the values of the Company, ensuring that the Company is run in the best interests of business effectively.
Another key part of my role is to ensure that the Board has the right blend of skill, independence and knowledge.
our shareholders and other stakeholders, and how it interacts with its shareholders in explaining the Companys strategic goals and Turning to our Committees, the Nomination Committee has been performance against them.
involved in not only refreshing the Board but also ensuring that succession plans are in place or being developed for all key positions During 2011 we have carried out our first comprehensive externally facilitated independent evaluation of the Board.
More detail including throughout the Company and this is something which also came out of the 2011 evaluation of the Board.
Our Remuneration Committee the process is set out on pages 33 and 34.
This process complied with the new requirements of the Code to have the exercise carried has carried out a detailed root and branch review of our remuneration policy at all levels within the organisation and further details are set out externally once every three years.
The exercise was carried out in good spirit and with the full support of the Board.
out in the Remuneration Report on page 39.
The review was not specically aimed at Executive Directors and changed little at this The Board welcomed Lord Davies review of women on boards and level but where it has resulted in changes we have consulted with our endorsed his recommendations.
As recommended by the review, I was major shareholders.
The Audit Committee has continued to focus on pleased to make a statement in the Half Year Results announcement risk management and it is very important that we continue to monitor conrming our approach to diversity both generally and with regard to closely our exposure on risks which could impact upon the future gender.
Although the Board will continue to appoint on merit we prospects of the Company.
In addition to its regular compliance recognise that boards will generally perform better when they include and review role the Audit Committee has specically focused on top quality people from a range of backgrounds and perspectives.
emerging risk or regulation, including the Bribery Act and our own internal systems upgrades.
Following the sale of our North American business, the Board consists of nine Directors two of whom are women 22% and we will aspire I look forward to meeting with many of you at the Annual General to maintain at least this level of diversity going forward consistent Meeting on 26 April 2012 and as always, along with all of your with our past practice.
During the year the Board approved a Directors, remain available to answer your questions at any time.
Diversity Policy which can be found on the Companys Web site: plc.
Yours sincerely During 2011 the Board was refreshed, with Andrew Dougal and Katherine Innes Ker standing down as Non Executive Directors at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, and the appointments of Kate Barker and Mike Hussey as Non Executive Directors.
The Executive composition of the Board also changed with Sheryl Palmer Kevin Beeston standing down following the sale of our North American business which was completed in July 2011, and James Jordans appointment Chairman 30 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Statement of compliance The Board discharges its responsibilities by providing strategic and entrepreneurial leadership of the Company, within a framework For the year ended 31 December 2011, the Company complied of controls and a culture of openness and transparency, which with all the provisions of the Code as updated by the Davies Report enables opportunities and risks to be assessed and managed.
and with the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules It sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the necessary on Audit Committees and Corporate Governance Statements financial and human resources are in place for the Company to DTR 7.
The Company also met the Association of British Insurers meet its objectives and reviews management performance.
ABI guidance that companies should comply with the Supporting Principle to Code Provision B.
6 Board Diversity in the current The Board also defines the Companys values and standards reporting year.
The Code is publicly available at www.
and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are clearly understood and met.
The Board is led The Board and its Committees in these respects by the Chairman, who ensures that the Board As at the date of this Report, the Board consists of nine operates correctly, sets its culture and, by extension, the culture Directors, namely: the Chairman, three Executive Directors and five of the Company in its operations and its dealings with Independent Non Executive Directors.
Their names, responsibilities all stakeholders.
and other details appear on pages 28 to 29.
Changes to the As also set out in our 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report, the composition of the Board since 1 January 2011 are set out on Board is fully committed to providing a safe place in which our page 51. employees and sub-contractors can work and to high standards The role of the Independent Non Executive Directors is to offer of environmental management.
The Board receives detailed reports advice and guidance to the Executive Directors, using their wide on health, safety and environmental matters at each Board meeting experience in business and from their diverse backgrounds.
They in respect of the Companys operations in the UK and Spain.
also provide a constructive challenge, scrutinising the performance Operational management of the Companys business is undertaken of the Executive Directors and satisfying themselves as to the by the Chief Executive who receives advice from the Group integrity of the financial information made available both to the Management Team GMT.
The GMT is the most senior executive Board and to the shareholders.
The Non Executive Directors also committee and in addition to the Chief Executive, consists of the play an important part in the appointment or removal of Executive Group Finance Director, the Group Legal Director and Company Directors and in general succession planning for the Board and Secretary, the Group HR Director, the Land and Planning Director other top executive positions immediately below Board level.
and the two UK Housing UKH Divisional Chairmen.
The Board met on nine occasions during 2011.
Directors make The Board also receives regular reports and minutes from the every effort to attend all Board and applicable Committee Treasury Committee, which was established during the year under meetings, as evidenced by the attendance records over several the chairmanship of the Group Financial Director, and comprises years.
Where, exceptionally, a Director is unable to attend a the Group Legal Director and Company Secretary, the Group meeting, it is Board policy that the Chairman and or the Group Treasurer and a UKH Divisional Chairman.
The key activities of the Legal Director and Company Secretary the Secretary will, as Treasury Committee are, broadly, to monitor and keep under review soon as possible, brief the Director fully on the business transacted the Groups financial risks, financial policies, financial facilities and at the meeting and on any decisions that have been taken.
addition, the views of the Director are sought ahead of the meeting and conveyed to those attending the meeting by the Chairman and or the Secretary as appropriate.
Details of the attendance of each Director at Board and Committee meetings are set out in the tables on pages 32, 34 and 35.
Our Board and Committee Structure Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 31 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Corporate Governance Report continued The following documents are available for review on the Companys Web Taylor Wimpey plc Board site plc.
co. uk InvestorRelations CorporateGovernance: Kevin Beeston t schedule of matters specically reserved for the decision of Chairman the Board: t terms of reference of the Board Committees: Audit, Nomination and Remuneration, which outline their objectives and responsibilities and which define a programme of activities to support the discharge of those responsibilities: and t Board policies covering operational, compliance and stakeholder matters, which have been reviewed in detail during the year and updated to reect developments in corporate governance such as the adoption of our Diversity Policy in response to the Davies Report, changes in legislation such as the Bribery Act 2010, which came into force during 2011 and revised processes to respond to changes in the Group during 2011.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Secretary.
The Board has an established procedure whereby Directors may take independent professional advice at the Number of meetings in 2011 9 Companys expense where they judge it necessary to do so in order to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
Directors Attendance The Board took detailed advice during the first half of 2011 from Kevin Beeston J. P. Morgan Cazenove our joint broker JPMC, J. P. Morgan Chairman 9 Chase & Co. a US investment bank and HSBC Bank Canada Pete Redfern with regard to the sale of the Groups North American businesses, Chief Executive 9 which was legally completed on 13 July 2011.
Ryan Mangold Group Finance Director 9 Advice was also provided to the Board by a James Jordan  LLP PwC on the details of an Group Legal Director and Company Secretary 9 Enhanced Transfer Value offer made to certain members of one Rob Rowley of the Companys pension schemes.
Senior Independent Director 9 b Kate Barker The Board also receives at each meeting a report from JPMC on Independent Non Executive Director 6 the sector and the relative performance of the Companys share Brenda Dean price.
JPMC also attended the Board during the year in order to Independent Non Executive Director 9 provide a detailed presentation on the UK market.
c Mike Hussey All businesses and employees are expected to operate at all times Independent Non Executive Director 4 to the highest standards of integrity and conduct in all matters Tony Reading concerning the Group.
Accordingly, there is a Code of Business Independent Non Executive Director 9 d Conduct, which sets out the standard for individual dealings both Andrew Dougal internally and externally.
Formal policies have been adopted, which Former Director 3 e set out the ethical framework within which all Taylor Wimpey Katherine Innes Ker companies are required to undertake their business.
During the year, Former Director 3 f a policy approved by the Board on anti-corruption was implemented Sheryl Palmer Former Director 5 in order to ensure compliance with the Bribery Act 2010 by all employees, relevant third parties and the Company itself.
Attended five b Appointed 21 04 2011 policies are available for review on the Companys Web site meetings as Group Company c Appointed 01 07 2011 plc.
Secretary and, following his appointment to the Board, four d Resigned 21 04 2011 meetings as Group Legal Director Board and Committee balance, diversity, e Resigned 21 04 2011 and Secretary independence and effectiveness f Resigned 20 07 2011 It is the Companys policy, in line with the Code, that the composition of the Board, proposed appointments to the Board, and succession planning, are each founded primarily on merit, judged against objective criteria, whilst also having due regard to the benets of diversity, including gender, age, experience and thinking.
The Board also recognises its responsibility to comply with the recommendations of the Davies Report and included, in its 2011 Half Year Results, a statement from the Chairman that it will aspire at least to maintain the current level of representation of women on the Board two out of nine, representing 22% of Directors.
32 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 The Nomination Committee, which is composed of a majority of The Board undertakes a regular review of each Directors interests, Independent Non Executive Directors, oversees on behalf of the if any, outside of the Company and currently remains satisfied that Board the identication, assessment and selection of candidates in line with the Code, all Directors are able to allocate sufficient time for appointment to the Board.
The Committee has a formal, to the Company to enable them to discharge their responsibilities rigorous and transparent process against objective criteria.
Where there are outside commitments, the the process of appointment, prior to the decision of the Board, will Board is satisfied that they do not detract from the extent or quality include the engagement of recruitment consultants, interviews with of time which the Director is able to devote to the Company.
all members of the Board and the taking up of detailed references.
One of the new Main Principles introduced by the Code is that The Nomination Committee also guides the Board in regularly every Director should seek election or re-election, as appropriate, assessing whether the Board has the correct balance of expertise at each years Annual General Meeting AGM.
Accordingly, at the and in arranging orderly succession planning for appointments to AGM to be held on 26 April 2012 and at each subsequent AGM, the Board and in respect of senior management across the Group.
every Director, irrespective of the date of his or her appointment As part of this process, management below Board level is regularly and the length of his or her service on the Board, will be submitted provided with access to the Board, including the opportunity to for election or re-election, as appropriate.
This follows the process attend Board Meetings in order to give presentations on specialist that was implemented for the 2011 AGM.
At the AGM, Mike Hussey and James Jordan, who were appointed The Board has adopted a policy on diversity which is available on as Directors since the last AGM, will stand for election to the Board our Web site plc.
Going forward, the Company in accordance with the Articles.
All of the other Directors including plans to adapt its payroll systems in order to measure and monitor Kate Barker who was appointed to the Board immediately prior to diversity around the Group more effectively.
Currently in addition the last AGM and subsequently elected at the AGM itself will stand to Board diversity referred to above there is one woman out of for re-election to the Board in accordance with the Code.
seven on the GMT below the Board 14% and one woman out Details of the resolutions to be proposed in this respect and of 24 Regional Managing Directors 4%.
Across the Group the supporting biographical details of the Directors appear in the Company employs approximately 1,150 women representing Notice of Meeting on pages 106 and 110-111.
The Board has reviewed and re-afrmed that it considers each Once the Company has more detailed information on the types of the Non Executive Directors to be independent in character and and extent of various forms of diversity around the Group, it will judgement and that there are no relationships which could affect then consider where recruitment, training and career development the Directors judgement.
work is necessary with a view to ensuring that there is a suitable recruitment pool at all levels from which to increase diversity, The Chairman, at the time of his appointment on 1 July 2010, where appropriate.
met the independence criteria as set out in the Code.
The Companys plans and progress in implementing its diversity In addition, and in line with the Code, the Chairman and the policy will be benchmarked against its peers and appropriate Senior Independent Director, independent of each other, hold targets will be set against which progress will be measured and meetings with the Non Executive Directors without the Executive monitored by the Nomination Committee and the Board.
Board and Committee roles and responsibilities Performance evaluation of the Board, The work of each of the Board Committees Nomination, its Committees and other functions Remuneration and Audit is described later in this Report.
The 2010 Board evaluation was reported on in detail in last years Report and one of the action points which came out of that was The Board has an established framework of delegated financial, the need to maintain an ongoing review of Board composition commercial and operational authorities, which define the scope and including refreshment.
This has been achieved as follows: powers of the Chief Executive and of operational management.
t Andrew Dougal resigned as a Director on 21 April 2011 after The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Chief a long and distinguished period of service on the Board as an Executive have been clearly dened, set out in writing and signed Independent Non Executive Director: by Kevin Beeston and Pete Redfern in line with the Code.
t Katherine Innes Ker resigned as a Director on 21 April 2011 after In order to assist Directors in complying with their duty to avoid a long and distinguished period of service on the Board as an conicts or possible conicts of interest, the Board must first give Independent Non Executive Director: its clearance to such potential conicts of interest which would include directorships or other interests in outside companies and t Kate Barker CBE was appointed as an Independent Non organisations and an entry is then made in the statutory register Executive Director on 21 April 2011: which the Company maintains for this purpose.
t Mike Hussey was appointed as an Independent Non Executive Whenever any Director considers that he or she is, or may be, Director on 1 July 2011: interested in any contract or arrangement to which the Company is or may be a party, the Director gives due notice to the Board in accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association.
In such cases, unless allowed by the Articles, any Director with such an interest is not permitted to participate in any discussions or decisions relating to the contract orarrangement.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 33 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Corporate Governance Report continued t Sheryl Palmer, the President and CEO of the Groups North Nomination Committee American businesses, resigned as a Director on 20 July 2011 Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board following the sale of those businesses: and Kevin Beeston, Chairman t James Jordan was appointed as Group Legal Director and Company Secretary on 21 July 2011 having been Group Company Number of meetings in 2011 2 Secretary and General Counsel of the Company since 2007, and Members Attendance previously held the same position with George Wimpey Plc.
Kevin Beeston 2 The 2010 Board evaluation also highlighted a small number of Kate Barker appointed 21 04 2011 2 other action points all of which have been addressed namely Brenda Dean 2 to improve further the overall Board process including the need Mike Hussey appointed 07 07 2011 0 to enhance the overall Group succession planning processes, Tony Reading 1 to provide additional information to the Board with regard to certain Pete Redfern 2 operational matters and to increase the number of specialist topics Rob Rowley 2 and presentations to be considered by the Board.
Andrew Dougal resigned 21 04 2011 0 It is a requirement of the Code that, from 2011, the evaluation Katherine Innes Ker resigned 21 04 2011 0 process be externally facilitated at least every three years.
The Main Objective 2011 evaluation was overseen by an external facilitator, Egon To ensure there shall be a formal, rigorous and transparent Zehnder International Limited, a specialist in the assessment process for the appointment of new Directors to the Board, its of top-level management resources.
Egon Zehnder provides Committees and to other senior roles and to ensure effective no other services to the Company.
succession planning processes across the Group.
The 2011 evaluation process took the form of a detailed questionnaire prepared by Egon Zehnder covering all aspects of the Board and its Committees, which each Director completed on a condential non-attributable basis.
This was then followed Information and professional development by a meeting between each Director and representatives from Egon Zehnder to go through the responses to the questionnaire The Company has procedures whereby newly appointed Directors and to discuss each Directors views on the Board, the Board including Non Executive Directors receive a formal induction.
This Committees and individual Directors.
includes training and continuing familiarisation with the Companys business, operations and systems, the principles underlying the As part of the process, the Chairman received comments on each discharge of their duties as Directors and wider issues relating to Director from Egon Zehnder, following which he liaised directly with the housing sector.
each individual Director to discuss the feedback on them from the exercise.
Similarly, the Senior Independent Director received All Directors visit Group operations on a regular basis, engaging comments from each Director via Egon Zehnder on the Chairman, with employees at all levels in order to foster and maintain an which he then reviewed with the Chairman.
Board visits are arranged each year to operations in both the UK and elsewhere within the Group.
Following completion of the exercise, Egon Zehnder formally In 2011, in addition to individual visits, the Board visited operations presented their main findings and conclusions to the Board.
in the Taylor Wimpey West London region over a three day period The review also confirmed the ongoing independence of during which regional presentations and formal Board and character and judgement of each Non Executive Director.
Committee meetings took place, as well as site visits.
The report from Egon Zehnder was further reviewed by the During 2011, a total of 14 presentations took place across the Board and unanimously approved.
country, which were attended by staff from all the Companys The 2011 Board evaluation and feedback from Egon Zehnder Business Units, at which the Chief Executive and other senior focused on a number of appraisal areas including: the balance management presented the Companys strategy first hand.
This of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board: information was a very successful exercise and was very well received by the ows: the level of entrepreneurial leadership: strategy and the Companys workforce.
effectiveness and leadership of the Board Committees i. e. the The Group Legal Director and Company Secretary acts as Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Secretary to the Board and its Committees and he attends all meetings.
It is Board policy that wherever possible a formal agenda The overall feedback from Egon Zehnder on the Board as a team was very positive including, the balance of the Board due to its and written reports are issued to Directors in respect of all Board and Committee meetings one week prior to the meeting, in order diversity of skills and the Boards resilience, energy and openness.
to allow sufficient time for detailed review and consideration Following receipt of the report and presentation of it from Egon beforehand.
Formal minutes are prepared in respect of all Board Zehnder the Board then separately reviewed each specic and Committee meetings and are then circulated and submitted for appraisal area in detail and agreed actions where necessary approval at the next meeting.
The Secretary provides regular these include continuing the general refreshment of the succession briengs to the Board on regulatory and governance matters which planning process including with regard to the senior management are included as part of his formal regular reporting to the Board.
teams, the improvement of reporting to the Board in certain dened areas and arranging for additional time to be devoted by the Board The Chairman, Chief Executive and the Secretary meet sufciently on strategy and risk related matters.
The agreed actions will in advance of each Board meeting in order to ensure action points be kept under regular review by the Board.
from previous meetings have been implemented and to prepare the 34 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board Reports directly to the Taylor Wimpey plc Board Tony Reading, Chairman Rob Rowley, Chairman Number of meetings in 2011 4 Number of meetings in 2011 3 Members Attendance Members Attendance Tony Reading 4 Rob Rowley 3 Kevin Beeston 4 Kate Barker appointed 21 04 2011 2 Brenda Dean 4 Tony Reading 3 Rob Rowley 4 Andrew Dougal resigned 21 04 2011 1 Katherine Innes Ker resigned 21 04 2011 2 Main Objective Main Objective To establish and maintain formal and transparent procedures To assist the Board in fullling its corporate governance for developing policy on executive remuneration and for agreeing responsibilities relating to the Groups internal control the remuneration packages of individual Directors and senior framework, internal audit process, risk management, executives and to monitor and report on them.
financial reporting practices and external audit process.
agenda and matters to be covered at the next developing policy on executive remuneration and agreeing the and at future Board and Committee meetings as appropriate.
remuneration packages of individual Directors, none of whom is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Board Committees and their work The Committee is chaired by Tony Reading and consists of three Nomination Committee Independent Non Executive Directors and also the Chairman of the The Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and is Board.
During the year the Remuneration Committee met on four composed of a majority of Non Executive Directors as required by occasions and details of the attendance of each Director are set the Code.
Its members are set out in the table on page 34.
As set out in the table above.
out earlier in this Report, the Committee has procedures in place with regard to maintaining a formal, rigorous and transparent Audit Committee and auditors process for Board appointments, ensuring that appointments The Committee is chaired by Rob Rowley.
All members of the to the Board are made on merit and assessed against objective Committee are Independent Non Executive Directors as required criteria.
It guides the Board in regularly assessing whether there by the Code.
The Board has determined that Rob Rowley, who is a correct balance of expertise, reviewing progress towards currently chairs the Audit Committee at both Capital Shopping compliance with the Davies Report and wider diversity Centres Group plc and Moneysupermarket.
com Group PLC, has considerations, and in arranging the orderly succession for recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
appointments to the Board and in respect of senior management The Chairman of the Company and other Non Executive Directors, across the Group.
A description of how appointments are typically the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit made to the Board is set out on page 32. and other senior executives attend Committee meetings by invitation.
Deloitte LLP is also invited to attend Committee The Committee met on two occasions during the year to consider, meetings.
The Committee also meets privately with representatives amongst other things, the appointments of the Directors appointed from Deloitte LLP during at least two Committee meetings per to the Board during 2011.
Details of the attendance of each annum, which normally take place around the time of the Full Director are set out in the table on page 34. and Half Year financial statements, in order to discuss any matters which the auditors may wish to raise without any Executive Remuneration Committee and remuneration Directors other than the Secretary beingpresent.
The Boards policy and approach to the setting of remuneration for Directors and senior executives and the activities of the During the year the Audit Committee met on three occasions.
Remuneration Committee are described in detail in the Directors Details of the attendance of each Director are set out in the table Remuneration Report on pages 39 to 50.
The meetings around the Full and Half Year results constituted in accordance with the Code and its members are are typically also attended by the other Non Executive Directors.
The Committees remit includes reviewing the internal control The levels of remuneration are considered by the Committee to framework, the internal audit process, risk management, the be sufficient to attract, retain and motivate Directors and other financial reporting practices, the external audit process and senior management of the quality required to run the Company recommending to the Board whether to re-appoint the external successfully, without being excessive.
It ensures that the Board regularly assesses business Executive Directors remuneration is linked to rewarding corporate risks including their management and mitigation.
In doing so, the and individual performance and there is linkage to effective risk Committee places reliance on regular reports from executive management.
There is a formal and transparent procedure for management, Internal Audit and the external auditors.
In monitoring Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 35 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Corporate Governance Report continued the financial reporting practices the Audit Committee reviewed the Audit Committee.
The Chief Executive, the GMT accounting policies, areas of judgement, the going concern and senior management consider the reviews on a regular basis assumptions and compliance with accounting standards and and are responsible for ensuring that improvements are made, the requirements of the Code.
During the year the Committee where required.
reviewed, prior to publication, the Full and Half Year financial The Internal Audit function also reviews proposed related party statements and other statements affecting the Group concerning transactions, such as purchases by executives from Group price sensitive information asnecessary.
companies, to ensure proper procedures are followed and that such procedures are undertaken in accordance with the formal External auditor policy in place.
Deloitte LLP are the Companys external auditor and will be proposed for re-appointment at the 2012 AGM.
Their performance An independent formal evaluation of the Internal Audit function was is kept under regular review by the Board and the Audit Committee.
carried out on behalf of the Audit Committee during 2011 by .
It appraised Internal Audit against seven The Deloitte partner responsible for the Companys external audit key areas, based on leading practice in the internal audit area and has acted in this capacity for three years, which is within the five relating to the housebuilding industry.
The nding of their report year maximum period set out in the Smith Guidance, and there was that Internal Audit is operating effectively.
are no contractual restrictions on the Companys selection of its external auditor.
A number of initiatives were introduced during 2011 to ensure the Companys Internal Audit function meets current best practice.
Appointment of the auditor for non-audit services An Internal Audit Charter codifies the aims, modus operandi and The Audit Committee has approved a policy on whether to employ outputs of internal auditing: a rolling schedule of business the external auditor to provide services other than audit services.
improvements identied during internal audits is monitored against This policy requires that there should be a competitive tender action taken by the businesses, with progress reviewed by the process except in narrowly dened circumstances where it is Audit Committee: and the performance of the Internal Audit team considered that, based on condentiality, past knowledge and has been externally and independently appraised.
other commercial reasons, there is an advantage in using a single tender procurement procedure.
The Head of Internal Audit has direct access to the Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief The Committee has determined that the following assignments Executive and the other Executive Directors.
A database of audit should not be undertaken by the auditors: recommendations and improvement initiatives is maintained.
t bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records Follow-up processes ensure that such improvements are or financial statements: implemented in a timely manner.
t internal audit outsourcing services: Risk Management and Internal Control The Group has established an ongoing process of risk t the provision of advice on large Information Technology management and internal control applying principle C2 of the systems: and Code.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the system t services connected with valuation, litigation support, legal, of internal control, which has been designed and implemented to recruitment or remuneration.
meet the requirements of the Group and the risks it encounters.
The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the Internal Control is managed according to a framework which maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity.
During the consists of clearly dened processes and objectives which are year the external auditor undertook non-audit work primarily related assigned to individuals.
This framework defines the way the to key project work particularly in relation to the sale of the North Company operates and how it is managed on a day-to-day basis.
In the Group UK this is achieved through an established Operating Framework supported by functional manuals covering the main The Audit Committee is satisfied that the carrying out of this disciplines.
Compliance with policies, processes and procedures work would not impair the independence of the external auditors is required to ensure business effectiveness and efficiency see and recognises that from time to time, there is a clear commercial Management on page 37.
Every employee is required to comply advantage based on cost and timetable requirements in using with Group policies and specic responsibilities and accountabilities the Companys auditors.
As a result of a reduction in the overall are identied at each process level, yet the governance framework level of major strategic corporate level project work, the level of supports and encourages, individual and team initiatives.
The non-audit services work signicantly reduced from 2.8m in 2010 control framework in place establishes procedures to identify, to 1.2m in 2011. evaluate and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
These Internal Audit procedures manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to The Internal Audit function reviews the effectiveness and efficiency achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and of the systems of internal control in place to safeguard the assets, not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
to quantify, price, transfer, avoid or mitigate risks and to monitor the The successful management of risk is essential to enable the activities of the Group in accomplishing established objectives.
Group to deliver on its strategic priorities.
The risk management Internal Audit reports are provided to the Executive Directors, framework consists of risk registers at all organisational levels indicating improvements proposed or made where appropriate, which detail the risk faced by the Group, its operating companies and summaries of these reports are provided to the Board and 36 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 and the central service teams.
The registers identify key operational Management and financial risks while strategic risks are identied as part of the The Chief Executive has responsibility for preparing and reviewing business planning process although it is expected that strategic strategic plans for the Group and the annual budgetary process.
risks will be included on risk registers.
The risk registers take into These are subject to formal approval by the Board.
account the signicance of environmental, social and governance As mentioned on page 34, following approval by the Board of matters of the Company and use a standardised methodology for the new Group Strategy which was announced on 19 September the assessment of risk.
2011 the Strategy was communicated to all employees through This methodology requires each risk identied to be assessed and a programme of presentations carried out at business units ranked according to a risk matrix which accounts for the likelihood around the Group.
The risks identied are assessed for Budgets are re-examined in comparison with business forecasts potential effect on the Companys short and long term value.
throughout the year to ensure they are sufciently robust to The completion of risk registers is iterative and refreshed on an reect the possible impact of changing economic conditions ongoing basis.
The risk registers feed into a formal half yearly risk and circumstances.
The Chief Executive and the Board assessment that identies the principal risks see pages 12 to 13 conduct regular reviews of actual results and future projections and allows the Board to re-evaluate the identied strategic risks with comparison against budget and prior year, together with facing the Group.
Disputes that may give rise to significant The Board oversees the risk and control framework of the Group litigation or contractual claims are monitored at each meeting and the Chief Executive is responsible for implementing any of the Board with specic updates on any material developments necessary improvements with the support of the GMT.
In line with or new matters.
our report last year and consistent with the Code, the Board The Group has clearly dened policies, processes and procedures increased the frequency of its formal risk reviews to half yearly governing all areas of the business, which will continue to be and the GMT conducts a more detailed review as part of the reviewed and rened in order to meet the requirements of the business planning process.
business and changing market circumstances.
Dened authority In compliance with the Code, the Board regularly reviews the limits continue to be closely monitored in response to prevailing effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control in providing market conditions.
Any investment, acquisition or significant a responsible assessment and mitigation of risks.
The Boards disposal of land requires detailed appraisal and is subject to monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational, approval by the Board or the Chief Executive, depending compliance and assurance controls which include risk on the value and nature of the investment or contract.
This process is based principally on reviewing There is a clearly identiable organisational structure and a reports from management to consider whether significant risks are framework of delegated authority approved by the Board within correctly managed and controlled as part of managing the Groups which individual responsibilities of senior executives of Group operations.
The Board is assisted in the assessment of risks by the companies are identied and can be monitored.
These activities Audit Committees review of risk management procedures for are reinforced through process compliance and other audits appropriateness and effectiveness see Audit Committee remit conducted by Internal Audit.
Throughout 2011 and into 2012 the Audit Committee continued to assess the Groups risk management and internal The annual employee performance appraisal process is control framework by reviewing the business change issues and objective-based, with individual objectives cascaded down from Internal Audit activities across the Group.
Reviews identify training needs to support achievement of objectives.
At its half year and year end meetings the Board reviewed the risk prole of the Group and the mitigating factors identied with the significant risks.
At the year end meeting in February 2012 following the annual review by the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal controls and a formal half year assessment of risk, which included a detailed risk assessment by the GMT, the Board completed its annual assessment of risks for the year end 31 December 2011.
The key risks affecting the Group were identied and agreed with the Board together with processes for their elimination or mitigation and actions required to reduce the likelihood of each risk to the Company and the Group.
A detailed review of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Group is set out in the Business Review: Principal Risks and Uncertainties on pages 12 to 13.
Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 37 Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements Shareholder Information p02-27 p28-54 p55-105 p106-116 Corporate Governance Report continued Whistleblowing Going concern The Groups whistleblowing policy is supported by a clear process The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on that includes an externally facilitated hotline through which any a going concern basis and on a historical cost basis except as person, including employees of the Company, may, in confidence, otherwise stated in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial raise concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting, Statements on pages 61 to 95. other operational matters or inappropriate personal behaviours in The Taylor Wimpey plc Groups the Group business performance the work place.
All whistleblowing cases are investigated by the and position, along with the significant factors that are likely to Head of Internal Audit, Group Health and Safety Director where inuence its future activities are set out in the Chief Executives appropriate, Group Human Resources Director and or the Review on pages 6 to 13.
Secretary depending on the nature and seriousness of the issue.
Whistleblowing incidents and their outcome are reported to the The Group has recorded profits in the current year and has Audit Committee.
Whistleblowing is a standing item on each Audit signicantly reduced its drawn debt facilities, partly due to the Committee agenda which allows the Committee to regularly review disposal of the North America business.
The Group is still reliant the adequacy of the policy in line with its requirement to do so on external debt nancing and has to meet all the covenant under the Code.
During the year a number of initiatives took place measures included in its debt facilities.
The Group has also to raise the prole of the whistleblowing service.
prepared forecasts, with certain sensitivities, for a period of at least 12 months from the date of signing these financial Relations with shareholders statements, and as such the Directors are satisfied that, whilst The Board actively seeks and encourages engagement with major market conditions have stabilised, there continues to be certain institutional shareholders and other stakeholders and supports the risks, including mortgage availability and weakened demand due to new initiatives set out in the Code and the Stewardship Code market environment.
However, the Directors are satisfied that the which aim to foster a more pro-active governance role by major Group will be able to continue to operate within the available shareholders.
The Board has put in place arrangements designed nancing facilities for at least the next 12 months from the date to facilitate contact about business, governance, remuneration and of signing these financial statements.
This provides the opportunity for meetings with the Accordingly the consolidated financial statements have been Chairman, the Senior Independent Director as well as the Chief prepared on a going concern basis.
Executive, Group Finance Director, Group Legal Director and Company Secretary and other executives, in order to establish a mutual understanding of objectives.
The Company also operates a structured programme of investor relations, based on formal announcements and publications covering the full year and half year results.
During the year, the Company arranged an Investor Day which was attended by both potential investors and existing shareholders and provided an opportunity for the Company to give a number of presentations including an update on its strategy.
All Directors receive formal reports and briengs during the year about the Companys investor relations programme and receive detailed feedback through surveys, direct contact and other means, through which they are able to develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
The Board encourages all shareholders to participate in the Annual General Meeting, which is attended by all Directors.
Shareholders attention is drawn to the Notice of Meeting on page 106 which sets out details of the rights of shareholders in connection with the notice of, and participation in, general meetings of theCompany.
Information about the Company, including full year and half year results and other major announcements, and additional information about shareholder facilities, is published on the Companys Web site plc.
co. uk 38 Taylor Wimpey plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
