48 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Report of the Nominations Committee Having the appropriate range of high calibre Directors on our Board John Hughes Michael Tobin Chairman Chairman is key to determining and achieving success in the Groups strategic Simon Batey Michael Tobin SID CEO objectives.
Having appropriate succession planning for the Board Brian McArthurMaurizio Muscroft Carli andsenior management is essential to ensuring that this success Rob Coupland GFD John Hughes Chief Operating officer John Sahar canbe sustained over the long term.
OReilly Elhabashi The Nominations Committee assists the Board are notified to the Board before they arise.
Membership of the in the key areas of Board composition and Theseletters of appointment are available succession planning and this report provides forinspection at the Companys registered NominationsCommittee asummary of its work.
office and Annual General Meeting AGM.
Appointment of new Directors Reelection of Directors John OReilly Simon Batey All of the non-executive Directors, including me As in 2011, all Directors retire at every AGM John Hughes Chairman Chairman Chairman as Chairman, were selected through externally underthe UK Code.
If decided appropriate facilitated recruitments.
All are independent, bythe Board, Directors may be proposed for Simon Batey aswas I on appointment as Chairman although re-appointment by shareholders.
In reaching John Hughes SID John OReilly Maurizio Carli am not counted as such under the UK Code itsdecision, the Board acts on the advice of following appointment.
We believe this has theNominations Committee, taking account John Simon Batey OReilly SID created a diverse group of non-executive ofthe results of the Board evaluation Sahar Maurizio Directors able to provide the required range commented on page 50.
Elhabashi Carli Sahar Elhabashi ofskills, knowledge and experience to the This year all Directors are being proposed for Boardalong with our two executive Directors.
They are each a key member ofthe Board, bringing valuable and unique skills, Biographies of all Directors are knowledge and experience to its overall Board Chairman includedon pages 32 and 33 effectiveness.
Individual details are given in independent on appointment thebiographies on pages 32 and 33.
Following Achieving this has been neither easy nor Independent nonexecutive Directors theformal evaluation of the performance of quick, as we took the time required to achieve theBoard, I, as Chairman, confirm that the the optimum result, recognising its critical The Chief Executive Officer normally also performance of all the Directors continues importance.
An outline of the process we attends meetings although this would tobeeffective and to demonstrate undertook for the appointment of Maurizio Carli notbe the case if the Committee was commitmenttotheir roles.
discussing matters in connection with the and Sahar Elhabashi and would similarly follow appointment of a successor.
for future non-executive Director appointments Succession planning is shown in the flow chart on the next page.
The Chairman would not chair any The Committee has developed a thorough meetingin connection with the succession planning process for the executive These recruitments assist with the ongoing appointment of a successor.
Directors and senior management in the Group.
refreshment of the Board as shown in the This includes encouragement and facilitation of diagram on page 34 showing the length of tenure the development of each individual as well as of Directors.
Following initial three-year terms, career progression as opportunities arise.
the terms of non-executive Directors are reviewed annually, in line with their annual Succession planning is reviewed at each meeting retirement under the UK Code.
Non-executive Directors letters of appointment During the coming year, the Committee will be set out the time commitments normally required.
developing the succession planning in relation Such time commitments can involve peaks toits Chairman and non-executive Directors, ofactivity at particular times and all Directors although does not currently anticipate any areexpected to be flexible in managing these.
Any significant changes to their other commitments John Hughes, CBE Nominations Committee UK Code Principle: Chairman All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued .
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 49 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee UK Code Principle: UK Code Principle: All directors should be able to allocate sufficient time to the There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for company to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
the appointment of new directors to the board.
Nominations Committee calendar for 2011 At specific meetings Meetings with, discussion regarding selection Review and consideration of: Update on executive andrecommendation to the Board of appointment successionplanning Succession planning for executive Directors and ofnew independent non-executive Directors senior management Consideration of results of Boardevaluation Gender diversity across and at different levels of theGroup Consideration and determination of recommendation to Board Agreement on plans of action for both of thesematters inconnection with re-election Agreement to develop succession planning for ofDirectors non-executive Directors Review of specific plans for gender diversity across the Group Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec At each meeting Review of: Minutes of previous meetings Reports on actions agreed at previous meetings Selection process for new Directors appointed during 2011 Selection of External Board Candidate The potential Interviews and Recommendations anexternal evaluation specification candidates selection to and confirmation recruitment by Nominations by the Board agency Committee Following Heidrick & Struggles Based on this Heidrick & Struggles The Nominations The Nominations presentations by carried out a evaluation, the then prepared a Committee then Committee three leading firms thorough and specification for longlist of potential selected nine recommended a to the Nominations rigorous external thecandidates candidates from a candidates for shortlist of potential Committee, Heidrick Board evaluation tobesought was specific search as itsmembers to candidates for & Struggles was todetermine the determined by well as their own interview to establish consideration by selected by the balance of skills, theNominations database.
the suitability of the theBoard.
knowledge and Committee and candidate for This identified a Following interview experience, and agreed with appointment.
diverse range of by all Directors alsocharacter types theBoard.
candidates meeting This selection was including both of each of the This had objective the specification on the basis of skills, executive Directors currentDirectors.
criteria including the including the knowledge and and in agreement They also identified capabilities and bestcandidates experience and also with the Nominations the skills which would characteristics ofbothgenders.
of character and Committee, the be required and skill required to add to ability to provide Board appointed gaps which could the diversity and thenecessary time both Sahar Elhabashi develop in the future.
balance of skills of commitment both and Maurizio Carli the Board whilst atand between asDirectors.
They reported complementing the meetings.
onthese to the existing Directors.
50 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 UK Code Principle: The board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
Board and Committee evaluation Comprehensive questionnaire incorporating learnings from prior year externalprocess completed by all Directors covering the following areas: Critical to the success of the Board and its Committees in achieving their aims is the Board membership and diversity including with regard to gender effectiveness with which they operate.
Content and operation of Board meetings and quality of information presented at these Accordingly, we take our evaluation of this Quality of internal and external reporting very seriously.
Even before the UK Code Similar matters for each of the Board Committees tookeffect for the Group, we had adopted Key strategic and operational issues the three-year cycle that it recommends.
Training, induction and Director self assessment The Chairmans performance 2008 and 2011 Internally facilitated Interviews by the Senior Independent Director with the other Directors Including discussion on: Clarification or expansion of answers in the questionnaires Any additional matters which the relevant Director or Senior Independent Director wished 2010 and 2013 2009 and 2012 toraise Externally Internally The performance of the Chairman facilitated facilitated The individual Directors performance and training requirements The Chairman held the equivalent interview with the Senior Independent Director.
A summary of the 2011 Board and Committee evaluation process led by the Chairman and Results of the questionnaire and interviews and drawing of conclusions Senior Independent Director, and internally facilitated by the Company Secretary, is The results were reported to the Board and its Committees in a manner that did not identify individuals specific responses ensuring that these responses could be as open, frank and shown in the flow chart to the right.
Following review of the results, theBoard drew conclusions and agreed actions including: Board and employee diversity to enhance further the structure and content of Board meeting agendas and reports: Diversity within our Board is essential in to review the membership of the Board Committees during 2012: maximising its effectiveness and within for the Board and its Committees to set annual objectives in their work: ourbusiness is essential in maximising its success.
The different perspectives that this to consider shorter-term and longer-term strategic issues more independently of each other: diversity brings enriches debates, business to provide the Board with greater and more frequent external input on strategic matters: and planning andproblem solving.
to enhance further the induction process for future new Directors.
Whilst gender is just one element of diversity, wewelcome the increased focus that this has widely received over thepast year.
In the recruitment of new non-executive Followup meetings and discussions Directors during 2011, we were keen to enhance the diversity of our Board.
We The Chairman and non-executive Directors met in the absence of the executive Directors to discuss the performance of the executive Directors accordingly considered candidates who would provide significant additional mainland The non-executive Directors met in the absence of the Chairman to review his performance European and North American experience.
The Chairman reviewed training requirements established from the evaluation process for the In relation to gender, as commented on in individual Directorsand the Board as a whole therecruitment process on page 49, our recruitment consultants were instructed topresent to us the best candidates of eachgender meeting the search criteria.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 51 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee In the recruitment of new non-executive Directors during 2011, we were keen to enhance the diversity of our Board.
In relation to the future appointment of Board and employee diversity TelecityGroups gender breakdown is similar non-executive Directors, we will aim to make continued to the national gender split in the IT sector in appointments of each gender in equal numbers the UK according to published statistics : and The final decisions on the appointment of our new subject to the merits and diversity in general of Directors were taken on merit alone.
Aswellas the as a ratio of employees by gender, a greater the available candidates.
This aim will be taken new Directors clear relevance and substantial proportion of the women than the men hold account ofin succession planning for these added value to our Group, weare pleased to managerial roles.
On this basis, as appointments are made, notethat one was a non-European woman with we expect the proportion of female nonWe believe in and practise equal opportunities excellent knowledge ofglobal markets, not least executive Directors onour Board to increase inrelation to all employees and in recruiting the in North America, and the other a continental towards 40% based onthe current Board size right person for the job.
As part of this, we will European man withextensive sector knowledge and structure.
Weaccordingly consider quotas continue to aim to increase diversity over the as well as mainland European experience.
to be both inappropriate and unnecessary, as coming years.
A review of two of the elements of diversity in well as likelyto be counterproductive.
In relation to employees, the Group isintroducing TelecityGroup is shown in the diagrams below.
On behalf of the Nominations Committee an equality action plan.
Thisistoinclude reviews of: These are measured firstly with reference to thenon-executive Directors and secondly equality policies and communications: withreference to senior management including recruitment and selection processes: the executive Directors.
This split has been adopted because all appointments and performance, pay and reward levels: and promotions within the senior management team, John Hughes, CBE career development opportunities and as with Group employees generally, are made Chairman of the assistance in achieving these.
strictly in accordance with the Groups equal NominationsCommittee opportunities employment policies.
Finally, we This action plan is to be rolled out across the 10 February 2012 show the split with regard to gender in the Group Group during 2012. as a whole in relation to which: Board and employee diversity Nonexecutive Directors Group and country managers All employees including Chairman including executive Directors By gender By gender Gender by job level Female Female Female manager 4% 20% 14% Female Male Male non-manager 14% 80% 86% Male manager 17% Male non-manager 65% By citizenship By citizenship NonUK NonUK Board and employee diversity 40% 57% UK UK 60% 43%
