Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 45 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee Report of the Audit Committee The integrity of the Groups financial results and the effectiveness John Hughes Michael Tobin Chairman ofitsrisk management and internal control systems are important Chairman Simon Batey Michael Tobin SID CEO both to Directors and to shareholders.
They are also critical to the way Brian McArthurMaurizio the Gr Muscr ou oftps business is operated as they are required to measure and Carli Rob Coupland GFD John Hughes Chief Operating tosustain achievement of its strategic objectives.
officer John Sahar OReilly Elhabashi The Audit Committee assists the Board in its Internal control and risk management Membership of the oversight and monitoring of financial reporting, framework andprocedures risk management and internal controls.
It tests The key elements of the Groups internal financial AuditCommittee and challenges these areas in conjunction with control framework and procedures are set out management and the auditors as appropriate.
A review of the Groups system of risk management commences on This report summarises the Committees page 26. activities in 2011.
Simon Batey John OReilly John Hughes Chairman Chairman Chairman Through the processes outlined: Public reporting areas for enhancement of internal controls Simon Batey The Committee reviews and comments upon John Hughes SID are identified: John OReilly Maurizio Carli both the financial information and non-financial information in the Groups Annual Reports prepared action plans to deliver such enhancements John Simon Batey by managOReilly ement as set out o SID n the Committees are devised: and Maurizio Sahar calendar on page 46.
One purpose of this is Elhabashi Carli Sahar Elhabashi delivery is then monitored by management toconfirm that these present a balanced and and the Board or its Audit Committee.
understandable assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
In this Annual Report, The Board considers that none of the areas forthe second year, the Group has sought to identified for enhancement during the year Independent nonexecutive Director enhance further itsdisclosures in these and constituted a significant failing or weakness.
TheCommittee similarly reviews The Chairman, whose biography is As part of this ongoing process of enhancement, the Groups half year results.
included on page 32, has recent and existing policies and procedures are reviewed relevant key financial experience from Interim management statements are reviewed and, where considered appropriate, amended anumber of finance director and audit by the members of the Committee as part of and new policies and procedures put in place.
their detailed review and comment by the The Group Finance Director and other During 2011, the roll out of the Groups anti-bribery Boardas a whole, rather than at specific senior members of financial management policy was completed in respect of both the Groups AuditCommittee meetings.
This is considered attend and present at meetings other employees and key contractors.
An ongoing appropriate in view of thelimited amount of than during private discussions between programme to refresh this policy and provide financial information contained in the Groups the Committee andthe auditors.
appropriate training and testing is being put in interim management statements and the Representatives of the external auditors place for 2012. thorough review process undertaken by the attend and present at meetings other Board asawhole.
than during discussions regarding their performance.
Further information regarding the preparation The internal auditor attends meetings.
ofthe Group accounts is included in the Robert Morse was also a member of the Directors Report on page 102.
Simon Batey Audit Committee Chairman UK Code Principle: The board should present a balanced and understandable assessment of the companys position and prospects.
46 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Audit Committee calendar for 2011 At specific meetings Annual results, including considerationof: Half year results including consideration of: Consideration of plans for preparation ofthe annual results, including: Report from the Group Finance Director Report of the Group Finance Director Report of the Group Finance Director Report of the auditors Report of the auditors Report of the auditors Draft Annual Report Draft results announcement Review of non-audit work by and Going concern Draft investor presentation feestoauditors and discussion on Draft results announcement Recommendation to the Board on approval newpolicy on these reported more oftheresults Draft investor presentation fullyon pages 46 and 47 Consideration of enhancement of whistleblowing Review of risk management and internalcontrol Plans for review of non-financial as well arrangements Performance and independence of the external auditors asfinancial sections of Annual Report Review of implementation of new financial byCommittee Meeting with the auditors in absence of management reportingsystem Report on Group management meeting Recommendations to the Board on: with country management on risk The annual results management and insurance arrangements Re-appointment of the auditors Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec At each meeting Reviews of financial reporting, Reviews of reports on: Consideration of internal audit: Review of: including: Risk management Reports Minutes of previous meetings Any proposed changes Risk registers Plans Reports on implementation of toaccounting policies decisions from previous meetings Internal control Key assumptions, judgements and estimates proposed by management Developments in reportingand accounting requirements affectingtheGroup In addition, since the year end, a new Code of Ethics The Board considers that the information that Internal control and risk management has been introduced, providing a reference point itreceives is sufficient to enable it to review the framework andprocedures continued for the high standard of conduct the Group effectiveness of the Groups risk management Other policies reviewed and enhanced during expects from all its Directors and employees internal controls.
These accord with the guidance the year included: inthe operation of its business.
of the Turnbull Committee and manage rather those in relation to the prompt identification, than eliminate the risk of not achieving business Policies and procedures will continue to be proper control and, if appropriate, objectives.
Whilst they cannot provide absolute regularly reviewed in order that these are up to announcement of information that may be assurance, we believe they provide reasonable date, tailored to the Groups requirements and inside information under the rules of the assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Chairman of the Financial Services Authority in the UK: Audit Committee assists management in such Maintenance of the independence the Groups travel policy as to which members matters.
For example, during 2011, the Chairman ofand from the external auditors of the Board and senior management team of the Audit Committee met with operational The Audit Committee has reviewed and enhanced should not travel together in certain management to review the governance processes the Groups procedures relating to the provision circumstances: and involved in one of the Groups key new data centre of non-audit services by the Groups external builds in the process of construction.
In addition, the calendar of Board and Committee agenda auditors.
Under these procedures, non-audit work as part of their induction process, our new items, summaries of which for 2011 are and the fees involved require approval in advance non-executive Directors met with management provided in each individual report within this by the Audit Committee, or by the Chairman of and confirmed the importance that the Group Governance Review.
the Committee on its behalf in routine matters, places on its risk management processes.
after taking account of any potential risks of any current or future conflicts of interest.
Overview Business model and Financial review Governance review Financial statements Investor information operating review 47 Telecity Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance review Introduction Biographies of Directors Report of the Board Report of the Corporate Social  Report of the Audit Committee Report of the Nominations Committee Report of the Remuneration Committee UK Code Principle: The board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks itis willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The board should maintain soundrisk management and internal control systems.
reviewed the external auditors performance The key elements of the Groups internal financial control and effectiveness in the past year.
The Group has a policy whereby, before any former employee framework and procedures include: of the external auditors may beemployed by the the close involvement of the executive Directors, including regular meetings with the senior Group, careful consideration must be given as management team to review all operational aspects of the business: towhether the independence of the auditors willbe adversely affected, and approval of the clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority, including a schedule of matters Audit Committee is required.
thatarerequired to be brought to the Board for decision: a comprehensive Group-wide system of financial reporting, budgeting and cash forecasting Implementation of the UK Corporate and control through which financial accounts are prepared and submitted to the Board monthly, Governance Code the UK Code and profit and cash flow forecasts are prepared regularly and revised when necessary, As noted in the introduction to this Corporate tomonitor actual against expected performance: Governance Review, the UK Code became effective in relation to the Company for the regular meetings of the Board and Audit Committee at which financial information isreviewed yearcommencing 1 January 2011.
As part of and business risks are reported upon and monitored: and thepreparations for this, the Committee review by the Groups internal auditor of specific areas of operations selected in consultation reviewed achecklist of the Companys withthe Audit Committee.
Reports of the results of these reviews are discussed with the compliance with the UK Code.
This confirmed Chairman of the Audit Committee and presented to and considered by the Audit Committee.
either compliance or the actions already underway to achieve compliance and the The main aims of the internal audit arrangements are to ensure the: expected dates for completion.
operation of an effective system of internal control being maintained at a country and The provisions of the UK Code that the Group Grouplevel: already complied with prior to it takingeffect production of accurate, relevant and timely financial information by each of the countries: included the following: safeguarding of the Groups assets through physical controls and segregation of duties: external facilitation of the annual evaluation of the Board undertaken in 2010: compliance with statutory and legal requirements in each country of operation:and commencement of meetings on governance proactive identification and mitigation though appropriate controls of known risks.
and other matters between non-executive A review by the Audit Committee and the Board of the effectiveness of the Groupsrisk Directors and shareholders in 2010: and management and internal control systems at least annually.
enhancement of the explanations of the Groups business model and strategy in Changes to the Companies Act in 2011 introduced theyear represented 50% 2010: 63% of the the2010 Annual Report further enhanced two discrete classifications of non-audit fees, fees paid for the statutory audit and audit related onpages 6 to 13 of this Annual Report.
namely audit related assurance services and assurance services.
Excluding the audit related In addition, all Directors retired and were other services.
Audit related assurance services assurance services, they represented 99% proposed for re-appointment at the 2011 AGM.
include work required by law or regulation, for 2010:108% of the statutory audit fee.
example review of interim financial statements, The appointment of our new non-executive The Group aims to continue in the reduction of which would normally be performed by the Directors in 2011 brought the Board and its these proportions in future years.
They also include extended committees into fullcompliance with the ofthese amounts are included in note 7 of audit work thatisintegrated into the statutory audit.
During the year, the audit related assurance On behalf of the Audit Committee The rotation of external audit personnel accords services mainly comprised the review of the with their professional guidelines.
Whilst the Group halfyear results, advice on the ongoing Annual does not consider it necessary to havea policy Report improvement project and assurance for rotation of external audit firms, consideration services in respect of the implementation of a is periodically given to placing future audits out new IT system.
Other services performed by to tender, as was done in 2008.
In reaching its Simon Batey theauditors related mainly to general tax advice.
recommendation to the Board in the annual Chairman of the Audit Committee Thefees paid for these other services during re-appointment of the auditors, the Committee 10 February 2012 UK Code Principle: The board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate reporting and risk management and internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys auditor.
