Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Nominations Committee leads the process for Board appointments and the re-election and succession of Directors, as well as making Nominations recommendations for the membership of the Boards main committees.
The Committee is chaired by David Reid and the Company Secretary Committee also attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
Where matters discussed relate to the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director chairs the meeting.
The Nominations Committee met four times formally in the year to discuss the ongoing shape and capability of the Board.
There were also a number of ad hoc meetings during the year to discuss Board succession matters.
As well as reviewing the performance and development of the Executive Directors and the senior executive levels below the Board, the Committee also regularly considers: David Reid the Boards structure, size and composition: Nominations Committee the skills, experience and knowledge of the Board, and identifies Chairman candidates to fill Board vacancies and enhance its capability: succession planning for Directors and other senior executives, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the business, Our Nominations Committee and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on the Board in the future: comprises seven independent the time commitment required from Non-executive Directors: Non-executive Directors, the the leadership needs of the organisation, both executive and nonNon-executive Chairman and executive, with a view to ensuring the continued ability of the organisation to compete effectively in the marketplace: and theCEO.
strategic issues and commercial changes affecting the Group and the market in which it operates.
During the year consideration was given to finding an appropriate replacement for retiring CEO, Sir Terry Leahy, and for the retiring Non-executive Directors.
The Nominations Committee considered the skills and experience that would be required for these positions to create detailed role descriptions.
After a rigorous selection process Number of possible Actual involving a number of external candidates, which included interviews meetings meetings with the Executive and Non-executive Directors, Gareth Bullock and Members attended attended Stuart Chambers were selected for the Non-executive roles.
Philip David Reid Chairman 4 4 Clarke was chosen as the strongest candidate for CEO following a 11 Gareth Bullock thorough assessment of internal and external candidates.
from 3 July 2010 As part of the succession planning process the Nominations Committee Patrick Cescau 4 4 considered appointing three new Non-executive Directors to replace the three Directors retiring in July 2010, but it was considered that Stuart Chambers 11 from 3 July 2010 the appointment of two new Directors would be sufficient, given the balance of skills and experience there would be among the Karen Cook 4 4 Non-executive Directors taking into account these appointments, Ken Hanna 4 4 and the fact that the Companys non-compliance with the board balance provisions in the Code would only be temporary.
Copies of Ken Hydon 4 4 the Non-executive Directors letters of appointment are available for Jacqueline Tammenoms Bakker 4 4 inspection from the Company Secretary at the Companys registered 44 office and also at the AGM.
Sir Terry Leahy retired 2 March 2011 The Committees effectiveness review concluded that the Committee Philip Clarke 11 was provided with sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
from 2 March 2011 Past committee members Full terms of reference of the Tesco PLC Charles Allen 3 3 Nominations Committee are available at: Rodney Chase 3 2 www.
com boardprocess Harald Einsmann 3 3 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 67
