Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Chairman of the Tesco Bank Audit Committee attends the Committee twice a year to provide an update on the work of the Banks Audit Audit Committee in overseeing the Banks internal control and risk assurance processes.
Committee The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of at least one member with recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee Chairman and several other members fulfil this requirement, and all other Committee members have an appropriate understanding of financial matters.
The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are: to review the financial statements and announcements relating to the financial performance of the Company: to review the Groups internal control and risk assurance processes: Ken Hydon to consider the appointment of the external auditors, their reports Audit Committee to the Committee and their independence, which includes an Chairman assessment of their appropriateness to conduct any non-audit work: and to review the programme of Internal Audit.
Our Audit Committee The Committee met five times this year and the Committees comprises four independent effectiveness review concluded that the Committee was provided with sufficient resources to carry out its duties.
While fulfilling the above Non-executive Directors.
responsibilities, during the year the Committee received detailed updates from a number of businesses within the Group, as well as discussing a number of topics including: fraud risks: business continuity and crisis management: Number of possible Actual whistle-blowing: Members all independent meetings meetings Non-executive Directors attended attended Groceries Supply Code of Practice: Ken Hydon Chairman 55 going concern: and Fellow of CIMA, ACCA and ACT IT controls.
Gareth Bullock 2 1 A Board visit is organised each year to one or more of the Groups from 3 July 2010 international businesses and the Committee takes advantage of these MA Modern Languages visits to meet with local management and discuss the extent to which Patrick Cescau 5 5 Group internal controls and risk management processes are embedded in those businesses.
Ken Hanna Fellow of ICAEW 5 4 The need for training is kept under review and the annual agenda ensures substantial time is dedicated to technical updates, which are generally Past Committee members provided by external experts.
This year training was provided, inter alia, Rodney Chase 3 2 on accounting and reporting developments under IFRS and IAS and governance developments proposed by the FRC.
With respect to Tesco Ken Hanna was not able to attend the April meeting due to the disruption created by the Icelandic ash cloud.
Gareth Bullock was not able to attend the September meeting due Bank, training was provided on regulatory, accounting, governance and to a pre-existing commitment made before his appointment.
Training is also provided on an ongoing basis to meet specific individual needs of Committee members.
Other regular attendees at the invitation of the Committee include: The Committee conducted a review of its own effectiveness and its Terms of Reference during the year.
The Committee also had regular Chairman of the Board: private meetings with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Chief Financial Officer and his team as appropriate : Audit during the year at which an honest and open working relationship Head of Internal Audit: is maintained and developed.
Executive Director Corporate and Legal Affairs : Executive Directors as appropriate: and External Auditors.
Full terms of reference of the Tesco PLC The Company Secretary also attends in his capacity as Secretary Audit Committee are available at of the Committee.
com boardprocess TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 69 GOVERNANCE Directors report on corporate governance Management of the Group EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE The Board delegates responsibility for formulating and implementing Membership of the Compliance Committee includes three Executive the Groups strategic plan and for management of the Group to the Directors and members of senior management.
The Committee is Executive Committee, which is chaired by the CEO and comprised chaired by Lucy Neville-Rolfe, Executive Director Corporate and the eight Executive Directors during the year.
The Committee normally meets six times a year and Colin Holmes, was also a member of the Committee until he left the its remit is to ensure that the Group complies with all necessary Group on 29 October 2010.
From 1 March 2011 this Committee has laws, regulations and other compliance policies in all of its been expanded to reflect the scale and scope of the business.
The Committee has a schedule for the Committee now consists of the seven Executive Directors and the regular review of operational activities across the Group.
Each following senior executives: business in the Group has its own compliance committee which reviews compliance with Group and local compliance policies, and 1.
Gordon Fryett Property Strategy Director for the Group each compliance committee reports to the Group Compliance 2.
Alison Horner Group Personnel Director Committee on a regular basis.
Trevor Masters responsible for operations in the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Slovakia and Turkey CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE 4.
Mike McNamara Chief Information Officer The Committee is chaired by Lucy Neville-Rolfe, Executive Director 5.
Bob Robbins Chief Operating Officer of the UK business Corporate and Legal Affairs, and membership comprises both Executive Directors and senior executives from across the Group.
Ken Towle Internet Retailing Director Regular support and contributions are also received from NonThe Committee has authority for decision-making in all areas except executive Directors, who provide the Committee with the benefit of those set out in the Schedule of Matters Reserved for Board their experience outside Tesco.
The Committee meets at least four Decision, and meets formally on a regular basis.
The Company times a year to support, develop and monitor policies on Social, Secretary attends in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
Ethical and Environmental SEE issues, and to review threats and opportunities for the Group.
Progress in developing community The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing Group initiatives is monitored by the use of relevant KPIs for the businesses strategy and policy and for monitoring the performance and within the Group.
The Board formally discusses the work of the compliance of the business, drawing on the work of relevant Committee on a regular basis, including progress in implementing committees, and reporting on these matters in full to the Board.
The Committee has set up further committees, including the Compliance and Corporate Responsibility Committees, together with a number of operational groups which have responsibility for The Corporate and Legal Affairs Department and the Trading Law implementing the key elements of the Groups strategic plan and and Technical Department provide assurance and advice on legal managing its UK and international operations, joint ventures, compliance, health and safety, and SEE matters.
These functions property acquisitions, finance, funding and people matters.
These report on their work on a regular basis and escalate matters committees and groups have as members an appropriate mixture of as appropriate.
Executive Directors and senior management from relevant functions.
Whistle-blowing The Group operates a whistle blowing policy which is reviewed annually.
In every business we operate a confidential telephone and email service which enables concerned employees to report, anonymously if they choose, any instances of inappropriate behaviour or malpractice within the business.
Such issues include unethical or illegal behaviour such as fraud, dishonesty and any practices that 12 endanger our staff, customers or the environment.
During the year the majority of the issues related to personnel matters, which is common in most businesses, with a number of security issues also raised.
All complaints made are treated as confidential and are investigated by the relevant department.
Employees are kept updated on request.
Where there is a serious issue, this will be escalated to the country CEO.
This policy is monitored by the compliance committees in country, by 3 4 the Group Compliance Committee annually and by the Group Audit Committee annually.
In addition, the whistle blowing line was internally audited during the year.
56 70 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Risk management Risk management and internal controls The Group maintains a Key Risk Register.
The Register contains the key Accountabilities risks faced by the Group, including their likelihood and impact, as well Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, our risk as the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate these risks management systems are designed both to encourage entrepreneurial see table below.
The content of the Register is determined through spirit and also provide assurance that risk is fully understood and regular discussions with senior management and review by the managed.
The Board has overall responsibility for risk management Executive Committee and the full Board.
A balanced approach allows and internal control within the context of achieving the Groups the degree of controllability to be taken into account when we consider objectives.
Executive management is responsible for implementing the effectiveness of mitigation, recognising that some necessary and maintaining the necessary control systems.
The role of Internal activities carry inherent risk which may be outside the Groups control.
Audit is to monitor the overall internal control systems and report on Our key risks are summarised on pages 51 to 57 of the Business Review their effectiveness to executive management, as well as to the Audit section of this Annual Report.
Committee, in order to facilitate its review of the systems.
The risk management process is cascaded through the Group, with Background operating subsidiary boards maintaining their own risk registers The Group has a five-year rolling business plan to support the delivery and assessing their control systems.
The same process also applies of its strategy.
Every business unit and support function derives its functionally in those parts of the Group requiring greater overview.
objectives from the five-year plan and these are cascaded to managers For example, the Audit Committees Terms of Reference require it and staff by way of personal objectives.
to oversee the Finance Risk Register.
The Board assesses significant SEE risks to the Groups short-term and long-term value, and Key to delivering effective risk management is ensuring our people incorporates SEE risks on the Key Risk Register where they are have a good understanding of the Groups strategy and our policies, considered material or appropriate.
During the year the Board regularly procedures, values and expected performance.
We have a structured reviewed the Key Risk Register and undertook deep dive assessments internal communications programme that provides employees with of property and fraud risks.
a clear definition of the Groups purpose and goals, accountabilities and the scope of permitted activities for each business unit, as well as We recognise the value of the ABI Guidelines on Responsible individual line managers and other employees.
This ensures that all our Investment Disclosure and confirm that, as part of its regular risk people understand what is expected of them and that decision-making assessment procedures, the Board takes account of the significance takes place at the appropriate level.
We recognise that our people may of SEE matters to the business of the Group.
We recognise that a face ethical dilemmas in the normal course of business so we provide number of investors and other stakeholders take a keen interest in how clear guidance based on the Tesco Values.
The Values set out the companies manage SEE matters and so we report more detail on our standards that we wish to uphold in how we treat people.
These are SEE policies and approach to managing material risks arising from SEE supported by the Group Code of Business Conduct which offers matters and the KPIs we use both on our website http: www.
guidance on relationships between the Group and its employees, com  and in our Corporate Responsibility suppliers and contractors.
To provide further assurance, the Groups Corporate Responsibility KPIs are audited on a regular basis by Internal Audit.
RISK MATRIX LIKELIHOOD TO IMPACT Controllability factors The Company can totally control High risk this risk The Company can largely control this risk or influence the environment Significant risk The Company is one of a number of entities that can control the risk or influence the environment The Company can only marginally influence or effect control in this risk Medium risk environment The Company has no effective influence over the control of this risk Minor Moderate Significant Substantial Catastrophic Impact ratings over a one-year period TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 71 Likelihood ratings over the next five years Highly Less than Even More Highly improbable likely chance than likely probable GOVERNANCE Directors report on corporate governance Internal controls Internal Audit The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal controls The Internal Audit department is independent of business operations and for reviewing the effectiveness of such a system.
We have a and has a Group-wide mandate.
It undertakes a programme to address Group-wide process for clearly establishing the risks and responsibilities internal control and risk management processes with particular assigned to each level of management and the controls which are reference to the Turnbull Guidance.
It operates a risk-based methodology, required to be operated and monitored.
ensuring that the Groups key risks receive appropriate regular examination.
Its responsibilities include maintaining the Key Risk The CEO of each subsidiary business is required to certify by way Register, reviewing and reporting on the effectiveness of risk of an annual governance return that the Groups governance and management systems and internal control with the Executive compliance policies and processes have been adopted.
The returns Committee, the Audit Committee and ultimately to the Board.
received from across the Group are reviewed and discussed by the Internal Audit facilitates oversight of risk and control systems across Compliance Committee and the results of that review are included in the Group through risk committees in Asia and Europe and audit the Compliance Committees annual report to the Board.
For certain committees in a number of our businesses and joint ventures.
The joint ventures, the Board places reliance upon the internal control Head of Internal Audit also attends all Audit Committee meetings.
systems operating within our partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners boards relating to the effectiveness External audit of their own systems.
 LLP, the Companys external auditor, contributes a further independent perspective on certain aspects of Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of our internal financial control systems arising from its work, and reports failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable to both the Board and the Audit Committee.
The engagement and and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
independence of external auditors is considered annually by the Audit In respect of Group financial reporting, Group Finance is responsible Committee before it recommends its selection to the Board.
for preparing the Group financial statements, incorporating the The Company has a non-audit services policy for work carried out consolidation process.
Group Finance contains a consolidation team by  LLP.
This is split into three categories as and technical accounting team, which reviews external technical explained below: accounting developments, financial reporting and accounting policy issues.
It is also responsible for the maintenance of the Groups a p re-approved for the external auditors is predominantly the accounting policy manual, which is in accordance with International review of subsidiary undertakings statutory accounts and is Financial Reporting Standards.
Group Finance also maintains its own Audit-related in nature: risk register and assesses its own controls systems.
This incorporates b w ork for which Audit Committee approval is specifically required risks such as wrong or unclear accounting policies, ineffective financial transaction work and corporate tax services, and certain advisory close processes, inaccurate or incomplete Group financial and services: and management accounts, reputational risk, IT risks, fraud and people risks.
Internal Audit also reviews the effectiveness of controls operating c work from which the external auditors are prohibited.
in the Group Finance function.
The results of Group Finances risk The Audit Committee concluded that it was in the best interests of the register review and Internal Audits findings are reported to the Audit Company for the external auditors to provide a number of non-audit Committee on an annual basis.
services during the year due to their experience, expertise and knowledge of the Groups operations.
The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of internal controls and is satisfied that the controls in place remain appropriate.
Auditor objectivity and independence was achieved by ensuring Monitoring that personnel involved in the non-audit work were not involved in The Board oversees the monitoring system and has set specific the audit, and by ensuring that management took responsibility for responsibilities for itself and the various committees as set out below.
Both Internal Audit and our external auditors play key roles in the The fees paid to the auditors in the year are disclosed in note 3 to the monitoring process, as do several committees including the Group Financial Statements.
Compliance Committee and the Corporate Responsibility Committee.
The minutes of the Audit Committee and the other committees are  LLP also follows its own ethical guidelines distributed to the Board and each committee submits a report for and continually reviews its audit team to ensure its independence formal discussion at least once a year.
These processes provide is not compromised.
assurance that the Group is operating legally, ethically and in accordance with approved financial and operational policies.
Tesco Bank Audit Committee Tesco Bank monitors the risks it faces through its governance The Audit Committee reports to the Board each year on its review of structures, assessing any potential impact and action required to the effectiveness of the internal control systems for the financial year manage them.
The work of the Tesco Bank Risk Committee focuses and the period to the date of approval of the financial statements.
on systematic risks such as funding, credit risk and risks in the insurance Throughout the year the Committee receives regular reports from business, while the Tesco Bank Audit Committee considers internal the external auditors covering topics such as quality of earnings and controls and assurance.
The Banks Board has overall responsibility technical accounting developments.
The Committee also receives for ensuring that it has an appropriate approach to risk management updates from Internal Audit and has dialogue with senior managers on and internal control within the context of achieving its objectives.
It should be understood that such systems Executive management is responsible for implementing and maintaining are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the necessary control systems with the independent risk function material misstatement or loss.
providing oversight and assurance in relation to risk profiles.
The role of Tesco Bank Internal Audit is to monitor the overall internal control systems and report on their effectiveness.
72 TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Bank has established a risk management framework to manage An Investor Relations report is produced for the Board periodically.
the risks arising across the business.
The framework is driven at a This report summarises feedback from shareholders particularly in strategic level by the Banks Risk Appetite, which is approved by its terms of our management and strategy, and ensures the Board has Board.
The Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP is a balanced perspective on the views of our major shareholders.
the Banks internal assessment of capital adequacy designed to address It is normal that institutional shareholders may be in more regular the requirements under Pillar 2 of the Basel II framework.
The ICAAP contact with the Group than other shareholders, but care is exercised process considers all of the risks faced by the Bank, how these risks to ensure that any price-sensitive information is released to all are mitigated and the amount of capital that requires to be held both shareholders, institutions and private, at the same time in accordance currently and in the future.
The Bank performs a full ICAAP at least with applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
All major annually with approval provided by its Board.
presentations to institutional shareholders are made available to The Bank maintains a Key Risk Register, which is subject to regular private shareholders through the Tesco PLC website.
review to enable management to determine additional mitigating Every shareholder may choose to receive a full Annual Report and actions in cases where the residual risk is outside its Risk Appetite.
Financial Statements or the Annual Review and Summary Financial The content of the Register is determined through regular discussions Statement, either in paper or electronic form.
These reports, together with senior management and reviewed by the Banks Board Risk with publicly made trading statements, are available on the Groups Committee, its Board and the Tesco PLC Board on a regular basis.
com Relations with stakeholders The Tesco PLC AGM The Annual General Meeting offers the opportunity for the Board to We are committed to having a constructive dialogue with stakeholders communicate the Companys progress directly to shareholders.
Our last to ensure we understand what is important to them and allow ourselves Annual General Meeting in July 2010 was held in London.
The 2011 the opportunity to present our position.
Every year we carry out a AGM will be held in Nottingham at 11am on Friday 1 July.
The choice of survey of a cross section of shareholders in order to assess shareholder location is based on our policy of widening the opportunity for our perceptions of the Company.
The results of this survey are reviewed by shareholders to attend the AGM, by moving to different locations in the the Board.
Engagement helps us identify new risks and opportunities UK each year.
to ensure that our long-term strategy is sustainable.
In some instances The whole Board attends the AGM and is available to answer questions we find that working with stakeholders in partnership can help deliver shared goals.
We might not be able to satisfy all stakeholder concerns from shareholders present.
To encourage shareholder participation, we offer electronic proxy voting and voting through the CREST electronic all the time but through engagement we can do our best to balance competing demands.
We know that customers need to be able to trust proxy appointment service.
At our last Annual General Meeting, all resolutions were voted by way of electronic poll.
This follows best our business and they will only trust us if they believe that we are engaging on an appropriate basis with our stakeholders.
practice guidelines and allows the Company to count all votes, not just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
The Chairman announces Our programme of engaging with stakeholders including customers, the provisional voting results at the meeting, and the final results are staff, suppliers, investors, government, regulators, non-governmental announced the same day through the Regulatory News Services and organisations and others, is set out in more detail in our Corporate the Tesco PLC website.
Responsibility Report 2011 and on our website.
By Order of the Board Shareholder engagement Jonathan Lloyd We maintain a good dialogue with shareholders through proactively Company Secretary organising meetings and presentations as well as responding to a wide 6 May 2011 range of enquiries.
We seek shareholder views on a range of issues from strategy to corporate governance and SEE issues.
We recognise the Tesco PLC Registered Number: 445790 importance of communicating appropriately any significant Company developments.
Registered in England and Wales Registered Office: Tesco House, Delamare Road, Cheshunt, During the year, the Chairman, CEO and Chief Financial Officer met Hertfordshire EN8 9SL with a number of our leading shareholders to discuss issues relating VAT Registration Number: GB 220 4302 3 to the performance of the Group and its strategy, as well as new developments within the business and a range of governance matters.
The Chairmans meetings with major shareholders took place independently from the Executive teams meetings.
This year the Remuneration Committee Chairman also met with a number of major shareholders to discuss proposed changes to the remuneration structure for Executive Directors.
In addition to this, Investor Relations engage with shareholders on a regular basis, and on a wide range of issues.
Lucy Neville-Rolfe leads the Companys contact with socially responsible investors SRIs and has regular meetings, on both a one-to-one and group basis, to discuss the work the Group is doing on corporate responsibility and governance-related issues.
Following these meetings the matters raised are discussed with the Board as a whole.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 73
