Overview Business review Governance Financial statements The Board considers that Tesco PLC complied in full with the Code and Board composition and independence New Code for the whole of the year ended 26 February 2011, with the As at 26 February 2011, the Board of Tesco PLC comprised eight exception of: Executive Directors, seven independent Non-executive Directors and i Provision A.
1.2 of the New Code, David Reid, Non-executive Chairman.
Sir Terry Leahy retired as Group which requires that at least half of the Board, excluding the CEO on 2 March 2011 and was replaced by Philip Clarke.
Patrick Cescau Chairman, should comprise Non-executive Directors determined is our Senior Independent Director.
We believe that the size of the bythe Board to be independent.
The Board recognises the Board is appropriate given the diverse markets the Group operates importance of a balanced board with an appropriate level of in and the breadth of operations and services offered in eachmarket.
Tesco had one more Executive Director than The structure of the Board and the way that it operates, based on Non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman between strong governance processes, together with the integrity of the July2010 and the end of the financial year.
However, following individual Directors, ensure that no single individual or group Sir Terry Leahys retirement and the appointment of Philip Clarke dominates the decision-making process.
as his successor as CEO in March 2011, there is now an equal number of Executive and independent Non-executive Directors Biographies for the Directors can be found on pages 60 and 61 of this and the Board is again balanced and compliant with the Annual Report.
Changes to the Board since 27 February 2010 are as follows: ii Provision B.
6.2 of the New Code, which requires that every three years there should be an externally led evaluation of the Boards Sir Terry Leahy Executive Director Retired as CEO 2 March 2011 performance.
The Board usually carries out an external Board evaluation every three years, with internal evaluations in the Philip Clarke Executive Director Appointed CEO intervening years.
The last external evaluation took place in 2007 2 March 2011 and an externally facilitated evaluation would normally have taken Charles Allen Non-executive Resigned place this year.
Given the extensive Board and senior management Director 2 July 2010 changes taking place this year, however, it was decided that it would be more appropriate to conduct an internal evaluation Rodney Chase Non-executive Resigned process and to carry out an externally facilitated process next Director and Senior 2 July 2010 year, once those changes have had an opportunity to bed in.
Independent Director Further information on the Code and New Code can be found at Harald Einsmann Non-executive Resigned Director 2 July 2010 www.
Gareth Bullock Non-executive Appointed We consider corporate governance critical to our business integrity Director 3 July 2010 and to maintaining investors trust.
I hope this report provides you with a clear understanding of our governance processes and procedures and Stuart Chambers Non-executive Appointed how the Company complies with the Code and New Code.
Director 3 July 2010 Patrick Cescau Non-executive Appointed Director appointed 3 July 2010 Senior Independent Director Prior to 2 March 2011 Philip Clarke was the Executive Director responsible for International and IT.
David Reid Prior to 3 July 2010 Patrick Cescau was a Non-executive Director.
Chairman Election of Directors The Directors will comply with the New Code requirement to submit themselves for re-election every year if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
The Companys Articles of Association require all new Directors to be submitted for election by shareholders in their first year following appointment.
TESCO PLC Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 63
