Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 43 Corporate governance report Dear ShareholDer I am pleased to take this opportunity, as your newly appointed Chairman, to confirm my strong belief in the importance of applying the highest standards of corporate governance in the conduct of our business.
Clear lines of responsibility, accountability for decision making and overall performance, with both internal and external transparency, are the essential features of a quality system of governance.
It is for the Board to show leadership and to set the tone, so that by our example we guide our management and employees in the way they carry out their roles on an ongoing basis.
Under my leadership, the Board and its Committees will continue to apply the principles of corporate governance in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
During the year and prior to my appointment, the Board made sound progress in a number of important areas of governance as highlighted below.
The Board believes these developments will stand the Group in good stead as it addresses the challenges ahead.
Roger Burnell, our Senior Independent Director, led a Chairman Succession process, which resulted in my appointment as Chairman from 1 December 2011, upon the retirement of Michael Beckett.
The Board took further steps to refresh and strengthen its composition with the appointment of Martine Verluyten and Peter Marks as Non-Executive Directors.
The Board took immediate action to appoint Sam Weihagen as Group Chief Executive Officer, upon the departure of Manny Fontenla-Novoa.
We have strengthened our Group Executive Board and new senior management teams have been appointed in the UK and France.
The Board refreshed its appointments policy, a copy of which can be found on our website at www.
com and described on page 51.
Appointments made during the year have been made in line with that policy and have further strengthened the diverse composition of the Board.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled Women on Boards and, when considering appointments in the future, will aim to build on its current firm foundations.
The Board made progress in respect of the actions agreed following its 2010 Board and Committee evaluation, particularly in respect of Board composition as described above and Talent Management and Succession Planning in respect of the Executive Directors, the members of the Group Executive Board and their direct reports.
In line with these plans, we have appointed from within the organisation a new Chief Executive Officer in the Northern Europe segment, a new Group Human Resources Director and, with effect from 1 January 2012, a Chief Executive Officer for the new West Europe segment.
As the new Chairman, I have embarked upon a number of initiatives to build on the above: I am conducting a review of the Board and expect to make changes to refresh and further strengthen its composition in the near-term: I am leading a process to identify and appoint a permanent Group Chief Executive Officer with the assistance of an international search and selection firm: I have reviewed the output from the Summer 2011 Board evaluation and intend to lead a Board discussion at the beginning of 2012 to address the issues raised: Our 2012 Board and Committee evaluation exercise will be conducted with the assistance of external facilitators: and The Board has agreed to introduce deferral and claw-back in respect of future senior executive bonus payments.
Throughout the year, Michael Beckett and some of the Non-Executive Directors had significant engagement with our major shareholders on a range of issues, which the Board found both helpful and productive.
I have already started to meet with some shareholders and I can confirm that under my leadership, our practice of engagement will continue in the future.
Frank Meysman Chairman 13 December 2011 Directors report: 44 Governance Corporate governance report continued This report sets out how the Company applied the principles of the Code and the extent to which the Company complied with the provisions of the Code in the year to 30 September 2011.
During the year, the Company fully complied with the provisions of the Code, except for Provision B6.3, which requires the Non-Executive Directors to carry out a performance evaluation of the Chairman, and Provision B7.1, which requires all the directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Board is committed to complying with these two provisions in the current fi financial year.
The GroUPS BUSINeSS MoDel aND STraTeGY The Groups business model and strategy are summarised on pages 13 to 15 of this Report.
The BoarD oF DIreCTorS An effective Board of Directors leads and controls the Group and has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
This schedule and the terms of reference for the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, and Health, Safety & Environmental Committees are available on request and on the Companys website at www.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association.
These are also available on the Companys website.
The Board is specifi cally responsible for: development and approval of the Groups strategy and its budgetary and business plans: approval of signifi cant investments and capital expenditure: approval of annual and half-year results and interim management statements, accounting policies and, subject to shareholder approval, the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: approval of interim, and recommendation of fi final, dividends: changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of any securities: establishing and maintaining the Groups risk appetite, system of internal control, governance and approval authorities: monitoring executive performance and succession planning: and determining standards of ethics and policy in relation to health, safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged its responsibilities as listed above.
In particular, the Board reviewed: the operational performance of each of the Groups segments.
Performance and strategy are continually monitored and reviewed by the Board and periodic updates are presented by the segment Chief Executive Offi cers and their senior management teams: the UK segment transformation plan: fi financial performance and treasury metrics, including cash fl ow and net debt forecasts: the Groups fi nancing arrangements, leading to the establishment of a Euro commercial paper funding programme and, in the current fi financial year, the amendment of the Groups banking agreements: the Groups annual budget and three-year plan: the backdrop to the 12 July 2011 update to the market: external fi financial and narrative reporting, and investor feedback: the Group-wide airline fl eet replacement programme: the requirements of the EU Trading Emissions scheme and the Groups exposure and compliance approach: the Groups governance arrangements in response to developing legal and governance proposals and requirements: the requirements of the new UK Bribery Act and the approval of a new anti-bribery policy and associated procedures: M&A opportunities and proposals and the fi financial performance of acquisitions: the Groups IT strategy and transformation programme and other major IT projects including IT security: the Groups fuel hedging strategy and policy and other treasury policies: the structure and process for identifying, managing and monitoring risks across the Group and the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control: the Groups health & safety and environmental policies: the Groups anti-fraud policy: succession plans in respect of the Chairman, Executive Directors, members of the Group Executive Board and their direct reports: the Groups policy in respect of Board appointments: and the Directors confl icts of interest register.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 45 BoarD MeeTINGS aND aTTeNDaNCe The Board has regular scheduled meetings throughout the year and supplementary meetings are held as and when necessary.
The Board held nine scheduled and 10 unscheduled supplementary meetings during the year.
A table detailing individual Director attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the year is set out below.
The Chairman and each Non-Executive Director have provided assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles and can dedicate sufficient time to meet what is expected of them.
The table below shows the number of scheduled Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director out of the number convened during the time served by each Director on the Board or relevant Committee during the year.
Current Directors Health, Safety & Nominations Audit Remuneration Environmental 1 Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Sam Weihagen 8 9 Paul Hollingworth 9 9 Dawn Airey 7 9 1 3 3 5 David Allvey 9 9 3 3 4 4 5 5 Roger Burnell 9 9 3 3 4 4 6 6 5 5 Bo Lerenius 9 9 3 3 4 4 6 6 Peter Middleton 9 9 3 3 6 6 2 Martine Verluyten 3 3 1 1 Notes Frank Meysman and Peter Marks joined the Board post year-end on 1 October 2011 and have therefore not been included in the attendance table above.
1 In addition to the three meetings of the Nominations Committee referred to above, there were a further eight meetings of the Nominations Committee that dealt with Chairman Succession.
These eight meetings were chaired by Roger Burnell, the Senior Independent Director and were not attended by Michael Beckett.
2 Martine Verluyten joined the Board on 9 May 2011 and was appointed to the Nominations Committee on the same day.
Former Directors who served during the year Health, Safety & Nominations Audit Remuneration Environmental Name Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 1 Manny Fontenla-Novoa 7 7 4 5 2 Michael Beckett 9 9 3 3 Notes 1 Manny Fontenla-Novoa resigned on 2 August 2011.
2 Michael Beckett retired on 30 November 2011.
BoarD CoMPoSITIoN As at 30 September 2011, the Board comprised the Chairman, two Executive Directors and six Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Biographical details of all Directors can be found on pages 40 and 41 and on the Companys corporate website at www.
The ChaIrMaN Michael Beckett was Chairman of the Company throughout the year.
Frank Meysman was appointed Chairman Designate with effect from 1 October 2011.
He assumed the role of Chairman from 1 December 2011, following Michael Becketts retirement from the Board.
The roles of the Chairman and Group Chief Executive Officer are separate and distinct and each has a written statement of his respective responsibilities, a summary of which can be found on the Companys corporate website at www.
The SeNIor INDePeNDeNT DIreCTor Roger Burnell was the Senior Independent Director throughout the year and, as such, is available to shareholders should they have concerns that cannot be resolved through the normal channels involving the Executive Directors or the Chairman.
Directors report: 46 Governance Corporate governance report continued ChaNGeS To The BoarD Changes to the Board during the year were as follows: As part of an orderly succession and retirement programme, Sam Weihagen, formerly Chief Executive Offi cer, Northern Europe and Deputy to the Group Chief Executive Offi cer, relinquished his role as Chief Executive Offi cer, Northern Europe and reduced his time commitment to two and a half days per week from 1 January 2011.
He was appointed Group Chief Executive Offi cer and reverted back to full-time working upon the resignation of Manny Fontenla-Novoa on 2 August 2011.
Martine Verluyten was appointed to the Board on 9 May 2011 as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Frank Meysman and Peter Marks were appointed to the Board as Chairman Designate and a Non-Executive Director respectively, on 1 October 2011.
The search, selection and appointment process in respect of the above and the search for a new Group Chief Executive Offi cer is fully described in the section on the Nominations Committee on page 51.
DIreCTor INDePeNDeNCe At its September 2011 Board meeting, as part of its annual review of corporate governance against the Code, the Board considered the independence of the Non-Executive Directors against the criteria specifi ed in the Code and determined that Dawn Airey, David Allvey, Roger Burnell, Bo Lerenius, Peter Middleton and Martine Verluyten were independent.
The Board reached its determination of independence in respect of Peter Middleton, notwithstanding the receipt by him of a pension of 60,523 per year from the Thomas Cook Pension Plan, a defi ned benefi t pension scheme.
This pension is fully funded and accrued in the period 1987 to 1992 when he was CEO of Thomas Cook.
The Board recognises that being in receipt of a pension from the Groups pension scheme gives rise to a potential confl ict, which it has authorised as permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, subject to the condition that he does not participate in any discussion or decision regarding any of the Groups pension schemes.
The Board believes that Peter Middleton is independent in all other respects and also believes that this condition is suffi cient to maintain his independence.
The Board recognises that Peter Marks as Group Chief Executive of The Co-operative Group, which is a partner in the UK retail joint venture, is not independent.
Frank Meysman was independent on appointment.
re-aPPoINTMeNT oF DIreCTorS In accordance with the Code and the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election by shareholders.
Non-Executive Directors are initially appointed for a three-year term and, subject to rigorous review by the Nominations Committee and re-election by shareholders, can serve up to a maximum of three such terms.
At the AGM held in February 2011, the Company did not comply with Provision B7.1, which requires all the directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election by shareholders.
The Board intends to comply with this provision in the future.
oPeraTIoN oF The BoarD Senior executives below Board level attended relevant parts of Board meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
This gives the Board access to a broader group of executives and helps the Directors make assessments of the Groups succession plans.
In addition to the papers circulated prior to each meeting, Directors were provided between meetings with relevant information on matters affecting the business.
Such updates were carried out by a variety of methods, including conference calls amongst the full Board or between the Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors, and by way of the Group Company Secretary circulating papers and updates on relevant issues.
During the year, the Chairman has held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present.
The Group Company Secretary, who was appointed by the Board, is responsible for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on company law and corporate governance matters as well as ensuring that there is a smooth fl ow of information to enable effective decision making.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Company Secretary and, through him, have access to independent professional advice in respect of their duties at the Companys expense.
The Group Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Board, the Group Executive Board, the Finance & Administration Committee, the Disclosure Committee, the Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee.
In accordance with its Articles, the Company has granted a deed of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to each Director and the Group Company Secretary.
The Company also maintains Directors and Offi cers liability insurance.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 47 BoarD eValUaTIoN The Board recognises the benefit of a thorough evaluation process as a useful tool to highlight issues, track progress against targets and to determine and shape the focus of Board attention in the future.
A thorough evaluation of the Board and its Committees was conducted during the year.
This was facilitated by the Group Company Secretary under the direction of the Chairman.
The process involved each of the Directors completing a comprehensive questionnaire, which was structured to encourage both graded responses and narrative feedback in respect of a range of questions that focused on the following areas: Board and Committee composition and dynamics: knowledge and information: agenda and time management: Board support: strategic development and oversight: delegation of authority: risk management: corporate responsibility: human resource management: executive remuneration: performance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors: Committee structure and performance: and priorities for change.
Upon receipt of the completed forms, the Group Company Secretary compiled a report in September 2011, drawing out the key themes and issues that were raised and formulated a number of recommendations for consideration.
The Board recognised that progress had been made in respect of actions agreed following our 2010 Board and Committee evaluation, particularly with regard to Board composition and talent management and succession planning in respect of the Executive Directors, the members of the GEB and their direct reports.
As mentioned elsewhere in this report, new senior management teams were put in place in the UK and France and, as part of succession planning and development, a new Chief Executive Officer in the Northern Europe segment and a new Group Human Resources Director were appointed during the year.
The evaluation exercise highlighted a number of issues and themes that should be addressed in order to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
Ordinarily, the report prepared by the Group Company Secretary would be debated by the Board and a set of actions would be agreed for implementation.
However, in view of the forthcoming change of Chairman, it was agreed that the report would first be given to the Chairman Designate to provide him with a timely insight into the issues being faced by the Board.
The Chairman Designate then used the report as the basis of his discussions with each of the Directors with a view to developing and improving Board effectiveness under his leadership.
The results of the evaluation and Frank Meysmans observations and proposed approach will be debated at the first Board meeting following his appointment as Chairman on 1 December 2011.
The Board intends to carry out an externally facilitated Board evaluation process in 2012.
Each of the Committees has reviewed the relevant feedback from the evaluation exercise and has agreed an action plan to improve their effectiveness in the future.
The Committee evaluations and action plans will be subject to review by Frank Meysman and debate by the Board as above.
In view of the forthcoming retirement of the current Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors did not carry out a Chairman evaluation.
The Board intends to comply with the relevant provision of the Code in the current financial year.
The Companys performance management system applies to management at all levels across the Group.
The individual performance of the Executive Directors is reviewed separately by the Chairman and the Remuneration Committee.
BoarD TraINING aND INDUCTIoN An induction programme tailored to meet the needs of individual Directors is provided for each new Director.
Overall, the aim of the induction programme is to introduce new Directors to the Groups business, its operations and its governance arrangements.
Such inductions typically include meetings with senior management, visits to the Companys business segments, and the receipt of presentations on key business areas and relevant documentation.
Directors report: 48 Governance Corporate governance report continued Directors also receive training throughout the year, both at Board and Committee meetings and by way of attendance at external conferences and seminars.
At Board meetings and, where appropriate, Committee meetings, the Directors receive regular updates and presentations on changes and developments to the business, and to the legislative and regulatory environments.
During the year, the Board was provided with: updates on the economic and business environment in each of the segments: a briefi ng on the EU Trading Emissions scheme and the Groups exposure and compliance approach: a briefi ng on the new Bribery Act, the Groups anti-bribery policy and the process being undertaken to ensure that adequate procedures are in place to prevent bribery: presentations on IT security: briefi ngs on Lord Davies report Women on Boards and the Financial Reporting Councils report Guidance on Board Effectiveness: and members of the Health, Safety & Environmental Committee and some of the other Non-Executive Directors attended a destination visit to Mallorca to gain an insight into the practical application of the Companys health and safety practices.
DIreCTorS CoNFlICTS oF INTereST From 1 October 2008, the Companies Act codifi ed the Directors duty to avoid a situation in which they have, or can have, an interest that confl icts, or possibly may confl ict, with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the other Directors.
The Board has established a set of guiding principles on managing confl icts and has agreed a process to identify and authorise confl icts.
As part of that process, it has also agreed that the Nominations Committee should review the authorised confl icts every six months, or more frequently if a new potential confl ict situation materialises.
The Nominations Committee and Board applied the above principles and process throughout the year to 30 September 2011 and confi rm that these have operated effectively.
When authorising a potential confl ict in respect of Peter Middleton, the Board specifi ed a condition that he should not participate in any discussion or decision regarding any of the Groups pension schemes.
The potential confl ict is more fully described in the section on Director Independence on page 46.
The GroUP GoVerNaNCe STrUCTUre The Board has delegated authority to its Committees on specifi c aspects of management and control of the Group.
The papers in respect of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations, Health Safety & Environmental, and Disclosure Committees are circulated to all the Non-Executive Directors, regardless of Committee membership.
Matters discussed and agreed at those Committees, the Group Executive Board and the Finance & Administration Committee are reported to the next Board meeting.
GroUP eXeCUTIVe BoarD The Group Chief Executive Offi cer chairs the Group Executive Board which meets at least eight times a year to oversee the strategic development and operational management of the Groups businesses.
The Group Chief Financial Offi cer is also a member of the Group Executive Board.
The other current members of the Group Executive Board, together with their biographies, are set out on page 42.
THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS Health, Safety Finance & Group Audit Remuneration Nominations Disclosure Environmental Administration Executive Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Segment Function Fuel Hedging Management Boards Boards Committee Committee Non-Executive Directors only Country Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors Boards Executive Directors and or other senior executives only Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 49 aUDIT CoMMITTee Role of the Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for overseeing the fi financial reporting, internal risk management and control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the Companys internal and external auditors.
In accordance with its terms of reference, the Committee, which reports its fi findings to the Board, is authorised to: monitor the integrity of the annual and half-year results and interim Chairman Other members management statements, including a review of the signifi cant fi financial David Allvey Roger Burnell Bo Lerenius reporting judgements contained in them: Meetings Four review the Companys internal financial controls and internal control and Meetings also regularly attended by risk management systems: Sam Weihagen Group Chief Executive Offi cer monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function: Paul Hollingworth Group Chief Financial Offi cer Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the external auditors,  LLP PwC including the monitoring of their independence: and Ernst & Young LLP E&Y monitor matters raised pursuant to the Companys whistleblowing arrangements.
To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, the Committee relies on information and support from management across the business.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary at the registered offi ce.
David Allvey is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant fi financial experience as required by the Code.
Prior to his retirement on 30 November 2011, Michael Beckett regularly attended the Audit Committee meetings.
Prior to his resignation on 2 August 2011, Manny Fontenla-Novoa regularly attended the Audit Committee meetings.
Composition of the Committee There have been no changes to the composition of the Committee during the year.
Principal activities during the year At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above and, in particular, it reviewed: the full and half-year results including accounting issues and judgements and the interim management statements issued during the year: information in support of the statements in relation to going concern and disclosure of information to the auditors: the Groups system of internal control, receiving reports from management, the external auditors and the internal auditors see section headed Risk management and internal control on page 54 : internal audit reports: the annual work plan for each of the internal and external auditors: the Groups main risks and mitigating actions: the Groups business continuity plans and the work plan and timetable for further development: the Groups treasury policies, including the management of related risk: the prevention, detection and reporting of fraud and the Groups anti-fraud and ethics policies: IT security and security in relation to retail shops: the risks and accounting treatment of major business projects: the performance of the internal auditors, leading to the re-appointment of E&Y as the Groups internal auditors: proposals for engaging the external auditors to carry out non-audit related work see page 50 : the Committees work plan for the year ahead and a review of historic activity against the Committees terms of reference: and the rotation of the lead audit partner.
Directors report: 50 Governance Corporate governance report continued External auditors There is a policy in place which requires all material non-audit work proposed to be carried out by the external auditors to be pre-authorised by the Committee in order to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
The policy, which is appended as a schedule to the Audit Committees terms of reference, is published on the Companys website at www.
An analysis of the fees earned by the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit services is disclosed in Note 8 to the fi financial statements.
PwC were re-appointed by shareholders at the AGM held on 11 February 2011.
Upon the recommendation of the Audit Committee, PwC will be proposed for re-election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 8 February 2012.
PwC have confi rmed their independence as auditors of the Company in a letter addressed to the Directors.
In accordance with the APBs Ethical Standard 3, regarding lead audit partner rotation, during the year John Minards rotated from his position as Senior Statutory Auditor and was replaced by John Ellis.
NoMINaTIoNS CoMMITTee Meetings also regularly attended by Anne Billson-Ross Group Human Resources Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary Director only in respect of Chairman and Group CEO succession Role of the Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for reviewing and proposing appointments to the Board and for recommending any other changes to the composition of the Board or the Board Committees.
The principal responsibility of the Committee is to make recommendations to the Chairman Other members Board on all new appointments to the Board, as well as Board balance and Frank Meysman Dawn Airey composition.
The Committee ensures that there is clarity in respect of the role David Allvey Meetings description and capabilities required for such appointments.
The Committee Roger Burnell chaired Three ordinary meetings meetings related to is also responsible for reviewing, at least every six months, or more frequently and eight in respect of Chairmans succession if required, the Directors potential confl icts and for making recommendations Chairman Succession Bo Lerenius to the Board in respect of authorising such matters.
Peter Marks The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at Peter Middleton www.
com or from the Group Company Secretary at the Martine Verluyten registered offi ce.
Prior to his resignation on 2 August 2011, Manny Fontenla-Novoa regularly attended the Nominations Committee meetings.
Composition of the Committee The Chairman and all of the Non-Executive Directors are members of the Committee.
Michael Beckett, the former Chairman, was Chairman of the Committee throughout the year and until his retirement on 30 November 2011.
Martine Verluyten was appointed as a member of the Committee on being appointed to the Board on 9 May 2011.
Frank Meysman and Peter Marks joined the Committee upon their appointment to the Board on 1 October 2011.
Principal activities during the year At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above and in particular: considered the appointment of Sam Weihagen as Group Chief Executive Offi cer, to hold offi ce until a permanent successor is found: undertook, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, a thorough Chairman Succession process, leading to the recommendation to the Board of the appointment of Frank Meysman as Chairman Designate from 1 October 2011 and as Chairman from 1 December 2011 see opposite for details : considered the re-appointment of the Directors, before making a recommendation to the Board regarding their re-election: commenced and monitored the process to recruit additional Non-Executive Directors, leading to recommendations for the appointment of Martine Verluyten and Peter Marks: and considered Directors potential confl icts see page 48.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 51 Board appointments policy Appointments to the Board are made on merit, against objective criteria and with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
This process is led by the Committee which, after evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of each Director, makes recommendations to the Board.
In August 2011, the Board refreshed its appointments policy and reinforced its principle that appointments will continue to be made on merit, in line with our current and future requirements, and will reflect the international activity of our Group.
The policy also recognises the benefits of diversity, including gender diversity.
Appointments during the course of the year have been in line with that policy and have reinforced the diverse composition of the Board.
The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled Women on Boards and when considering appointments in the future will, with the support of the Nominations Committee, aim to build on its firm foundations.
A copy of the Groups Board appointments policy can be found on our website at www.
Chairman succession During the year, the Nominations Committee conducted a rigorous and transparent Chairman Succession process in advance of Michael Becketts planned retirement.
The Committee, comprising the Independent Non-Executive Directors under the leadership of Roger Burnell, the Senior Independent Director, prepared a detailed job specification, candidate profile and timetable to ensure an orderly and efficient process.
It appointed Egon Zehnder, an international search and selection firm, to assist with the identification of potential candidates, benchmarking and referencing.
Towards the final stages of the process, the Committee took soundings from the Companys major shareholders and advisers to gain their views.
At the end of the process the Board, upon the unanimous recommendation of the Committee, took the decision to appoint Frank Meysman as Chairman Designate with effect from 1 October 2011 and as Chairman from 1 December 2011.
In reaching its decision, the Committee took account of Frank Meysmans extensive experience as a Non-Executive Director and Chairman, his successful executive career in international companies, both at the operational and strategic levels, his particular strength in marketing and his achievements in both brand building and product innovation.
Non-Executive appointments In respect of the process to appoint a new Non-Executive Director to the Board, the Committee formulated a set of criteria, including the required skills and attributes for suitable candidates.
This took account of the comments from the 2010 Board evaluation process and considered the current composition of the Board and the skills and attributes required in the future.
Prior to the appointment of Martine Verluyten the Committee considered candidates brought to their attention from a wide range of professional firms and other sources.
Although the appointment of Peter Marks, CEO of The Co-operative Group, was recommended by the Committee, he was identified as a candidate during the discussions prior to the agreement to form the UK retail joint venture with The Co-operative Group and Midlands Co-operative.
Accordingly, an external search agent was not used.
An international search and selection firm has been appointed to assist with the initiative, led by the Chairman, to refresh and further strengthen the Boards composition.
Group Chief Executive Officer succession Upon the resignation on 2 August 2011 of Manny Fontenla-Novoa, Sam Weihagen was appointed Group Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis until a permanent successor could be appointed.
Prior to that date, Sam Weihagen was the Deputy to the Group Chief Executive Officer and, until an orderly succession process at the end of 2010, had been the Chief Executive Officer, Northern Europe.
He agreed to delay his planned retirement at the end of 2011 to allow as much time as was necessary for a thorough process, leading to the appointment of a permanent successor to the role of Group Chief Executive Officer.
The succession process to appoint a permanent Group Chief Executive Officer is being conducted by the Committee under the leadership of the Chairman, Frank Meysman.
The Committee has approved a detailed job specification and candidate profile.
An international search and selection firm has been appointed to assist the Committee with the identification of candidates, benchmarking and referencing.
Directors report: 52 Governance Corporate governance report continued healTh, SaFeTY & eNVIroNMeNTal CoMMITTee Meetings also regularly attended by Executives and Senior Managers with Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary responsibility for health, safety and Beth Horlock Acting Deputy Group Company environmental matters Secretary Role of the Committee The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility to review, develop and oversee consistent policy, standards and procedures for managing health, safety and environmental risks to the Groups business.
It is also responsible Chairman Other members for the review and oversight of compliance with relevant legislation and Roger Burnell Dawn Airey regulation relating to health, safety and the environment across the Group.
David Allvey Meetings Sam Weihagen The full terms of reference of the Committee are available at Five www.
Prior to his retirement on 30 November 2011, Michael Beckett regularly attended Health, Safety & Environmental Committee meetings.
Stephanie Mackie Deputy Group Company Secretary attended the meetings of the Committee up to the start of her maternity leave in January 2011.
Composition of the Committee During the year, Manny Fontenla-Novoa was a member of the Committee until his resignation from the Board on 2 August 2011.
Sam Weihagen was appointed a member of the Committee on 14 September 2011.
Principal activities during the year At its meetings during the year, the Committee discharged its responsibilities as listed above and in particular: reviewed and agreed the Groups Sustainability Report for 2010: reviewed and monitored the Groups health and safety and sustainability strategies including performance against targets: approved future health and safety performance targets: took part in an overseas destination visit to Mallorca to gain an insight into the practical application of the Companys health and safety practices: reviewed current and future legislative requirements in relation to carbon reporting: approved a number of health and safety policies, including the Groups environmental and sustainability policies: reviewed the processes in place in respect of health and safety compliance in the area of customer accommodation: reviewed retail shop security: considered the risks and opportunities for the Group in respect of energy effi ciency: reviewed key health and safety risks facing the Group and the mitigating actions taken: monitored progress in relation to the Groups programme of government affairs: and revised the Committees terms of reference.
The Groups 2010 Sustainability Report is available at www.
com sustainability and contains the Groups health & safety and environmental policies, an explanation of how Thomas Cook manages sustainability and progress against targets.
The 2011 Sustainability Report will be available at www.
A summary of the approach and Groups performance in relation to sustainability is contained on pages 35 to 39 of the Directors Report: Business Review.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 53 reMUNeraTIoN CoMMITTee Meetings Other members Meetings also regularly attended by Six Roger Burnell David Allvey Chairman, Audit Committee Bo Lerenius Anne Billson-Ross Group Human Resources Director Judith Mackenzie Group Head of Reward Derek Woodward Group Company Secretary Chairman Peter Middleton Michael Beckett attended the meetings of the Committee until his retirement as Chairman of the Company on 30 November 2011.
Paul Wood, formerly Group Director, Human Resources, attended the meetings until March 2011.
A report detailing the composition, responsibilities and work carried out by the Remuneration Committee during the year, including an explanation of how it applies the principles of the Code in respect of Executive Directors remuneration, is included within the Remuneration Report on pages 56 to 69.
Composition of the Committee All members of the Committee are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
FINaNCe & aDMINISTraTIoN CoMMITTee To facilitate swift and effi cient operational management decisions, the Board has established the Finance & Administration Committee comprising any two Directors, one of whom must be an Executive Director which has delegated authority, within clearly identifi ed parameters, in relation to day-to-day fi nancing and administrative matters.
DISCloSUre CoMMITTee The Board has established a Disclosure Committee which is responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and controls in respect of the management and disclosure of inside information in accordance with the Companys obligations under the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive Offi cer, who is the Chairman, the Group Chief Financial Offi cer and the Group Company Secretary.
ShareholDer CoMMUNICaTIoN aND eNGaGeMeNT The Board promotes open communication with shareholders.
This is formalised within a framework of an investor relations programme conducted by the Group Chief Executive Offi cer, the Group Chief Financial Offi cer and the Investor Relations team.
The programme included the presentation of preliminary and half-year results, which can be accessed on the Thomas Cook Group website at www.
com along with fi financial reports, interim management statements, investor presentations and trading updates.
The management team conducts regular meetings with institutional investors and welcomes the dialogue that this enables with shareholders.
The Company makes every effort to ascertain investor perceptions of the Company and regular reports of investor and analyst feedback are provided to the Board.
Additionally, the Board responds to ad hoc requests for information and all shareholders are entitled to attend the AGM, where they have an opportunity to ask questions of the Board.
During the year, Michael Beckett, the former Chairman met with a number of major institutional shareholders following both the market announcement on 12 July 2011 and the resignation of Manny Fontenla-Novoa on 2 August 2011 to discuss the backdrop to the profi t warning, CEO succession and governance issues in general.
Peter Middleton, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee met with a number of major institutional shareholders and governance bodies to discuss remuneration matters, including the discretion that had been applied to the performance targets in respect of the 2007 Award under the Performance Share Plan reported in the 2010 Remuneration Report.
Roger Burnell, the Senior Independent Director also met a number of major institutional shareholders to discuss both of the above issues and Chairman Succession.
These meetings were both helpful and productive.
The Board was briefed on the content of the above discussions.
Directors report: 54 Governance Corporate governance report continued At its 2008 AGM, a resolution was passed allowing the Company to use its website and email as the primary means of communication with its shareholders.
This arrangement provides signifi cant benefi ts for shareholders and the Company in terms of timeliness of information, reduced environmental impact and cost.
Shareholders may still opt to receive their communications in a paper format.
The Companys corporate website contains information for shareholders, including share price information and news releases.
rISK MaNaGeMeNT aND INTerNal CoNTrol The Board recognises its ultimate accountability for maintaining an effective system of internal control and risk management that is appropriate in relation to both the scope and the nature of the Groups activities and complies with the Turnbull Committee Guidance on the UK Corporate Governance Code the Turnbull Guidance and has approved the framework and the standards implemented.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the implementation of the Group risk management policy to the Group Risk Management Committee GRMC, which is chaired by the Group Chief Financial Offi cer and comprises senior executives from across the Group.
Risk identifi cation and reporting Each of the six segments has a risk management committee, which meets regularly.
By implementing the risk management policy, the segments are responsible for: maintaining and updating risk reporting: managing risk action implementation and measurement systems: and maintaining and reviewing risk performance and measurement systems.
Risk registers are compiled and submitted by each segment for review quarterly.
In addition, a central risk register is maintained and updated by risk owners.
The GRMC prepares a half-yearly risk report for the attention of the Audit Committee based on the feedback from the segment risk management committees and also a top down review of the risk register.
The report and the risk register identify the principal risks to the business and assess the adequacy of controls and procedures in place to mitigate the likelihood and the impact of these risks.
There are also reports to the GRMC by specifi c risk owners on the effectiveness of actions taken to mitigate risks.
The regular risk reporting regime has created an environment for the development and improvement of risk management procedures across the Group.
The Audit Committee reviews the reports of the GRMC and makes recommendations to improve risk management and internal control.
This process of risk identifi cation, measurement and reporting provides a comprehensive ongoing assessment of the signifi cant risks facing the Group and the mitigating actions taken in respect of those risks.
This process ensures that the Group complies with relevant corporate governance best practice in relation to risk management, including the guidance issued under the Turnbull Guidance.
The Groups internal audit function reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Internal audit makes recommendations to that Committee in relation to the maintenance of a sound control environment throughout the Group.
A schedule of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties, likely impacts on the Group and mitigating actions being taken by management is set out on pages 28 to 30 of the Directors Report: Business Review.
Whistleblowing The Group encourages employees to report any concerns which they feel need to be brought to the attention of management and has adopted a whistleblowing policy, as well as anti-bribery and theft and fraud reporting policies.
These are published on the Groups intranet site, allowing such matters to be raised in confi dence through the appropriate channels.
Code of ethics The Group has a code of ethics which deals with: prohibitions on employees using their position for personal gain: prohibitions on improper business practices: a requirement for compliance with all internal approval and authorisation procedures and legal requirements: and a requirement to disclose potential confl icts of interest and potential related party contracts.
This code of ethics is contained within the Groups internal policies guide, which is available to all employees and, in particular, those with responsibility for procurement or other dealings with third-party suppliers.
In addition, the Group Company Secretary is available for advice on any matter which may give rise to cause for concern in relation to the code of ethics.
The Group code of ethics is further reinforced by a disclosure of interests and benefi ts policy, which applies to senior executives in the Group.
This supplements similar policies that are in place in each of the segments.
Directors Report: Business Review Directors Report: Governance Financial Statements 55 Review of system of internal control During the year, the Board, through the work of the Audit Committee, has conducted a review of the Groups system of internal control.
There is an ongoing process for the identification and evaluation of risk management and internal control processes which has been in place throughout the year and remains in place up to the date of the financial statements.
This includes the process by which management prepares consolidated accounts.
The work conducted by management and described on pages 54 to 55 is complemented, supported and challenged by the controls assurance work carried out independently by the external auditors, PwC, and the internal auditors, E&Y.
Regular reports on control issues are presented to the Audit Committee by PwC and E&Y.
The Board, in reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, can confirm that necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified from that review.
GoING CoNCerN After making appropriate enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
STaTeMeNT oF DIreCTorS reSPoNSIBIlITIeS IN reSPeCT oF The aNNUal rePorT, The DIreCTorS reMUNeraTIoN rePorT aND The FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the Directors have prepared the Group and the Company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The financial statements are required by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing those financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and state that the financial statements comply with IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
The Directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group, and for ensuring that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website, and legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
DISCloSUre oF INForMaTIoN To aUDITorS Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirms that: so far as he she is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and that he she has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a Director to make him her aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
reSPoNSIBIlITY STaTeMeNT oF The DIreCTorS IN reSPeCT oF The aNNUal FINaNCIal STaTeMeNTS Each of the Directors, who were in office at the date of this report, whose names and responsibilities are listed on pages 40 and 41, confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group: and the Directors Report contained on pages 2 to 72 includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
