TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Audit Committee Report For the year ended 31 December 2011 As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I set out Composition of the audit committee from the internal auditors on internal control below our report on its operation and activities I was Chairman, and John Coleman was matters and from the external auditors on the in 2011, which particularly included financial a member, of the Committee throughout conduct of their audit, their review of accounting oversight of the BSS Group integration.
Philip Jansen was also a member until policies, areas of judgment in the financial the year, I was pleased to welcome Ruth December 2011, when Ruth Anderson joined statements and their comments on statements Anderson as member of the Committee, a role to the Committee following her appointment to concerning risk and internal control.
A similar which she brings extensive financial experience.
All members of the review was undertaken at the July meeting when Committee are considered to be independent the interim statements were considered.
At these Role of the audit committee and have considerable financial and commercial and our other meetings the Committee also The Committee is primarily responsible for: experience from a variety of corporate reviewed: The integrity of the financial statements of backgrounds.
The Company Secretary is Progress with regard to the financial the Company and any formal announcements secretary to the Committee.
The Board considers integration of the BSS Group and key relating to the Companys financial that both I and Ruth Anderson have the recent accounting assumptions and judgements performance, and reviewing significant and relevant financial experience required by the related thereto, including the fair value of the financial reporting judgments contained UK Corporate Governance Code see also the assets acquired: therein: board profiles on pages 46 and 47.
The plans for restructuring of the Group Reviewing the Companys internal financial Finance function in the light of the growth of controls and its internal control and risk Meetings and attendance the Group: management systems: The Committee held five meetings during 2011, The Groups systems for accounting for Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of and attendance at the meetings is shown on rebates on product purchases, and stock the Companys internal audit function: page 49.
I also invited the Group Chairman, the management: Reviewing the audit plans of the external Chief Executive, the Finance Director, the Deputy The policies and training which had been auditors and for monitoring the conduct of the Chief Executive, the Group Financial Controller, implemented in respect of the Bribery Act: audit: the Director of Business Risk and Assurance and The internal controls for the new office in Reviewing the external auditors independence the external auditors to attend the meetings.
At China: and objectivity and the effectiveness of the each meeting I gave the external auditors and The Groups tax planning: audit process, taking into consideration the Director of Business Risk and Assurance the Proposed revisions to the Groups segmental relevant UK professional and regulatory opportunity to discuss with the Committee, any reporting following the BSS acquisition: requirements: matters which they wished to raise without the An evaluation of the Committees work carried Reviewing and implementing the Companys presence of management.
In addition, during out as part of the Board evaluation process policy on the engagement of the external the year, I held a number of meetings with the referred to on page 50: I subsequently auditors to supply non-audit services, taking Director of Business Risk and Assurance and reported to the Board on this evaluation: into account relevant guidance regarding the with the external auditors, without management The Committees terms of reference: no provision of non-audit services by an external being present.
Committee members meet changes were recommended to the Board: audit firm: regularly with operational and functional staff Any comments received on its 2010 report Making recommendations to the Board, for throughout the year and participate in relevant from institutional investor bodies: a resolution to be put to the shareholders in technical update programmes.
I am satisfied that The effectiveness of the system of internal relation to the appointment and remuneration the Committee received sufficient, reliable and financial control and the system for monitoring of the external auditors.
timely information from management to enable it and reporting on risks faced by the Group After each meeting, I report to the Board on the to fulfil its responsibilities during the year.
taking into account regular reports received work of the Committee, identifying any matters from financial management, internal and where it considers that action or improvement is Main activities of the external auditors: needed, and make recommendations as to the committee during the year The terms of reference, strategy, staffing, steps to be taken.
At our meeting in February, the Committee processes and effectiveness of the internal The Committees full terms of reference reviewed the annual financial statements audit department taking into account the are available on the Companys website, or on of the Company taking into account regular results of a survey amongst stakeholders: request to the Company Secretary.
management accounting information and reports The status of actions taken in response to 53 GOVERNANCE Audit Committee report recommendations arising from internal and External auditors confidential or specialist nature.
The external external audit work: We place great importance on the effectiveness auditors should not provide non-audit services The effectiveness of the Groups and independence of the external auditors where either the nature of the work or the extent whistleblowing policy: and, together with them, are careful to ensure of such services might impair their independence The policy on engagement of the external their objectivity is not compromised.
Any engagement of the external auditor for non-audit work, as referred to October meeting, the auditors presented to the auditors for non-audit work with a fee over below, and the policy on the employment of Committee their plans for the forthcoming audit 25,000 requires my approval.
anyone previously employed by the external together with details of their proposed fees auditor: and how they ensure that their objectivity and Areas of work The plans presented by the external auditor for independence are not compromised.
Deloitte The policy sets out certain non-audit services conduct of the year-end audit and half-year LLP or its predecessor firms is a leading where it would be usual to engage the external review including the related risk analyses, international audit partnership, and was first auditors, such as regulatory reviews and some terms of engagement, fees and letters of appointed as auditor to Group companies more tax services, and those where their engagement representation: than 30 years ago.
There are no contractual is not permitted, such as work relating to the The effectiveness, independence, and restrictions on the Group with regard to their design of financial information systems.
I am objectivity of the external auditor, taking appointment.
In accordance with professional consulted in relation to any proposed work not into account written assurances provided standards, the partner responsible for the audit covered by the list.
by Deloitte LLP, with regard to its quality changes every 5 years: the last change occurred and independence controls, and its ethical in 2010.
Value of work standards, together with the results of a The Committee considers that Deloitte provide Non-audit services require approval as follows: survey of stakeholders and the annual report a high quality, efficient and cost effective audit Up to 5,000 no formal approval is required of the Audit Inspection Unit: service.
Accordingly, following our February 2012 provided the work is permitted under the list The Groups accounting policies, forthcoming meeting at which we reviewed the 2011 audit referred to above: changes to International Financial Reporting process, the Committee recommended to the 5,000 to 25,000 Group Finance Director: Standards and other regulatory changes and Board that resolutions be put to shareholders 25,000 to 50,000 Group Finance Director various guidance notes issued by the Financial at the Annual General Meeting for the and Committee Chairman: Reporting Council: re-appointment of the external auditors, and to 50,000 and above Group Finance The effectiveness of the Groups policies and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Director and Committee Chairman following a processes for fraud prevention.
One of the Committees responsibilities is competitive tender.
No matters of material significance were to ensure compliance with the Boards policy Formal approval by the Committee is also identified by the auditors during the year and in respect of services provided by, and fees required if the aggregated level of forecast fees there were no material audit-related matters that paid to, the auditors.
Audit fees, which are for non-audit services exceeds 50% of the were discussed with investors.
regularly compared with peer companies by statutory audit fee.
Two members of the Committee are also the Committee, are initially negotiated by the members of the Remuneration Committee.
Finance Director, but are then approved by Reporting The Audit Committee is satisfied that the the Committee.
The policy in relation to other The Group Finance Director reports twice yearly Groups remuneration policies are compatible services that could be provided by the external to the Committee on fees for non-audit services with a robust control environment and good auditors, which has been approved by the Board, payable to the auditors.
can be summarised as follows: As shown in note 5 to the accounts, during The key areas of risk and sensitivity, the the year the Auditors were paid 401k 2010: major accounting policies, and the principal General principles 404k for audit-related work, and 299k 2010: assumptions with regard to fair values are There is a presumption against the external 689k for non-audit work.
described in the Annual Report and notes to auditors providing non-audit services and they The principal item of non-audit fees was the accounts.
The Committee reviewed these should only be selected for such work where its 182k related to specialist taxation advice during the year, taking into account relevant nature makes it more timely and cost effective to associated with the acquisition of BSS Group external advice, and was satisfied that they were select advisors who have a good understanding plc.
In addition, non-audit fees included a appropriate.
of the Group or the work is of a particularly review of the interim statements and audit work 54 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 undertaken in respect of US private placement of a stakeholder survey and other reports, notes issued by BSS prior to acquisition.
In the Committee was satisfied with the overall view of Deloittes detailed understanding of the effectiveness of the internal audit function.
Groups operations and accounting policies, and being mindful of future Auditor reporting Overview obligations, the Audit Committee decided that As a result of our work during the year, and it was appropriate for Deloitte to undertake this taking into account the result of the Board and work.
In addition, 119k 2010: 514k of fees Committee evaluation process described on page was paid to other accounting firms for non-audit 50, the Committee has concluded that it has work.
acted in accordance with its terms of reference The Committee understands that the total and has ensured the independence, objectivity fees paid by the Group to Deloitte in 2011 and effectiveness of the external and internal amount to less than 0.03% of Deloittes UK auditors.
The Committee has also concluded that fee income and considers that the Auditors the Groups internal control and risk management independence has not been impaired by the systems were effective during the year.
I will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work Internal audit of the Committee.
As well as its reviews of the internal audit departments strategy and processes, as described above, during its meetings in 2011, the Committee received presentations from the Director of Business Risk and Assurance, about the results of work undertaken by the Chris Bunker department, and approved its risk-based plans Chairman, Audit Committee for work in 2012.
Taking into account the results 21 February 2012 55 GOVERNANCE
