TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Nominations Committee Report For the year ended 31 December 2011 The principal role of the Nominations Committee the appropriate search firm, after reviewing a is to identify and nominate for Board approval, shortlist of a minimum of three alternatives.
In the candidates to fill board vacancies as and when case of Ruth Andersons appointment, the Board they arise.
The Committee prepares a description prepared a detailed job specification, shortlisted of the role, and skills and capabilities required, three search firms, then asked Lygon Group and maintains contact with major shareholders to undertake a search for candidates with the about appointments to the Board.
It also keeps requisite skills and experience.
the structure, size and composition of the Board The Committee and the Board also under review, and considers succession planning considered the aspirations of the Davies Review for both executive and non-executive directors for an increasing representation of women and for other senior executive posts.
The terms on company boards.
The Board shares that of reference of the Committee are available on aspiration, but in view of the historic challenge the Companys website or from the Company faced in the construction sector in attracting Secretary.
women candidates, it is reluctant to commit During the year, the Committee members were to specific targets.
Nevertheless, for board Robert Walker Chairman, together with Chris appointments, while ensuring that existing high Bunker and John Coleman, both of whom are standards are maintained, the recruitment criteria independent non-executive directors.
set by the Committee have been amended so The Committee met three times in 2011. that prior PLC experience is not essential.
It is In addition to the Committee members, the hoped that this will widen the pool of potential meetings were also attended by the other candidates.
non-executive directors and, in part, by the Chief The Chairman of the Nominations Committee Executive and the Group HR Director.
will be available at the Annual General Meeting In the past year, the remit of the Committee to answer any questions about the work of the has been expanded to include a broader HR Committee.
and succession agenda across the senior management levels in the Company.
The Committee reviewed the personal development plans for the Executive Directors, a proposed reorganisation of the Finance department, the recruitment of a further non-executive director and the bench strength and succession plans for Robert Walker the most senior levels throughout the Company.
Chairman, Nominations Committee For each board position, the Committee selects 21 February 2012 67 GOVERNANCE
