TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 Corporate Governance For the year ended 31 December 2011 UK corporate governance code of those budgets and long-term objectives.
discussion during the meeting: this also helps the This explains how the Company has applied Legislative, environmental, health and safety and directors to prepare, as they read the papers in the principles, and the extent to which it has employment issues are also considered.
The advance of the meeting.
complied with the provisions of, the new UK Board has also approved a written statement of I maintain regular direct contact with the Corporate Governance Code the Code in 2011. the division of key responsibilities between me, executive directors and keep the non-executive We do so by reference to the five main sections as Chairman, and the Chief Executive: and again directors informed of material developments of the Code.
I held three meetings Hopefully, this will provide better background The Company maintains appropriate directors during the year with all the non-executive information and context to the way the Board & officers insurance in respect of the risk of directors, without the executive directors being is governed, and less boiler-plate than in past claims against directors.
This is reviewed on a present.
Finally, and consistent with normal years.
practice these days, I have regular weekly meetings with the Group Chief Executive and 1.
Leadership Communication meet from time to time throughout the year The Company is governed by a board of As Chairman, I take care to ensure that each with the Finance Director and the Deputy Chief directors, of which I am Chairman.
In addition director is able to make an effective contribution Executive.
there are three executive and five non-executive within an atmosphere of transparency and directors.
Geoff Cooper is Chief Executive and constructive debate.
I agree the agenda for board Board meetings Chris Bunker is the Senior Independent Director.
meetings in conjunction with the Chief Executive We held thirteen Board meetings in 2011, two Ruth Anderson, who joined the Board in October and the Company Secretary.
Agendas are based meetings were dedicated to consideration of the 2011, John Coleman, Philip Jansen and Andrew upon an annual plan, but also include matters of Companys long-term strategy.
Five meetings Simon are also independent non-executive particular interest or concern to the Board at any either included visits to parts of the Companys directors.
operations or included presentations by senior The Board has a schedule of matters I discuss the meeting papers with any director executives on their areas of responsibility.
reserved to it, which is reviewed annually.
who is unable to attend a meeting, to obtain that Individual visits to operational sites by Its key responsibilities are for overall group directors view prior to the meeting.
I also monitor non-executive directors also took place see strategy, policy on corporate governance, the information provided to the Board to ensure non-executive mentoring below.
In addition to the approval of expansion plans and major capital it is sufficient, timely and clear, and from time regular board meetings, key financial information expenditure, consideration of significant financial to time, the board reviews the adequacy of this is circulated to directors outside of meetings.
and operational matters and the Companys information.
The number of board and committee meetings exposure to key risks.
It also reviews the strategy I email all the non-executive directors in attended by each director in whole or in part of the individual businesses, their annual advance of board meetings, to suggest the key during the year was as follows: budgets and progress towards the achievement issues and high priority matters for particular PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Health & Safety Executive No.
2 Retired from Audit Committee and appointed to Remuneration Committee in December 2011.
49 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Board committees which the appointment may be renewed by and employees.
Part of the feedback from the We have five board committees: the Audit mutual agreement.
It is the Boards policy that Boards internal evaluation of its performance in Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the non-executive directors should generally serve 2010 suggested this contact had slipped, due to Nominations Committee, the Health & Safety for six years two three-year terms and that any the work involved in securing the BSS acquisition Committee and the Executive Committee, which term beyond this should be subject to a rigorous and the subsequent long-winded and inefficient operate within defined terms of reference, which review.
This review takes into account both the OFT clearance process.
As a response, in 2011, we review annually.
These are available on the need for progressive refreshing of the Board, and we trialled a new approach to involving our Companys website or may be obtained from the the particular requirements of the Company at non-executive directors including myself more Company Secretary.
The minutes of committee the time of the possible extension.
closely with the individual businesses.
At the meetings are circulated to all the Directors.
Non-executive directors do not have a service start of the year, each non-executive director The Executive Committee is chaired by the contract, but each has received a letter of was allocated two of the Groups businesses Group CEO and its members are listed on page appointment.
These appointments expire on the to mentor throughout the year.
Other executives are invited to attend from following dates, and the length of service at that process was each non executive directors time to time in relation to specific matters.
choice, but involved a programme of contact main purpose of this Committee is to assist the and meetings with the management of those Ruth Anderson October 2014 3 years executive directors in the performance of their businesses and a number of site visits.
The Chris Bunker May 2013 9 years, 4 months duties in relation in particular to: intention was to get each non-executive more John Coleman February 2014 9 years Strategy, operational plans, policies, involved in better understanding our businesses, procedures and budgets: their people and strategies, and thereby bring a Philip Jansen April 2015 6 years The monitoring of operational and financial fresher and more independent viewpoint to their Andrew Simon February 2015 9 years performance: meetings.
Robert Walker September 2012 3 years The assessment and control of risk: We reviewed the progress of this initiative The prioritisation and allocation of resources.
The letters of appointment will be available for through the course of the year and have decided inspection at the Annual General Meeting.
to extend it for 2012, rotating the allocation of 2.
Effectiveness businesses and including the central functions The Board is satisfied that I and the five Induction HR, Supply Chain, Property etc.
non-executive directors are all independent.
In The Board has an induction process for new particular, none of the specific circumstances set directors, which is facilitated by the Company Evalution of performance out in Code provision B.
I ensure that all directors receive During the year, the Board undertook an of new directors are made by the Board on the appropriate training on appointment and then evaluation of its performance and the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
subsequently as required, taking into account the performance of its committees and the individual I chair that Committee and the other members need to update their skills and their knowledge of directors.
The Boards policy is to engage an are independent non-executive directors.
Non-executive directors external facilitator to assist this process at In the past year, we have expanded the are also regularly provided with information least every three years, and in 2011, the Board remit of the Committee to include a broader on forthcoming legal and regulatory changes appointed Egon Zehnder in this role, since they HR and succession agenda across the senior and corporate governance developments, and had conducted a thorough external evaluation management layers of the Group.
This has briefings on the key risks facing the Company, four years earlier and there was no conflict of worked particularly well and a full report of the including those identified in the Corporate interest with the Company.
The Board firmly Committees work in 2011 is on page 67.
Responsibility statement on page 48. believes that search firms are better equipped to All directors have direct access to the perform this work than individual consultants.
Appointment terms Company Secretary and may take independent Egon Zehnder conducted interviews with each With regard to the appointment of non-executive professional advice in the furtherance of their director and the Company Secretary separately.
directors, our policy is to recruit people of the duties if necessary.
These interviews formed the basis of a report, highest calibre, with a breadth of skills and which Egon Zehnder presented to the Board in experience appropriate for the Companys Non-executive mentoring October.
The conclusion, following an extensive business.
Non-executive directors are appointed Travis Perkins has a long tradition of maintaining discussion of the report by the Board, was that for a period of three years, at the end of close contact between the Board, management overall the Board operated very effectively.
50 TRA VIS PERKINS ANNUAL REPOR T AND ACCOUNTS 2011 However, following discussion of suggestions Executive, the Deputy Chief Executive and accuracy and completeness of information given for improvement, the Board will focus on a Finance Director set out on pages 14 to 34.
The to the directors and to the external auditors.
number of areas in 2012, to improve further its Board uses them, together with my statement on This process was extended further through the performance.
Those areas are: pages 12 and 13 to present a full assessment management structure in 2011.
Continued monitoring of succession planning, of the Companys position and prospects, its As regards the Boards evaluation of the both at board and senior executive level: business model, and its strategy for delivering risks associated with the business, the Board In addition to non-executive director that model.
The Directors responsibilities for addresses this in two particular ways: mentoring, increased attendance at board the financial statements are described on page At each board meeting a rolling update of meetings by senior executives: 72.
Their consideration of the Group as a going major risks assessed by the executive teams More use of external expertise to improve the concern is dealt with in the Finance Directors is reviewed for relevance, standard of controls Boards knowledge.
E-commerce was an area report on page 34. and accountabilities.
A new initiative this year, at the suggestion of In 2012, the Board will conduct an internal Internal control the Group Chief Executive, was to evaluate review of its performance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups each quarter a list of things that are keeping system of internal control and for reviewing its us awake, including potential black swan Re-election effectiveness.
In the design of the system of or unexpected risks that the Group might From the 2012 AGM, all directors will submit internal control, consideration has been given encounter.
Amongst the comprehensive and themselves for re-election every year.
As a result to the significant risks to the business, the sometimes voluminous reports the Board of the board evaluation exercise, as Chairman probability of these risks manifesting themselves receives, this new process has worked I am satisfied that each director continues to and the most cost effective means of controlling exceptionally well in that it has focussed show the necessary level of commitment to the them.
The system manages rather than eliminates attention on the main risks we face and is now Group, and has sufficient time available to fulfil risk and therefore can only provide reasonable, a regular feature of the Board agenda.
his or her duties, to justify their re-election.
The and not absolute, assurance against material The Group has systems and procedures in place other directors, in a process led by the Senior misstatement or loss.
to manage and control the risks associated Independent Director, have reached a similar The day-to-day operation of the system of with financial reporting and the preparation of view in regard to my own re-election.
internal control has been delegated to executive consolidated accounts.
This includes experienced The Board believes that there is presently directors and senior management, but the and qualified personnel preparing the a blend of skills and experience among the effectiveness of the system is regularly reviewed consolidation and review by senior management.
non-executive directors, which is appropriate by the Audit Committee and the Board in a In conjunction with the Audit Committee, the for the Group.
In profiling the skills required process that accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
Board has carried out an annual review of the for the Board, we emphasise experience in the overall effectiveness of the system of internal merchanting sector, retail and consumer goods Risk assessment control and risk management procedures, during experience, capital project and M&A evaluation The Board and the Executive Committee the year and up until the date of approval of this and exposure and experience of international receive regular reports on specific areas annual report.
markets: as well of course, as the required of risk and the results of Internal Audit financial control and accounting background.
If appropriate, these reports include Audit committee and auditors In particular, the Group will benefit from the recommendations for improvement in controls The Board has established an Audit Committee recent addition of Ruth Anderson, whose financial or for the management of those risks.
Measures consisting of three independent non-executive and accounting experience will aid the planning to integrate risk management processes into directors.
Its terms of reference and a description for Chris Bunkers retirement in 2013.
In order to the Groups operations, to extend awareness of its work in 2011 are contained in its report secure Ruths addition to the Board, we created of the importance of risk management and which is set out on pages 53 to 55. an additional Board seat.
to ensure that recommended improvements are implemented, are regularly reviewed and 4.
Senior executives are asked, twice The Board has established a Remuneration A review of the performance of the Groups a year, to confirm the adequacy of internal Committee consisting of the Chairman and businesses and the financial position of the controls in their areas of responsibility, identify four independent non-executive directors.
Its Group is included in the reports of the Chief any control weaknesses, and to confirm the responsibilities include remuneration policy, a 51 GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance review of the performance of executive directors and respond to issues raised by shareholders.
prior to determining their remuneration and the In addition, the intention was to speak with the approval of incentive arrangements, including groups top 18 or so investors, in order to ensure performance criteria.
The remuneration of the as many views as possible are canvassed: given non-executive directors is determined by the current market volatility, it is quite possible that Board as a whole, except that the Remuneration a smaller shareholder one year will become Committee makes a recommendation in respect a major shareholder the following year.
This of the Chairmans fee.
No director plays a part in process hopefully ensures that their views will the discussion about his own remuneration.
have been taken into account.
The Committees terms of reference and a As well as sending the annual report to description of its work in 2011 are contained in shareholders, during the year, the Company its report which is set out on pages 56 to 66. published its interim results on its website, issued two interim management statements, 5.
Relations with shareholders and one further trading update.
All shareholders The Company encourages two-way receive at least twenty working days notice communication with both its institutional and of the Annual General Meeting at which all private investors and responds promptly to all directors are available for questions and a enquiries received.
In 2011, the Chairman, the short business presentation takes place.
Each Senior Independent Director and the executive substantive issue is the subject of a separate directors, either separately or together, attended resolution.
I announce the numbers of proxy a number of meetings with analysts, and with votes for and against each resolution at the shareholders representing circa 60% of the meeting, after the voting has taken place, and issued share capital.
In particular, a strategy these numbers are subsequently published on presentation, combined with a visit to some the Companys website.
key Group premises, was held for analysts in May 2011.
We also make it clear that the Corporate governance Senior Independent Director is available as a compliance statement direct contact for shareholders, if they wish.
The I am pleased to report that the Company Chairman and executive directors report to the has complied throughout the year ended 31 Board on any meetings with shareholders or December 2011 with the provisions set out in analysts.
In addition, written reports about the the Code.
Company by analysts or brokers are circulated to all directors.
During 2011, and starting shortly after the AGM, I had a series of meetings with the Companys main shareholders.
The timing was Robert Walker deliberate, and allowed the Board significant time Chairman before the following years AGM to both consider 21 February 2012 52
