oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information Corporate governance EffECTIvE govERnAnCE Dear Shareholder our commitment to excellence must be supported by effective and strong governance principles.
for this reason, the board places a premium on establishing and maintaining appropriate governance procedures and controls throughout our organisation, tailored to support our business model and progress our long-term strategic objectives.
during the year, we conducted our first board and committee evaluations in line with applicable corporate governance standards, the outcomes of which are outlined in this report.
furthermore, we have continued to strengthen the boards spectrum of expertise with the appointment of ambassador mwapachu and david Hodgson as independent non-Executive directors.
we are delighted to welcome individuals of their calibre to our board and believe that they will be valuable resources for our company and business.
bobby godsell stepped down from the board in July of this year to pursue other interests.
more recently, James cross has also decided to retire from the board.
we thank both bobby and James for their contributions to abg and we wish them well for the future.
Effective governance is Throughout the year the board has focused on further strengthening our governance fundamental to the success of practices and controls to support our existing governance framework.
in particular, we have developed abgs business management framework, which applies ABGs business.
It is a cornerstone throughout our organisation to guide the correct implementation of our standards.
of the way we operate and work we have also conducted a review of all corporate policies and standards in light of recent corporate governance developments, notably the introduction of the Uk in all areas of our business.
bribery act and in the context of our recent secondary listing on the dar es Salaam Stock Exchange.
DEREK PANNEll, furthermore, we have continued to build our risk management processes and SEnior indEPEndEnt non-EXEcUtiVE dirEctor internal controls assessments throughout the year, and achieved satisfactory conclusion of our overall annual risk management and internal controls assessment.
2011 governance highlights and key activities Strengthening board composition with new appointments completion of a review of all abg group Policies development of abg business management framework completion of board and committee performance evaluations review of abg group strategy and risk profile further development of risk management processes annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 81 Corporate governance continued Structure of ABG standards ABGs Business Management Framework has been developed to form an integral part of our global compliance COMPLIANCE programme for the conduct of our business, setting out the REQUIREMENT key corporate policies, procedures, standards and practices that apply to the ABG Group as a whole.
e framework is Mandatory further supported by departmental and mine site standards Values & Code and requirements, tailored to speci c functional requireof Conduct ments and operational needs.
Overall, our Business Mandatory Management Framework fide fines the way we manage the economic, social, political, environmental and governance Business Management practices for our operations.
It also helps to safeguard the Framework Mandatory satisfaction of our continuing regulatory obligations under Group Policies, our stock exchange listings.
Procedures & Standards Ma Dictated in ndatory All members of the ABG Group, our material operations, Departments accordance with stated support functions, and every ABG Director, o cer, Mine Site Rules functional and mine & Requirements employee and all other members of ABG personnel are site requirements required to comply with the ABG Business Management Group Policy Guidelines Framework and all other guidance and standards that apply For use in to their respective roles and positions.
Speci c obligations understanding and also extend to ABG contractors, other associated parties and implementing compliance obligations members of ABG supply chains.
Responsibilities across our Business Management Framework BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD INDEPENDENCE as at 31 December 2011 as at 31 December 2011 our organisational structure is founded on the basis of sound business practice and in accordance with applicable corporate governance standards.
accordingly, responsibilities are allocated between our board, its committees, our Senior leadership team and other members of senior management to ensure that our business operates as it should on a day to day basis.
Board composition Board balance Executive Independent Non-executive Non-independent as at 31 december 2011, the board comprised a non-Executive chairman, two Executive directors and seven non-Executive Skills and experience directors, of whom six are independent.
for the reporting period, the board considers this to be the appropriate structure and board all of the directors have considerable knowledge and experience of balance between executives and non-executives for abg to achieve the mining industry and bring other relevant experience to the board its objectives.
to assist abg in achieving its strategic goals.
director biographies are provided on pages 78 and 79.
The appointment of ambassador abg regards all of its non-Executive directors other than aaron regent mwapachu and david Hodgson as independent non-Executive and Stephen galbraith as independent within the meaning defined in directors during 2011 enhances the skill set and collective experience the Uk corporate governance code.
The board regards andre falzon of our board in terms of regional affairs and the african gold as independent within the meaning of the Uk corporate governance mining industry.
code, although he was an employee of the barrick group until 2006 and then provided consultancy services to the barrick group until 2008. www.
com 82 oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information Responsibilities across our Business Management Framework Supported by Senior Leadership Team BOARD Responsible for the overall management of our organisation and our business sets standards, ensures we have the monitors and reviews: values, policies and resources in place to material strategic issues strategic aims meet our objectives financial performance risk management BOARD COMMITTEES Speci c review and oversight functions THE THE THE AUDIT THE EHS&S COMPENSATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE r eviews and monitors o versees the development s ets, reviews and recommends ma kes recommendations financial statements of strategy and policy on overall compensation policy to the Board on its oversees relationships environmental, CSR and and strategy composition and that with external auditors security matters reviews and approves of its committees oversees external audit process reviews effectiveness of compensation arrangements reviews internal audit plans environmental, CSR and for Executive Directors and security management senior management programmes and systems SENIOR LEADERSHIP TEAM Day to day management of our business and operations, and responsibility for monitoring detailed performance of all aspects of our business MANAGEMENT COMMITTEES Further support the Board and Senior Leadership Team RESERVES THE EXECUTIVE COMMUNITY AND DISCLOSURE INVESTMENT INVESTMENT RESOURCES PANEL COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE GENERAL MANAGERS AND FUNCTIONAL HEADS Work with the Senior Leadership Team to manage our operations and business and to progress business goals annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 83 Corporate governance continued Board leadership BOARD SKILLS as at 31 December 2011 Chairman and Chief Executive officer in line with best practice, the roles of chief Executive officer and chairman and their related responsibilities are separated.
The divisions Geology of responsibilities have been set out in writing and agreed by the board.
Engineering Financial African operations abgs chairman is principally responsible for the leadership of the Regional a airs board.
He is responsible for ensuring that the board plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the companys strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The chairman is responsible for setting the board agenda, leading its discussions and Diversity ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The chairman abg strives to attract a broad mix of individuals from both the traditional promotes the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate and non-traditional mining labour markets.
This approach reflects our governance throughout abg, particularly at board level.
philosophy of equal opportunity and rests on the belief that a diverse workgroup gives a competitive advantage to our business, and allows abgs chief Executive officer is responsible for all executive us to create a unique company culture.
in the context of board management matters affecting abg and is principally responsible appointments, the board and the nominations committee regularly for running the companys business.
all members of executive review the structure, skills and composition of the board and will consider management report directly to him.
He is responsible for proposing the recommendations of the davies report as part of overall board and developing abgs strategy and overall commercial objectives, and appointment requirements and composition considerations, to ensure for implementing the decisions of the board and its committees.
He is that the composition of abgs board remains appropriate for our business.
also required to ensure that abg group affairs are conducted with the generally, it is abgs policy to hire the best candidates for all positions at highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
all levels and we review all candidates accordingly irrespective of gender.
Senior Independent Director Board changes abgs Senior independent director Sid is available for discussions as previously noted, we made two additions to the board during the with other non-Executive directors who may have concerns which reporting period with the appointment of ambassador mwapachu they believe have not been properly considered by the board as a and david Hodgson as additional independent non-Executive whole.
He also acts as an alternative point of contact for the Executive directors.
in addition to these appointments, bobby godsell stepped directors, if required, in addition to the normal channels of the down from the board in July 2011 and James cross has recently chairman and chief Executive officer.
a key responsibility of the Sid decided to retire from the board.
is to ensure he is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved by contact through the normal channels of Retirement and re-election chairman, chief Executive officer or other Executive directors, or where such contact is inappropriate.
Under abgs articles of association, the directors may appoint additional members to join the board during the year.
directors at least annually and on other occasions, as deemed appropriate, our appointed in this way must offer themselves for re-election at the Senior independent director leads a meeting of the non-Executive first annual general meeting following their appointment.
directors without the chairman present to appraise the abgs articles of association require all directors to retire and offer chairmans performance.
themselves for re-election by the shareholders at the first annual general meeting following their appointment and every three years thereafter.
Save for ambassador mwapachu and david Hodgson, all existing abg directors were last elected to their positions at the 2011 agm.
in light of the new provisions of the Uk corporate governance code, abg intends to submit all directors for annual re-election with effect from the 2012 agm and therefore all board members will offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming agm.
The board determines that all of these directors are eligible for re-election.
com 84 oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information Johannesburg.
The attendance record for scheduled board and Board effectiveness committee meetings for each director for 2011 is shown below.
Board meetings and attendance both ambassador mwapachu and david Hodgson were appointed board decisions are predominantly made by achieving a consensus at in the third quarter of 2011. as such, their attendance at board and board meetings.
in exceptional circumstances, decisions may be taken committee meetings speaks as of their date of appointment.
bobby by the majority of board members.
Questions arising at any meeting godsell stood down from the board in July 2011, and therefore he was are determined by a majority of votes.
in the case of an equality of votes, not eligible to attend meetings scheduled in the second half of 2011. abgs articles of association do not provide the chairman with a second or casting vote.
all directors are required to take decisions objectively Board briefings and development and in the best interests of the company.
The board receives monthly management reports and quarterly reports abgs non-Executive directors are expected to apply independent outlining all material operational, financial and strategic developments.
judgement to contribute to issues of strategy and performance and to These ensure that members remain properly briefed on the performance scrutinise the performance of management.
in addition, the committees and financial position of the abg group.
board and committee papers of the board play an active role in reviewing managements performance are circulated prior to all meetings to allow directors to be briefed in and achievement of abg objectives on the basis of responsibilities advance of discussions.
all board meetings include a quarterly business falling within the remit of each committee.
and financial review to ensure that, in addition to specific scheduled matters and any other business, core operational matters are reviewed The board is scheduled to meet at least four times a year, and at such on a continuous basis.
other times as are necessary to discharge its duties.
during the year the board decided to hold at least one scheduled meeting per year in addition to scheduled board meetings, all directors have access in tanzania to provide senior managers from across the business with to members of the Senior leadership team and to whatever further an opportunity to present to the board and meet board members information they need to perform their duties and to satisfy their informally.
This also provides the board with an opportunity to responsibilities.
abgs independent non-Executive directors and further develop its relationships across the abg workforce.
committee chairmen meet with members of the Senior leadership team to receive more in-depth briefings on board and committee matters, whenever during 2011 the board met on five occasions.
in addition, members required or requested.
in addition, all directors continue to have free access of the board also participated in a formal strategy review with members to visit operations outside scheduled board arrangements.
all directors of senior management outside scheduled board meetings in appointed as of year-end undertook operational site visits in 2011. board meetings audit committee compensation committee nomination committee EHS&S committee number maximum number maximum number maximum number maximum number maximum attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible attended possible aaron regent 5 5 0 n a 5 5 1 2 0 n a greg Hawkins 5 5 4 n a 5 n a 2 n a 4 n a kevin Jennings 5 5 6 n a 0 n a 0 n a 0 n a derek Pannell 5 5 0 n a 1 n a 2 2 4 4 James cross 5 5 6 6 5 5 0 n a 0 n a andre falzon 5 5 6 6 4 5 0 n a 0 n a Stephen galbraith 5 5 0 n a 0 n a 2 2 4 4 bobby godsell 3 5 0 n a 0 n a 1 2 3 4 michael kenyon 5 5 6 6 5 5 0 n a 0 n a ambassador Juma V. mwapachu 1 5 0 n a 0 n a 1 2 2 4 david Hodgson 2 5 1 n a 0 n a 0 n a 1 4 directors appointed mid-year.
annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 85 Corporate governance continued our Senior independent director and the company Secretary review risk management training and development needs on an ongoing basis and ensure that Procedures and internal controls new members receive an appropriate induction to the company and communication with shareholders and others our business.
training standards and requirements also form part of board evaluation criteria.
for the year under review, the board noted a report on the outcome of the overall performance evaluation was that it was generally satisfied with the level of training and development provided to the board for discussion and review purposes.
in addition, as part of agreed actions from evaluations Each committee followed a similar process, under the leadership of the conducted, the company will look to conduct further training and committee chairman.
reviews on Uk corporate governance practices generally and developments in market remuneration practices and trends.
in addition to the board and committee evaluations, the Senior independent director led a review of the chairmans performance, directors may take independent professional advice, as necessary, at in line with Uk corporate governance requirements, which took abgs expense in the furtherance of their duties.
in addition to this, into account the views of all independent non-Executive directors.
each board committee is entitled to seek independent professional advice at abgs expense, where necessary, to assist or guide the overall, the results of these evaluations found that the board and its committee in the performance of its functions.
committees are operating effectively, that the individual directors performances continue to be effective, that each individual has Board performance and evaluation committed sufficient time for the discharge of their duties.
further Summary of Boards work in 2011 details as regards the evaluation process, in particular the assessment conducted and key areas agreed for further action and improvement The board considered all relevant matters within its remit for the are set out in the diagram on page 87. reporting period, but focused in particular on the following items: Strategy management Internal control operational and financial performance reviews, with a particular The board is responsible for the abg groups system of internal control focus on production performance and targets and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
in line with development of the abg development maendeleo fund this responsibility, the board has established ongoing processes and corporate policy and compliance review systems for identifying, evaluating and managing those significant risks that the group faces.
abgs system of internal controls and risk growth opportunities and exploration project reviews management takes into account the recommendations contained in the board evaluation turnbull guidance on internal Systems and controls published by the financial reporting council in october 2005 the turnbull guidance.
in addition, in light of the challenges faced at north mara and buzwagi, The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of the board, in collaboration with its committees, conducted specific failure to achieve abgs business objectives and can only provide reviews of group security systems and environment, programmes for reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement stakeholder engagement, management and control of critical supplies or loss.
and progression and development of optimisation plans.
The board principally bases its monitoring of internal controls on its Board evaluation review of management reports and assessments and on the quarterly during the reporting period, the board conducted its first performance reports it receives on the status of abgs internal control environment.
evaluation process under the guidance of the company Secretary.
This is supported by the risk profile reviews that abgs internal audit function carries out to help the board identify and manage the most The evaluation was carried out by way of anonymous questionnaires significant risks and events that could affect the companys operations, that were collated by the company Secretary and then reviewed and financials and performance.
where necessary, the board is assisted by discussed.
as the evaluation was the first conducted since abgs initial its committees in reviewing internal systems and controls, particularly public offering, the questionnaire focused on a range of topics including the audit committee which is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness the following: of the groups internal control and financial risk management systems.
Establishment and role an overview of the governance structure used for abgs approach to composition, appointments, skills, experience and training risk management and the processes and procedures used in the context of risk management is provided as part of the risk management section attendance at meetings, contribution, internal relationships of this report.
leadership Strategic aims and objectives www.
com 86 oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information Performance evaluation process In 2011, the Board conducted its first performance evaluation process under the guidance of the Company Secretary, by way of anonymous questionnaires.
As the evaluation was the first conducted since ABGs initial public o ering, the questionnaire focused on a range of key topics including the following: BOARD EVALUATION FOCUS COMMITTEE EVALUATION FOCUS Establishment and role Leadership Roles and responsibilities Leadership Compensation, appointments, Strategic aims and objectives Composition, appointments, Procedures and skills, experience and training skills, experience and training internal controls Risk management Attendance at meetings, Attendance, contribution, Procedures and internal controls contribution, internal internal relationships relationships Communication with shareholders and others DISCUSSION WITH COMPANY SECRETARY ASSESSMENT FOR THE COMMITTEES Each Director speci cally discussed his evaluation feedback with the e evaluation results were used to produce a performance report which was Company Secretary for purposes of discussing individual performance used as a basis for discussion and debate and to agree key performance targets and future development needs.
ASSESSMENT FOR THE BOARD KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND ACTIONS FOR 2012 Overall Board evaluation results were used to produce a performance report Assessment of terms of reference, e ectiveness of members skills, which was presented to the Board.
e Board evaluation was used as a basis for discussion and debate and to Key performance targets and actions for 2012 individually set by agree key performance targets and actions for 2012. each committee, as detailed in each committee report.
KEY PERFORMANCE TARGETS AND ACTIONS FOR 2012 Development of succession planning.
Further development of orientation and training processes.
Further enhancement of risk management procedures.
annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 87 Corporate governance continued in compliance with its obligations, the board has conducted an annual Under the terms of the relationship agreement, barrick has agreed to assessment of the effectiveness of the companys risk management and exercise its powers, so far as possible, to ensure that abg is managed in internal control systems.
This review has covered all material controls, accordance with the Uk corporate governance code.
it has also agreed including financial, operational and compliance controls.
in conjunction that it will not exercise its voting rights or powers that would cause abg with abgs internal audit function and members of the Senior to breach any of the key eligibility criteria for its listing on the main leadership team, the board has conducted a specific assessment market of the london Stock Exchange.
of internal controls for the purposes of this report.
This assessment barrick is entitled to appoint directors to the board in line with a considered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the sliding scale that depends on barricks percentage shareholding.
period covered by this report.
during the course of its review of the Pursuant to the sliding scale barrick is entitled to appoint the higher of: system of internal control, the board did not identify or hear of any failings or weaknesses which it determined to be material.
Therefore three non-Executive directors and the maximum number of a confirmation of any necessary actions undertaken is not required.
non-Executive directors that may be appointed while ensuring that the composition of the board remains compliant with the Uk Relationship with shareholders corporate governance code for so long as barrick holds an interest Dialogue with the investment community in 40% or more of the issued share capital or voting rights of abg: two non-Executive directors and one less than the maximum The Head of corporate development and investor relations is primarily number of non-Executive directors that may be appointed while responsible for maintaining abgs ongoing relations with the investor ensuring that the composition of the board remains compliant and shareholder community, acting as the primary point of contact with the Uk corporate governance code, for so long as it has an for members of this community.
during the course of 2011, abg interest in 25% or more of the issued share capital or voting rights conducted a number of international investor meetings and analyst of abg: and presentations.
abg intends to meet with investors and analysts at least one non-Executive director and two less than the maximum number twice a year to discuss group performance and respond to queries.
abg of non-Executive directors that may be appointed while ensuring also conducts periodic telephone calls and meetings with the investment that the composition of the board remains compliant with the Uk community to discuss results, and participates in mining conferences corporate governance code, for so long as it has an interest in 15% to meet with current and prospective investors.
during the reporting or more in abg.
period abg added to its investor relations team with the appointment of an investor relations manager in london, increasing its capacity in in addition, subject to certain exceptions and only for so long as barrick this regard.
holds 30% or more of the issued share capital or voting rights of abg, barrick has undertaken that it shall not, and shall procure that other in addition to its annual and half-year reports, abg publishes quarterly members of the barrick group shall not, carry on the exploration of reports to the market, which provide further information on production gold or silver in africa or acquire, whether through an asset purchase and financial results, and updates on its business and operations.
or the purchase of securities, a gold or silver mining business in africa majority shareholder that competes with the company, unless barrick has first notified abg in writing of such opportunity.
if abg indicates that it wishes abg was a wholly owned subsidiary of barrick prior to its iPo in to pursue such opportunity within 15 business days of receiving the march 2010. barrick continues to hold approximately 74% of abg, notification, then neither barrick, nor any other member of the barrick making it the groups majority shareholder.
as a result of this group, shall pursue the opportunity unless the company subsequently relationship, abg continues to have access to the barrick group for a decides not to pursue the opportunity or fails to do so within a number of support services and receives strategic shareholder support reasonable period of time.
for its initiatives and goals.
abg and barrick executed a number of agreements and arrangements as part of the iPo process to ensure abg has given a reciprocal non-compete commitment to barrick that their ongoing relationship was appropriately structured, including in this regard.
The principal purpose of the relationship agreement is to ensure that abg is capable of carrying on its business The relationship agreement will continue for so long as abg is listed on independently of the barrick group and that transactions and the london Stock Exchange and barrick owns or controls in aggregate relationships with the barrick group are conducted at arms length 15% or more of its issued share capital or voting rights.
and on normal commercial terms.
com 88 oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information Specifically as regards directors appointed by barrick, the relationship AGM agreement provides that if any transaction or arrangement arises abgs 2012 agm will be held on 19 april 2012 at 2.00pm Uk time.
directly between a member of the barrick group and a member of The business of the meeting will be conducted in accordance with the abg group and does or could, in the opinion of a majority of companies act 2006 requirements and standards promoted by the Uk directors excluding any director s appointed by barrick, give rise corporate governance code.
The chairman and the chairmen of each to a conflict of interest between abg and any director appointed by of abgs board committees will be available to answer questions put to barrick, any such matter must be approved and authorised at a duly them by shareholders at the meeting.
The agm notice is included in convened board meeting or in writing by a majority of directors the documentation that has been provided with this report and is also excluding any director s appointed by barrick prior to the available on the companys website.
in accordance with best practice, company taking further action in relation to such matter.
the notice has been sent to shareholders at least 20 business days prior to the date of the meeting.
The board reviews conflicts of interest on a periodic basis and maintains a record of all declared conflicts.
in addition, as part of training and Conflicts of interest development, the board participated in an updated training session aaron regent and Stephen galbraith are nominee directors appointed for the management of conflicts of interest.
Save for the matters set out by barrick in line with its rights under the relationship agreement.
These above, no other conflicts of interest were disclosed to the board during individuals hold a number of cross-directorships with members of the the reporting period.
in particular, mr regent is chief Executive officer of barrick and mr galbraith is managing director of barrick international Corporate Governance Compliance barbados corporation.
These directorships and positions give rise abg corporate governance practices are structured so as to comply to situations in which these directors could have a direct or indirect wherever possible with the requirements of the Uk corporate interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with those of abg.
for the year under review, as a Uk company with a premium listing on the main market of the london Stock Exchange, greg Hawkins, kevin Jennings and other members of senior abg is required to make certain statements regarding the way it management hold interests under barricks restricted stock unit plan, is governed, as required by the Uk corporate governance code.
which are not deemed to be material interests and will ultimately be accordingly, this report explains how abg has applied and complied replaced by interests under abgs share plans.
with the main Principles of the Uk corporate governance code during 2011.
The companies act 2006 requires directors to avoid situations where they have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or it is the boards view that abg has complied with the main Principles may possibly conflict, with company interests.
However, the act does of the Uk corporate governance code and its detailed provisions allow directors of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential save that abgs chairman, mr regent, was not independent on conflicts of interest where a companys articles of association contain appointment.
The directors consider that given mr regents a provision to that effect.
abgs articles of association contain such expertise in the industry, his familiarity with the assets comprised provision and a procedure for this.
in accordance with this procedure, within the abg group and his leading role with barrick, his presence the conflicts outlined above were declared and authorised by the board as chairman is in abgs best interests, even though he was not prior to the reporting period.
independent on appointment within the meaning of the Uk corporate governance code.
The monitoring and, if appropriate, authorisation of any actual or potential conflict of interest is an ongoing process.
directors are abgs external auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement, which required to notify the company of any material changes in positions it is required to review under the listing rules of the United kingdom or situations that have already been considered and any new situations.
in addition, directors are required to declare interests in potential or actual transactions and are required to abstain from voting on such in addition to compliance with the Uk corporate governance code, transactions, subject to permitted exceptions.
if a question arises as as part of commitments given in connection with abgs secondary to whether any interest of a director prevents him or her from voting listing on the dar es Salaam Stock Exchange, the board has undertaken or being counted in a quorum in the context of a potential or actual to comply with the corporate governance guidelines issued by the transaction, the matter is referred to the chairman, whose findings tanzanian capital markets and Securities authority to the extent are final and conclusive.
in the context of questions relating to any that these requirements are equivalent to applicable Uk corporate such conflict of the chairman, the question may ultimately be decided governance standards.
in the case of any conflict between the two, by a resolution of the other directors.
the requirements of the Uk corporate governance code prevail.
annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 89 Corporate governance continued Audit committee report compensation of the external auditors and reviewed and approved the auditors terms of engagement developed and implemented a policy for review and approval of non-audit fees and the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor reviewed the external audit plan and scope of work, and the findings arising from all audit work performed by external audit, ANDRE FAlZON, including reviewing the auditors view on the companys internal aUdit committEE cHair control environment and fraud risk management reviewed and made recommendations to the board in respect i am the chair of the committee and have over 25 years of practical of annual financial statements, quarterly and interim financial financial and management experience within the mining industry.
statements and related releases i am also a member of the certified general accountants canada reviewed key accounting policies and developments in financial and the institute of chartered accountants canada.
together, this reporting, regulatory and other changes provides me with the relevant financial experience required for my reviewing and monitoring the internal audit plan, together with position under applicable governance standards.
for the reporting internal audit reports, findings and monitoring of action plans period, James cross and michael kenyon comprise the other committee members.
all of us are determined to be independent met directly with the cfos and Head of internal audits in accordance with Uk corporate governance standards.
Under the direct reports and reviewed finance group structures, terms of reference, we are required to meet at least four times a year.
succession planning and compensation and remuneration The chief Executive officer, chief financial officer, the abg for these employees group financial controller, members of the treasury function, reviewed enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and litigation, the Head of risk and internal audit and the external auditors also legal and regulatory compliance and the policies, procedures attend committee meetings on a regular basis.
we also hold and whistle blowing arrangements in place in relation to the individual meetings with abgs external auditors and the Head of code of conduct, fraud and bribery risk and internal audit without management present to discuss reviewing specific areas of focus inventory movement, critical matters within our remit of responsibilities.
spares and finance and supply chain it systems upgrades our key responsibilities include oversight of financial reporting reviewed and approved, or recommended for approval to the and internal controls over financial reporting, overseeing the board, the financial management Policy, expanded financial groups relationship with its external auditors and abgs internal delegation matrix and procedures audit function, overseeing the external and internal audit processes reviewed the integrity of processes and obtained certifications generally and reviewing the effectiveness of the abg groups in relation to the public disclosure of information and the systems of internal control and financial reporting risk management.
companys external website review of senior management and directors expenses further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference are available for inspection on abgs website.
reviewed tax, hedge and deferred stripping accounting review of taxation matters Activities in 2011 Plans for 2012 we met six times during the year, four times in london, once in Johannesburg and once in dar es Salaam: members individual looking to 2012, we aim to continue the development of certain attendance is provided on page 85.
The committees key key elements of our work plan and have introduced two new achievements this year focused on the following: activities for the following year: assessment of the committees terms of reference, the Continuing activities effectiveness of the committee and the skills, experience and qualifications of its members assess the committees terms of reference, the effectiveness of the committee and the skills, experience and qualifications reviewed the performance of the companys auditors, made of its members recommendations to the board on the appointment and www.
com 90 oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information Nomination committee report review the performance of the companys auditors and make recommendations to the board on the appointment and compensation of the external auditors and review and approve the auditors terms of engagement review and approve non-audit fees review the external audit plan and scope of work, and the findings arising from all audit work performed by external audit, DEREK PANNEll, including reviewing the auditors view on the companys internal nomination committEE cHair control environment and fraud risk management review and make recommendations to the board in respect i act as chairman of the committee, aaron regent as of 29 november of annual financial statements, quarterly and interim financial 2011 and ambassador mwapachu comprise the other committee statements and related releases members for the reporting period.
Until 29 november 2011, Stephen review key accounting policies and developments in financial galbraith formed part of the committee, and we thank him for his reporting, regulatory and other changes contribution to its work.
it has been determined that the majority review and monitor the internal audit plan, together with of the members are independent, in line with Uk corporate internal audit reports, findings and monitoring of action plans governance requirements.
meet with direct reports to the cfo and Head of internal audit we play a leading role in reviewing the structure, size and and review finance group structures, succession planning and composition of the board and in reviewing prospective new compensation and remuneration for these employees board appointments.
we have primary responsibility for making review enterprise risk registers, tax disputes and litigation, recommendations to the board on its composition and the legal and regulatory compliance and the policies, procedures composition of board committees generally.
we also manage and whistle blowing arrangements in place in relation to the recommendations for the retirement and replacement of directors.
code of conduct, fraud and bribery Under the terms of reference, we are required to meet at least once a year.
new activities further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference review deployment of key finance and supply chain are available for inspection on abgs website.
systems upgrades review implementation of key information system upgrades Activities in 2011 that impact the financial reporting system.
we met twice during the year: members individual attendance is provided on page 85.
The committees key achievements this year were: a review of the boards structure, size and composition in the context of the companys position and strategy and development of a board skills matrix.
we also reviewed the current board against that matrix to identify opportunities to strengthen the board recommendations for board appointments and the reappointment of directors in accordance with the board assessment and skills matrix The identification and recruitment of two new directors with recognised expertise in areas important to the development of abg and the abg board recommendations for appointments to EHS&S chair and committee membership annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 91 Corporate governance continued EHS&S committee report Preparation of letters of appointment for new directors setting out the companys expectations of directors review of the performance of the committee, its constitution and the terms of reference and inclusion of these recommendations in the committees objectives for 2012 review and development of material relevant to the committees mandate for inclusion in public reports and documents DAvID HODGSON, review of key regulatory and other developments, including the EHS&S committEE cHair davies report, and making recommendations to the board in relation to developments i joined the company during the year, and succeeded bobby godsell identified focus and methodology for identification of a talent as chair of the committee as a result of my years of experience within pool for future appointments the operating environment of the african mining industry.
Stephen galbraith, derek Pannell and as of august 2011 ambassador Plans for 2012 mwapachu, make up the other members for the reporting period.
in 2012 we aim to continue the development of certain key actions Under the terms of reference, we are required to meet at least twice within the remit of our responsibilities and have introduced a year.
The chief Executive officer, chief operating officer and additional new actions to support our work plan: members of senior management within our security, environmental and community relations teams also attend committee meetings on a Continuing activities regular basis to discuss matters within our remit of responsibilities.
a further review of the boards structure, size and composition our key responsibilities include oversight of abgs development and if necessary, adjustment of the board skills matrix and of strategy and policy on environmental, occupational health and succession pool methodology safety, corporate social responsibility cSr and security matters: review the performance of the committee, its constitution and reviewing the effectiveness of group environmental, health and the terms of reference and develop any necessary action plans safety and security management programmes, systems and controls recommend board appointments and reappointment of and generally overseeing managements monitoring and evaluation directors in accordance with the board assessment and of emerging cSr issues to assess the potential impact on abgs skills matrix business and operations.
recommend appointments to chair and committee membership further details regarding the committee and its terms of reference as required are available for inspection on abgs website.
Prepare letters of appointment for new directors setting out the companys expectations of directors Activities in 2011 review and develop material relevant to the committees mandate we met four times during the year: members individual attendance for inclusion in public reports and documents is provided on page 85. all members of the committee have also review key regulatory and other developments in relation to spent a number of days on various occasions visiting the companys the committees mandate and make recommendations to the operations in tanzania.
The committees key achievements this year board as appropriate focused on the following: assessment of the committees terms of reference, the new activities effectiveness of the committee and the skills, experience develop a list of potential directors in accordance with the and qualifications of members of the committee priorities identified by the skills matrix including a thrust review and revision of terms of reference to include responsibility to increase diversity on the board for security and cSr develop formal succession plan for directors oversight of EHS&S and cSr strategy, performance, metrics, review senior management succession planning and make trends and incident reports appropriate recommendations to the board increasing measurement of key metrics, internally and against further develop the orientation process for new directors.
com 92 oVErViEw PErformancE GOvERNANCE financial SHarEHoldEr StatEmEntS information in relation to the areas the subject of the committees mandate, increasing measurement of key metrics, internally and against review internal audit and incident investigation processes, external benchmarks results and action plans, including the implementation of in relation to the areas the subject of the committees mandate, these action plans review internal audit and incident investigation processes, reviewed and developed material relevant to the committees results and action plans, including the implementation of mandate for inclusion in public reports and documents these action plans reviewed key regulatory and other developments relevant to review and develop material relevant to the committees mandate the committees mandate and made recommendations to the for inclusion in public reports and documents board in relation to developments review key regulatory and other developments relevant to the monitoring of permitting, and implementation of the committees mandate and make recommendations to the board Environmental management System upgrade in relation to developments review of cyanide code certification and compliance and monitoring of permitting, and implementation of the recommendations to the board to upgrade the buzwagi Environmental management System upgrade detoxification plant review of cyanide code certification and compliance and review of closure plan processes and rehabilitation costs and recommendations to the board to upgrade the buzwagi monitoring of environmental rehabilitation bond requests detoxification plant development and deployment of abg five critical Standards review of closure plan processes and rehabilitation costs and for oHS monitoring of environmental rehabilitation bond requests review of land compensation processes and provisions review of land compensation processes and provisions development of abg development maendeleo fund to review of government relations and engagement and public support community investment relations initiatives reviewed government relations and engagement and public oversight of the north mara co-Existence Plan relations initiatives review of compliance with Voluntary Principles on Security oversight of the north mara co-Existence Plan and Human rights and abg Human rights Policy reviewing compliance with Voluntary Principles on Security Provide strategic direction on illegal mining strategies and Human rights new activities Provide strategic direction on illegal mining strategies review of community relations Policy and Standards developing framework for committee meetings to focus on key issues formalisation of committee work plan adoption of abg Human rights Policy Exercising formal mandate of supervision of the abg development maendeleo fund Plans for 2012 conduct a review of retention and succession plans and in 2012 we aim to continue the development of certain key remuneration strategies for key staff in EHS&S and activities and have introduced new elements to our workplan in cSr functions.
accordance with areas falling within our remit of responsibilities: Continuing activities assessment of the committees terms of reference, the effectiveness of the committee and the skills, experience and qualifications of members of the committee review and revision of terms of reference to include responsibility for security and cSr oversight of EHS&S and cSr strategy, performance, metrics, trends and incident reports annUal rEPort and accoUntS 2011 93
