Nominations Committee report Committees role W e have identified the personal The Committee reviews the composition and balance of the attributes, background and Board and senior Executive team on a regular basis to ensure experience required by the that the Board and management have the right structure, Board to lead the next skills and experience in place for the effective management phase of growth.
of the Groups expanding business.
This review includes a forward-looking analysis of the skills and diversity required of Board members.
This analysis is reviewed and discussed with the Board, the primary aim being to schedule a progressive refreshment of the Board.
It is the Committees policy when conducting a search for a new Executive or a non-executive Director to appoint external search consultants to provide the Committee with long lists of candidates against an agreed role and experience specification from which a short list is produced.
Simon Thompson, Committee Chairman Member Number of Main responsibilities Committee member throughout 2011 meetings attended The main duties are: Simon Thompson From 16 May 2011 2 Chair from Reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board 1 January 2012 and making recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes required: 1 Pat Plunkett 5 9 Chair to Succession planning for Directors and other senior 31 December 2011 executives: 2 Identifying and nominating, for Board approval, candidates Tutu Agyare 9 5 to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: 2 David Bamford 9 5 Reviewing annually the time commitment required of Ann Grant 9 5 non-executive Directors: and Aidan Heavey 9 4 Making recommendations to the Board regarding membership of the Audit and Remuneration Committees Steven McTiernan 9 5 in consultation with the Chairman of each Committee.
Clare Spottiswoode To 12 May 2011 2 Committee membership 2 David Williams 9 5 The Committee currently comprises three non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer and met five 1 Ceased as a member of the Committee on retirement from the Board times during 2011.
Throughout the year, Pat Plunkett was on 31 December 2011 Chairman of the Committee until he retired from the Board 2 Ceased as members of the Committee on 17 January 2012 on 31 December 2011.
Simon Thompson was appointed as Committee Chairman from 1 January 2012.
On 17 January 2012, as part of a restructuring of all three Board Committees, the Board approved a reduction in the number of members on the Nominations Committee from seven to four with David Bamford, Tutu Agyare and David Williams ceasing to be members from that date.
The membership and attendance of members at Committee meetings held in 2011 are shown in the adjoining table.
Committee activities during the 2011 and subsequent to the year end Board refreshment In early 2011, the Committee recommended to the Board that the renewal of the terms of appointment for Clare Spottiswoode and Steven McTiernan, who had both been in office for more than nine years, should be for shorter periods than the usual three-year term.
This was with a view to considering appointing new non-executive 86 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 Directors in their place.
On 12 May 2011, Clare Spottiswoode to ensure that all appointments to the Board are based retired from the Board and Simon Thompson joined the upon merit and suitability of the candidate to the particular Board as a non-executive Director on 16 May 2011. role being filled.
Simon Thompson was selected from a shortlist of Senior Management succession planning The Committee candidates put forward by a specialist search consultancy.
has been closely involved with Executive Directors in Following an interview selection process and having reviewing the Senior Management talent pool within received and evaluated feedback from Board members, Tullow.
The aim is to ensure that an agreed programme the Committee recommended to the Board that he be is established to identify those individuals who could be appointed as an additional non-executive Director with developed to take on newly created senior roles as the effect from 16 May 2011.
This recommendation was Group grows or who could be considered as suitable approved by the Board in March 2011. candidates to fill existing roles.
Since the end of 2011, and to provide continuity, the Board Committee membership The Committee is Board has extended the term of appointment for Steven responsible for nominating appropriate individuals for McTiernan to 31 December 2012.
It is intended that a new membership of the Boards Committees.
Following the non-executive Director be appointed in Mr McTiernans year-end, a number of changes have been made to the place no later than 31 December 2012. composition of the Board Committees to ensure that they are comprised of individuals with the necessary skills, On 12 March 2012, the Board approved recommendations knowledge and experience.
by the Committee that Steve Lucas be appointed as an additional non-executive Director with effect from 14 March Committee Evaluation The performance of the 2012 and as Chairman designate of the Audit Committee.
Committee was evaluated as part of the annual This follows David Williams decision to retire from the Board evaluation exercise.
Board and as Chairman of the Audit Committee at the conclusion of the AGM on 16 May 2012.
Steve Lucas will then assume Chairmanship of that Committee.
Chairman succession Pat Plunkett had advised the Board in early 2011 that he intended to retire as Chairman by the 2012 AGM.
Accordingly, the Committee commenced a search process in June 2011 for a range of external candidates to interview and evaluate as his successor.
Following a comprehensive selection process, the Committee made a recommendation to the Board that Simon Thompson, a current Tullow non-executive Director, be appointed Chairman with effect from 1 January 2012.
The recommendation was approved by the Board on 8 November 2012.
The Committee will commence a search for a replacement non-executive Director during the course of 2012.
Board Diversity Following the publication of the Davies Report Women on Boards in February 2011, the Committee reviewed a statement of Tullows goals on diversity which was subsequently agreed by the Board.
This statement, published on the Tullow website in September 2011, affirms that the Board strongly supports the analysis and principles of the Davies Report and shares its aspiration that 25% of Board positions should be filled by women by 2015.
In tandem, the Committee has reviewed the Boards succession planning and selection procedures and will encourage executive search consultants appointed to assist in the selection process for both new Executive and nonexecutive Directors to include the strongest possible field of female candidates when presenting their long lists of candidates.
Notwithstanding the Boards intention of increasing the diversity of its composition whether based upon gender or other attributes, its overriding objective is 87 www.
