Chairmans introduction continued the median.
The Remuneration Committee is cognisant of the Board time current sensitivity relating to executive director remuneration Uganda took up a considerable amount of the Boards time but believes that a strong emphasis on long-term performanceagain during 2011, as would be expected given the strategic related pay continues to be appropriate and helps ensure that importance of this major project.
Corporate responsibility the Tullows remuneration policy does not encourage governance, environment, health and safety, human resources inappropriate risk-taking.
Full details are set out in the and stakeholder management took up a third of the Boards Remuneration Committee report, which commences time, which underlines the importance of our wider social and on page 88 of this report.
Strategy and risk management are core elements of the Boards activities and in 2012 we will seek to increase the amount of time we spend preparing for the future and discussing the major opportunities and challenges that the Group faces.
A full breakdown of Board time in 2011 is on page 77.
2011 BOARD OBJECTIVES Our goal in T ullow is to follow the principle that Ensure sufficient Board time is given to strategic debate, listening to Corporate external views and the determination of new options to generate good behaviour is an strategy long-term value.
integral part of doing Formally review corporate strategy at least annually.
your job and that full compliance is expected, Principal risks and uncertainties in relation to the Groups financial and Corporate risk operational performance in 2011 are set out in the risk management whether you are staff, report on page 40.
In addition the Board has an objective to ensure that a contractor or supplier.
major corporate risks continue to be identified and that adequate systems, processes and procedures are in place to monitor and mitigate them.
Specific corporate risks currently identified are: 1.
Health and safety, with particular emphasis on malaria awareness and prevention: 3.
UK Bribery Act and Tullows Code of Business Conduct: 4.
Implement succession plan for Chairman and non-executive Directors.
Board Committees Review and revise remuneration structure to align with current phase of growth.
Re-visit composition of Board Committees.
Further improve Board visibility both as a whole and as individual Directors and examine the effectiveness of internal communications in assessing the views of employees, both long-serving and new joiners.
The Chairman is to agree formal training and development plans with Training of each Director and review progress in completing these plans.
Directors A more thorough review of electronic web-based Board administration Graham Martin Board systems will be made in 2011 to enhance Board efficiency.
General Counsel administration and Company Secretary 78 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE More information Page 4 Chairmans statement 8 Directors remuneration report 88 Board performance evaluation 103 I am delighted to have taken on the role as Chairman of Tullow and welcome shareholder feedback.
If you have any comments or observations please feel free to email me at chairman@tullowoil.
Simon R Thompson Chairman 13 March 2012 2011 PERFORMANCE 2012 BOARD OBJECTIVES At a two-day offsite mid-year, the Board received strategic Annual strategy review to focus on risk management: Strategy presentations from heads of business units and functions and resource allocation within the portfolio of exploration, reviewed the overall Group strategy.
Approximately 40% of Board appraisal and development projects: and time in 2011 was devoted to strategic discussions, assisted by building organisational capacity to meet our presentations from external parties.
Strategy to be regularly updated, incorporating The Board is satisfied that appropriate discussion took place external views on economic and political in 2011 around the principal identified risks, with particular emphasis developments in host countries.
last year on health and safety issues including malaria prevention, bribery and corruption and organisational overstretch.
As a result Continue to ensure that the Groups financial and Risk some policy and procedural improvements were identified which will operating risks are identified and that adequate be carried forward for action in 2012. management systems and processes are in place to monitor and mitigate them, with a particular focus on: 1.
Improving quality of Board reporting on evolving risks: 4.
EHS and asset integrity: and The appointment of Simon Thompson to replace Pat Plunkett 6.
Maintaining and enhancing the Tullow culture.
A clear succession plan for other non-executive Directors is now being implemented, at a pace Improve quality of succession planning for the Board Succession designed to ensure a measure of continuity.
planning A revised remuneration structure for Executives Directors was Implement succession plan for the chair of the Audit developed in 2011 and approved by shareholders.
Committee and two other non-executive Directors.
The composition of Board committees was reviewed and a Review remuneration structure and KPIs to ensure Board restructuring agreed which was implemented shortly after alignment with evolving strategic objectives and risk Committees year end.
While the Board believes there is always room for improvement Agree strategy and criteria for Director succession in Board visibility and communications, there were a significant number at the full Board.
of Group-wide events in 2011 at which Board members were able to meet a wide cross section of employees.
Reduce size of Nominations Committee and use it to execute the agreed strategy.
All directors underwent some training in 2011, usually of a type identified by themselves as being required or helpful in their Ensure appropriate frequency of Board level Board visibility, respective roles, rather than as part of a formal plan.
The Board interactions with employees, key decision makers engagement and intend to introduce more formality into this process in 2012. and other opinion formers in countries of operation.
communication A thorough review was carried out of web-based Board Review Talk Back staff climate survey and take administration packages and a supplier selected.
be implemented in the first half of 2012.
Implement electronic distribution of Board papers.
Board procedures Implement 12 month rolling agenda to enhance Board planning.
