CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Board of Directors 4 E XPERIENCED LEADERSHIP The Board is well balanced in terms of composition, experience and length of tenure.
EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Aidan Heavey Paul McDade Ian Springett Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer Chief Financial Officer Age: 58 Age: 48 Age: 54 Nationality: Irish Nationality: British Nationality: British Tenure: 26 years Tenure: 5 years Tenure: 3 years Term of office: Rolling 1 year Term of office: Rolling 1 year Term of office: Rolling 1 year Service contract: Dated 2 September 2002 Service contract: Dated 29 March 2006 Service contract: Dated 1 September 2008 Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual A founding Director and shareholder of Paul McDade was appointed to the Board in A Chartered Accountant, Ian Springett was the Company, Aidan Heavey has played a key 2006.
Mr McDade joined Tullow in 2001 and appointed Chief Financial Officer and to the role in the development of Tullow from its was appointed Chief Operating Officer Board in 2008.
Prior to joining Tullow, he formation in 1985 to its current international following the Energy Africa acquisition in worked at BP for 23 years where he gained status as a leading independent oil and 2004, having previously managed Tullows UK a wealth of international oil and gas gas exploration and production group.
An engineer with over 25 years experience.
Most recently at BP, he was the A Chartered Accountant, he previously experience, he has worked in various group vice president for planning with other held roles in the airline and engineering operational, commercial and management senior positions including commercial sectors in Ireland.
roles with Conoco, Lasmo and ERC.
He has director of the supply and trading business, broad international experience having worked upstream CFO, vice president of finance, Committee membership: in the UK North Sea, Latin America, Africa US CFO and a business unit leader in Alaska.
and South East Asia and holds degrees in Civil Prior to joining BP, he qualified with Engineering and Petroleum Engineering.
Other directorships and offices: Aidan is a director of Traidlinks, an Irish-based charity established to develop and promote enterprise and diminish poverty in the Angus McCoss developing world, particularly in Africa.
He is Exploration Director a member of the UCD Michael Smurfit Age: 50 Graduate Business School, Dublin.
Nationality: British Tenure: 5 years Term of office: Rolling 1 year Service contract: Dated 18 April 2006 Graham Martin Re-election to Board: Annual General Counsel & Company Secretary Age: 57 Angus McCoss was appointed to the Board in Nationality: British December 2006.
He is a geologist with a BP Tenure: 15 years sponsored PhD and, prior to joining Tullow in Term of office: Rolling 1 year April 2006 as General Manager Exploration, Service contract: Dated 2 September 2002 he had 21 years of wide-ranging exploration Re-election to Board: Annual experience, working primarily with Shell in Africa, Europe, China, South America and the Graham Martin is a UK solicitor and joined Middle East.
He held a number of senior Tullow as Legal and Commercial Director positions within Shell including Americas in 1997 from Vinson & Elkins, a leading Regional Vice President Exploration and international law practice.
Prior to that, he General Manager of Exploration in Nigeria.
was a partner in Dickson Minto WS, a UK corporate law firm.
He has over 30 years Other directorships and offices: experience of UK and international corporate Angus is currently a non-executive director and energy transactions and has been the of Ikon Science Limited and a member of the principal legal adviser to Tullow since its Advisory Board of the industry-backed formation in 1985.
He was appointed General Energy and Geoscience Institute of the Counsel in 2004 and Company Secretary University of Utah.
com Board of Directors continued Board split Executive Directors 5 Non-executive Directors 5 Chairman 1 NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS Simon Thompson Steven McTiernan David Williams Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-executive Director Age: 52 Age: 60 Age: 66 Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: British Tenure: 10 months Tenure: 10 years Tenure: 5 years Term of office: 3 years Term of office: 10 months Term of office: 3 years Letter of appointment: Letter of appointment: Letter of appointment: Dated 16 December 2011 Dated 28 February 2012 Dated 8 December 2009 Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Simon Thompson was appointed as a Steven McTiernan was appointed as a David Williams was appointed as a nonnon-executive Director in May 2011 and non-executive Director in 2002 and was executive Director in 2006.
A Chartered was appointed non-executive Chairman appointed Senior Independent Director in Accountant, he brings a wealth of public from 1 January 2012.
Mr McTiernan began his career as a company experience to Tullow from many geology and brings a wealth of international petroleum engineer, working with BP, Amoco years with Bunzl plc where he was finance investment banking and natural resources and Mesa in the Middle East and the UK.
director until he retired in 2006, and prior to knowledge and experience, especially in In 1979, he joined Chase Manhattan Bank, that as finance director of Tootal Group plc.
From 1985, he held investment where he became senior vice-president Committee membership: Audit Chairman banking roles at N M Rothschild and and head of the banks energy group based and Remuneration Committees.
In 1995, he joined the Anglo in New York.
American group where he held a number of Other directorships and offices: David Committee membership: Audit, Nominations senior positions including chief executive of is the joint chairman of Mondi plc.
He is and Remuneration Committees.
the base metals division, chairman of the also the senior independent director of exploration division and chairman of the Other directorships and offices: From Meggitt PLC and a non-executive director Tarmac Group.
1996 to 2001 Steven held senior energyof DP World Limited, a Dubai quoted related positions at NatWest Markets and company, and is chairman of the audit Committee membership: Nominations CIBC World Markets.
He is currently principal committee at both companies.
From 2007 Chairman and Remuneration Committees.
of Sandown Energy Consultants Limited, to 2010, he was the senior independent Other directorships and offices: Simon was a natural resources advisory firm based director of Taylor Wimpey plc.
appointed an executive director of Anglo in London, and a non-executive director American plc in 2005.
Since leaving Anglo of First Quantum Minerals Limited.
American in 2007, he has held a number of non-executive director positions.
These currently include Newmont Mining Corporation USA, Sandvik AB Sweden and AMEC plc UK.
82 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 Ann Grant David Bamford Tutu Agyare Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Age: 63 Age: 65 Age: 49 Nationality: British Nationality: British Nationality: Ghanaian Tenure: 3 years Tenure: 7 years Tenure: 1 year Term of office: 3 years Term of office: 3 years Term of office: 3 years Letter of appointment: Letter of appointment: Letter of appointment: Dated 19 April 2011 Dated 30 June 2010 Dated 24 August 2010 Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Re-election to Board: Annual Ann Grant was appointed as a non-executive David Bamford was appointed as a nonTutu Agyare was appointed as a nonDirector in May 2008.
She joined the UK executive Director in 2004.
With a PhD in executive Director in August 2010.
He is Diplomatic Service in 1971: from 1998, she Geological Sciences, he has had over 23 currently a managing partner at Nubuke worked at the Foreign and Commonwealth years exploration experience with BP where Investments, an asset management firm Office in London as Director for Africa he was chief geophysicist from 1990 to 1995, focused solely on Africa, which he founded and the Commonwealth, and from 2000 to general manager for West Africa from 1995 in 2007.
Previously, he had a 21-year career 2005 was British High Commissioner to to 1998, and acted as vice president, with UBS Investment Bank, holding a South Africa.
exploration, directing BPs global exploration number of senior positions, most recently programme, from 2001 to 2003. as the head of european emerging markets, Committee membership: Audit and and a member of the investment bank Nominations Committees.
Tutu brings a wealth of experience Remuneration Committee Chairman.
to the Tullow Board as the Group continues Other directorships and offices: In 2005, to expand its business in Africa.
He has a Ann joined Standard Chartered Bank as Other directorships and offices: David degree in Mathematics and Computing.
vice chairman, Standard Chartered Capital is a director or adviser to several small Markets.
She is a board member of the companies, including his own consultancy, Committee membership: Audit and Overseas Development Institute and an and he writes regularly for journals such as Remuneration Committees.
independent trustee on the UK Disasters OilVoice and GeoExpro.
He co-founded Finding Emergency Committee.
Petroleum and OilEdge as vehicles for online Other directorships and offices: Tutu communication in the oil and gas industry.
is a director of the Nubuke Foundation, a Ghanaian-based cultural and educational foundation.
