Corporate responsibility CREATING SHARED PROSPERITY We have made a commitment to playing our part in ensuring that the success of the oil and gas industry brings transparent and tangible benefits to local people and national economies where we operate.
GOVERNANCE Tullow is involved in developing new oil industries in Ghana Managing our business ethically and with integrity and Uganda.
The Group is also engaged in high-impact E&A campaigns in Africa and the Atlantic Margins in up to 14 2011 highlights countries within the next 12 months.
This level of activity Launch of the new Tullow Code of Business Conduct is driving an accelerating step change in our corporate responsibilities as we seek to manage complex operations Membership of Transparency Internationals Corporate in diverse political, social and environmental contexts.
Our Supporters Forum and became a supporter of the success in discovering three new oil basins in the last five years Extractives Industry Transparency Initiative EITI has also significantly raised Tullows profile and we are dealing Successful defence of fictitious allegations of with an ever increasing group of stakeholders with disparate corruption in Uganda and sometimes conflicting agendas.
New Code of Business Conduct The Creating Shared Prosperity element of Tullows business The highlight of 2011 activity in governance & compliance was model brings together eight areas of focus to ensure we make the launch of the new Tullow Code of Business Conduct the a lasting and positive contribution wherever we operate.
It also Code in August by the Chief Executive Officer, Aidan Heavey.
helps shape our investment in projects that establish clear links Our reputation with our investors, partners and those between the need to manage our impacts and to achieve our communities of which we are part is based on our collective strategic objectives.
Other aspects of the business model, notably behaviour.
Tullow expects every employee and all those who Finance & portfolio management, Governance & values and work on the Groups behalf to exercise good judgement and Organisation & culture, are also considered to be key common sense while carrying out our business activities.
contributors to creating shared prosperity.
Everyone working for Tullow is personally responsible for living our values, following the Code and ensuring that we conduct We provide a summary here of how we performed in 2011. our business safely and in a fair, honest and ethical manner.
A detailed review will be published in a separate Corporate During the year Tullow was accepted as a member of Responsibility CR Report which will be available in June this year.
Transparency Internationals Corporate Supporters Forum.
The Group also became a supporter of EITI.
These are particularly relevant to Tullow given its area of operations FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE in developing regions.
Delivering returns for shareholders and providers of capital Compliance awareness training In 2011, an ongoing Group-wide awareness programme was The cornerstone of creating shared prosperity is to be a developed for employees and contract staff, covering the successful and profitable company.
This enables us to fund new Code and the UK Bribery Act.
A number of policies exploration-led growth, invest in major development projects, and guidance documents have been introduced to support meet our commitments to suppliers and employees and the embedding of the Code throughout the business.
generate returns for shareholders and other providers of These are outlined on page 73. capital.
It also enables us to create opportunities for local suppliers, local national employees and local communities.
Highlights of our record financial performance in 2011 are on page 4, with full details in the Financial review starting on page 34.
62 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY More information Page 3 Special feature: Clear vision 13 Operations review 48 Chairmans introduction to corporate governance 76 First industry partner forum on compliance and ethics held in bangladesh Tullows Compliance team, along with Supply Chain in Bangladesh, hosted their first Industry Partner compliance workshop in January 2012.
19 representatives from 17 companies attended, mainly from the construction and logistics sectors.
The forum featured an overview of anti-bribery legislation, including the UK Bribery Act 2010, and outlined Tullows compliance expectations of Industry Partners.
The forum also covered the importance of due diligence, the effects of noncompliant behaviour and details of Tullows confidential reporting line.
In addition, the Industry Partners were given an overview of Tullows Code of Business Conduct, introducing key supplier related elements such as our gifts and hospitality policy and facilitation payments guidance.
The issue of facilitation payments was an area of particular interest when Tullow and the Industry Partners discussed the challenges of working in developing countries.
Compliance Manager centre at Industry Partners compliance workshop in Bangladesh.
Speaking up Code of business conduct Tullow encourages everyone to promptly report any concerns The Code is published online at they have about the Groups business practices or where www.
com code someone is concerned or suspects that the Code has been breached.
Where staff do not feel comfortable reporting A booklet has been rolled out to all Tullow concerns internally speaking up provides an alternative means employees and contract staff.
A network of of reporting via an independent, confidential reporting line compliance champions in all countries is being operated by Safecall, which is available 24 hours a day and developed and a group of employees are being seven days a week.
All calls are treated in confidence by trained trained to enable local offices to investigate operators who take full details of the issue and then relay this breaches of the Code.
to the Group Compliance Manager to initiate any appropriate actions.
While there were no calls to Safecall during 2011, there was an increase in internal reporting and a total of 12 investigations were carried out.
As a consequence three people have left Tullow and one contract with a supplier has been terminated.
Dealing with fictitious allegations As discussed in the Chairmans statement on page 8, allegations of corruption were made against Tullow employees in the Ugandan parliament in October 2011.
These accusations, which were based on forged documents, were vigorously defended by Tullow, and found to be untrue.
The Group Compliance Manager reported the allegations to the UK Serious Fraud Office and kept them informed throughout the process of proving these allegations to be false.
