Audit Committee report Governance The Committee met on David Williams, who is Chairman of the Committee, is a four occasions and fully Chartered Accountant and until his retirement in 2006 was discharged its main finance director of Bunzl plc.
It is a requirement of the UK responsibilities Corporate Governance Code that at least one Committee during the year.
member has recent and relevant financial experience.
David Williams therefore meets this requirement.
The Groups external auditors are Deloitte LLP and the Committee closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit services they provide to the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that are closely related to the annual audit or where the work is of such a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
A policy for David Williams, Committee Chairman the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services is in place to formalise these arrangements which Member Number of requires Audit Committee approval for certain categories of Committee member throughout 2011 meetings attended work.
This policy has been reviewed and updated in line with David Williams 9 4 updated Audit Practice Board Ethical Standards and FRC Chair Guidance to Audit Committees, and is available on the corporate website.
Tutu Agyare 9 4 1 David Bamford 9 4 A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect of audit and non-audit work is included in note 5 to the financial Ann Grant 9 4 statements.
In addition to processes put in place to ensure Steven McTiernan 9 4 segregation of audit and non-audit roles, Deloitte LLP are required as part of the assurance process in relation to the Clare Spottiswoode To 12 May 2011 1 audit, to confirm to the Committee that they have both the 2 appropriate independence and the objectivity to allow them SimonThompson 9 2 to continue to serve the members of the Company.
This confirmation was given and no matters of concern were 1 Ceased as a member of the Committee on 17 January 2012.
2 Ceased as a member of the Committee on appointment as Chairman identified by the Committee.
of the Company on 1 January 2012.
The Chief Financial Officer, the Group Internal Audit Manager, Main responsibilities the General Manager Finance, the Deputy Company Secretary Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements and representatives of the external auditors are invited to attend and formal announcements relating to the Groups each meeting of the Committee and participated in all of the financial performance: meetings during 2011.
The Chairman of the Board also attends Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and meetings of the Committee by invitation and was present at all accounting policies and disclosures in financial reports: of the meetings in 2011.
The external auditors have unrestricted access to the Committee Chairman.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control procedures and risk management systems: During the 2011 audit process, the Audit Committee Chairman Considering how the Groups internal audit requirements met with Deloittes audit engagement partner without the shall be satisfied and making recommendations to the Board: presence of management.
Making recommendations to the Board on the appointment Meetings or re-appointment of the Groups external auditors: In 2011, the Audit Committee met on four occasions.
Meetings Overseeing the Boards relationship with the external are scheduled to allow sufficient time to enable full discussion auditors and, where appropriate, the selection of new of key topics.
The key work undertaken by the Committee was external auditors: and as follows: Ensuring that an effective whistle-blowing procedure Consideration and review of full-year and half-yearly results is in place.
The Committee met with the external auditors as a part of the full-year and half-yearly accounts approval process.
The Audit Committee terms of reference can be accessed via the corporate website.
The Board approved the terms of During this exercise the Committee considered the most reference in December 2011.
The Committee fully discharged appropriate treatment and disclosure of any new or these responsibilities during the year.
judgemental matters identified during the audit or halfyearly review, as well as any recommendations or observations made by the external auditors.
84 Tullow Oil plc 2011 Annual Report and Accounts CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 4 Audit planning and update on relevant accounting developments Review of the whistle-blowing arrangements The Group prepares financial statements under In line with best practice and to ensure Tullow works to the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS.
The highest ethical standards, an independent whistle-blowing adoption of new and revised Standards and Interpretations procedure has been in operation during the year to allow during 2011 and their impact on the financial statements staff to confidentially raise any concerns about business are described in the accounting policies commencing on practices.
This procedure complements the established page 118. internal reporting process.
The whistle-blowing policy is included in the revised Code of Business Conduct which is The Audit Committee approved the scope of the work to available on the corporate website.
The Committee considers be undertaken by the external auditors for half-year and the whistle-blowing procedures to be appropriate for the size year-end statutory audits.
Consideration and approval of the risk management Review the Audit Committee terms of reference framework, annual Internal Audit Plan, internal audit The Committee reviewed its terms of reference during resources and periodic reports from Internal Audit the year.
These are in line with the best practice guidance.
The Group Internal Audit Manager has direct access and responsibility to the Audit Committee.
His main Review of the effectiveness of the Audit Committee responsibilities include: evaluating and developing the During the year, the Audit Committee completed a review of Groups overall control environment, operating efficiency the effectiveness of external audit, internal audit and of the and risk identification and management at operating, Audit Committee itself.
This was conducted through a series regional and corporate levels.
In fulfilling his role, the Group of questionnaires.
Internal Audit coordinated the review.
The Internal Audit Manager has direct access to the Committee review also incorporated the results of the Board evaluation without reference to Executive Management.
During 2011, with the combined results presented to the members of the the Group Internal Audit Manager met with the Audit Audit Committee.
The Committee was considered to be Committee Chairman without the presence of management operating effectively and in accordance with the guidance to discuss the planning of Audit Committee meetings and to recommended by the Smith Committee included in the UK brief him on the results of audits completed.
The Group Corporate Governance Code.
Internal Audit Manager also supported the development of Audit Committee meeting agendas with the Chairman with The Internal Audit team was further strengthened through input from the CFO and General Manager Finance.
the recruitment of additional resources and the adoption of updated procedures to enhance audit processes.
The Committee approved the programme of 2011 internal audit work aimed at addressing both financial and overall In addition to the questionnaire-based review of risk management objectives identified within the Group.
effectiveness, the Audit Committee also assessed the 31 internal audit reviews were undertaken during 2011, qualification, expertise and resources, and independence covering a range of financial and business processes in of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit the Groups main business units in London and Dublin, process.
This covered all aspects of the audit service the main operational locations in Ghana and Uganda, as provided by Deloitte LLP, including obtaining a report on well as a review of the new Kenya operations.
Detailed the audit firms own internal quality control procedures results from these reviews were reported to management and consideration of audit firms annual transparency and in summary to the Audit Committee during the year.
reports in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Recommendations made as a result of the work of Internal The Audit Committee also approved the external audit Audit are tracked for timely implementation and reported to terms of engagement and remuneration.
As a result the Audit Committee periodically.
No significant weaknesses of these reviews, the Audit Committee considered the were identified as a result of risk management and internal external audit process to be operating effectively.
controls reviews undertaken by Internal Audit during 2011.
The UK Corporate Governance Code states that the Audit The Group also undertook regular audits of non-operated Committee should have primary responsibility for making a joint ventures under the supervision of business unit recommendation on the appointment, re-appointment or management and the Group Internal Audit Manager.
removal of the external auditors.
On the basis of the review In addition, the Committee oversees the work of the of external audit effectiveness, the Committee recommended independent reserves auditors ERC and the arrangements to the Board that it recommends to shareholders the in place for managing Information Technology risk relating re-appointment of the auditors at the 2012 AGM.
to the Groups critical information systems.
The Group Tax Manager also provided an update to the Audit Committee on tax processes and controls established to mitigate operational and strategic tax risks.
