Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements Corporate governance statement Chairmans introduction Compliance Statement The Board of UBM is responsible for the Groups policy on corporate governance.
This statement explains how UBM has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The directors consider that during 2011 UBM complied with all provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code, with the exception of section B.
This provision first applied to the Company with effect from 2011 and was considered John Botts by the Board at the start of the year.
It was decided not to adopt the requirement in 2011 but to keep it under review, having regard to developing market practice.
Governance became an important theme in society around the world in 2011, The Board has now resolved to adopt this provision with effect from the Annual with public awareness of issues such as corruption and corporate excess growing General Meeting to be held in 2012. in many countries.
As a Board, we are ultimately responsible for framing As a company with its shares listed on the London Stock Exchange, UBM is andexecuting the Groups strategy and for overseeing risk management.
subject to the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and complies with Managementof risk is not limited to financial or strategic matters but the provisions of the Code and relevant institutional shareholder guidelines as increasingly encompasses areas such as business conduct and ethics which described in this statement.
Although UBM is not subject to UK companies legislation, the Board considers We consider the practice of good governance to be integral to the Boards role it appropriate to provide shareholder safeguards which are similar to those that andwe remain committed to maintaining high standards of financial reporting, would have applied to UBM plc and are consistent with the relevant provisions transparency and business integrity in all the Groups undertakings.
The following report describes in more detail how we seek to embed good governance in the Boards activities.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility to shareholders for the management of theGroup.
The primary function of the Board is to set the Groups strategy and to oversee the effective implementation of that strategy.
A formal schedule of matters to be considered by the Board is in place and is reviewed annually, most recently in February 2012.
Responsibilities reserved to the Board include: Approval of the annual budget including capital expenditure andTreasurypolicy: John Botts Approval of the Groups strategy: Chairman Approval of the interim and annual financial statements: UBM plc Succession planning: Dividend policy: Major acquisitions and disposals and substantial property transactions: and The Groups system of internal controls.
Decisions on operational matters are delegated to the executive directors and todivisional boards under formally documented authorities.
There is an established agenda of items to be considered at Board meetings, which provides regular updates on the Groups finances, operations, strategy and development.
Presentations are made by executive directors and by divisional management and other senior executives on specific issues.
Papers for Board and committee meetings are generally circulated at least six days before the relevant meeting and include written reports from the CEO and CFO and Company Secretary.
Other papers relating to matters such as talent management, potential acquisitions and divisional presentations are included as appropriate.
Board meetings usually last for between three and four hours and are generally followed by a dinner to which members of divisional management and other guests are frequently invited.
The Board has six scheduled meetings per annum and meetings may be convened at other times as and when necessary: six scheduled Board meetings were held during the year.
Four meetings were held in Dublin, one in New York and one in Shanghai, where the Board also visited the Furniture China Exhibition, one of UBMs largest exhibitions, operated by our Chinese joint venture company UBM Sinoexpo.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 65 Section 2: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Details of individual attendance bydirectors at Board and committee meetings Board committees in 2011 are set out below.
The Board is assisted in fulfilling its responsibilities by three principal Audit Remuneration Nomination committees, the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
Details of Board Committee Committee Committee the activities of the Audit Committee are set out in a separate report on page 69 Director 6 meetings 3 meetings 4 meetings 8 meetings while those of the Remuneration Committee are set out in the Directors John Botts 6 2 of 2 Remuneration Report on pages 55 to 64.
David Levin 6 Membership of the Board committees was reviewed during the year, having Robert Gray 6 regard to the requirements of the Code, and a number of changes were made Alan Gillespie 6 4 8 inMay 2011: Jonathan Newcomb stepped down from the Remuneration Pradeep Kar 6 3 of 4 Committee and was replaced by Greg Lock: and Terry Neill and Karen Thomson were appointed to the Nomination Committee.
Greg Lock 6 2 of 3 1 of 2 Terry Neill 6 3 5 of 5 The terms of reference for all committees may be viewed on the Companys website and copies can be obtained from the Company Secretary, who acts as Jonathan Newcomb 6 3 1 of 1 8 secretary to all three committees.
Karen Thomson 6 3 3 of 5 Pradeep Kar was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting owing to a Nomination Committee pre-existing diary commitment.
Greg Lock was unable to attend one Audit Committee and one Remuneration Committee meeting owing to a pre-existing diary commitment.
Karen Thomson was unable to attend two Nomination Committee meetings owing to pre-existing personal and professional commitments.
During 2011 the Boards activities included the following: John Botts Jonathan Newcomb Karen Thomson Ongoing review of strategy, undertaking in-depth strategic reviews of many ofour businesses: Consideration of capital structure and liquidity: Reviewed talent management and leadership development around the Group and undertook succession planning: Commenced a major project to standardise finance, data and reporting Terry Neill Alan Gillespie systems around the Group: The Nomination Committee is usually chaired by John Botts: its other members, Reviewed corporate governance and regulatory issues affecting the Board, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, are Jonathan Newcomb, including consideration of the UK Bribery Act and its implications for the Group as a whole: Alan Gillespie and with effect from May 2011 Terry Neill and Karen Thomson.
Approved the full year and interim financial results: The role of the Nomination Committee is to ensure an appropriate balance of Approved the Groups budget for 2012: experience and abilities on the Board, by reviewing the size and composition of Approved the Groups dividend policy: the Board and recommending any proposed changes.
Reviewed the Groups risk profile and risk management processes.
During 2011 the Nomination Committee undertook the following activities: The approximate apportionment of Board time was as follows: Initiating the search for a new Chairman to replace John Botts, who retires in May 2012: Board allocation of time Considering the re-election of Directors at the 2011 Annual General 1.
Strategy 26% 1 Meeting, specifically assessing the independence of Jonathan Newcomb, 6 2.
Presentations from operat ional who has been a Non-Executive Director for more than nine years: 28% management including site visits Reviewing committee membership and recommending a number of changes, 5 3.
Finance 20% which were adopted by the Board as outlined under the previous section 4 headed Board Committees : 4.
Talent management and succession planning 7% 2 Considering and making recommendations to the Board as to the use of an 9% 5.
Risk management external facilitator to undertake the Board evaluation process.
Governance 10% 3 In accordance with provision B.
2.1 of the Code, the Senior Independent Director Alan Gillespie chaired the Committee for the purpose of dealing with the Chairman succession.
The process was as follows: The Committee appointed an external search firm selected from a shortlist of three firms and prepared a detailed role specification which was then reviewed and input provided by other Board members.
A list of potential candidates whose experience and skills matched the specification was identified and considered by the Committee, and a short list prepared.
The shortlisted candidates were interviewed by the Committee and by other Board members and an appointment is expected to be made at or prior to the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
66 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements The Nomination Committees terms of reference are available on the Length of tenure of independent non-executive directors Companyswebsite.
23 years T erry Neill 1 Board balance and independence 5 2 3.
34 years Allan Gillespie 1 At the date of this statement there are nine Board members, comprising 4.
56 years P radeep Kar, Karen Thomson 2 theChairman part-time, two executive and six non-executive directors.
10 years Jonathan Newcomb 1 AlanGillespie is the Senior Independent non-executive director.
3 The Board believes that a strong presence of non-executive directors is a key 4 aspect of effective corporate governance and seeks to maintain an appropriate balance of expertise and knowledge of the Companys business.
The tenure oftherespective non-executive directors ranges from 2 years to 10 years as Geographic range of experience of non-executive directors shownopposite.
USA 4 1 The Board considers all its non-executive directors who served during 2011 to be 2.
The Board assesses and periodically reviews the independence of its 3.
Asia 2 non-executive directors: in making its assessment it has regard primarily to the 4 4.
Europe excluding UK 3 personal qualities demonstrated by each director, particularly their character and 2 judgement and the nature and effectiveness of their contribution to debate at Board and committee meetings.
It also takes account of the factors specifically 3 identified in section B.
1.1 of the Code as potentially relevant in determining independence.
Jonathan Newcomb has served for more than nine years on the Board, having Gender diversity been anon-executive director since September 2001.
The Board highly values MrNewcombs experience and detailed knowledge of the sector within which The Board has taken note of the recommendations of the Davies report on UBM operates, and considers that the quality of his continuing contribution Gender Diversity and of the changes to the Code that are to be introduced for toBoard debate amply demonstrates an appropriate measure of objective reporting periods starting on or after 1 October 2012.
The issue of diversity in analysisand challenge.
Accordingly the Board considers Mr Newcomb to be Board composition was specifically addressed as part of the Board Evaluation independent.
The Board also considers that the presence on the Board of five process that was undertaken in 2011 see Board Evaluation below.
The Board other independent non-executive directors provides an appropriate balance supports the principle of improving gender imbalance both at Board level and ofexperience, as illustrated in the graph opposite.
throughout its businesses, and is addressing this as described below.
Non-executive directors appointments are reviewed every three years.
With In 2011, UBM established a goal to increase the number of women in senior effect from 2012 their appointments will also be subject to annual re-election business leadership roles and put in place a number of initiatives to ensure that byshareholders.
our talented female employees can achieve their career aspirations with UBM.
Aseries of workshops was held in May, during which 85 of UBMs high potential Biographies of all the directors currently in office are set out on pages 52 and 54 women shared their experiences of developing their careers with the Group.
and illustrate their range of experience.
Asan outcome of these workshops, UBM has put in place guidelines to ensure A process is in place to address possible conflicts of interest of directors.
Any that all job opportunities are posted openly internally, and to ensure that relevant conflicts and potential conflicts that arise are required to be disclosed at shortlists for executive roles include qualified female candidates.
A pilot of a the next Board meeting for consideration and, if appropriate, approval by relevant training program for senior executives to develop awareness of unconscious bias Board members.
No conflicts of interest were disclosed during 2011. isunderway, and all Divisions are being encouraged to promote greater take-up offlexible working policies.
The Groups succession planning and talent review Under the Companys Articles of Association, at each Annual General Meeting process has highlighted a number of high potential women who UBM will be any director then in office who has been appointed by the Board since the investing in through targeted development activity.
previous Annual General Meeting and any director who at the date of the notice convening the meeting had held office for more than 30 months since he was last The Board receives regular reports on the progress of this and other management appointed or re-appointed by the Company in general meeting shall retire from development initiatives and will use this information to assist in formalising office but is eligible for re-appointment.
The Board considered the new requirement of the Code for the annual re-election of directors in 2011 and agreed to keep this under review, having regard to developing market practice.
With effect from the Annual General Meeting to be held in 2012 all directors will stand annually for re-election.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate, and a summary of their respective responsibilities is set out in writing and has been approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for overseeing the operation of the Board but takes no part in the day-to-day running of the business.
He spends an average of two days per week in carrying out his responsibilities and oversees the operation of Board procedures through the Company Secretary.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 67 Section 2: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Non-executive directors are also encouraged to increase their knowledge and Board evaluation understanding of the Groups businesses through site visits and meetings with The Board evaluation in 2010 2011 was conducted as an internal exercise, employees and executives at divisional level.
During 2011, several non-executive through the use of confidential questionnaires which were completed by all directors participated actively in UBMs leadership development interventions.
Board directors and the responses discussed further in individual meetings with Four participated as guest speakers at the Business Leaders Program and the the Group People and Culture Director.
A separate questionnaire was completed regional Leadership Development Programs in Europe and China, and five have in respect of the Chairmans performance and the results collated by the Senior actively mentored potential executives.
In addition, directors have also had the Independent Director.
opportunity to meet with participants and alumni of UBMs leadership development programs in the US, Europe and Asia.
The Board considered the results in February 2011: the consensus view was that the Board was operating to a good degree of effectiveness.
Areas identified for Relations with shareholders action included: The Companys shareholders are kept informed about the activities and progress Reviewing the structure of the Board agenda and allocation of time for the of the Group primarily by means of the annual report and interim management Board to discuss progress towards strategic goals: statements, and by the publication of updated trading information at the Clarifying the remit and composition of the Nomination Committee: AnnualGeneral Meeting.
Financial and other information about the Company Keeping directors up to date on relevant developments in legislation and is published on its website, which has links to the websites of other businesses in corporate governance the Group.
Good progress was made during the year in addressing these issues through The Company also maintains an ongoing dialogue with its major institutional changes made to the Board agenda and allocation of additional time specifically shareholders by means of a scheduled program of meetings, which are generally for discussion on strategy: changes to the Nomination Committee as described undertaken by the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
The Chairman on page 66: and formal presentations to the Board from external advisors on also undertakes periodic meetings with major investors and is responsible for relevant legislation and corporate governance practice.
ensuring that the views of shareholders are communicated to other directors.
It was agreed that the Board evaluation in 2011 2012 should be conducted Feedback from investor meetings is provided to all directors, as are analysts and through an external facilitator and Lintstock were appointed in September 2011 brokers reports.
Lintstock provide an on-line corporate governance The Senior Independent Director is available for consultation by shareholders management system to the Company but have no other connection with it.
The inthe event that they have concerns which are inappropriate to raise with the process involved confidential questionnaires which were completed by directors Chairman.
No such concerns were raised during 2011. and other senior executives who attend Board or committee meetings or otherwise interact with the Board: individual interviews with directors were then Consultation is undertaken with investors and with bodies representing conducted by Lintstock to develop the responses to the questionnaires.
The areas shareholders interests on matters which the Company considers appropriate.
covered included Board composition, expertise and dynamics: time management During 2011 the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee consulted with a and Board and Committee support: strategic oversight: risk management and number of the Companys largest institutional investors regarding issues relating internal control: and succession planning and human resource management.
Theresults were distilled into a report which was considered by the Board in All shareholders are welcome at the Annual General Meeting where they are February 2012 and the findings will be reviewed further during the year.
ableto ask questions of all the directors, including the Chairman, as well as the Evaluation of the performance of individual non-executive directors is carried chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
outby the Chairman with input from the Senior Independent Director SID Voting at the Annual General Meeting takes place by poll and the results are and Chief Executive: the Chief Executives performance is evaluated by the notified via a regulatory information service and displayed on the Companys Chairman and SID and the Chief Financial Officers performance is evaluated website as soon as practicable following the meeting.
All resolutions proposed at bythe Chief Executive.
the 2011 Annual General Meeting were passed with a majority in excess of 98% The non-executive directors met on several occasions during the year without of votes cast.
Votes were cast at the meeting in respect of over 185 million shares, executives present.
representing approximately 76% of issued equity.
Information and professional development Risk management and Internal control A procedure exists whereby directors may seek independent professional advice if The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the risks they consider it appropriate to do so in the furtherance of their duties.
All itiswilling to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
It is also responsible for directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who maintaining the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and for has primary responsibility for keeping directors updated and informed of general reviewing the effectiveness of such systems.
The system is intended to enable the developments which may be of relevance to their responsibilities.
The Company Group to identify and manage the risks inherent in its business and accordingly Secretary is not a Board director.
can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
All directors are offered the opportunity to further their professional development by means of attendance at seminars and briefings.
An induction A formal process is in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the key process is in place for all directors on appointment: this includes discussions financial, operating and compliance risks faced by the Group.
This risk mapping withthe Chairman and executive directors as well as one-to-one briefings and process, which was in place throughout 2011 and continues in force, accords with presentations from other directors and senior management on matters relating the FRC Guidance on Internal Control October 2005 and is reviewed annually tothe Groups businesses and procedures.
As part of its overview of strategy the Board regularly considers specific risks facing the Group.
68 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 1: 2011 Review Section 2: Governance Section 3: Financial statements The process aims to identify and evaluate risks which are specific to each of the Audit Committee Groups businesses.
The risk maps and associated action plans are compiled by therespective management teams, reviewed centrally by UBM executive management, and considered by the Audit Committee, which in turn reports tothe Board.
The Groups system of internal controls includes the following: All staff are required to comply with a formal system of delegated authorities Jonathan Newcomb Karen Thomson which is in place for all divisions and head office.
Further guidance on Group policies and procedures is set out in various manuals including the financial policies and procedures manual and employee handbooks.
An anti-malpractice policy is in place throughout the Group which provides a mechanism for confidential reporting by staff of possible concerns about financial or other matters.
Terry Neill Greg Lock The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, with the annual budget being approved by the Board and monthly trading results, balance The Audit Committee is chaired by Jonathan Newcomb and its other members sheets and cashflow summaries recorded against corresponding figures for the are Terry Neill, Karen Thomson and Greg Lock.
During the review of budget and the previous year.
membership of the committee that took place during 2011, the Board specifically The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer are responsible for certifying considered Mr Newcombs chairmanship, having regard to the provisions of the Companys annual financial statements, which process is supported by certification for the individual businesses from divisional CEOs and finance section B.
1.1 of the Code concerning independence.
It was noted that the Board directors.
evaluation had concluded that he continued to operate as an effective Chairman of the Committee and that the presence of three other independent nonEstablished procedures are in place for the evaluation of potential acquisitions and their integration into the Group.
Monitoring of post-acquisition executive directors on the Committee was in compliance with the requirements performance against detailed business plans is conducted on an ongoing of Section C. 3.1 of the Code.
basis by the internal audit department and reviewed regularly by the Audit Members of the Committee have broad financial experience which has been Committee.
gained in a variety of disciplines, and which the Board considers appropriate to The internal audit department undertakes periodic reviews of individual enable the Committee to carry out its responsibilities.
The Committee met on businesses to assess their control status and makes recommendations to the three occasions during 2011 and details of individual attendance are set out in the Audit Committee.
The work of the internal audit department is prioritised to concentrate on the areas of greatest risk as identified through the Group table on page 66.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee provides a verbal risk management process.
The Head of Internal Audit attends meetings of the report to the Board following each Committee meeting and the minutes of Audit Committee, which oversees the role and structure of the internal audit Committee meetings are available to other Board members.
department and makes recommendations to management.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee and others invited to The Board continued to assess the effectiveness of the risk management processes attend Committee meetings include the Chief Financial Officer, Group Chief and internal controls during 2011 and to the date of this report.
Such assessment Accountant, Head of Internal Audit, Head of Taxation and external auditors.
is based on matters such as: Ateach meeting the Committee meets with external auditors without management present.
the ongoing review of strategy which aims to identify potential risks to the Groups achievement of its overall objectives: The Committee operates within written terms of reference, which are reviewed monthly financial reporting against budgets and the review of results and periodically.
These terms of reference may be viewed on the Companys website.
forecasts by executive directors and line management, including particular areas of business or project risk: To assist in ensuring auditor objectivity and independence, the Audit Committee has established a formal procedure regarding the undertaking of non-audit the authorisation of proposed investment, divestment and capital services by the external auditor, which identifies a number of categories of work expenditure through the Boards Committees and the Board itself: where the auditors will not normally be employed, including financial due the review of specific material areas of Group-wide risk and the formulation diligence on potential acquisitions and financial systems consultancy.
and monitoring of risk mitigating actions: the formulation and review of properly documented policies and procedures, Appointment of the external auditor for other non-audit services may only updated to address the changing risks of the business.
bemade with the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
Approval for projectswith anticipated fees not exceeding specified limits is delegated to theGroup Operations Director or Group Chief Accountant and is reported tothe Committee.
UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011 69 Section 2: Governance Corporate governance statement continued The Audit Committee has a structured schedule of matters for consideration which is aligned with the Groups financial calendar.
During 2011 the Committees work included the following: Reviewed the preliminary results announcement, considered critical accounting policies and practices and significant financial reporting issues in connection with the annual financial statements, including the going concern review, and considered reports from the external auditors identifying any significant issues of accounting policy or matters of judgmental difference requiring its attention: Reviewed the Operating and Financial Review section of the 2010 Annual Report with specific reference to the description of key performance indicators and principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group: Reviewed the interim results announcement and considered reports from the external auditors identifying any significant financial reporting issues ormatters of judgmental difference requiring its attention: Reviewed risk management activities, specifically the Groups risk mapping process and considered specific areas of risk identified through that process and the action plans proposed: Considered and approved audit plans from internal and external auditors: Monitored the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the effectiveness of the audit process and considered their re-appointment: Reviewed the composition of the Committee and its own performance: Received reports from the internal audit department on the outcome of reviews conducted by it: Considered post acquisition reviews conducted in respect of businesses acquired by the Group: Reviewed the status of a number of major projects being implemented within the Groups divisions.
70 UBM Annual Report and Accounts 2011
