Corporate governance Corporate governance Douglas Caster, Chairman Chairmans introduction has provided the Board with well-informed regular updates on Ultras distinctive corporate culture the global market environments in which the businesses operate.
Since taking over from Julian Blogh, I have continued to Ian Griffiths joined the Board in 2003.
He has served on the foster the distinctive corporate culture that Ultra has Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees established during its life as an independent entity.
His experience of other international element on which the Group prides itself is a small Head engineering businesses has enabled him to make telling and Office team which sets policy and strategy guidance, and insightful contributions to the Boards and the Committees maintains contact with the operating businesses through the decision making processes.
Ultra does not have a centralised control mentality, but instead makes the 28 The other Directors join me in thanking Andy and Ian for operating businesses responsible for their own success whilst their valuable service to Ultra and in wishing them well in maintaining scrutiny of their activities via a well established their retirement.
system of regular review meetings.
This operational basis I am delighted with the appointment of Mark Anderson as has served the Group well in identifying those situations Ultras new Marketing Director and we are seeking a which require higher level management guidance, and in replacement for Ian Griffiths of similar experience and ability.
some cases, intervention, whilst also allowing the businesses UK Bribery Act to maintain the agility that differentiates Ultra and The implementation of the UK Bribery Act has been a strong underpins the Groups growth.
focus for the Board during 2011.
We have ensured that the A strong corporate governance framework Group is in compliance with the requirements of the Act and The governance framework that supports this culture remains have introduced new processes and disciplines including largely unchanged and is explained in detail on pages 46 to 54 relevant training for all outward-facing employees and a of this report.
During 2011 we have continued to strengthen thorough review of all agency agreements, particularly those in the Groups governance framework in a number of ways, higher risk countries.
The Groups Ethics Overview Committee including the transfer to divisional management teams of the continues to work well and provides a level of independent responsibility for carrying out monthly performance reviews check on the Groups activities.
Some divisional management Looking ahead teams have also been further strengthened during the year by Ultras corporate governance culture remains strong and the appointment of Divisional Strategy Directors.
appropriate as the Group continues to expand into new Board composition and succession countries and new operating arrangements, particularly joint I am committed to ensuring that the Board retains the right ventures.
The resilient performance during 2011 in a balance of skills and experience and that the Non-Executive challenging market environment is evidence that having a high Directors have ample opportunity to challenge and probe performing and experienced management team combined the plans and performance reports put forward by the with a robust set of control processes enables Ultra to deliver Executive Directors.
The Board will go through an sustained growth in shareholder returns.
interesting time of change during 2012 with the retirements Douglas Caster, Chairman of Andy Hamment, Group Marketing Director, and Ian 24 February 2012 Griffiths, Non-Executive Director.
Andy Hamment has served on the Board since 2000 and has been instrumental in the development of the Groups strategic planning process.
He has ensured the successful implementation of this process in all of Ultras businesses and as a result has made a significant contribution to the success of the Group.
In addition he has ensured a co-ordinated approach to the marketing activities undertaken in the individual businesses and Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 45 7.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Corporate governance report Compliance statement During 2011 the Board introduced a regular review of major During 2011 Ultra complied with the requirements of the UK projects being undertaken by the operating businesses.
The Corporate Governance Code the Code, available from the Board has also given close scrutiny to the operation of those website of the Financial Reporting Council, with the joint ventures into which it has entered with strong partners exceptions of the appointment of the former Chief Executive in new geographic regions.
3.1 and of the composition of A summary of some of the Boards key responsibilities and the Board Code Provision B.
1.2. activities is set out below and the full range of Board The Board structure following the 2010 AGM comprised the responsibilities are detailed in the document entitled Chairman, Dr Julian Blogh, three Non-Executive Directors, and Matters to be reserved to the Board which is available from four Executive Directors including Douglas Caster, Chief the Investors section of the Group website.
Executive and Rakesh Sharma, Chief Operating Officer.
Julian Blogh retired from Ultra at the 2011 AGM and was succeeded Routine Board matters by Douglas Caster.
In turn, Douglas Caster was succeeded as Chief Executive by Rakesh Sharma.
The Board structure after At every Board meeting standing agenda items include: the 2011 AGM therefore consisted of the new Chairman, and a balance of three Non-Executive and three Executive Chief Executives Report covers the Groups operational performance, particular Directors which is compliant with the Code.
an performance issues in each Division and the overall The Board recognises the need, under the Code, to explain outlook for the Group the move of Douglas Caster from the position of Chief Finance Directors Report Executive to that of Chairman.
Before considering such an financial forecasts for the half and full year, review of appointment the Board consulted with Ultras major cash performance to date and future forecasts, review shareholders who had all indicated their support for such a of banking covenants, review of analysts views of the move.
The appointment has been explained in detail in the Group, major shareholdings and major share buyers 2009 and 2010 Annual Reports.
The Board is confident that and sellers Douglas Caster is much better equipped to present an Major projects report informed and effective challenge to the executive Marketing Directors Report management than a new chairman appointed from outside Human Resources Report the Group.
Review of current acquisition activity and approval of The Board notes the requirement of the Code to explain the any offers for proposed acquisitions basis on which the Group generates or preserves value over the longer term the business model and the strategy for Other important topics which are covered on a routine delivering the objectives of the company.
The business model basis during the year are: and the Groups strategy are specifically addressed on pages 2 to 5 and 14 to 15 of the Annual Report.
Approval of annual and interim financial statements The Group has applied the principles set out in the Code, and accompanying regulatory announcements including both the main principles and the supporting Review and approval of the annual budget principles, by complying with the Code as reported above.
A full day is dedicated to the review of the five-year Further explanations of how the main principles have been strategic plan, receiving presentations from the applied are set out below and in the Directors remuneration Executive Team and discussing significant matters report and the Audit Committee report.
identified in the proposed plan Review of six-monthly Compliance Reports prepared Role of the Board by Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents The role of the Board is to provide effective leadership and Annual reviews of health & safety and environmental direction in delivering the key corporate objective of reports summarising the position across all Group reliable and consistent growth in shareholder value.
The businesses Board sets the overall strategy and direction for the Group Approval of any changes to the rules of operation of and ensures that adequate controls are in place, including the Groups employee share plans calibrating risk appetite and maintaining oversight of Ultras risk management processes.
The Board also ensures that the Groups businesses behave ethically and properly at all times and that the culture within those businesses is positive and constructive.
It is the function of the Groups management, through Chief Executive Rakesh Sharma and his Executive Team, to run the operations of the Group.
The Board is responsible for major investment decisions such as acquisitions of companies, and the allocation of the Groups R&D expenditure to major new projects.
46 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Meeting attendance 2011 Main Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Maximum Maximum Maximum Maximum Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Actual possible Chairman 1 Julian Blogh 3 3 - - - - - - 2 Douglas Caster 10 10 - - - - - - Chief Executive 3 Rakesh Sharma 10 10 - - - - - - Executive Directors Paul Dean 10 10 - - - - - - Andy Hamment 10 10 - - - - - - Non-Executive Directors 4 Chris Bailey 10 10 4 4 5 5 2 2 5 Ian Griffiths 9 10 4 4 4 5 2 2 Sir Robert Walmsley 10 10 4 4 5 5 2 2 1 Julian Blogh retired 21 April 2011.
2 Douglas Caster was appointed 21 April 2011 formerly Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive.
3 Rakesh Sharma was appointed 21 April 2011 formerly Chief Operating Officer.
4 Chris Bailey is the Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
5 Ian Griffiths was unable to attend the December 2011 meetings due to illness.
Role of the Board continued would seek to promote.
New approaches that have been Other significant matters addressed by the Board in 2011 introduced include a series of private dinners at which only included: the Non-Executive Directors are present, a greater focus on the succession plans for each Director position and invitations Approval of the deficit recovery plan following the triennial to the senior management teams of Ultras businesses to review of the Groups UK defined benefit pension scheme attend Board dinners.
Agreement of the terms of reference for the Groups Ethics Overview Committee note this is not a Board Committee Chief Executive but reports to the Chief Executive The role of the Chief Executive, Rakesh Sharma, is to manage Approval of new banking facility agreements and run the Groups businesses.
He accomplishes this task Approval of anti-corruption and bribery, and gifts and through the Executive Team of which he is a member and corporate hospitality policies Chairman.
Management of the individual businesses is devolved to the Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents, Board roles assisted by dedicated Divisional Finance Directors.
The Chief Chairman Executive also utilises the independent Ethics Overview The role of the Chairman is to manage the Board, while the Committee to provide independent oversight of specific role of the Chief Executive is to run the operations of the ethical issues.
The Chief Executive reports to the Board each Group.
The Chairman aims to facilitate free and open month on the operational performance of the Group and of debate on the topics which appear on the Board agenda each Division, and on its future opportunities and prospects.
and to promote a culture where the Non-Executive Directors Senior Independent Director can provide the appropriate level of challenge and Chris Bailey is the Senior Independent Director.
He acts as a questioning of the reports and plans put forward by the sounding board for the Chairman, when needed.
While Ultra Chief Executive and his fellow Executive Directors.
The enjoys an open board culture, Chris Bailey provides an Chairman continues to utilise externally facilitated annual independent voice and is available as a point of contact for Board evaluations conducted over a two-year cycle to other colleagues on the Board should they have concerns that develop and promote smooth and effective interpersonal they feel unable to raise with the Chairman.
He performs a relationships within the Board.
similar function for shareholders, employees or any other Upon the appointment of Douglas Caster as Chairman, a set external stakeholders of the Group.
He receives any reports of Terms of Reference for his activities was agreed by the anonymously submitted by employees via the externally other Directors.
These included a summary of his board and hosted Employee Hotline.
He ensures that any such reports corporate duties, an outline of his visits to company are fully investigated and that corrective action is taken businesses, his relations with shareholders and the media, and where necessary.
those key areas of relations with external bodies that he Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 47 7.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Board roles continued Board tenure and independence Experience Non-Executive Directors Tenure on other Chris Bailey, Ian Griffiths and Sir Robert Walmsley are the years Independent plc Boards Groups independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board Chairman considers them to be independent.
In assessing independence, 1 Douglas Caster 18 No No the Board considers that they are independent of management Non-Executive and free from business and other relationships which could Directors interfere with the exercise of independent judgment now and Chris Bailey 7Yes Yes in the future.
The Board recognises that Ian Griffiths will Ian Griffiths 8Yes Yes complete 9 years service at the 2012 AGM.
The Board is actively Sir Robert Walmsley 3Yes Yes seeking a suitable replacement for Ian and expects to make an Executive appointment after the AGM, at which time Ian will step down.
Directors For the interim period the Board considers that Ian will continue Rakesh Sharma 1NoNo to act independently.
The Board believes that any shareholdings Paul Dean 2No Yes of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors serve to align Andy Hamment 11 No Yes their interests with those of all shareholders.
The Non-Executive Directors have wide experience of working in a variety of 1 Douglas Caster was appointed as Chairman different industries with exposure to international business, and 1 on 21 April 2011. in Sir Roberts case, a distinguished career in the Royal Navy followed by a senior position in the Ministry of Defence.
Board skills and experience The Board collectively possesses a deep understanding of the The key role of the Non-Executive Directors is to provide an Groups core defence, security, transport and energy markets.
appropriate level of challenge and constructive criticism to the This is complemented by its experience and expertise in other plans of the Executive Directors.
industries and other disciplines including procurement, accountancy and financial management.
There is knowledge Insurance of best practice in other companies and other industries, and The Group maintains an appropriate level of Directors and the Board seeks to adopt new methodologies when these are Officers Liability insurance cover in respect of legal action seen to be in the best interests of the Group.
This range of against its Directors.
skills and experience informs the Boards decision-making and enables it to provide effective leadership and guidance.
Board composition Board of Directors pre 2011 AGM Chairman: 1 Board expertise Executive Directors: 4 The key elements of expertise that the Board have to Non-Executive Directors: 3 call on are: Executive Directors Defence, security, transport and energy sectors procurement, engineering, marketing, electronics design, general management, divisional management.
Current Board of Directors Other industries accounting, financial management, executive and non-executive directorships in other listed Chairman: 1 companies UK.
Executive Directors: 3 Non-Executive Directors: 3 Non-Executive Directors Defence, security, transport and energy sectors engineering, general management, divisional management, service in the Royal Navy, government defence procurement, non-executive directorships in other listed companies both UK and overseas.
Other industries engineering, general management, Chairman: Executive Directors: divisional management, executive and non-executive Non-Executive Directors directorships in other listed UK companies, accounting, financial management.
The only personnel change to the Board during 2011 was the retirement of the Chairman, Dr Julian Blogh, at the AGM in The particular skills and experience that each Director brings April.
The rationale for the move of Douglas Caster from his to the Board are described in their biographical details on previous position as Chief Executive has been explained in detail pages 42 to 43. in previous Annual Reports and on page 46.
Following the AGM in April 2011 the Board structure is in line with the Code.
48 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Board skills and experience continued Director re-election The Board has agreed a policy whereby Executive Directors, The Directors believe that the guidance contained within the but not the Chief Executive, may accept one appointment as UK Corporate Governance Code remains appropriate for Ultra a Non-Executive Director in another listed company.
Executive and accordingly, with the exception of Andy Hamment who Directors are permitted to retain any fees from such external will retire, they will all stand for re-election at the AGM in appointments.
Andy Hamment received fees of 25,541 in April 2012.
In previous years a small number of shareholders 2011 for his service as a Non-Executive Director of Senior plc.
have either abstained or voted against the re-election of any director and an analysis of the reasons behind such a decision Andy Hamment retires on 30 March 2012 and Ian Griffiths will has provided useful information as to the motivation of those be retiring from the Board shortly after the 2012 AGM.
In shareholders even when they have chosen not to engage appointing Mark Anderson as the new Marketing Director and directly with the Company on any areas of concern that they in the search for a replacement for Ian Griffiths, the Board, may have.
Frequently these have proven to be relatively minor through the Nominations Committee, has been careful to issues or misunderstandings on corporate governance issues identify the skills, knowledge and experience needed for each which could be easily addressed and remedied.
The Company role and to complement the existing skills mix provided by the is committed to active engagement with shareholders and other Board members.
The process followed by the Nominations strives for continual improvement in such areas.
Committee is described on page 54.
Mark Anderson brings significant experience of the defence industry, gained during his Conflicts of interest long experience in senior positions in the Royal Navy.
More Each Director has a responsibility to bring any situational or recently Mark has been a Divisional Strategy Director in Ultras transactional conflicts of interest to the attention of the Board Tactical & Sonar Systems division and has gained a working as soon as they may arise.
No new conflicts were identified understanding of the operations of the businesses in that during 2011. division and of Ultras culture and working practices.
In seeking a replacement for Ian, Ultra is searching for a candidate with Information flow, training and development senior experience in a multinational organisation.
Experience of Board meetings working within engineering and manufacturing environments The key source of information for the Board remains the will be an essential attribute when making this appointment.
comprehensive set of papers that are prepared and circulated to the Directors in advance of each Board meeting.
Both Diversity routine and exceptional agenda items are supported by Ultra has always followed the policy of appointing the best advance briefing papers to enable an informed debate to person for a particular role, regardless of sex, race, take place at the Board meeting.
nationality, disability, sexual orientation, age, marital status, In addition to these briefing documents it is now normal religion or beliefs.
The Board has held detailed discussions practice for acquisition opportunities to be presented to the over the requirements of the Code, the guidance issued by Board by the appropriate Divisional Managing Director or Lord Davies of Abersoch in his report Women on boards President and the Mergers & Acquisitions Director.
This enables published in February 2011 and the FRCs subsequent a full discussion of the merits and risks of any acquisition consultation and forthcoming revisions to the Code.
The proposal to take place at an early stage.
Board understands and supports the principle that having a diverse range of views expressed at Board level strengthens Other significant matters that require formal Board approval and supports the Groups aims and its efforts to meet its which may also be presented in person include major bids, strategic objectives.
It is paramount that each Director updates on key strategic initiatives and major capital appointed to the Ultra Board should be the best person expenditure proposals: for example the relocation of available for the specific Board position.
businesses to new sites, or new buildings on existing sites.
Ultras policy of always appointing the best person for the job The formal Board meetings are rotated around the sites of is demonstrated by recent appointments to the Board.
These the UK operating businesses during the year and are planned include Rakesh Sharma as its Chief Executive: Mark Anderson, to include one meeting a year at a North American business.
who will replace Andy Hamment as Marketing Director at the Due to a conflict with a meeting with a UK Government end of March 2012: and Sharon Harris who will succeed David Minister, the North American visit was cancelled in 2011 but Garbett-Edwards as Company Secretary when he retires at the will be reinstated in future years.
During 2011 the Board 2012 AGM in April.
visited six operating businesses on sites away from Ultras head office.
In 2012, nine visits are planned, including one to the US.
The Board receives presentations from the senior managers of the host business detailing recent performance, key opportunities and future forecasts.
Product demonstrations and site tours also take place and the senior managers are also invited to an informal dinner the night before the Board meeting.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Information flow, training and development continued Board evaluation This gives all of the Directors a good practical insight into A Board evaluation process is operated which runs on a two these operating businesses and is particularly useful for the year cycle.
The Non-Executive Directors will During 2011 each Director completed a confidential evaluation also conduct separate visits to a number of the North on each of his colleagues on the Board.
This was facilitated by American businesses.
The Directors meet frequently with an independent external consultant who provided the Chairman individual Executive Team members who make presentations with a detailed summary of the results for each Director.
The to the Board on any significant investment proposals, Chairman provided feedback to the Board as a whole, whilst including proposed acquisitions and to give progress reports each Director was provided with personal summarised feedback on any particular strategic initiatives which the Board may of the views of his colleagues.
Strict anonymity was maintained have requested.
The Executive Team as a whole meets the throughout the exercise with only the Chairman being aware of Board annually to present the proposed Strategic Plan for the source of individual views and comments.
This is then debated with the Directors, changes agreed and a final plan is approved.
The next stage of the evaluation cycle will take place in 2012 where the Board will evaluate its performance as a whole.
Directors induction and training This second stage will cover the Board structure, processes No new Directors joined the Board during 2011 so there was and administration together with the dissemination of no requirement for any induction activity during the year.
There will be new appointments to the Board in 2012.
New Directors will receive a comprehensive induction to the Group Internal controls covering the corporate structure, the products and services of The Directors carry out an annual review of the effectiveness the Groups businesses, the key markets in which the of the Groups internal control systems.
This covers the ways in businesses operate and the key risks which the Group faces, which all risks are managed and covers strategic, operational together with the actions and plans which are in place to and financial matters.
Particular attention is paid to the mitigate against these.
Programmes of visits to Group security of the Groups IT systems.
It is important for these to Ultras internal controls are designed to meet the Groups encompass as many businesses as possible, since no two Ultra particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed.
New Directors will be encouraged to controls can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance meet business and divisional management teams to gain a against material errors, losses or fraud.
The key features of feel for the Groups style and culture.
Annual visits are the internal control system that operated during the year are arranged for Non-Executive Directors to visit the Groups described below.
The Executive Directors travel frequently to all Group businesses and have ample opportunity to meet Control environment local management teams.
Ultras control systems are well defined and are considered by the Directors to be appropriate to the Groups size and structure.
The Specific training is arranged for all Directors as and when control environment is managed by the Chief Executive and the appropriate.
Individual businesses each report to a specific If any other areas are identified where specialist training is Divisional Managing Director or President, who is responsible for required this is arranged by the Company Secretary who will ensuring that the Managing Director or President of each bring in experts in the particular subject, such as pensions, or operating business has implemented the controls as defined in company law, to present to the Board.
Individual operating businesses are required to maintain their own detailed operating procedures The Directors are able to call on independent professional which are consistent with the Group Operating Manual.
advice should this be necessary in order for them to carry out their duties.
The Company Secretary is responsible for The Board maintains an internal audit process, carried out by providing guidance to the Board on the appropriate Ernst & Young LLP, to review financial and information systems processes and procedures in order to maintain compliance control procedures throughout the Group.
All significant with corporate governance and regulatory requirements.
business units are audited at least once every two years, while other businesses are audited on a three-year cycle.
In addition, all newly acquired free-standing businesses are audited within a year of their acquisition date.
The lead partner of Ernst & Young reports directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and presents the findings of his team twice annually to the Audit Committee.
Progress reports on follow-up remedial actions are reported regularly to the Committee.
Ernst & Young confirms whether appropriate action has been taken to address the risks when they next visit the business concerned.
50 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Risk management Shareholder communication Risk management is not treated as a separate function within The Group is committed to ensuring effective communication Ultra but is managed as an integral part of all of Ultras with its shareholders and responds promptly to any specific management and control processes.
Throughout the year, Ultra initiates and takes part in a Executive Team carried out a review of principal risks facing number of events with current and prospective investors and the Group and proposed that three additional risks should be financial analysts.
Meetings are held with institutional investors specifically addressed in the Annual Report.
Please refer to and financial analysts after the release of the interim and full pages 35 to 39 for details of these major risks and the year financial results at which detailed briefings are given.
approach taken to mitigate these.
These briefings can also be found on the investors section of the Groups website together with copies of all regulatory In all other respects risk management is part of the Groups announcements, press releases and copies of the published full normal control processes.
In their monthly business year and interim accounts and reports.
In an effort to make the performance reports individual operating businesses identify Groups complex operations easier to understand, Ultra key opportunities and risks and their possible financial impacts.
organises a number of events each year, from introductory These are reviewed by and discussed with the Divisional briefings on the Group as a whole to presentations on specific Managing Directors and Presidents at monthly review areas of capability.
Ultra also invites investors and members of meetings and any appropriate action agreed.
In turn the the financial community to large exhibitions, such as Defence Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents present monthly & Security Equipment International DSEi, where the Group is reports to the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director exhibiting a large range of its specialist capabilities.
Members which include an assessment of the risks inherent in each of the Executive Team also take part in investor events businesss financial forecasts and of any other key risks.
At a arranged by third parties.
detailed operating level each business maintains risk registers for major projects in which the possible financial impact of All shareholders are invited to attend the Annual General each risk is identified, together with its probability and a Meeting where they have the opportunity to meet with description of the mitigating actions taken.
Directors and to ask questions.
The terms of reference for the Board and its committees are available for inspection at the As part of the strategic planning process any major strategic meetings and may also be found on the Groups website at risks facing the Group are identified and steps are proposed www.
The Group has moved to to and agreed with the Board by which these risks can be electronic communication with shareholders wherever managed and minimised.
possible since this is both more efficient and environmentally The Managing Directors and Presidents, and Finance Directors friendly.
Shareholders may opt to receive hard copy and Vice Presidents of Finance of each business are required to communication if they wish.
give a formal written representation to the Board each year Non-Executive Directors are always available to meet with confirming that they accept responsibility for maintaining shareholders at any time should they have any concerns or effective internal controls and that they have disclosed full questions that they wish to raise.
details of any fraud or suspected fraud within their business.
The Board accepts overall responsibility for reviewing the operation and effectiveness of the Groups internal controls at least annually and has performed a specific assessment for the purposes of this Annual Report.
With the assistance of the Audit Committee all significant aspects of internal control for 2011 have been reviewed and internal procedures amended where necessary.
Financial reporting systems The Group has a well established process for collecting financial information from all operating businesses and for consolidating this at Divisional and Group level.
Financial results for every operating business, for each Division and for the whole Group, are presented to the Board at every full Board meeting.
These are held monthly with the exceptions of June and August.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director explain the significance of any major impacts on the financial performance and draw the Boards attention to any significant trends or deviations from budget revealed by forecasts of future performance.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Financial calendar Shareholder analysis by category of shareholder as at 31 December 2011 27 March 2012 Annual Report and Accounts Fund Holding % e-mailed to shareholders, made available on website or hard Unit trusts 32,268,374 46.7 copies posted Pension funds 12,273,500 17.8 11 April 2012 Ex-dividend date Insurance companies 5,282,354 7.7 13 April 2012 Record date Private investor 3,160,169 4.6 27 April 2012 Annual General Meeting 4 May 2012 Final dividend payment date Sovereign wealth 3,030,076 4.4 30 July 2012 Interim results announced Trading position 2,292,044 3.3 September 2012 Interim dividend Investment trust 860,851 1.2 Custodians 850,301 1.2 Shareholder analysis Delivery By value collateral 637,380 0.9 The majority of Ultras shares are held by institutional shareholders.
Some of the members of the buyout team Charity 317,019 0.5 which originally formed Ultra still have significant holdings in Mutual fund 278,711 0.4 the Company, as do members of the Companys Executive Exchange-traded fund 249,285 0.4 Team, many of whom have retained shares awarded via share Employees 235,247 0.3 option or long term incentive schemes.
UK Banks 120,000 0.2 Other managed funds 110,479 0.2 Foreign government 69,624 0.1 University 25,788 0.1 Other 6,915,713 10.0 Total issued share capital 68,976,915 100.0 Shareholder analysis by size of holding as at 31 December 2011 Total number Total number % Size of shareholding of holdings % of holders of shares issued capital 1-50 101 6.22 2,168 0.01 51-100 93 5.72 7,775 0.01 101-250 337 20.74 63,148 0.09 251-500 261 16.06 96,083 0.14 501-1,000 215 13.23 158,377 0.23 1,001-5,000 267 16.43 537,286 0.78 5,001-10,000 56 3.45 401,024 0.58 10,001-25,000 81 4.98 1,300,352 1.89 25,001-50,000 49 3.02 1,713,923 2.48 Over 50,000 165 10.15 64,696,779 93.79 Totals 1,625 100.00 68,976,915 100.00 52 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Board Committees The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Ultra has established three board Committees the Audit, Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that Remuneration and Nominations Committees to which action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations certain key responsibilities have been delegated.
The detailed on the steps to be taken.
terms of reference of each Committee are available from the During 2011 the key activities carried out by the Committee were: Investors section of the Group website.
The responsibilities of January each Committee are in line with the recommendations of the Review of Ernst & Youngs internal audit report Code.
The membership of each Committee comprises the Review of Finance Directors internal control three independent Non-Executive Directors Chris Bailey, improvements report Ian Griffiths and Sir Robert Walmsley.
Chris Bailey, Senior Review and approval of external auditors engagement policy Independent Director is Chairman of each Committee.
Review of representation on fraud statement Summaries of the key activities of each Committee are Review of proposed wording of Going Concern statement given below.
Initial work on evaluation of the external audit Audit Committee Additional matters for review as proposed by the Financial Composition Reporting Council The membership of the Audit Committee has been outlined Introduction of new external Audit Partner 5 year rotation above.
Chris Bailey, Chairman of the Committee, has recent and February relevant experience in a senior financial role in another public Review of 2010 accounts limited company, including having been Group Finance Director Confirmation that Group should be treated as a going of Aggregate Industries plc until 2004.
He is a fellow of the concern for 2010 accounts Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales and is Receipt of external auditors report on 2010 accounts also a member of the Association of Corporate Treasurers.
Discussion on points raised for review by FRC In addition to the Committee members, the Group Chairman, Recommendation to the Board to approve 2010 accounts the Chief Executive and the Finance Director are invited to July attend Audit Committee Meetings.
The Company Secretary acts Presentation by Deloitte on the overview of the corporation as Secretary to the Committee.
The Marketing Director normally tax landscape attends Audit Committee Meetings as an observer.
The External Report on internal audits conducted in 2011 Audit Lead Client Service Partner attends all Audit Committee Review of Finance Directors internal control Meetings, whilst the Lead Partner of Ernst & Young and the improvements report Internal Audit Manager attend those meetings at which External auditors management letter summary Internal Audit Reports are reviewed by the Committee.
Feedback from new external Audit Partner Role Update from Deloitte on benchmarking of Ultra Annual As has been described in the sections on the control Report & Accounts against peer group environment and risk management, the Board takes overall Review of Interim Results to 1 July 2011 responsibility for the review of the effectiveness of the internal Recommendation to Board that Interim Accounts controls.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in this by should be approved monitoring the internal control procedures.
It does this primarily September through its receipt and review of internal audit reports from External audit plan and scope for 2011 reviewed Ernst & Young which carries out this work, through reports from and approved the Group Finance Director of his actions to ensure that the Audit Fees reviewed and approved Groups operating businesses address any control weaknesses, Internal audit plan for 2012 reviewed and approved through its review of the accounts and supporting reports presented by the Groups external auditor, Deloitte, and through During 2011 the Committee met with Deloitte, the Groups other detailed reviews and investigations that it may require.
external auditor, on two occasions at which there were no Executive Directors present.
At these meetings Deloitte The key functions of the Committee are: reported on their views of the Groups performance and on the Scrutiny of the Groups annual and interim financial performance of the Executive Directors in running the Group.
statements and accounts Receipt of reports from Deloitte, the Groups external auditor Review of internal audit reports from Ernst & Young who carry out a programme of internal audit visits to the operating businesses Receipt and review of plans to improve any internal controls where identified in the internal audit reports Carrying out regulatory and statutory compliance checks on the Groups financial affairs Ultra Electronics Holdings plc 53 7.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Board Committees continued Nominations Committee The public interest disclosure process utilises an independent Role party to provide a point of contact for employees.
Employees The function of the Nominations Committee is to review and can file reports via an external website or by telephone and recommend all main Board and Committee appointments.
can remain anonymous if they wish.
Employee concerns are During 2011 the Committee met twice.
The first meeting was to forwarded directly to the Chairman of the Audit Committee debate and agree the process for appointing a successor to Andy or, in the case of issues covered by US security legislation, to Hamment who had announced his intention to retire at the end the Chairman of the Security Committee of either Ultras of March 2012.
It was decided that there should be an external Special Security Agreement company or Ultras Proxy Board recruitment process to enable internal candidates to be company, whichever is relevant.
During 2011 there have been benchmarked against the best candidates available in the three reports submitted four in 2010.
It was agreed that an executive search firm should be investigated and appropriate action taken where required.
A short list was prepared for the It is the policy of the Group that non-audit services provided Committee to consider.
A second meeting was held to consider by Deloitte LLP, Ultras external auditor, are restricted to the result of the selection process and to formally approve a regulatory reporting, consultancy services associated with recommendation to the Board that Mark Anderson be financial restructuring, responding to new reporting appointed to succeed Andy Hamment as Marketing Director requirements, due diligence assessments of potential please refer to comments under Board Skills and acquisitions and minor consultancy work.
Committee has decided that any individual assignments with Ultra operates a well established succession planning process.
an estimated fee in excess of 50,000 will be referred in This is described in detail on page 19. advance to the Chairman of the Audit Committee for his approval.
In connection with acquisition due diligence work Remuneration Committee and certain tax consultancy work, the Board believes that the Role auditors familiarity with Ultras accounting practices and the The Committee met five times during the year.
It is responsible techniques that are involved in Ultras long-term contracting for evaluating the performance of the Executive Directors, activities serves them well in carrying out such work.
including the Chief Executive, and for setting their levels of The senior audit partner employed by Deloitte LLP on the Ultra remuneration.
It also meets without the Group Chairman being audit is subject to a strict policy of regular rotation such that present to agree his remuneration.
Full details of the activities there is a change in this role at least once every five years.
This of the Remuneration Committee during 2011 are given in the is in accordance with professional practice guidelines.
During Directors Remuneration Report on page 58, together with 2011 Mark Mullins was succeeded by Kerr Mitchell as the details of the Directors pension entitlements, long-term Deloitte Lead Client Service Partner.
Mr Mullins will remain as incentive share awards and shareholdings.
It will be presented an advisory partner until the end of the 2012 audit.
for approval by the shareholders at the AGM.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
The Committee has a policy formally to review the selection of external auditors, including the consideration of whether a tender process is appropriate.
The Committee has reviewed and monitored the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
In order to do this it has addressed the questions contained in a questionnaire issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland in October 2007.
The Committee confirmed that in meetings where management had not been present, Deloitte had been sufficiently transparent and incisive.
The Committee was satisfied that previous audits had been effective.
The result of the process was that the Committee concluded that Deloitte LLP was both independent and objective and that the reappointment of Deloitte as external auditor should be recommended to the shareholders.
Accordingly, a resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The fees paid to Deloitte in respect of non-audit services are shown in note 6 to the Financial Statements.
54 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc Corporate governance continued Statement of going concern Directors responsibilities statement Ultras banking facilities amount to 210m in total, plus a The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report 15m overdraft.
They were established in two tranches.
and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
The first tranche comprises 120m of revolving credit, denominated in Sterling, US dollars and Canadian dollars.
This Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial facility was signed in February 2010 and expires in September statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors 2013.
The facility is provided by a group of five banks.
are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards The second tranche provides a further 90m of revolving credit.
IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the This was signed in January 2011 with six banks and is set to IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the Parent Company expire in February 2016.
Both facilities have the same covenants.
financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom During 2011, the Group agreed a shelf facility with Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Prudential Investment Management Inc.
This agreement Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law effectively gave the Group access to the US private placement the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are market on a bilateral basis.
The facility is non-committed but satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs is for up to $150m.
At the year end $10m of loan notes had of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for been issued, which will mature in 2018.
loan notes were issued in January 2012.
In preparing the Parent Company financial statements, the As well as being used to fund acquisitions, the borrowing Directors are required to: facilities are also used for other balance sheet and select suitable accounting policies and then apply them operational needs, including the funding of day-to-day consistently: working capital requirements.
The US dollar borrowings also make judgments and accounting estimates that are represent natural hedges against assets denominated in that reasonable and prudent: currency.
The Groups banking covenants have all been met state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have during the past year with a comfortable margin.
The been followed subject to any material departures disclosed approved Group budget for 2012 and strategic plan for later and explained in the financial statements: and years give confidence that the Group will continue to meet prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis these covenants.
Details of how Ultra manages its liquidity unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will risk can be found in note 23 Financial Instruments and continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Though global macro-economic conditions remain uncertain, Accounting Standard 1 requires that Directors: the long-term nature of Ultras business and its positioning in properly select and apply accounting policies: attractive sectors of its markets, taken together with the present information, including accounting policies, in a Groups forward order book provide a satisfactory level of manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and confidence in respect of trading in the year to come.
As a understandable information: consequence the Directors believe that the Group is well provide additional disclosures when compliance with the placed to mitigate any material adverse consequences of the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable current economic conditions.
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial The Directors have a reasonable expectation that Ultra has position and financial performance: and adequate resources to continue in operational existence for make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt a a going concern.
going concern basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Introduction Corporate governance continued Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board, R. Sharma, Chief Executive P. Dean, Finance Director 24 February 2012 56 Ultra Electronics Holdings plc
