Report of the Directors Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Introduction governance, approval of dividends, approval of overall strategy for Since 1930 when the Unilever Group was formed, NV and PLC, the Group and approval of significant transactions or together with their group companies, have operated as nearly as arrangements in relation to mergers, acquisitions, joint ventures practicable as a single economic entity.
This is achieved by a and disposals, capital expenditure, contracts, litigation, financing series of agreements between NV and PLC the Foundation and pensions.
Agreements, further described on page 42, together with special provisions in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC.
The Boards have also established committees whose actions are regularly reported to and monitored by the Boards, and these are However, NV and PLC remain separate legal entities with different described on page 39.
Further details of how our Boards shareholder constituencies and separate stock exchange listings.
effectively operate as one board, govern themselves and delegate Shareholders cannot convert or exchange the shares of one for their authorities, are set out in the document entitled The the shares of the other.
Governance of Unilever, which can be found at www.
NV and PLC have the same Directors, adopt the same accounting principles and pay dividends to their respective shareholders on Board meetings an equalised basis.
NV and PLC and their group companies A minimum of five meetings are held throughout the calendar constitute a single reporting entity for the purposes of presenting year.
These are comprised of quarterly meetings, to consider the consolidated accounts.
Accordingly, the accounts of the Unilever results statements of the Group, and a meeting to approve the Group are presented by both NV and PLC as their respective Annual Report and Accounts.
There are additional Board consolidated accounts.
meetings to discuss matters that arise as well as Group strategic issues.
Unilever is subject to various corporate governance requirements and best practice codes, the most relevant being those in the In addition to the above, during the year our Boards will consider Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States.
As stated important corporate events and actions, such as: in our Code of Business Principles, Unilever will conduct its oversight of the performance of the business: operations in accordance with internationally accepted principles review of risks and controls: of good corporate governance.
It is therefore Unilevers authorisation of major transactions: practice to comply where practicable with the best practice declaration of dividends: represented by the aggregate of these best practice codes.
convening of shareholders meetings: nominations for Board appointments: NV and PLC are holding and service companies, and the business approval of Board remuneration policy: activity of Unilever is carried out by their subsidiaries around the review of the functioning of the Boards and their Committees: world.
Shares in group companies may ultimately be held wholly and by either NV or PLC or by the two companies in varying Corporate Social Responsibility.
Our risk management approach and associated systems of The Boards internal control are of utmost importance to the Boards and are It has always been a requirement of Unilever that the same people described further on pages 28 to 33. be on the Boards of the two parent companies.
This guarantees that all matters are considered by the Boards as a single intellect, Meetings of the Boards may be held either in London or reaching the same conclusions on the same set of facts save Rotterdam or such other locations as the Boards think fit, with where specific local factors apply.
It is essential that in reaching one or two off-site Board meetings a year.
In 2011, Board the same decisions the NV and PLC Boards identify and resolve meetings were held at the offices of Unilever in both Jakarta, any potential conflicts of interest between NV and PLC.
In both locations the Boards learnt more about the supply chain in these regions, and included The Boards are one-tier boards, comprising Executive Directors customer visits to local retail outlets, together with visits to local and, in a majority, Non-Executive Directors.
Visits such as these allow the Non-Executive ultimate responsibility for the management, general affairs, Directors to meet senior managers around Unilevers global direction and performance and long-term success of our business and in turn allow them to gain a deeper understanding of business as a whole.
The responsibility of the Directors is the business.
collective, taking into account their respective roles as Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors.
Board induction, training and support Upon election, Directors receive a comprehensive Directors The Boards are responsible for the overall conduct of the Group, Information Pack and are briefed thoroughly on their including the management, direction and performance of NV and responsibilities and the business.
Ongoing training is provided for PLC.
The Boards have, with the exception of certain matters Directors by way of site visits, presentations, circulated updates, which are reserved for them, delegated the operational running of and teach-ins at Board or Board Committee meetings on, among the Group to the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chief Executive other things, Unilevers business, environmental, social and Officer is responsible to the Boards and is able to sub-delegate corporate governance, regulatory developments and investor any of his powers and discretions.
Matters reserved for the relations matters.
Boards include structural and constitutional matters, corporate A procedure is in place to enable Directors, if they so wish, to seek independent advice at Unilevers expense.
36 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Governance Board evaluation Based on the evaluation of the Boards, its Committees and its The Chairman, in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman & Senior individual members, the Nomination Committee recommends to Independent Director, leads the process whereby the Boards each Board a list of candidates for nomination at the AGMs of both formally assess their own performance, with the aim of helping to NV and PLC.
In addition, shareholders are able to nominate improve the effectiveness of the Boards and their Committees.
To do so they must put a resolution to both AGMs in line The evaluation process consists of an internal exercise performed with local requirements.
However, in order to ensure that the annually with an independent third-party evaluation carried out at Boards remain identical, anyone being elected as a Director of NV least once every three years.
must also be elected as a Director of PLC and vice versa.
Therefore, if an individual fails to be elected to both companies The internal evaluation process includes an extensive bespoke then he or she will be unable to take their place on either Board.
and confidential questionnaire for all Directors to complete.
The detailed questionnaire invites comments on a number of areas The provisions in the Articles of Association for appointing including board responsibility, performance, operations, Directors cannot be changed without the permission, in the case effectiveness, training and knowledge.
In addition, each year the of NV, of the holders of the special ordinary shares numbered 1 to Chairman conducts a process of evaluating the performance and 2,400 inclusive and, in the case of PLC, of the holders of PLCs contribution of each Director, including an interview with each.
The NV special ordinary shares may only be The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman is led by the transferred to one or more other holders of such shares.
The joint Vice-Chairman & Senior Independent Director and the Chairman holders of both the NV special ordinary shares and the PLC leads the evaluation of the Chief Executive Officer, both by means deferred stock are N. V. Elma and United Holdings Limited, which of confidential, bespoke questionnaires.
Committees of the are joint subsidiaries of NV and PLC.
The Boards of N. V. Elma and Boards evaluate themselves annually under supervision of their United Holdings Limited comprise the members of the respective chairmen taking into account the views of respective Nomination Committee, which comprise Non-Executive Directors Committee members and the Boards.
As a result of the recommendations from the 2010 evaluation, Group Secretary Board meetings were organised to ensure there was sufficient The Group Secretary is available to advise all Directors on time to allow for greater contributions from the Non-Executive matters relating to the governance of the Group and ensures that Directors.
Board procedures are complied with.
The current Group Secretary is Tonia Lovell.
Action taken in 2011 Following the commitment made in 2010, the Board conducted an Board changes external board evaluation process using an independent external The current Directors, with their biographies, are shown on page third-party consultant, and further information is provided within 34. the Chairmans Statement on page 2.
At the 2011 AGMs, Jeroen van der Veer retired as a Non-Executive Appointment of Directors Director and Sunil B Mittal was appointed as a Non-Executive Directors are appointed by shareholders at the AGMs.
At the same AGMs, Paul Polman and Jean-Marc Hut Directors, unless they are retiring, submit themselves for rewere re-elected as Executive Directors, and Louise Fresco, Ann election every year, and shareholders vote to re-appoint them by a Fudge, Charles Golden, Byron Grote, Hixonia Nyasulu, Sir simple majority vote.
A list of our current Directors and the periods Malcolm Rifkind, Kees Storm, Michael Treschow and Paul Walsh during which they have served as such is set out on page34.
were re-elected as Non-Executive Directors.
In order to seek to ensure that NV and PLC have the same At the 2012 AGMs all current Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the Articles of Association of NV and PLC contain Directors will be nominated for re-election.
provisions which are designed to ensure that both NV and PLC shareholders are presented with the same candidates for election The 2012 AGM Notices are available on our website at as Directors.
This is achieved through a nomination procedure www.
com agm from 28 March 2012. operated by the Boards of NV and PLC through Unilevers Nomination Committee.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Report of the Directors Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Our Directors Meetings The Non-Executive Directors meet as a group, without the Non-Executive Directors Executive Directors present, under the leadership of the Chairman to consider specific agenda items and wide-ranging Chairman business matters of relevance to the Group.
In 2011 they met five Unilever has an independent Non-Executive Chairman and a Chief times.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between their roles.
Independence Following the conclusion of a thorough review of all relevant The Chairman is primarily responsible for leadership of the relationships of the Non-Executive Directors, and their related or Boards and ensuring their effectiveness.
The Chairman sets the connected persons, our Boards consider all of our Non-Executive Boards agenda, ensures the Directors receive accurate, timely Directors to be independent of Unilever by reference to the criteria and clear information, promotes effective relationships and open set out in The Governance of Unilever and derived from the communication between the Executive and Non-Executive relevant best practice guidelines in the Netherlands, United Directors and maintains effective communication with major Kingdom and United States.
With the Group Secretary, the Chairman will take the lead in providing a properly constructed induction programme None of our Non-Executive Directors are elected or appointed for new Directors that is comprehensive, formal and tailored.
under any arrangement or understanding with any major shareholder, customer, supplier or otherwise.
Senior Independent Director Following the retirement of Jeroen van der Veer at the 2011 AGMs, Remuneration the Boards have appointed Kees Storm as Vice-Chairman & Senior The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined Independent Director.
He acts as their spokesman, and serves as an by the Boards, within the overall limit set by the shareholders at intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
He is also a the AGMs in 2007, and is reported on page 59.
We do not grant our point of contact for shareholders if they have concerns which cannot Non-Executive Directors any personal loans or guarantees nor be resolved through the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
are they entitled to any severance payments.
Details of the terms of appointment of our Non-Executive Directors can be seen on the Non-Executive Directors Unilever website at The Non-Executive Directors share responsibility, together with www.
the Executive Directors, for the execution of the Boards duties.
The role of Non-Executive Directors is essentially supervisory.
As Tenure they make up the Committees of the Boards, it is important that Our Non-Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election they can be considered to be independent.
Although the Dutch Corporate Governance Code sets the suggested length of tenure at a maximum of 12 Role and Responsibilities years for Non-Executive Directors, they normally serve for a The key elements of the role and responsibilities of the Nonmaximum of nine years in accordance with the UK Corporate Executive Directors are: Governance Code.
Their nomination for re-election is subject to supervision of and advice to the Chief Executive Officer: continued good performance which is evaluated by the Boards, developing strategy with the Chief Executive Officer: based on the recommendations of the Nomination Committee.
scrutiny of performance of the business and Chief Executive Officer: Executive Directors oversight of risks and controls: reporting of performance: Chief Executive Officer remuneration of and succession planning for Executive The Chief Executive Officer has the authority to determine which Directors: and duties regarding the operational management of the companies governance and compliance.
and their business enterprises will be carried out under his responsibility, by one or more Executive Directors or by one or The Non-Executive Directors are chosen individually for their more other persons.
This provides a basis for the ULE that is broad and relevant experience and international outlook, as well chaired by and reports to the Chief Executive Officer.
For ULE as for their independence and details of their various members biographies see page 35. appointments can be found in their biographies on page 34.
In consultation with the Nomination Committee, the Boards review Executive Directors both the adequacy of succession planning processes and During 2011, Unilever had two Executive Directors, the Chief succession planning itself at both Board and Unilever Leadership Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, who were also Executive ULE level.
The profile set by the Boards for the members of the ULE and are full-time employees of Unilever.
Non-Executive Directors provides guiding principles for the composition of the Boards in line with the recommendations of The Executive Directors submit themselves for re-election at the applicable governance regulations and best practice, and takes AGMs each year, and the Nomination Committee carefully into account the balance of skills, diversity, knowledge and considers each nomination for re-appointment.
Executive experience on the Boards.
The profile set by the Boards for the Directors stop holding executive office on ceasing to be Directors.
Non-Executive Directors and the schedule used for orderly succession planning can be found on our website at We do not grant our Executive Directors any personal loans or www.
38 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Governance There are no family relationships between any of our Executive In addition, PLC provides indemnities including, where Directors, members of the ULE or Non-Executive Directors, and applicable, a qualifying pension scheme indemnity provision to none of our Executive Directors or other key management the directors from time to time of two subsidiaries that act as personnel are elected or appointed under any arrangement or trustee respectively of two of Unilevers UK pension schemes.
understanding with any major shareholder, customer, supplier or Appropriate trustee liability insurance is also in place.
Outside appointments Unilever recognises the benefit to the individual and to the Group Our Committees of involvement by Unilever senior executives acting as directors of other companies outside the Unilever Group, broadening their Board Committees experience and knowledge.
For our Executive Directors, the The Boards have established four Board Committees: the Audit number of outside directorships of listed companies is generally Committee: the Corporate Responsibility and Reputation limited to one per individual, and in the case of publicly listed Committee: the Nomination Committee: and the Remuneration companies approval is required from the Chairman.
Outside Committee, all formally set up by Board resolutions with defined directorships must not involve an excessive commitment or remits.
They are made up solely of Non-Executive Directors and conflict of interest.
Fees paid in connection with an outside report regularly to the Boards.
directorship may be retained by the individual, reflecting that any outside directorship is the responsibility of the individual and that All Committees are provided with sufficient resources to Unilever takes no responsibility in this regard.
undertake their duties, and the terms of reference for each Committee are contained within The Governance of Unilever Director matters which is available at www.
Conflicts of interest We attach special importance to avoiding conflicts of interest The reports of each Committee can be found on pages 46 to 59. between NV and PLC and their Directors.
The Boards are responsible for ensuring that there are rules in place to avoid Management Committee conflicts of interest by Board members.
Conflicts of interest are understood not to include transactions and other activities Disclosure Committee between companies in the Unilever Group.
The Boards have set up, through the Chief Executive Officer, a Disclosure Committee which is responsible for helping the Authorisation of situational conflicts is given by the Boards to the Boards ensure that financial and other information required to be relevant Director in accordance with the Articles of Association of disclosed publicly is disclosed in a timely manner and that the PLC.
The authorisation includes conditions relating to keeping information that is disclosed is complete and accurate in all Unilever information confidential and to the exclusion from material aspects.
receiving and discussing relevant information at Board meetings.
Situational conflicts are reviewed annually by the Boards as part The Committee comprises the Group Controller Chairman, the of the determination of Director independence.
In between those Group Secretary and Chief Legal Officer, the Group Treasurer and reviews Directors have a duty to inform the Boards of any relevant the NV and PLC Deputy Secretaries.
A Director may not vote on, or be counted in a quorum in relation to, any resolution of the Boards in respect of any contract in which he or she has a material interest.
The procedures that Unilever have put in place to deal with conflicts of interest have operated effectively.
Various formal matters The borrowing powers of NV Directors on behalf of NV are not limited by the Articles of Association of NV.
PLC Directors have the power to borrow on behalf of PLC up to three times the PLC proportion of the adjusted capital and reserves of the Unilever Group, as defined in PLCs Articles of Association, without the approval of shareholders any exceptions requiring an ordinary resolution.
Indemnification Directors indemnification, including the terms thereof, is provided for in NVs Articles of Association.
The power to indemnify Directors is provided for in PLCs Articles of Association and deeds of indemnity have been issued to all PLC Directors.
Appropriate qualifying third-party Directors and Officers liability insurance was in place for all Unilever Directors throughout 2011 and is currently in force.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Report of the Directors Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Attendance The following table shows the attendance of Directors at Board and Committee meetings for the year ended 31 December 2011.
If Directors are unable to attend a Board or Committee meeting, they have the opportunity beforehand to discuss any agenda items with the chairman of the meeting.
Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number eligible to attend.
Corporate Responsibility Main Audit and Reputation Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committee a Michael Treschow 8 8 6 6 5 5 b Jeroen van der Veer 4 4 2 2 2 2 a f f Kees Storm 8 8 5 5 4 4 3 3 c Paul Polman 8 8 c Jean-Marc Hut 7 8 Louise Fresco 8 8 4 4 f Ann Fudge 8 8 3 4 4 5 Charles Golden 7 8 5 5 Byron Grote 7 8 4 5 d Sunil B Mittal 2 4 Hixonia Nyasulu 8 8 4 4 a Sir Malcolm Rifkind 8 8 4 4 e a a Paul Walsh 8 8 6 6 5 5 a Chairman.
b Jeroen van der Veer retired from the Boards and stepped down as Chairman of both the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 12 May 2011. c Executive Director.
d Sunil B Mittal was appointed to the Boards on 12 May 2011. e Paul Walsh was appointed Chairman of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees on 12 May 2011. f Appointed to the Committee on 12 May 2011.
Our Shareholders General Meetings of shareholders At the AGMs, a review is given of the progress of the business over Shareholder matters the last year and there is a discussion of current issues.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the meetings and ask Relations with shareholders and other investors questions, and the question and answer sessions form an important We believe it is important both to explain our business part of the meetings.
The business generally conducted includes developments and financial results to investors and to understand approval adoption of the Annual Report and Accounts, appointment their objectives.
of directors, appointment of external auditors, and authorisation for the Boards to allot and repurchase shares.
The Chief Financial Officer has lead responsibility for investor relations, with the active involvement of the Chief Executive General Meetings of shareholders of NV and PLC are held at Officer.
They are supported by our Investor Relations department times and places decided by our Boards.
NV meetings are which organises presentations for analysts and investors, and normally held in Rotterdam and PLC meetings are normally held such presentations are generally made available on our website.
These AGMs have historically been held on consecutive Briefings on quarterly results are given via teleconference and are days, but advances in technology mean that Unilever is able to accessible by telephone or via our website.
For further information begin to explore new approaches to the way it holds company visit our website at www.
meetings, with the aim of bringing the NV and PLC shareholders closer together.
Therefore in 2012 we will be holding the NV and The Boards are briefed on reactions to quarterly results PLC meetings on the same day, with the NV meeting being held in announcements.
They, or the relevant Board Committee, are the morning in Rotterdam, and the PLC meeting being held in the briefed on any issues raised by shareholders that are relevant to afternoon in London.
At each AGM, half the Board will attend in their responsibilities.
Our shareholders can raise issues directly person, and the other half of the Board will attend the meeting via with the Chairman and, if appropriate, the Vice-Chairman & satellite link.
It is our intention that both the Chairman and Chief Senior Independent Director.
Executive Officer will attend both meetings in person.
Both NV and PLC communicate with their respective The external auditors are welcomed to the AGMs and they are shareholders at the AGMs as well as responding to their questions entitled to address the meetings.
and enquiries during the course of the year.
We take the views of our shareholders into account and, in accordance with all applicable legislation and regulations, may consult them in an appropriate way before putting proposals to our AGMs.
40 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Governance Voting rights A proposal to alter the Articles of Association of NV can only be Shareholders that hold NV shares on the record date are entitled to made by the Board of NV.
A proposal to alter the Articles of attend and vote at NV General Meetings.
Dutch law requires that Association of PLC can be made either by the Board of PLC or by the record date is set at a date 28 days before the meeting, and shareholders in the manner permitted under the UK Companies shares are not blocked between the record date and the date of the Act 2006.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the Articles meeting.
NV shareholders can cast one vote for each 0.16 nominal of Association of PLC, PLCs Articles of Association may be capital that they hold.
This means that they can cast one vote for amended by a special resolution.
Proposals to alter the provisions each NV ordinary share, or NV New York Registry Share.
in the Articles of Association of NV and PLC respectively relating Shareholders can vote in person or by proxy.
Similar arrangements to the unity of management require the prior approval of meetings apply to holders of depositary receipts issued for NV shares and the of the holders of the NV special shares and the PLC deferred holders of NV preference shares.
PLC shareholders can cast one stock.
The Articles of Association of both NV and PLC can be 1 9 vote for each 3 p nominal capital that they hold.
This means found on our website at shareholders can cast one vote for each PLC ordinary share, or www.
PLC American Depositary Receipt of shares.
Proxy appointments need to be with our Registrars 48 hours before the meeting and the Right to hold shares shareholding at this time will determine both the right to vote and Unilevers constitutional documents place no limitations on the the ability to attend the meeting.
right to hold NV and PLC shares.
There are no limitations on the right to hold or exercise voting rights on the ordinary shares of NV More information on the exercise of voting rights can be found in and PLC imposed by foreign law.
NVs and PLCs Articles of Association and in the respective Notices of Meetings which can be found on our website at Electronic communication www.
Shareholders of NV and PLC can electronically appoint a proxy to vote on their behalf at the respective AGM.
Shareholders of PLC Holders of NV New York Registry Shares or PLC American can also choose to receive electronic notification that the Annual Depositary Receipts of shares will receive a proxy form enabling Report and Accounts and Notice of AGMs have been published on them to authorise and instruct a notary public or Citibank, N. A. our website, instead of receiving printed copies.
respectively to vote on their behalf at the General Meeting of NV orPLC.
Share capital matters Shares held in treasury will not be voted upon.
Margarine Union 1930 Limited: Conversion Rights The first Viscount Leverhulme was the founder of the company Voting on each of the resolutions contained in the Notice of AGMs which became PLC.
When he died in 1925, he left in his will a large is conducted by poll.
The final vote is published at the meetings number of PLC shares in various trusts.
and the outcome of the votes, including the proxy votes, is put on Unilevers website.
When the will trusts were varied in 1983, the interests of the beneficiaries of his will were also preserved.
Four classes of Shareholder proposed resolutions special shares were created in Margarine Union 1930 Limited, a Shareholders of NV may propose resolutions if they individually or subsidiary of PLC.
One of these classes can be converted at the 1 9 together hold 1% of NVs issued capital in the form of shares or end of the year 2038 into 70,875,000 PLC ordinary shares of 3 p depositary receipts for shares, or if they individually or together each.
This currently represents 5.4% of PLCs issued ordinary hold shares or depositary receipts worth 50 million.
These convertible shares replicate the rights which the Shareholders who together represent at least 10% of the issued descendants of the first Viscount would have had under his will.
capital of NV can also requisition Extraordinary General Meetings This class of the special shares only has a right to dividends in to deal with specific resolutions.
specified circumstances, and no dividends have yet been paid.
Shareholders of PLC who together hold shares representing at Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office least 5% of the total voting rights of PLC, or 100 shareholders who The Foundation Unilever NV Trust Office Stichting hold on average 100 each in nominal value of PLC share capital, Administratiekantoor Unilever N. V. is a trust office with a board can require PLC to propose a resolution at a General Meeting.
As part of its corporate objects, the PLC shareholders holding in aggregate 5% of the issued PLC Foundation issues depositary receipts in exchange for the ordinary shares are able to convene a General Meeting of PLC.
ordinary and 7% preference shares it holds in NV.
These depositary receipts are listed on Euronext Amsterdam, as are the Required majorities NV ordinary and 7% preference shares themselves.
Resolutions are usually adopted at NV and PLC shareholder meetings by an absolute majority of votes cast, unless there are other requirements under the applicable laws or NVs or PLCs Articles of Association.
For example, there are special requirements for resolutions relating to the alteration of the Articles of Association, the liquidation of NV or PLC and the alteration of the Equalisation Agreement.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 Report of the Directors Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Holders of depositary receipts can under all circumstances Our Foundation Agreements exchange their depositary receipts for the underlying shares and vice versa, and are entitled to dividends and all economic benefits Foundation Agreements on the underlying shares held by the Foundation.
They can attend The Unilever Group is created and maintained by a series of all General Meetings of NV, either personally or by proxy, and also agreements between the parent companies, NV and PLC, have the right to speak.
They can under all circumstances and together with special provisions in their respective Articles of without limitation exercise their voting rights.
The Foundation only Association, which are together known as the Foundation votes shares that are not represented at a General Meeting.
These agreements enable Unilever to achieve unity Foundation votes in such a way as it deems to be in the interests of of management, operations, shareholders rights, purpose and the holders of the depositary receipts.
This voting policy is laid mission and further information on these agreements is provided down in the Conditions of Administration that apply to the below and in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever depositary receipts.
which is available on our website at www.
The Foundations shareholding fluctuates daily.
Its holdings on 28February 2012 were 1,252,279,716 NV ordinary shares 73.03% NVs Articles of Association contain, among other things, the and 9,776 NV 7% cumulative preference shares 33.71%.
objects clause, which sets out the scope of activities that NV is authorised to undertake.
They are drafted to give a wide scope The members of the board at the Foundation are Mr J H Schraven and provide that the primary objectives are: to carry on business chairman, Mr P P fide Koning, Prof Emeritus Dr L Koopmans and as a holding company: to manage any companies in which it has Mr A A Olijslager.
The Foundation reports periodically on its an interest: and to operate and carry into effect the Equalisation activities.
Further information on the Foundation, including its Agreement.
At the 2010 PLC AGM, the shareholders agreed that Articles of Association and Conditions of Administration, can be the objects clause be removed from PLCs Articles of Association found on its website at www.
so that there are no restrictions on its objects.
Unilever considers the arrangements of the Foundation NVs and PLCs Articles of Association, together with the appropriate and in the interest of NV and its shareholders given additional three Foundation Agreements detailed below, can be the size of the voting rights attached to the financing preference found on our website at shares and the relatively low attendance of holders of ordinary www.
shares at the General Meetings of NV.
Equalisation Agreement Further information on the share capital of NV and PLC is given on The Equalisation Agreement makes the economic position of the pages 123 and 124. shareholders of NV and PLC, as far as possible, the same as if they held shares in a single company.
The Equalisation Agreement regulates the mutual rights of the shareholders of NV and PLC.
Under the Equalisation Agreement, NV and PLC must adopt the same financial periods and accounting policies.
Each NV ordinary share represents the same underlying economic interest in the Unilever Group as each PLC ordinary share.
The Deed of Mutual Covenants The Deed of Mutual Covenants provides that NV and PLC and their respective subsidiary companies shall co-operate in every way for the purpose of maintaining a common operating policy.
They shall exchange all relevant information about their respective businesses the intention being to create and maintain a common operating platform for the Unilever Group throughout the world.
The Deed also contains provisions for the allocation of assets between NV and PLC.
The Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing Under the Agreement for Mutual Guarantees of Borrowing between NV and PLC, each company will, if asked by the other, guarantee the borrowings of the other.
The two companies also jointly guarantee the borrowings of their subsidiaries.
These arrangements are used, as a matter of financial policy, for certain significant public borrowings.
They enable lenders to rely on our combined financial strength.
42 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Governance Our requirements and compliance the Trustees of the PLC employee share trusts may vote or abstain in any way they think fit and in doing so may take into Requirements and compliance general account both financial and non-financial interests of the Unilever is subject to corporate governance requirements in the beneficiaries of the employee share trusts or their dependants.
Netherlands, the UK and as a foreign private issuer in the US.
In Historically the Trustees tend not to exercise this right.
this section we report on our compliance with the corporate governance regulations and best practice codes applicable in the The Netherlands Netherlands and the UK and we also describe compliance with NV is required to state in its Annual Report and Accounts whether corporate governance standards in the US.
it complies or will comply with the Principles and best practice provisions bpp of the Dutch Corporate Governance Code the Under the European Takeover Directive as implemented in the Dutch Code and, if it does not comply, to explain the reasons for Netherlands and the UK, the UK Companies Act 2006 and rules of this.
NV complies with almost all of the principles and best the US Securities and Exchange Commission, Unilever is required practice provisions of the Dutch Code, a copy of which is available to provide information on contracts and other arrangements at www.
The text that follows essential or material to the business of the Group.
We believe we sets out certain statements that the Dutch Code invites us to do not have any such contracts or arrangements.
make to our shareholders that are not included elsewhere in this Annual Report and Accounts as well as areas of non-compliance.
Our governance arrangements are designed and structured to promote and further the interests of our companies and their Unilever places a great deal of importance on corporate shareholders.
The Boards however reserve the right, in cases responsibility and sustainability as is evidenced by our vision to where they decide such to be in the interests of the companies or double the size of the company while reducing our environmental our shareholders, to depart from that which is set out in the impact.
With respect to our performance measures Unilever is present and previous sections in relation to our corporate keen to ensure focus on key financial performance measures governance.
Any such changes will be reported in future Annual which we believe to be the drivers of shareholder value creation Reports and Accounts and, when necessary, through changes to and relative total shareholder return.
Unilever therefore believes the relevant documents published on our website.
As appropriate, that the interests of the business and shareholders are best proposals for change will be put to our shareholders for approval.
served by linking the long-term share plans to the measures as described in the Directors Remuneration Report and has not Our principal risks and our approach to risk management and included a non-financial performance indicator Principle II.
2 and systems of internal control are described on pages 28 to 33. bpp II.
Further information can be found on our website and in the Risk management and control document entitled The Governance of Unilever which is available As a result of the review of the Audit Committee as described in on our website at its report on pages 46 and 47 the Boards believe that as regards www.
financial reporting risks, the risk management and control systems provide reasonable assurance that the financial Requirements European Union statements do not contain any errors of material importance and Following implementation of the European Takeover Directive, the risk management and control systems have worked properly certain information is required to be disclosed in relation to in 2011 bpp ll.
1.5. control and share structures and interests of NV and PLC.
Such disclosures, which are not covered elsewhere in this Annual The aforesaid statements are not statements in accordance with Report and Accounts, include the following: the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act there are no requirements to obtain the approval of NV or PLC, of2002.
or of other holders of securities in NV or PLC, for a transfer of such securities.
The NV special ordinary shares may only be Retention period of shares transferred to one or more holders of such shares: The Dutch Code recommends that shares granted to Executive there are no arrangements by which, with NVs or PLCs Directors must be retained for a period of at least five years bpp co-operation, financial rights carried by securities are held by II.
Our shareholder-approved remuneration policy requires a person other than the holder of such securities: Executive Directors to build and retain a personal shareholding in NV and PLC are not aware of any agreements between holders Unilever.
The Boards believe that this is in line with the spirit of the of securities which may result in restrictions on the transfer of Dutch Code.
such securities or on voting rights: neither NV nor PLC are parties to any significant agreements Severance pay which include provisions that take effect, alter or terminate such It is our policy to set the level of severance payments for Directors agreement upon a change of control following a takeover bid: at no more than one years salary, unless the Boards, at the NV and PLC do not have any agreements with any Director or proposal of the Remuneration Committee, find this manifestly employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or unreasonable given circumstances or unless otherwise dictated employment resulting from a takeover except that most of by applicable law bpp II.
Unilevers share schemes contain provisions which operate in the event of a takeover of Unilever, which provisions may for Conflicts of interest instance cause options or awards granted to employees under In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the provisions of the such schemes to vest after a takeover or be exchanged into Dutch Code Principles II.
Conflicts of new awards for shares in another entity: and interest are not understood to include transactions and other activities between companies in the Unilever Group.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Report of the Directors Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Remuneration Committee the information regarding the functioning of NVs General The Remuneration Committee may not be chaired by a Board Meeting of shareholders, and the authority and rights of NVs member who is a member of the management board of another shareholders, as required by article 3a b of the Decree, can be listed company bpp III.
Paul Walsh is Chairman of the found within the relevant sections under Corporate Remuneration Committee and has been CEO of Diageo Plc since Governance: 2000.
Paul has profound knowledge and understanding of the information regarding the composition and functioning of remuneration matters at companies operating globally and NVs Board and its Committees, as required by article 3a c of understands how remuneration policies support the growth the Decree, can be found within the relevant sections under objective.
His experience and insight of remuneration matters is Corporate Governance: and very valuable to Unilever.
The Boards believe that Mr Walsh is the information concerning the inclusion of the information ideally placed for the position of Chairman of the Remuneration required by the decree Article 10 European Takeover Directive, Committee.
as required by article 3b of the Decree, can be found within the relevant sections under Corporate Governance and within the Financing preference shares section Shareholder information, Analysis of shareholding.
NV issued 6% and 7% cumulative preference shares between 1927 and 1964.
Their voting rights are based on their nominal The United Kingdom value, as prescribed by Dutch law.
The Dutch Code recommends PLC is required, as a company that is incorporated in the UK and that the voting rights on such shares should, in any event when listed on the London Stock Exchange, to state how it has applied they are newly issued, be based on their economic value rather the main principles and how far it has complied with the than on their nominal value bpp IV.
NV agrees with this provisions set out in the 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code, a principle but cannot unilaterally reduce voting rights of its copy of which is available at www.
In the preceding pages we have described how we have applied Anti-takeover constructions and control over the company the main principles and the provisions in the UK Code.
In 2011, NV confirms that it has no anti-takeover constructions, in the PLC complied with all UK Code provisions, with the exception of sense of constructions that are intended solely, or primarily, to provision E. 2.3 of the Code which provides that the chairmen of block future hostile public offers for its shares bpp IV.
Nor the audit, remuneration and nomination committees be available does NV have any constructions whose specific purpose is to to answer questions at the AGM and that all directors attend the prevent a bidder, after acquiring 75% of the capital, from AGM as Kees Storm, who is Chairman of the Audit Committee, appointing or dismissing members of the Board and subsequently was unable to attend the AGM in May because he was required to altering the Articles of Association.
The acquisition through a attend a scheduled board meeting of another public company on public offer of a majority of the shares in a company does not the same day.
under Dutch law preclude in all circumstances the continued right of the board of the company to exercise its powers.
Risk management and control Our approach to risk management and systems of internal control Meetings of analysts and presentations to investors is in line with the recommendations in the report on Internal We have extensive procedures for handling relations with and Control Revised Guidance for Directors on the UK Combined communicating with shareholders, investors, analysts and the Code The Turnbull guidance.
The important presentations and meetings are conducted as far as practicable in accordance with It is Unilevers practice to bring acquired companies within the the Dutch Code bpp IV.
Due to their large number and overlap Groups governance procedures as soon as is practicable and in in information, however, some of the less important ones are not any event by the end of the first full year of operation.
announced in advance, made accessible to everyone or put on our website.
The United States Both NV and PLC are listed on the New York Stock Exchange and Corporate Governance Statement must therefore comply with such of the requirements of US NV is required to make a statement concerning corporate legislation, such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, regulations governance as referred to in article 2a of the decree on additional enacted under US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the requirements for annual reports Vaststellingsbesluit nadere New York Stock Exchange NYSE as are applicable to foreign voorschriften inhoud jaarverslag with effect from 1 January 2010 private issuers, copies of which are available at www.
The information required to be included in this www.
In some cases the requirements are mandatory corporate governance statement as described in articles 3, 3a and and in other cases the obligation is to comply or explain.
3b of the Decree can be found in the following sections of this Report and Accounts: We have complied in all material respects with the requirements the information concerning compliance with the Dutch concerning corporate governance that were in force during 2011.
Corporate Governance Code, as required by article 3 of the Attention is drawn in particular to the Report of the Audit Decree, can be found under Corporate Governance within the Committee on pages 46 and 47. section Requirements the Netherlands: the information concerning Unilevers risk management and control frameworks relating to the financial reporting process, as required by article 3a a of the Decree, can be found under Outlook and risks on pages 28 to 33 and within the relevant sections under Corporate Governance: 44 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Governance Actions already taken to ensure compliance in all material We are compliant with the Listing Standards of the NYSE respects that are not specifically disclosed elsewhere or applicable to foreign private issuers.
Our corporate governance otherwise clear from reading this report include: practices do not significantly differ from those required of US the Code of Business Principles and Code Policies declaration companies listed on the NYSE.
undertaken by all senior financial officers: the issuance of instructions restricting the employment of We also confirm that our shareholders have the opportunity to former employees of the audit firm: and vote on certain equity compensation plans.
the establishment of a policy on reporting requirements under SEC rules relating to standards of professional conduct for US Risk management and control attorneys.
Based on an evaluation by the Boards, the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that the design and In each of these cases, existing practices were revised and or operation of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures, documented in such a way as to conform to the new requirements.
including those defined in United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a 15 e, as at 31 December 2011 were effective, All senior executives and senior financial officers have declared and that subsequently until the date of the approval of the Annual their understanding of and compliance with Unilevers Code of Report and Accounts by the Boards, there have been no significant Business Principles and the related Code Policies.
No waiver changes in the Groups internal controls, or in other factors that from any provision of the Code of Business Principles or Code could significantly affect those controls.
Policies was granted to any of the persons falling within the scope of the SEC requirements in 2011.
The Code Policies include Unilever is required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act mandatory requirements covering but not limited to the of 2002 to report on the effectiveness of internal control over following areas: accurate records, reporting & accounting: financial reporting.
This requirement will be reported on anti-bribery: avoiding conflicts of interest: gifts & entertainment: separately and will form part of Unilevers Annual Report on preventing insider trading: political activities & political donations: Form 20-F. contact with government, regulators & non-governmental organisations: respect, dignity & fair treatment: external communications the media, investors & analysts.
Our Code of Business Principles is available on our website at www.
We are required by US securities laws and the Listing Standards of the NYSE to have an Audit Committee that satisfies Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and the Listing Standards of the NYSE.
We are compliant with these requirements.
We are also required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those typically followed by US companies listed on the NYSE.
In addition to the information we have given to you in this report about our corporate governance arrangements, further details are provided in the document entitled The Governance of Unilever, which is on our website at www.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45
