Report of the Directors Governance REPORT OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Terms of Reference continue to aspire to increase that level.
However, Unilever feels The Nomination Committee comprises three Independent that gender is only one part of diversity, and Unilever directors will Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
It was chaired by continue to be selected on the basis of the wide-ranging Jeroen van der Veer until his retirement at the 2011 AGMs.
Paul experience, backgrounds, skills, knowledge and insight of its Walsh has chaired the Committee since 12 May 2011.
members are Ann Fudge, Kees Storm both of whom were appointed following the 2011 AGMs and Michael Treschow.
The It is recognised that Executive Directors may be invited to become Group Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
a Non-Executive Director of another company and that such an appointment, subject to the approval of the Chairman and where The Committee is responsible for drawing up selection criteria, relevant the Chief Executive Officer, may broaden the knowledge succession planning and appointment procedures.
Under and experience to the benefit of the Group see page 34 for details Unilevers corporate governance arrangements Executive and in the biographies.
Non-Executive Directors offer themselves for election each year at the Annual General Meetings.
The Nomination Committee is Activities of the Committee during the year responsible for recommending candidates for nomination as The Committee met six times in 2011.
All Committee members Executive Directors including the Chief Executive Officer and attended the meetings they were eligible to attend except Ann Non-Executive Directors each year based on the process of Fudge who attended three out of four meetings she was eligible to evaluations referred to below.
After Directors have been attend.
Other attendees at Committee meetings or part thereof appointed by shareholders the Committee recommends to the were the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief HR Officer and the Boards candidates for election as Chairman and the ViceGroup Secretary.
The Committee also has responsibility for supervising the policy of the Chief Executive The Committee proposed the nomination of all Directors offering Officer on the selection criteria and appointment procedures for themselves for re-election at the 2011 AGMs in May 2011.
During senior management and it keeps oversight of all matters relating 2011, the Committee also proposed the nomination of Sunil B to corporate governance, bringing any issues to the attention of Mittal as a Non-Executive Director at the 2011 AGMs in May.
The Committees Terms of Reference are contained Mittal was chosen because, with his business building experience within The Governance of Unilever and are also available on our in developing markets ranging from the entrepreneurial to website at www.
large-scale corporate activities, he would be a valuable addition to the Boards.
In making this appointment the Nomination Process for the appointment of Directors Committee was supported by an independent executive search Unilever has formal procedures for the evaluation of the Boards, firm chosen by the Committee which had been engaged to identify the Board Committees and the individual Directors.
The suitable candidates for the role required.
Following his Chairman, in conjunction with the Vice-Chairman & Senior appointment at the 2011 AGMs, the Committee approved an Independent Director, leads the process whereby the Boards extensive induction programme for Mr Mittal.
assess their own performance and the results of the evaluations are provided to the Committee when it discusses the nominations As part of its corporate governance responsibilities, during the for re-election of Directors.
year the Committee considered the new UK Corporate Governance Code, which applied to Unilever from 1 January 2011, Where a vacancy arises on the Boards, the Committee may seek and will continue to ensure that Unilever complies with the new the services of specialist recruitment firms and other external provisions, where appropriate, for our future reporting years.
experts to assist in finding individuals with the appropriate skills and expertise.
The Committee reviews candidates presented by This year, Unilever decided to perform an external evaluation, the recruitment firm, or by Directors and members of the Unilever undertaken by an independent third-party consultant.
Further Leadership Executive, and all members of the Committee are information on this evaluation can be found on page 2, the results involved in the interview process before making their of which were discussed at the December 2011 Board Meetings.
recommendations to the full Boards for approval.
The Committee also carried out an assessment of its own In nominating Directors, the Committee follows the agreed Board performance and concluded it was performing effectively.
profile of potential Non-Executive Directors, which takes into account the roles of Non-Executive Directors set out in the Dutch Corporate Governance Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Under the terms of The Governance of Unilever the Boards Paul Walsh should comprise a majority of Non-Executive Directors.
To Chairman of the Nomination Committee represent Unilevers areas of interest, the profile also indicates Ann Fudge there should be a strong representation from Developing and Kees Storm Emerging markets as well as from Europe and North America.
Michael Treschow Non-Executive Directors should be independent of Unilever and free from any conflicts of interest.
With respect to diversity in the composition of the Boards the objective pursued by the Boards is to have a variation of age, gender, expertise, social background and nationality and, wherever possible, the Boards should reflect Unilevers consumer base.
The Boards are pleased that we already have 25% female representation on the Boards.
We will Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49
