Report of the Directors Governance REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The role and terms of reference of the Audit Committee is to the application of information and communication technology: assist the Boards in fulfilling their oversight responsibilities tax planning, insurance arrangements and related risk regarding the integrity of Unilevers financial statements, risk management: management and internal control, compliance with legal and treasury policies, including debt issuance and hedging: regulatory requirements, the external auditors performance, commodity risk management, governance and derivatives qualifications and independence, and the performance of the hedging: and internal audit function.
The Audit Committee is comprised only of independent NonThe Committee reviewed the application of the requirements Executive Directors with a minimum requirement of three such under Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 with members.
During 2011 the Committee comprised Kees Storm respect to internal controls over financial reporting.
Chairman, Charles Golden and Byron Grote.
The Committee met five times in 2011.
All Committee members attended all the In addition, the Committee reviewed the annual financial plan and meetings except Byron Grote who attended four out of the five Unilevers dividend policy and dividend proposals.
The Boards have satisfied themselves that the current members of the Audit Committee are competent in financial In fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in relation to risk matters and have recent and relevant experience.
For the management, internal control and the financial statements, the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, Kees Storm was Committee met regularly with senior members of management the Audit Committees financial expert up to 28 February 2012. and are fully satisfied with the key judgements taken.
Byron Grote will take over the Chairmanship of the Committee on 29 February 2012 and will become the Audit Committees financial Internal audit function expert on this date.
The Committee reviewed Corporate Audits audit plan for the year and agreed its budget and resource requirements.
It reviewed During the year, principal activities were as follows: interim and year-end summary reports and managements response.
The Committee carried out a formal evaluation of the Financial statements performance of the internal audit function and was satisfied with The Committee considered reports from the Chief Financial the effectiveness of the function.
The Committee met Officer on the quarterly and annual financial statements, including independently with the Chief Auditor during the year and other financial statements and disclosures prior to their discussed the results of the audits performed during the year.
publication and issues reviewed by the Disclosure Committee.
They also reviewed the Annual Report and Accounts and Annual Audit of the Annual Accounts Report on Form 20-F, the quarterly performance and , Unilevers external auditors and accompanying press releases prior to publication.
These reviews independent registered public accounting firm, reported in depth incorporated the accounting policies and key judgements and to the Committee on the scope and outcome of the annual audit, estimates underpinning the financial statements as disclosed including their audit of internal controls over financial reporting as within Note 1 on pages 68 and 69, including: required by Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002. goodwill and intangible assets: Their reports included accounting matters, governance and provisions: control, and accounting developments.
business combinations: financial instruments: The Committee held independent meetings with the external pensions: auditors during the year and discussed and challenged their audit taxation: and plan, including their assessment of the financial reporting risk going concern assessment.
The Committee discussed the views and conclusions of  regarding The Committee was satisfied with the accounting treatments managements treatment of significant transactions and areas of adopted.
judgement during the year and  confirmed they were satisfied that these had been treated Risk management and internal control arrangements appropriately in the financial statements.
The Committee reviewed Unilevers overall approach to risk management and control, and its processes, outcomes and External auditors disclosure.
It reviewed: The Audit Committee conducted a formal evaluation of the the Controllers Quarterly Risk and Control Status Report effectiveness of the external audit process.
The Committee has which includes matters arising from the Global Code and considered the tenure, quality and fees of the auditors and Policy Committee, including Code cases relating to frauds and determined that a tender for the audit work is not necessary.
As a financial crimes and significant complaints received through result, the Committee has approved the extension of the current the global Ethics Hotline: external audit contract by one year, and recommended to the Corporate Risks, including regular reviews of the 2011 risks Boards the re-appointment of external auditors.
On the and the 2012 Focus Risks identified by the Unilever Leadership recommendation of the Audit Committee, the Directors will be Executive: proposing the re-appointment of  at the Managements work to implement a simplified policy AGMs in May 2012 see pages 116 and 122. framework that directly underpins the Code of Business Principles: progress on managements Effective Financial Control & Reporting project: 46 Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Report of the Directors Governance Both Unilever and the auditors have for many years had Audit Committee terms of reference safeguards in place to avoid the possibility that the auditors The Audit Committees terms of reference are reviewed annually objectivity and independence could be compromised.
The by the Committee taking into account relevant legislation and Committee reviewed the report from  on recommended good practice.
The terms of reference are the actions they take to comply with the professional and contained within The Governance of Unilever which is available regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure on our website at their independence from Unilever.
The Committee also reviewed the statutory audit, Board Assessment of the Audit Committee auditrelatedand non-audit related services provided by The Board evaluated the performance of the Committee and the , and compliance with Unilevers Committee carried out a self-assessment of its performance, and documented approach, which prescribes in detail the types concluded it was performing effectively.
ofengagements, listed below, for which the external auditors canbeused: statutory audit services, including audit of subsidiaries: audit related engagements services that involve attestation, Kees Storm assurance or certification of factual information that may be Chairman of the Audit Committee required by external parties: Charles Golden non-audit related services work that our auditors are best Byron Grote placed to undertake, which may include: tax services all significant tax work is put to tender: acquisition and disposal services, including related due diligence, audits and accountants reports: and internal control reviews.
Several types of engagements are prohibited, including: bookkeeping or similar services: systems design and implementation related to financial information or risk management: valuation services: actuarial services: internal audit: and staff secondments to a management function.
All audit related engagements over 250,000 and non-audit related engagements over 100,000 require specific advance approval of the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Committee further approves all engagements below these levels which have been authorised by the Group Controller.
These authorities are reviewed regularly and, where necessary, updated in the light of internal developments, external developments and best practice.
Unilever Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47
