Overview Business review Corporate Governance Financial statements Other information www.
com Directors report AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 37 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance statement Statement of compliance with the code of best practice The Company is committed to the principles of Corporate Governance contained in the Combined Code on Corporate Governance provided by the Financial Reporting Council the Combined Code and for which the Board is accountable to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year and to the date of this report except for the following: A.
7.2 One Non-Executive Director David Mann who served until his retirement at the last Annual General Meeting July 2010 did not have a contract of employment for a specific term due to his appointment being prior to the issue of the 2003 Combined Code.
Following David Manns retirement, the Company has been in compliance with the principle of all Non-Executive Directors holding contracts of employment for a specific term.
The Company has applied the Principles of Good Governance set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, including both the main principles and supporting principles, by complying with the Combined Code as noted above.
Further explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out below and, in connection with Directors remuneration, in the Directors remuneration report on page 42.
The Company is aware of the terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in May 2010 which will apply for the first time to the Company from 1 April 2011 and is taking appropriate steps to ensure compliance with that code.
Composition of the Board During the year the Board comprised the Chairman, three Non-Executive Directors including the Senior Independent Director and two Executive Directors being the Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer.
In April 2010, the Company announced the appointment of Herv Couturier as a Non-Executive Director.
Further details of the process for the appointment of Mr Couturier are contained in the Nominations Committee report.
In addition, in April 2010, it was announced that following eleven years of service to the Group, David Mann was to retire as Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director at the Annual General Meeting in July 2010.
In November 2010, the Company announced that after twenty one years with AVEVA, and the last ten years serving as Group Finance Director, Paul Taylor had decided to step down from the Board with effect from 1 January 2011.
Paul was replaced on the Board by James Kidd whose appointment as Chief Financial Officer was announced in November 2010 and became effective 1 January 2011.
James Kidd has been an employee of the Company since 2004, has held several senior roles and has been Head of Finance since 2006.
Brief biographical details of all Board members are set out on pages 30 and 31.
The membership of all Board Committees is set out below: Treasury Risk Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Management Nick Prest Chairman Chairman Member Chairman Philip Dayer Senior Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Chairman Member Chairman 1 David Mann Independent Non-Executive Director Member Jonathan Brooks Independent Non-Executive Director Member Chairman Member Member Member 2 Herv Couturier Independent Non-Executive Director Member Member Richard Longdon Chief Executive Member 3 James Kidd Chief Financial Officer Member Member 1 Retired from the Board on 7 July 2010.
In the period prior to his retirement David Mann was the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and member of the Audit Committee.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2010.
3 Appointed to the Board on 1 January 2011.
Prior to James Kidds appointment Paul Taylor served as Group Finance Director and was also a member of the Treasury Risk Management Committee.
Paul Taylor resigned from the Board on 1 January 2011.
Operation of the Board The AVEVA Group Board meets regularly in combination with the Board of AVEVA Solutions Limited, the main operating company in the Group which owns all of the Groups trading subsidiaries.
The AVEVA Solutions Limited Board includes as members the Head of Product Development and the Head of Group Operations as well as all the members of the Group Board.
This ensures that the AVEVA Group Board is well informed on technical and market factors driving the Groups performance as well as on financial outcomes.
The Board is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for the Boards decision that covers key areas of the Groups affairs, which include: overall responsibility for the strategy of the Group: corporate governance: review of trading performance and forecasts: risk management: board membership: communications with shareholders: approval of major transactions, including mergers and acquisitions: and approval of the financial statements and annual operating and capital expenditure budgets.
