26 AvevA Group plc Annual report 2011 Directors report www.
com Corporate Governance Corporate social responsibility report Operating responsibly and ethically in all areas of business We seek to be honest and fair in our relationships with both customers and suppliers.
Integrated CSR As a Group, we seek to operate responsibly In October 2010, the Group successfully and ethically in all areas of our business.
began a new global series of AVEVA World We have a strong ethical belief We have a strong ethical belief in the way Summits.
Organised for AVEVA customers in the way business should be business should be conducted and how and partners, three regional Summits were conducted and how employees employees should be treated.
We have presented throughout the month of October should be treated.
We have integrated social, environmental and ethical in Amsterdam, Las Vegas and Beijing.
With a policies into the way we do business and focus on business and project strategy topics integrated social, environmental how we interact with our stakeholders for midlevel and senior management, the new and ethical policies into the way including our shareholders, employees, AVEVA World Summits complement AVEVAs we do business and how we customers, suppliers and local communities.
popular user group meetings that address interact with our stakeholders The Chief Executive has Board responsibilities more technical product subjects for engineers for matters relating to the Groups culture and operators.
Adopting the theme of including our shareholders, and ethical policies, environmental matters Engage Inspire Deliver, 2010 was the employees, customers, suppliers and customer and employee issues.
These first year that AVEVA conducted the Summit and local community.
Our main matters are reviewed by the Board as part of series for their customer community around areas of focus are: its management of risk and maintenance the world.
More than 800 delegates at the of its core values is vital.
The Board considers three regional conferences attended business customers and suppliers: that it has sufficient information in order to be strategy presentations and participated in a able to assess these risks.
range of social and networking activities over the employees: course of the twoday events.
Combining both the plant and marine industries, each Summit training and development: Customers and suppliers had a mix of speakers that included AVEVA We seek to be honest and fair in our senior management, independent analysts, health and safety: relationships with both customers and and customer case studies.
suppliers with the majority of costs being environment: headcount related.
AVEVA has relatively few preferred suppliers, and evaluates potential Employees travel: suppliers based on several factors including The Group now has over 950 employees of vendor policies, reputation and contractual whom over 600 are based overseas.
We are educational partnerships: and terms and conditions.
dependent on the drive and commitment of our employees: they are our most important community involvement.
We have a policy not to offer, pay and valuable asset and key to our continuing or accept bribes or to accept substantial success.
We have continued to review the favours.
We encourage our suppliers and skills and experience needed to fill our critical customers to adopt the same principles roles and continue to recruit in certain areas.
to which we ourselves aspire.
Retention and skill development is regularly We offer the highest level of support and reviewed by the Board as part of the risk continue to enhance our product offering to management process.
ensure our customers effective use of our We recognise that we must excel in the software, minimising waste and improving management of people and support employees efficiency.
The Group is committed to its to develop their careers within the Group, customers and has dedicated support staff which assists towards maintaining a high within its Group Solutions Centre to handle all level of morale.
support calls and capture customer feedback.
