Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 58 Corporate Governance Report Dear Shareholder, Introduction Following the global financial crisis in 2008, there has been For the period under review, as a company with a premium much debate on the operation of company boards and how listing on the London Stock Exchange, the Company is subject to strengthen governance practices in an effort to help prevent to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued by future corporate failures.
In the UK this has resulted in a number the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined of reviews including that carried out by Sir David Walker on UK Code.
The new 2010 Code applies to the Company with banks and the Financial Reporting Councils FRC review of effect from 1 April 2011 and the Company will report against the Combined Code.
In June 2010 the FRC published a new the new Code in its 2012 Annual Report and Accounts.
The UK Corporate Governance Code the 2010 Code.
One of Combined Code and the new 2010 Code are available from the main conclusions from the FRCs review was that more the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
The attention should be paid to the spirit of the Code as well as objective of this Corporate Governance Report is to provide its letter.
This is a view that I support.
At Vedanta, our aim is details of the Groups governance policies, processes and to adopt systems of governance and procedures that work in structures and to explain how the Company has complied with practical terms, keeping a balance between entrepreneurship the main principles of the Combined Code.
and risks the Company faces.
Disclosures on share capital and related matters as required by The 2010 Code applies to Vedanta with effect from 1 April the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR7.2.
Whilst I believe that we already comply with nearly all in the Directors Report.
of the 2010 Codes provisions we will continue to review and incorporate best practice into our governance procedures in Statement of Compliance with the Combined Code the forthcoming year.
With the exception of the following matters, the Company has throughout the year ended 31 March 2011, fully complied with As Chairman, my duties include overseeing the efficient the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code: functioning of the Board, corporate governance practices and communication with shareholders.
We have in place Code Provisions A.
2.2 an experienced Board of Directors supported by an excellent Mr Anil Agarwal was appointed as Executive Chairman in 2005. management team.
The Board is used to open debate and Mr Agarwal was the founder of the businesses of Vedanta questioning of matters put to them for consideration.
One of Resources and steered the phenomenal growth of the Group our strengths is the open and good relationships between all since its inception in 1976 including the flotation of Vedanta Board members which I seek to encourage.
As part of our Resources plc on the London Stock Exchange and development continued focus on good governance our Code of Conduct into a FTSE 100 company.
This meant that Mr Agarwal did not and Values Statement have been reviewed and amended meet the strict independence criteria as defined in Code during the year.
These are available on our website at Provision A.
3.1 on his appointment in 2005 because he was www.
previously the Chief Executive and, through Volcan Investments Ltd Volcan members of his family have a controlling interest in We also welcome participation by our shareholders at our the Company.
Mr Agarwal continues to drive strategy and seek Annual General Meeting on a variety of topics and dialogue out new opportunities for value-creating projects whilst providing throughout the year and look forward to this continuing.
Please leadership to an effective Board.
For this reason the Board is be assured that we do take notice of the views expressed which unanimously of the opinion that his continued involvement help inform future decisions.
in an executive capacity is vitally important to the success of the Group.
Anil Agarwal Chairman Code Provision A.
4.1 4 May 2011 Under the Relationship Agreement put in place at the time of Listing, Volcan will be consulted on all appointments to the Board.
The Nominations Committee therefore works collaboratively with Volcan when making appointments to the Board and, to this extent, differs from the process set out in Code Provision A.
4.1 which stipulates that the Nominations Committee should lead the process for Board appointments.
Applying the Principles of the Combined Code The Directors Main Principle Every company should be headed by an effective board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 59 The Board of Directors Composition of the Board as at the date of this report and attendance of the Directors at Board meetings for the period under review is shown below.
AK Agarwal Executive Chairman 9 9 N Agarwal Deputy Executive Chairman 9 9 MS Mehta Chief Executive 9 9 N Chandra Non-Executive Director and Senior Independent Director 9 9 A Mehta Non-Executive Director 8 9 ER Macdonald Non-Executive Director 8 9 Mr Chandra and Mr Mehta absented themselves from one Board meeting, which discussed the potential acquisition of Cairn India Limited due to conflicts of interest arising from their being directors of this company.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its attention which was last reviewed and amended by the Board in March 2010.
The schedule of matters includes, in summary, the following responsibilities: Setting of Group strategy and objectives: Review and approval of Group policies including those on health and safety and the Groups Code of Conduct: Approval of major business acquisitions and disposals: Approval of major capital projects: Review and approval of Group budgets: Significant changes to capital structure: and Dividend policy.
The Board meets on a regular basis and met formally on nine occasions during the year.
In addition numerous ad hoc discussions take place between the Directors on a variety of topics.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors met without the Executive Directors present during the year.
The role of the Board is to provide leadership to the Group in a manner which maximises opportunities to develop its portfolio of businesses profitability whilst assessing and managing the associated risks.
The Board does this by assessing the strategic objectives of each business and monitoring their performance.
It ensures that the financial, management and other resources required to meet its objectives are in place.
The Directors also review controls and risks to ensure that the interests of investors, minority shareholders and other stakeholders are protected.
Importantly the Board ensures that Group standards of conduct are set and incorporated within its businesses.
Certain of the Boards responsibilities are delegated to Board Committees, which operate within defined terms of reference.
The Board Committees are the Executive, Remuneration, Audit, Nominations, and Sustainability Committees.
The relationship between the Board, its Committees, Group subsidiaries and information flows are outlined below.
Group Governance Structure BOARD OF DIRECTORS Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors, three independent Non-Executive Directors EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE SUSTAINABILITY REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE AUDIT COMMITTEE Executive Chairman, Deputy COMMITTEE COMMITTEE Executive Chairman, Three independent Executive Chairman, CEO, One Non-Executive Director, Three independent Three independent Non-Executive Directors Eleven senior management One Executive Director, CEO Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors members from African operations Effective from 1st April 2011 SUBSIDIARY COMPANY BOARDS Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 60 Corporate Governance Report continued All of the committees are authorised to obtain legal or other Chief Executive Officers responsibilities professional advice as necessary, to secure the attendance Developing and managing the executive team in of external advisers at their meetings and to seek information the operations: from any employee of the Company in order to perform their Delivery of operating budgets: duties.
Under the terms of reference of the committees only the Supporting the Executive Chairman in the delivery members of each committee have the right to attend committee and implementation of strategy: meetings.
However, other Directors or management together Optimising the Groups assets and management with other expert persons may attend meetings at the invitation and allocation of resources: of the Committee Chairman.
The Secretary to the committees Supporting the Executive Chairman in effective is Mr Deepak Kumar, apart from the Sustainability Committee communication with various stakeholders: and Creating and maintaining a sound control environment.
whose secretary is Tony Henshaw, Chief Sustainability Officer.
The full terms of reference of the committees are available from Main Principle the Company Secretary on request.
The Board should include a balance of Executive and The Executive Committee is comprised of three Board Non-Executive Directors such that no individual can dominate members and eleven members of senior management the Boards decision taking.
whose biographies are given on pages 24 to 27.
The Executive Committee is responsible for supervising all aspects of the Board balance and independence operational performance of the Group.
It implements strategic The Board, chaired by Mr Anil Agarwal, currently has six plans formulated by the Board, monitors operational and Directors comprising the Executive Chairman, two Executive financial performance of the Groups subsidiaries, allocates Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
resources in line with delegated authorities, develops and Members of the Board are set out on page 24-25. reviews the budgets of subsidiary companies.
The Executive Committee therefore has a key role in putting the Boards plans Non-Executive Directors and policies into action.
The Chief Executive Officer, MS Mehta, The Non-Executive Directors are of high calibre bringing keeps the Board informed of the Executive Committees a variety of rich experiences in different fields which range activities through his standing reports made to the Board.
from holding senior positions within the Indian government, including posts with responsibilities for corporate governance, Details of the membership, terms of reference and attendance to banking and emerging market finance.
This enables at meetings of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and Sustainability Committee are given in their respective reports them to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, on pages 64 to 69. performance and resources which are vital to the success of the Group.
They play a key part in challenging the performance Main Principle of management.
There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head With the exception of the Chairman, who is presumed under the of the company between the running of the board and the Combined Code not to be independent, the Board considers all executive responsibility for the running of the companys the Non-Executive Directors to be independent as assessed business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers against the criteria specified in the Combined Code.
its assessment, the Board has considered the fact that Mr Aman Mehta and Mr Euan Macdonald have held previous senior The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer management positions within subsidiary companies of HSBC There is a clear division of responsibility between the Holdings plc which acted as the joint global co-ordinator and functioning of the Board and executive responsibility for book runner when the Company listed in 2003.
The Board running the business.
The Board has an established policy considered that neither Mr Mehta nor Mr Macdonald had any which sets out the key responsibilities of the Executive involvement with the Group prior to their appointment.
The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
A clear demarcation Board therefore remains of the view that these circumstances is made between the responsibility of the Chairman and the do not affect the judgement exercised by either Mr Mehta or Chief Executive Officer, as detailed below: Mr Macdonald and therefore considers them to be independent.
Chairmans responsibilities Senior Independent Director Providing leadership to the Board and ensuring its effective Mr Naresh Chandra is the Senior Independent Director.
functioning: Given the executive nature of the Chairmans position the Setting a vision for the Group, formulating its strategy, Senior Independent Directors position is key and includes creating profitable business opportunities and reviewing the responsibility to lead discussions of meetings of the Nonmerger and acquisition opportunities: Executive Directors, to provide a channel of communication Ensuring that there is effective communication with between the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors and shareholders: ensure that the views of the Non-Executive Directors are given Facilitating the effective contribution of the Non-Executive due consideration.
The Senior Independent Director is also Directors: and responsible for providing a point of contact for any shareholder Overseeing corporate governance arrangements and who wishes to raise concerns which the normal channels of in particular compliance with the Combined Code.
communication through the Chairman and Chief Executive have failed to resolve, or for which contact is inappropriate.
As Executive Chairman, the Chairman devotes the majority of his time to the Companys business.
The Chairmans other Relationship Agreement current responsibilities are set out in the biographies on page At the time of Listing, the Company and Volcan, the majority 24.
There have been no changes to the Chairmans other shareholder, entered into a relationship agreement the commitments during the year.
Relationship Agreement to regulate the ongoing relationship Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 61 between them.
The principal purpose of the Relationship before an Executive Director may take on a Non-executive Agreement is to ensure that the Group is able to carry on directorship outside of the Group.
business independently of Volcan, the Agarwal family and their associates.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, the Main Principle Board, and Nominations Committee will at all times consist of a majority of Directors who are independent of Volcan and the The Board should be supplied in a timely manner with Agarwal family, whilst the Remuneration and Audit Committees information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable shall at all times comprise only of Non-Executive Directors.
it to discharge its duties.
All Directors should receive induction Volcan is entitled to nominate for appointment as Director on joining the Board and should regularly update and refresh such number of persons as is one less than the number of their skills and knowledge.
Directors who are independent of Volcan, the Agarwal family and their associates.
The Board considers these to be adequate The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, is safeguards in that Directors who are independent of Volcan responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, make up a majority of the Board and Vedantas ability to operate timely and clear information on all relevant matters.
The independently of Volcan is protected by the Relationship Board routinely receives before each Board meeting detailed Agreement.
In addition, in accordance with Provisions A.
3.2 information on business and financial performance, ongoing of the Combined Code, at least half of the Board, excluding projects, the raising of funds for various initiatives, activities the Chairman, comprise Non-Executive Directors determined of the Board Committees and investor relation updates.
by the Board to be independent.
Presentations and verbal updates are also given at Board meetings by the Executive Directors and senior management The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing matters as appropriate.
arising in relation to the Relationship Agreement and related party transactions on behalf of the Board.
Appropriate induction is provided to all Directors on appointment to the Board and programmes of continuing Conflicts of interest professional development are arranged as required, taking into The Board has established a procedure for the disclosure consideration the individual qualifications and experience of the of interests and other related matters in line with published Director.
In addition Directors have access to the Companys guidance and the Companies Act 2006.
Each Director must professional advisers whom they can consult where they find disclose actual or potential conflicts to the Board and any it necessary in order to better discharge their duties.
changes are disclosed and noted at each Board meeting.
The Board will authorise potential or actual conflicts as appropriate.
During the year, the Directors receive legal and regulatory Directors with a conflict will not participate in the discussion or updates.
In particular this year a full briefing was given on the voting concerning the matter in question.
These procedures new UK Corporate Governance Code and UK Bribery Act.
have proved to be effective during the year.
Related party Directors undertake visits to operations and have discussions transactions, which include those in respect of any Director, with management on an ongoing basis.
Mr Chandra, as Senior are disclosed in Note 36 on pages 137 to 138.
Independent Director, has visited the Groups zinc operations.
Main Principle The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for There should be a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Company for the appointment of new directors to the Board.
Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board through the Chairman on governance matters.
Under the Companys The Nominations Committee is responsible for succession Articles of Association the appointment and removal of the planning and making recommendations concerning candidates Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
for appointments to the Board.
Under the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into with Volcan as the major Main Principle shareholder, Volcan will be consulted by the Nominations Committee on appointments to the Board.
The selection The Board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual process will entail preparing a job description for the role, evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees benchmarking and interviews with a selection of candidates.
External search agencies will be used where this is felt to be appropriate and add value to the process.
It is part of the During the year, the performance of the Board, its main Nominations Committee remit to consider candidates from committees and the individual Directors were formally and a wide range of backgrounds, based on objective criteria and rigorously evaluated under the direction of the Chairman.
The evaluation was carried out by circulation of a detailed questionnaire concerning the Board, its committees and the In respect of the appointment of Non-Executive Directors individual Directors performance.
The responses were collated to the Board, the candidates will be made aware of the time and summarised.
The Chairman spoke individually to all the commitment expected of them which will be reflected in Directors in respect of the results and the Board also collectively their letter of appointment.
Candidates are also required to discussed the results.
Various actions were put into place as disclose their other time commitments to ensure that they a result.
have sufficient time to fulfil their role as a Director.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors The evaluation process concluded that the Board as a whole are available on request from the Companys registered office.
provided strong strategic leadership and sound systems of control were in place.
Board processes were well managed.
There is a policy in place in respect of a full time Executive The main committees continued to operate effectively and Director taking on a Non-Executive directorship in a listed individuals also performed well.
The approval of the Chairman must be sought was the working relationship between members of the Board.
com 62 Corporate Governance Report continued Areas identified for review or improvement were commitments and responsibilities of the role.
Additional fees communication with shareholders and other stakeholders, are paid for acting as Chairman or being a member of one particularly on sustainability issues.
As a result of this feedback of the Board Committees.
a new Chief Sustainability Officer was recruited during the year with specific responsibilities for this area.
Further details of Directors remuneration, bonus, long-term incentives, benefits, service contracts and share interests may As in previous years, the Non-Executive Director, led by be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 75. the Senior Independent Director, considered as part of the evaluation process, the performance of the Chairman and Main Principle provided him with feedback.
There should be a formal and transparent procedure for Main Principle developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing remuneration packages of individual Directors.
No Director All Directors should be submitted for re-election at regular should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
The Board should ensure planned and progressive refreshing The Remuneration Committee is responsible for setting of the Board.
the levels of remuneration for the Chairman and Executive Directors and also monitors the level and structure of In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association all remuneration for senior management.
This is carried out with Directors submit themselves for election at the Annual General the assistance of the President Group HR.
The remuneration Meeting following their appointment and thereafter by rotation of the Non-Executive Directors is decided by the Board at least once every three years.
In addition, where a Director as a whole.
No Director is involved in deciding his own has a contract or letter of appointment which expires and is remuneration.
Details of remuneration policy and the renewed during the year, the Director will stand for re-election activities of the Remuneration Committee are set out at the next Annual General Meeting.
Non-Executive Directors in the Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 75. are only put forward for re-election if, following performance evaluation, the Board believes the Directors performance Accountability and Audit continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to Main Principle the role.
The Board should present a balanced and understandable The Board has considered the requirement for annual re-election assessment of the Companys position and prospects: of Directors under the 2010 Code.
Investor comments will be monitored during the year on this requirement with the proposal Financial Reporting that Directors will, in future, stand for annual re-election The Group has a comprehensive financial reporting system, beginning with the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
which is reviewed and modified as circumstances require.
Financial reporting procedures are based on five main elements: Particular scrutiny is given to the performance and continued Financial information supplied by subsidiary companies and consolidated effectiveness of those Non-Executive Directors who have Management accounts are prepared on a monthly basis served on the Board for six years or more.
and reviewed by the Executive Committee: Management accounts are reviewed by the Board at least Remuneration quarterly: Main Principle Performance is monitored against key performance indicators throughout the financial year and forecasts are Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, retain updated as appropriate: and and motivate Directors of the quality required to run the Annual operational budgets are prepared by each Company successfully, but should avoid paying more than operating subsidiary and consolidated into a Group is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of Executive Directors remuneration should be structured so Budget which is reviewed and approved by the Board.
as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
Internal audit provides assurance concerning processes and accuracy at each operating company External auditor assurance Level and Make-up of Remuneration Full year and half year audits are carried out on the The Board is sensitive to the need to achieve a balance published financial statements.
between attracting and retaining the quality of directors The Audit Committee reviews: required to run and manage a company of Vedantas size Year-end process plans: and complexity and to avoid excessive pay awards.
In the Briefings on legal, tax and accounting issues: Remuneration Committees terms of reference approved by Consideration of the financial statements and disclosures the Board the Remuneration Committee is required to consider in accordance with financial reporting standards: and and give due regard to the recommendations of the Combined Going concern statements with supporting cash flow, Code and other guidelines published in respect of the liquidity and funding forecasts.
remuneration of directors of listed companies such as that Review by the Audit Committee and the Board of the produced by the Association of British Insurers and National preliminary and half year announcements, the Annual Association of Pension Funds.
Report and Accounts and any other announcements including financial information.
A significant proportion of the Executive Directors remuneration is performance related through the annual bonus and long-term The Directors statement of responsibilities for preparing the incentive schemes.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors accounts may be found on page 83 and the auditors statement are independently reviewed and take into account the time Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 63 about their reporting responsibilities may be found on page 84.
Main Principle A statement on the Boards position regarding the Group as a going concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 82.
The Board should establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the financial reporting and Main Principle internal control principles and for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
The Board should maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Companys assets.
The Board has established an Audit Committee in compliance with the requirements of the Combined Code to consider Internal Control and Risk Management how financial reporting and internal control arrangements are The Directors have overall responsibility for ensuring that the applied and that they are reviewed on a regular basis.
The Audit Group maintains a robust system of internal control to provide Committee is also responsible for maintaining an appropriate them with reasonable assurance that all information within relationship with the Companys auditors.
Further details of the the business and for external publication is adequate.
Because Audit Committee and its activities may be found in the Audit of the limitations inherent in any system of internal control, Committee Report on page 64. this system is designed to meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed rather than eliminate risk Relations with Shareholders altogether.
Consequently it can only provide reasonable and Main Principle not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on the There is an established process for identifying, evaluating and mutual understanding of objectives.
The Board as a whole has managing significant risks faced by the Group in accordance responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by the shareholders takes place.
This includes financial, operational and compliance control and risk management, to ensure As part of the Companys investor relations programme shareholders interests and the Companys resources are meetings with analysts and shareholders are held on a regular safeguarded.
The process also covers significant risks that basis.
In particular presentations are made to analysts by the may arise from environmental, social and governance matters.
Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and In line with best practice, the Board has reviewed the internal Chief Financial Officer following the release of the preliminary control system in place during the year and up to the date and half-year results announcements.
The management of the approval of this report.
The Boards review includes presentation can also be heard by investors, analysts and the the Audit Committees report on the risk matrix, significant press through telephone conference lines.
During the year a risks and actions put in place to mitigate these risks.
This review number of meetings were held with the Companys principal ensures that the internal control system remains effective.
institutional shareholders as well as with financial analysts and Where weaknesses are identified as a result of the review, brokers.
These meetings are initiated either by the Company or new procedures are put in place to strengthen controls and analysts and investors and are managed at Group level through these are in turn reviewed at regular intervals.
During the course Ashwin Bajaj, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations who of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not also briefs the Board on the Companys relationships with its identified nor been advised of any weaknesses or control failure shareholders.
The main channels of communication with the that is significant.
investment community are through the Chairman, Deputy Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer The Groups internal audit activity is managed through the and Senior Vice President, Investor Relations.
The Senior Management Assurance Services MAS function and is an Independent Director and other Non-Executive Directors important element of the overall process by which the Board are also available as appropriate.
obtains the assurance it requires to ensure that risks are properly identified, evaluated and managed.
The scope of work, The Company announces its annual and half-year results to authority and resources of MAS are regularly reviewed by the London Stock Exchange and the press in advance of the the Audit Committee and its work is supported by the services publication of the annual and half-year reports.
Summary of leading international accountancy firms but specifically reports are also published for the first and third quarter.
The excluding the Groups external auditors.
The responsibilities Board has adopted a communications policy to ensure that of MAS include recommending improvements in the control other price-sensitive information is announced to the market environment and ensuring compliance with the Groups in a timely and considered manner.
Following consultation during the year the principal method Each of the Groups principal subsidiaries has in place of communicating with shareholders is by e-communication procedures to ensure that sufficient internal controls are and the Groups website at www.
These procedures include a monthly meeting of range of information on the Company and its operations may be the relevant management committee and quarterly meeting of found on the website including the Annual Report and Accounts, the audit committee of that subsidiary.
Any adverse findings are halfyear results, Sustainability Report and announcements to reported to the Audit Committee.
the market, press releases, share price and links to subsidiary company websites.
Shareholders can opt to receive paper The planning of internal audit is approached from a risk copies of shareholder documents if they wish to do so.
In preparing an internal audit plan, reference is made to the Groups risk matrix, inputs are sought from senior management, project managers and Audit Committee members and reference is made to past audit experience and financial analysis.
com 64 Corporate Governance Report continued An analysis of the Companys shareholder base as at 31 March The Committee meets at least three times a year.
The Chairman 2011 is shown below: of the Company, Executive Directors, Chief Financial Officer, Head of Internal Audit and other members of the senior Category of Shareholder by Type management team as invited by the Committee together with the external auditors, regularly attend meetings.
The Committee 62% Management and Directors meets at least twice during the year with representatives from the 37% Institutional and retail investors external auditors without management being present.
Regular 1% Private investors reports are made to the Board of the Committees activities.
Responsibilities of the Audit Committee The Audit Committees remit falls into four main areas: financial reporting, internal control and risk, and oversight of external and internal audit processes.
The detailed responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in its terms of reference which are available on request from the Company Secretary.
Category of Shareholder by Country The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: 51% UK Europe Monitor the integrity of the financial statements, including its 46% India annual and half-year results: 2% Africa Review the Groups internal controls and risk management 1% Other systems and consider the effectiveness of these systems: Make recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment of the external auditor: Review the independence of the external auditor: Develop policy in relation to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditor: Discuss with the external auditor the nature and scope of the audit: Main Principle Approve the remuneration of the auditor: Consider any matters arising in respect of the Relationship The Board should use the Annual General Meeting to Agreement and related party transactions: communicate with investors and to encourage their Monitor the activities and effectiveness of the internal audit participation.
function and consider their reports: Review the Groups arrangements for its employees to raise The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM to concerns through its whistleblowing policy: and communicate with shareholders and welcomes their Review reports from subsidiary company audit committees.
This years AGM will be held on 27 July 2011 at 3pm.
Further details are given in the Notice The Groups main subsidiaries, a number of which are listed of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report including the on stock exchanges in India, have their own audit committees business to be considered at the meeting.
The Notice is sent in accordance with local corporate governance requirements.
out at least 20 working days before the AGM.
Voting at the AGM By monitoring their discussions the Audit Committee gains on all resolutions is by poll on a one share, one vote basis and further insights into the quality of financial reporting and internal the results of votes cast for, against and abstentions are available controls throughout the Group.
Furthermore the internal audit on the Groups website following the meeting.
The Board function presents issues arising from the subsidiaries to the believes that voting by poll allows the views of all shareholders Audit Committee on a regular basis.
The external auditor to be taken into account regardless of whether or not they can partner, India, regularly attends both the subsidiary and Board attend the meeting.
All of the Directors, including the Chairmen of the Audit, Activities of the Audit Committee Remuneration, Nominations and Sustainability Committees, During the year the Audit Committee fulfilled its duties as outlined attend the AGM in order to answer shareholders questions.
under its terms of reference.
In particular its activities included: Review and confirmation of the appropriateness of adopting The Audit Committee Report the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements Membership, Meetings and Attendances and interim financial reporting: The Audit Committee consists of the following independent Review of external audit findings: Non-Executive Directors: Significant accounting policy matters arising during the year: Review of the preliminary announcement, annual report and Number of meetings half year report: attended Evaluation of the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor: A Mehta, Chairman 4 4 Consideration of the independence of the external auditor: N Chandra 4 4 Consideration of the management letter from the external ER Macdonald 4 4 auditor: Review of legal cases and tax issues occurring during the year: Mr Mehta is considered to have recent and relevant financial Review of internal audit findings and approval of the internal experience.
All members have had extensive management audit plan: experience either in large international organisations or government.
Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 65 Review of reports on risk management and internal controls audit and the provision of internal audit services.
The policy also and mitigating actions: identifies those services which the external auditor is permitted to Review of any whistleblowing cases: deliver to the Group.
These include tax advisory services, and Review of the accounting treatment of the Company share work on mergers, acquisitions and disposals.
Of the permitted buy-back programme, convertible bonds and acquisitions services any assignment in excess of US$100,000 may only made by subsidiary companies: be awarded to the external auditor with prior approval of the Consideration of the appointment of a compliance officer: Audit Committee.
All other permitted non-audit services will Review of the implications of the Bribery Act: and be reviewed by the Audit Committee on a bi-annual basis Review of the adoption of IFRS for Indian subsidiaries.
and the Audit Committee will also receive a report every six months analysing the fees paid for non-audit work.
An analysis Financial Reporting of non-audit fees can be found in Note 10 to the financial It is one of the Committees key duties to monitor the integrity statements.
There is also in place a policy on the employment of of the financial statements.
As part of this process it reviews former employees of the external auditor by the Company based in detail the preliminary results statements, the Annual Report on the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors.
These controls provide and Accounts and half-year report.
The appropriateness of the Audit Committee with confidence that the independence of accounting polices used is considered and external audit findings Deloitte in their audit function will be maintained.
Details of financial reporting procedures in place are given on page 62 of the Corporate Governance Report.
The overall performance and effectiveness of the auditor is reviewed annually taking into account the views of management.
Internal Control and Risk Management Feedback is provided on the evaluation to senior members of Details of the Companys internal control and risk management Deloitte who are unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms processes are discussed on page 63.
The Audit Committee part of Deloittes own system of quality control.
The performance reviews these processes and output from the regular review of evaluation was carried out using a detailed questionnaire the risks carried out during the year by internal audit.
results of which were considered by the Audit Committee.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness of Deloitte External Auditor and being fully satisfied with the performance of Deloitte, the One of the key tasks of the Audit Committee is to review the Audit Committee has not considered it necessary to carry out external auditors independence and monitor their continued a tender process this year.
The Audit Committee has, therefore, effectiveness.
The Audit Committee and the Board place recommended to the Board that the existing auditors, Deloitte, great emphasis on the objectivity of the external auditor.
be re-appointed as the Companys auditors and an ordinary The current external auditor, Deloitte LLP Deloitte have been resolution to reappoint Deloitte will be proposed at the the Companys auditors since listing in 2003.
The rotation of the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
audit partners responsibilities within Deloitte is required by their professions ethical standards and there is also rotation of key Internal Audit members within the audit team.
Deloitte are required to rotate The Audit Committee receives detailed reports from internal the audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years audit on areas which it has reviewed and progress reports and the last audit partner rotation was in 2010.
To ensure effective on follow up actions to strengthen any areas of weakness communication of matters relating to the audit, the audit partner identified.
It also considers the resourcing and effectiveness and senior manager are present at Audit Committee meetings.
of the internal audit function.
A key part of ensuring the independence of the external auditor is Performance Evaluation of the Audit Committee to have in place a robust policy on the provision by the external The performance of the Audit Committee was assessed during auditor of non-audit services for the Company.
The Company the year by detailed questionnaire of all Board members.
The reviewed its policy in 2010 to ensure that it is in line with current Audit Committees performance was assessed as being best practice and a new policy was approved by the Audit effective in all the areas of its remit.
The policy specifies certain services which the external auditors are prohibited from undertaking On behalf of the Board in order to safeguard their independence, such as work relating to the financial statements that will ultimately be subject to final A Mehta Chairman, Audit Committee 4 May 2011 Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 66 Corporate Governance Report continued Nominations Committee Report Activities of the Nominations Committee Membership, Meetings and Attendance During the year the Nominations Committee considered the Membership of the Nominations Committee is in line with the annual re-appointment of Mr Naresh Chandra to the Board requirements of the Combined Code and is comprised of the and as Senior Independent Director on the expiry of his letter following Directors: of appointment.
The Nominations Committee also considered the re-appointment of Mr Aman Mehta and Euan Macdonald Number of who retired by rotation and recommended to shareholders the meetings attended re-appointment of Mr Chandra, Mr Mehta and Mr Macdonald.
The Committee concluded that these Directors continued to A Agarwal, Chairman 3 3 provide valuable contributions to the Board and the Board relied N Chandra 3 3 on their extensive past business experience.
Mr Chandra, Mr ER Macdonald 3 3 Mehta and Mr Macdonald did not take any part in the discussion A Mehta appointed to the Committee on or decision concerning their re-appointments.
1 August 2010 1 3 The Nominations Committee also considered the renewal During the year Mr Aman Mehta was appointed as an additional of the terms of appointment of Mr Aman Mehta which were independent Non-Executive Director to the Nominations due to expire in November 2011.
Based on Board evaluation Committee to increase the breadth of views represented by and consideration of Mr Mehtas continued robust contribution the independent Non-Executive Directors.
and expertise the Nominations Committee approved the extension of his appointment for a further two years.
The Committee meets at least two times a year.
Other Executive Directors and members of the senior management The Nominations Committee reviewed and approved the team may attend meetings at the invitation of the Committee disclosures on the Nominations Committee to be made in as appropriate.
Reports are made to the Board of the the Annual Report and Accounts.
Future Activity Responsibilities of the Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee is aware of the new requirements The responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are set out introduced by the UK Corporate Governance Code which fall in its terms of reference which are available on request from the within the Committees remit.
This includes the requirement for Company Secretary.
The main responsibilities of the the search for Board candidates to give due regard to the benefits Nominations Committee are to: of diversity, including gender.
In addition the Davies report Review the structure, size and composition of the Board Women on Boards has made a series of recommendations including the skills and experience required of its members to encourage recruitment of women to the Boards of and make recommendations to the Board accordingly of companies.
The Nominations Committee will be reviewing its adjustments that are deemed necessary: succession planning and selection procedures to ensure that Consider candidates for appointment as either Executive or these requirements are built into its processes.
Non-Executive Directors and plan for succession in particular to the positions of the Board Chairman and Chief Executive: The Committee is also aware that the tenure of its Non-Executive Before an appointment is made prepare a description of the Directors and need for refreshing of the Board and its Committees.
role and capabilities required: Plans will be formulated during the year to search for a new In identifying suitable candidates consider the use of open Non-Executive Director for a smooth succession for the Board.
advertising or external advisers to facilitate the search, consider candidates from a wide range of backgrounds: Performance Evaluation of the Nominations Committee Ensure that Non-Executive Directors receive a letter of The performance of the Nominations Committee was assessed appointment setting out what is expected from them in during the year and was considered to be effective in all areas of terms of time commitment: its remit.
Recommend to the Board whether to re-appoint a NonExecutive Director either at the end of their term of office or On behalf of the Board when put forward for re-election, having regard to their performance and ability to continue to contribute to the Board.
A Agarwal The Committee will confer with Volcan Investments Limited in Chairman this respect under the terms of the Relationship Agreement.
4 May 2011 Business Corporate Financial Review Governance Statements Vedanta Resources plc Annual Report 2011 67 Health, Safety and Environment HSE Committee Report The HSE Committee recommended that the Board mandate Membership, Meetings and Attendance to the Sustainability Committee should be as follows: The HSE Committee met three times during the year on 30 June General scope and authority 2010, 11 November 2010 and 10 March 2011.
The members of The existing HSE Committee be renamed as the Sustainability the committee and their attendance were as follows: Committee.
The role of the Sustainability Committee to be established to assist the Board in meeting its responsibilities Number of in relation to sustainability related matters arising out of the meetings attended activities and operations of the Group.
N Chandra, Chairman 3 3 The Committee shall have the following functions: MS Mehta 3 3 G Gupta 2 3 To recommend to the Board, Group sustainability policies, A Joshi 3 3 clearly setting out the commitments of the Group to manage P Khanna 3 3 matters of sustainable development effectively.
CSR Mehta 3 3 R Nair 3 3 To advise the Board to enable it to discharge its responsibilities, M Patil 2 3 having regard to the law and the expected international Jeyakumar Janakraj 0 0 standards of governance.
Activities of the Health Safety and Environment Committee To outline initiatives required to institutionalise a sustainability During the year the Health, Safety and Environment Committee culture through involvement of the employees at all levels.
considered the following items of business: Health, safety and environmental performance reports To review and report to the Board the performance of and statistics: the Group and its Group companies with respect to the Reports on actions taken to continue the improvement in implementation of a Sustainability Management System health and safety, including progress of traffic safety designed to ensure that the commitments made in the policy improvements and refining of safety scorecards used in all units: are being met and that sustainability and reputational related Environmental initiatives, including action plans for major risks are being assessed, controlled and managed effectively.
waste utilisation, disposal of copper slag and testing of Jarofix utilisation: To review targets for sustainability performance and report Reports on water and energy consumption and residual to the Board with respect to their appropriateness and assess waste management throughout the Group including fly ash progress towards achieving those targets.
utilisation, as well as business plan targets for LTIFR, water and energy: To recommend, when appropriate, amendments to the Progress update on CDMs: sustainability policies or management system.
Update on climate change: Exploring potential for gaining and exploiting carbon credits: To approve the Sustainability Report prior to publication.
Presentation of significant awards: and Review of the outcomes and recommendations of the Composition and Authority independent Scott Wilson Report into the Groups The Sustainability Committee shall be appointed by the Board sustainability practices and procedures.
and shall comprise of one Non-Executive Director who will also act as its chairman, Group CEO and the third member will be At its final meeting of the year, the HSE Committee one of the CEOs from African operations.
recommended to the Board of Directors that its remit and title be changed to reflect the breadth of its role covering all aspects The quorum necessary to transact business will be two of sustainability within the Group.
A further recommendation was made to include additions A standing invitation will be given to the Head CEOs COOs to the Groups Value Statement and Code of Conduct of all Group businesses.
both of which are outlined on the Companys website www.
The Groups Chief Sustainability Officer will also have a standing invitation and will provide an advisory role and secretarial The recommended addition to the present Value Statement support to the Committee.
comprised the sentence: We aim to contribute to the social and economic welfare of the communities where we work The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires and to protect and conserve the environment.
from any employee of the Company, obtain outside legal or other independent advice on matters within its terms of The recommended changes to the Code of Conduct reference, commission working, advisory or steering groups to comprised the addition of an article on human rights, the provide focus or advice on matters within its terms of reference.
inclusion of the Groups aspiration to zero harm and world class management systems and the addition of wording for supplier HSE performance to be included in vendor selection in place of the previous wording, Environmental Performance.
com 68 Corporate Governance Report continued Procedures Approval and Review The Committee shall meet as required but should meet at The Sustainability Committee Terms of Reference shall be least four times each year.
It may require any employee of approved by the Board of Vedanta.
the Company to attend meetings for the purpose of making presentations or participating in discussions.
The Sustainability Committee shall review its own terms of reference and performance once a year to ensure its relevance A notice of each meeting confirming the date, time, venue and and its effectiveness.
agenda shall be forwarded to each member of the Committee with a copy of all Directors a week prior to the date of the Details of the Groups HSE performance and commitments and meeting.
The notice for members will include relevant are set out on pages 67 to 68 of this Annual Report and in the supporting papers for the agenda items to be discussed.
Groups separate Sustainable Development Report.
The Chairman of the Committee, or delegate, shall report to On behalf of the Board the Board following each meeting.
Minutes of proceedings and resolutions of Committee meetings will be kept by the Secretary.
N Chandra Minutes shall be circulated to all Committee Members and other Chairman Directors after the preliminary approval of the Committee 4 May 2011 Chairman.
Minutes, agenda and supporting papers will be made available to any Director upon request to the Secretary.
