Cookson Group plc 22 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT This report describes the Companys corporate governance structure and Responsibilities and meetings explains how the Company applies the principles of the UK Corporate The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it and delegates Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 certain matters to committees as outlined below.
The Board convened on the Code.
The Company has complied with the provisions of the Code seven formal scheduled occasions during 2011 as well as holding a throughout the year ended 31 December 2011. number of ad hoc committee meetings to consider non-routine business.
In addition, the Chairman and the other Non-executive Directors meet THE BOARD routinely on their own without the executive Directors present and at least Ultimate responsibility for the management of Cookson rests with the once each year the Non-executive Directors meet without the Chairman Board of Directors.
The Board focuses primarily upon strategic and policy present to discuss matters such as the Chairmans performance.
It approves the Groups strategy, oversees the allocation of resources and monitors the performance of the Group in pursuit of this.
Specific matters reserved for the Board include: reviewing Group and divisional performance: approving significant transactions including Composition acquisitions, divestments, capital expenditure and changes to the Groups The Board currently has nine Directors, comprising the Non-executive capital structure: setting and approving the Groups strategy and annual Chairman, Jeff Harris: the Chief Executive, Nick Salmon: the Group Finance budget: approving the Groups financing and treasury policies: declaration Director, Mike Butterworth: the Chief Executive Officer of the Engineered of dividends: succession planning: and approving Board appointments Ceramics Division, Franois Wanecq: and five Non-executive Directors.
The and the remuneration of the Non-executive Directors.
In addition, the Board considers each of the Non-executive Directors, namely Emma Board considers health, safety and environmental matters and maintains FitzGerald, Jeff Hewitt, Peter Hill, Jan Oosterveld and John Sussens, to be overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and risk independent of management and free from any business or other management processes.
relationship which could affect the exercise of their independent judgement.
The Chairman satisfied the independence criteria on his The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief appointment to the Board.
Executive has been agreed by the Board and is set out in writing.
The Chairman leads the Board, while the Chief Executive manages the Group The Company has reviewed the availability of the Non-executive Directors and implements the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
The and considers that each of them is able to, and in practice does, devote the Chairman meets routinely with the Chief Executive and Group Secretary to necessary amount of time to the Companys business.
The Board nominates discuss relevant matters.
The Chairman also serves as Chairman of Filtrona one of the Non-executive Directors to act as Senior Independent Director plc and, in 2011, joined the board of WH Smith PLC as a non-executive and provide an alternative contact at Board level, other than the Chairman, director.
The Board considers that the Chairman is able to, and does, to whom shareholder matters can be addressed.
Mr Sussens continues to devote sufficient time to his duties at Cookson.
The biographical details of the Directors are set out on page 21.
The attendance of Directors who served during the year at Board and principal committee meetings during the year, together with the The Code recommends that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies be subject maximum number of meetings in the period when the individual was a to annual election by shareholders.
The full Board stood for election at the Board member as shown in brackets, was as follows: 2011 AGM.
All the Directors will again be offering themselves for election at this years AGM as set out in the Notice of AGM and on page 33.
Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Chairman Jeff Harris 7 7 n a n a 3 3 Executive Directors Mike Butterworth 7 7 n a n a n a Nick Salmon 7 7 n a n a 3 3 Franois Wanecq 7 7 n a n a n a Non-executive Directors Emma FitzGerald appointed 1 August 2011 2 3 1 2 1 2 2 2 Jeff Hewitt 7 7 4 4 3 3 3 3 Peter Hill 6 7 3 4 2 3 2 3 Jan Oosterveld 7 7 4 4 3 3 3 3 Barry Perry retired 12 May 2011 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 John Sussens 7 7 4 4 3 3 3 3 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 www.
co. uk 23 Non-attendance at meetings is rare and generally only arises if a Director is approach to risk evaluation and mitigation identified in the 2010 evaluation incapacitated due to serious illness as was the case for Mr Hill or where a had been implemented and was regarded as a valuable supplement to the newly appointed Director has an unavoidable commitment that cannot be Groups operations, not least given the heightened risk of recession in some rearranged as was the case for Dr FitzGerald.
The report found that the Board was pleased that management had taken swift and early action to ensure that the Group took Papers are provided to the Directors in advance of the relevant Board or appropriate steps to counter any potential downturn in its businesses.
The committee meeting to enable them to make further enquiries about any greater attention to succession planning, also identified as a priority, had been matters prior to the meeting should they so wish.
This also allows Directors undertaken although the new evaluation exercise identified that there was who are unable to attend to submit views in advance of the meeting.
The more to address with senior management succession.
Group Secretary oversees the distribution of these papers and ensures that there is an appropriate level of communication between the Board Each Chairman of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees and its committees and between senior management and the Nonalso discussed the performance of their committees.
He also keeps the Board apprised of relevant discussions concluded that each committee continued to operate developments in corporate governance.
effectively and no changes to current procedures were necessary.
Additionally, the Chief Executive will, as a matter of routine, provide a The Board agreed a number of specific action items resulting from the written update on important business issues between meetings and invite evaluation exercise.
These included: continuing the emphasis on the views of the Directors on these.
succession planning, particularly for Non-executive Directors and senior management: increasing the focus on investor relations: continuing the Performance evaluation focus on strategy development and providing more updates for the Board In accordance with the provisions of the Code, the Board undertakes a on the regulatory environment from external advisers.
formal and rigorous evaluation of its own performance and effectiveness and assesses the performance of its committees and individual Board Induction and training members on an annual basis.
The Group Secretary ensures that a comprehensive induction programme is provided to all new Directors, including visits to manufacturing facilities, The Chairman is responsible for, and leads the evaluation process and is meetings with key Group executives and introductions to the Companys assisted by the Group Secretary.
In line with best practice, and as it has principal external advisers, as appropriate.
New Directors are also advised done in previous years, the Company engaged an external facilitator for of their legal and other duties and obligations as Directors of a listed the Board evaluation exercise in 2011.
This is supplemented by reference materials, which are updated independent organisation which has aided the Company on corporate as required, including information about the Board, its committees, governance matters, once again performed this role.
Directors duties, procedures for dealing in the Companys shares and As part of the evaluation process, the Chairman undertook a series of other regulatory and governance matters.
one-to-one meetings with each member of the Board and the Group The Chairman meets with Directors on an ongoing basis to review any Secretary to discuss their individual participation at and contribution to training and development needs.
In addition, the Directors are provided Board meetings.
The Senior Independent Director, having taken soundings with details of seminars and training courses relevant to their role.
They from all members of the Board and the Group Secretary, conducted the are encouraged to attend these as they consider appropriate and are Chairmans individual evaluation and provided feedback to the Chairman.
supported by the Company in so doing.
Where a general training need is The external element of the Board review was completed using a identified, in-house training is provided to the entire Board.
In 2011 questionnaire specifically designed for Cookson.
This focused on the Board training was given to the Board on the new Bribery Act and updates were structure and functionality, and also covered the strategy review, given on developments in various areas of governance and regulation, succession planning and executive development.
All the Directors and the including consultation on, and changes to, institutional and regulatory Group Secretary completed the document, with the exception of Dr codes on diversity and remuneration.
During the year, Directors also FitzGerald who had only been appointed the month before the external attended external seminars and other functions relevant to specific areas evaluation was undertaken.
The results from the questionnaire were collated and summarised by the Relations with shareholders external facilitator.
Each Director received a copy of the report, which was The Company has an established investor relations programme managed by discussed at the December meeting of the Board.
The report summarised the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The Company reports its and analysed all responses to the questionnaire on a non-attributable financial results to shareholders twice a year, with the publication of its Annual basis.
The Chairman used early feedback from the questionnaire process to and Half-Yearly Financial Reports and issues two further trading updates each assist in his interviews.
year with the publication of its Interim Management Statements.
In conjunction with these announcements, presentations or teleconference calls The report concluded that the initial positive reaction from the 2010 are held with institutional investors and analysts.
Recordings of these are evaluation to the appointment of the Chairman had been more than made available on the Groups website along with hard copies of any maintained in 2011.
Similarly, the strong and united Board dynamic that presentation materials issued www.
previously existed, had been preserved and strengthened with the addition of the new appointee.
The report also found that the refinement to the Boards cooksongroup.
com 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 Our F Our F Our Financials inancials inancials Our G Our G Our Go o ov v ver er ernanc nanc finance e e Our Business Our Business Our Business Cookson Group plc 24 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Company maintains a regular dialogue with institutional investors.
The The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of the Audit majority of meetings with investors are led by the Chief Executive and Committee meetings to the Board and all members of the Board receive Group Finance Director, but the Chairman, Senior Independent Director the agenda, papers and minutes of Audit Committee meetings.
and other Directors are also available to meet with significant shareholders Role and Responsibilities as appropriate.
The Senior Independent Director, as Chairman of the The primary role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are: Remuneration Committee, meets with key institutional shareholders and monitoring the integrity of the Companys Half-Year and Annual their representative bodies each year to discuss the Companys Financial Statements, the Interim Management Statements and any remuneration policy and practice.
other formal announcements relating to the Companys financial Regular updates on shareholder issues and discussions are provided to the performance: Board.
Board members also receive copies of significant analysts notes issued on the Company.
All Directors normally attend the Companys AGM, reviewing the process whereby the Board assesses the effectiveness of providing shareholders with the opportunity to question them about the Groups internal controls and risk management systems: issues relating to the Group, either during the meeting or informally establishing and reviewing procedures for detecting fraud, and systems afterwards.
and controls for the prevention of bribery, along with overseeing the Companys arrangements for employees to raise concerns about BOARD COMMITTEES possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters: The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Each committee has written terms of reference monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal agreed by the Board.
These are available to view on the Companys audit function: website www.
monitoring and reviewing the Auditors independence, objectivity AUDIT COMMITTEE and effectiveness, taking into account professional and regulatory Members requirements: Jeff Hewitt Committee Chairman Jan Oosterveld making recommendations to the Board on the appointment and Emma FitzGerald Barry Perry dismissal of the Auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of appointed 1 August 2011 retired 12 May 2011 engagement of the Auditor: and Peter Hill John Sussens helping to strengthen the independent position of the Auditor by The Audit Committee members are the Non-executive Directors.
The Audit providing a direct channel of communication between it and the Committee is chaired by Mr Hewitt, a qualified accountant.
requires the Board to be satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board Activities considers that Mr Hewitt possesses the requisite financial experience to During the year under review, the Audit Committee met four times and meet this requirement.
The Board also considers that the Audit Committee reviewed, amongst other matters, the Companys published financial members together possess the necessary commercial, financial and audit results: internal audit reports and management control issues: the scope expertise to help them assess effectively the complex accounting, audit of the external audit and its cost-effectiveness: the performance of the and risk issues they have to address.
Auditor: and the extent to which the Auditors remuneration for non-audit services might affect its independence and objectivity in carrying out the At the invitation of the Audit Committee Chairman, the Chairman, Chief audit.
Executive, Group Finance Director, CEO of the Engineered Ceramics Division, Group Financial Controller, Group Head of Internal Audit and the In respect of all matters considered by the Audit Committee, it believes Companys Auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, regularly attend meetings.
Other that it received sufficient, reliable and timely information from executives are invited to attend as and when appropriate.
The Audit management and the Auditor to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
Committee meets regularly with the Companys Auditor and the Group Head of Internal Audit without any executives being present.
The Audit Committee operates under formal terms of reference that are reviewed on a regular basis.
These terms of reference authorise the Committee to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice at the cost of the Company and to secure the attendance at Audit Committee meetings of other parties with relevant experience and expertise should it be considered necessary.
The Audit Committee did not feel it necessary to seek such outside advice in 2011.
co. uk 25 More specifically, the responsibilities of the Audit Committee were Appointment of Auditor discharged as follows: The Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment, reappointment and removal of the at its meetings in July 2011 and February 2012, the Audit Committee Auditor.
In undertaking this duty, the Committee takes into consideration reviewed the Companys Half-Yearly Report and Annual Results a number of factors concerning the Auditor and the Groups current Announcement Annual Report and Accounts, respectively.
On both activity, including: occasions, the Committee received reports from management on significant aspects of the Groups financial statements, including the quality both of reports provided by the Auditor to the Audit matters requiring significant management judgement, asset Committee and the Board, and of advice given: impairment valuation, amounts reported at fair value, off-balance the level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups businesses: sheet items and contingent liabilities, and received reports from the Auditor identifying any accounting or judgemental issues thereon the independence of the Auditor, in light of the provision of non-audit requiring its attention: services: the objectivity of the Auditors views on the controls throughout the at each of the four meetings, the Audit Committee received a report Group: from the Group Head of Internal Audit covering, amongst other things, the work undertaken by the internal audit function and its ability to coordinate a global audit, working to tight deadlines: management responses to proposals made in the audit reports issued the cost-competitiveness of the Auditor in relation to the audit costs by the function during the year.
In addition, at the July 2011 meeting of comparable UK companies: the Committee reviewed the results of an assessment which had been undertaken of the performance of the internal audit function and at the tenure of the incumbent Auditor: and the December 2011 meeting, the Committee reviewed and approved the periodic rotation of the senior audit management assigned to the the internal audit plan, submitted by the Group Head of Internal Audit audit of the Company.
for 2012: In addition, the Audit Committee considers external reviews of the at each of the four meetings, if relevant, the Audit Committee performance and quality of the Auditor, including: reviewed the Auditors control findings: the annual report issued by the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financial at the July 2011 meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed the results of Reporting Council on the work of the Auditor: and an assessment which had been undertaken of the performance of the Auditor, based upon feedback received from the Groups corporate the Auditors own annual Transparency Report.
No significant problems were KPMG or its predecessor firms has a long-standing tenure as the identified with the relationship and quality of audit by KPMG.
Some Companys Auditor, during which reviews of its performance and the areas of potential improvement were identified in relation to audit rotation of the senior audit partner designated to the Companys account planning and the communication of audit findings to management.
Following the completion of his five year These items were taken into account in the implementation of the term, the Companys current senior audit partner will be rotating off the global audit plan for 2011. account in 2012. also at the July meeting, the Audit Committee reviewed and agreed the Having considered the aforementioned factors in 2011, the Audit audit plan presented by the Auditor, which detailed the approach and Committee decided to recommend the Auditor for reappointment.
scope of the work to be undertaken and the level of fee to be charged: The terms on which the Auditor is engaged do not include any contractual at its meetings in October 2011 and February 2012, the Audit obligations which would prevent the Directors appointing a different audit Committee reviewed both the risk management process operated by firm should this be considered appropriate.
management designed to identify the key risks facing each business and how those risks were being managed: Independence and objectivity of Auditor The Audit Committee is cognisant of the need to ensure that the at its meeting in February 2012, the Audit Committee reviewed a report independence and objectivity of the Auditor is continually maintained.
It from management which addressed the appropriateness of the has put in place safeguards to ensure that the independence of the production of the Group and Company financial statements on a going external audit is not compromised.
These safeguards include: concern basis: seeking ongoing confirmation that the Auditor is independent of the from time to time, executives were required to make presentations to Company in its own professional judgement: and the Audit Committee or to the full Board on the identification, management and control of specific areas of risk which impact the considering all the relationships between the Auditor and the Group, Company and the Group: and including those relating to the provision of non-audit services and whether these impair, or appear to impair, the Auditors judgement or as a matter of routine, the Audit Committee was presented with independence.
information on any significant litigation involving the Group.
com 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 Our F Our F Our Financials inancials inancials Our G Our G Our Go o ov v ver er ernanc nanc finance e e Our Business Our Business Our Business Cookson Group plc 26 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Audit Committee regularly monitors the other services being provided Approach to anti-corruption and bribery training to the Group by the Auditor.
The Company has a policy governing the In response to the UK Bribery Act, the Companys Code of Conduct was Group-wide conduct of non-audit work by the Auditor to ensure that this revised and recommunicated to all employees in 2011.
New policies on does not impair its independence or objectivity.
The Auditor is prohibited anti-bribery & corruption have been developed.
Together they require that from performing services where it: employees and others working on behalf of the Company do not engage in any form of bribery or corruption.
may be required to audit its own work: An anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme has been would participate in activities that would normally be undertaken by established throughout the Group, and is being implemented through a management: targeted face-to-face training programme.
An e-learning module has been is remunerated through a success fee structure: or developed and is being rolled out globally, as local language versions become available, to relevant office-based individuals in 2012.
New acts in an advocacy role for the Group.
employees, as relevant, will go through the training as part of their The policy sets out the categories of work that the Auditor is prohibited induction process.
Other than these, the Company does not impose an The compliance programme includes undertaking risk assessments and automatic prohibition on the Auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The engaging with others working on behalf of the Company to ensure that Auditor is eligible for selection to provide non-audit services that are not, their standards comply with Cooksons policies.
or are not perceived to be, in conflict with Auditor independence, provided it has the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in Cookson is a member of the corporate supporters forum of Transparency the best interests of the Group.
An annual budget for non-audit related fees which the Group is proposing Executive compensation and risk to pay to the Auditor, is presented for pre-approval to the Audit All the Non-executive Directors serve on both the Audit and Remuneration Committee each year.
Any individual assignment where the fee is likely to Committees.
They are therefore able to bring their experience and be in excess of 50,000 must be pre-approved by the Audit Committee.
knowledge of the activities of each Committee to bear when considering Where appropriate, services are tendered prior to awarding work to the the critical judgements of the other.
This means that the Directors are in a Auditor.
Details of the amounts paid to the Auditor during the year for position to consider carefully the impact of incentive arrangements on the audit and other services are set out in note 6 on page 64.
The majority of Groups risk profile and to ensure the Groups remuneration policy and the non-audit related fees paid to the Auditor in 2011 related to tax programme is structured so as to accord with the long-term objectives consultancy advice in respect of a number of small projects, where its and risk appetite of the Company.
knowledge of the business made it effective and cost-efficient for the RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Auditor to undertake the work.
The Board has overall responsibility for the establishment and Internal audit maintenance of the Groups system of risk management and internal The Groups internal audit function operates on a global basis.
The Group control, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed to Head of Internal Audit is responsible for developing the function, within manage, rather than eliminate, the risks facing the Group and safeguard the framework of common Group policies and standards, and for carrying assets.
No system of internal control can provide absolute assurance out assignments in accordance with an annual audit plan approved by the against material misstatement or loss.
The Groups system is designed to Audit Committee.
In 2011, 83 audit assignments were undertaken provide the Directors with reasonable assurance that problems are covering 70 businesses.
The Group Head of Internal Audit reports directly identified on a timely basis and are dealt with appropriately.
In accordance to the Audit Committee Chairman.
The Audit Committee receives reports with the provisions of the Code, the Directors confirm that they have from the Group Head of Internal Audit on a regular basis and reports to reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control and the Board on the results of its review.
that the necessary actions have been taken to remedy and control any control weaknesses identified during the year.
Since the date of this review Employee business concern helpline there have been no significant changes in internal controls or other The Audit Committee has established procedures for the receipt, retention matters which could significantly affect them.
and treatment of complaints received by the Company including accounting, internal controls, auditing matters, harassment and The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of confidential communications from employees.
The helpline is operated 24 the Groups system of internal controls, including financial, operational hours a day, seven days a week, by an organisation that specialises in the and compliance controls, and risk management systems.
The key features provision of such services.
It can be contacted by phone, email or via a of the Groups system of internal controls include: designated website.
Translation facilities are available for those for whom English is not their first or preferred language.
co. uk 27 Strategy and financial reporting As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system The Group operates a comprehensive strategic planning and forecasting of internal control, it delegates the following matters to the Audit process, with an annual budget approved by the Board.
Monthly operating Committee to be carried out during the year: financial information is reported against this budget and key trends and review of external and internal audit work plans: variances analysed.
Action is then taken as appropriate.
consideration of reports from management, internal audit and Group accounting policies and procedures are formulated and external audit on the system of internal control and any significant disseminated to all Group operations, covering the application of control weaknesses: and accounting standards and the maintenance of accounting records and key financial control procedures.
discussions with management on the actions taken on problem areas identified by Board members, in internal audit reports or in external Operational controls audit management letters.
Each operating company, including the Divisional and Corporate offices, At the year-end, following the review by the Audit Committee of internal maintains internal controls and procedures appropriate to its structure and financial controls and of the processes covering other controls, the Board business environment, whilst complying with Group policies on items such evaluates the results of the internal control and risk management as the authorisation of capital expenditure, treasury transactions and the procedures conducted by senior management.
This includes a selfmanagement of intellectual property.
certification exercise by which senior financial and operational In addition, the Groups financial reporting process, including the management throughout the Group certify the effectiveness of the system preparation of the Companys consolidated financial statements, of internal controls within the businesses for which they are responsible, incorporates the dissemination and use of common accounting policies and together with their compliance throughout the year with the Groups procedures and financial reporting software.
The Board considers significant financing and investment decisions REMUNERATION COMMITTEE concerning the Group, including the giving of guarantees and indemnities, Members and monitors policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury risk.
John Sussens Committee Chairman Peter Hill Risk assessment and management Emma FitzGerald Jan Oosterveld There is a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing appointed 1 August 2011 Barry Perry any significant risks faced by Cookson.
Group management operates a risk Jeff Hewitt retired 12 May 2011 management process designed to identify the key risks facing each The Remuneration Committee members are the Non-executive Directors.
business and reports to the Board on how those risks are being managed.
The Committees principal roles are to set the appropriate remuneration As a basis for this report, each of the Groups major business units for the Chairman, the executive Directors and the Group Secretary, and to produces a risk map which identifies their key risks and assesses the recommend and monitor the level and structure of remuneration for likelihood of those risks occurring, their impact if they do occur and the senior management, being the first layer of management below Board actions being taken to manage those risks to a desired level.
Further details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee are The Board reviews the role of insurance and other measures used in provided in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 to 49. managing risks across the Group, receives regular reports on any major The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee reports the outcome of issues that have arisen during the year and makes an annual assessment of Committee meetings to the Board.
how the risks have changed over the period under review.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls Members The internal control system is monitored and supported by the Groups Jeff Harris Committee Chairman, Nick Salmon and any three Noninternal audit function.
This function assists management and the Board in executive Directors.
the effective discharge of their responsibility for internal control by conducting reviews of Cookson businesses and reporting objectively both The Nominations Committee advises the Board on appointments to, and on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control in retirements and resignations from, the Board, and reviews the Companys place and as to whether those businesses are in compliance with succession plans.
The members of the Nominations Committee are the applicable Group policies and procedures.
The Audit Committee receives Chairman, the Chief Executive and any three Non-executive Directors.
The reports from the Group Head of Internal Audit on a regular basis and Committee meets as and when required and is chaired by the Chairman or reports to the Board on the results of its review.
The Chairman would not act as chairman of the Nominations Committee where it was dealing with the appointment of his successor.
Formal meetings are held to consider standing items of business: there is also a significant level of ad hoc discussion between members of the Nominations Committee, particularly when a recruitment exercise is taking place.
com 20769-04 13 01 2012 Skeleton 2 Our F Our F Our Financials inancials inancials Our G Our G Our Go o ov v ver er ernanc nanc finance e e Our Business Our Business Our Business Cookson Group plc 28 Annual Report for the year ended 31 December 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT During 2011, the Nominations Committee was active in the recruitment of FINANCE AND SHARE SCHEMES COMMITTEES a new Non-executive Director.
When considering the appointment of new The Board delegates certain responsibilities on an ad hoc basis to the Directors, the Nominations Committee draws up a specification, taking Finance and Share Schemes committees.
into consideration the diversity of the Board including the balance of skills, The Finance Committee is chaired by the Chairman, its other members knowledge and experience, the independence of Board members and the being the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Treasurer.
ongoing requirements of the Group.
The Nominations Committees The Committee meets as and when required to consider the approval of foremost priority is to ensure that Cookson continues to have the best treasury-related matters.
Its prime responsibility is the strength of the Board.
The Share Schemes Committees membership consists of any two Board appointments are made on merit against objective criteria, Directors.
It meets as and when required to undertake administrative selecting the best candidate for the post.
The Nominations Committee matters in relation to the Companys share schemes.
utilises the services of executive search firms to identify appropriate candidates and will only use those firms that have adopted the Voluntary CENTRAL EXECUTIVE Code of Conduct addressing gender diversity and best practice in search In addition to the committees of the Board described above, specific assignments.
Wherever possible, the Nominations Committee arranges for authority has been delegated to the Central Executive comprising the all Directors to meet with the preferred candidate.
The Nominations Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Secretary.
The Central Committee makes recommendations for each appointment to the full Executive is responsible for reviewing and approving capital expenditure, Board.
Care is taken to ensure that all proposed appointees have sufficient and acquisitions and disposals at certain levels as determined by the time available to devote to the role and do not have any conflicts of Board.
Responsibility for day-to-day operational management rests with interest.
The Nominations Committee reviews the Companys succession plans for members of the Board.
The Board as a whole also considers this subject.
By Order of the Board Each of Cooksons divisions submits detailed succession plans in respect of senior divisional executives to the Board for review each year.
The Board also considers succession planning for senior Corporate executives.
The Board actively seeks to meet with key executives throughout the Group so as to gain a greater understanding of the breadth and depth of Richard M H Malthouse management talent.
This enables members of the Committee to adopt a Group Secretary more informed approach to succession planning.
27 February 2012 The Chairman of the Nominations Committee reports the outcome of the Nominations Committee meetings to the Board.
