Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance The Board takes its responsibility to achieve sound governance very seriously and regards the continuing setting, maintenance and review of high quality standards of corporate governance as an essential part of its work.
A review has been performed of the Companys compliance Corporate governance in brief with The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued  that the Company has complied in all aspects with the Code  throughout the year ended 30 September 2011. has complied in all aspects with the Code This report, together with the Report on Directors Remuneration during 2011. on pages 34 to 41, describes how the main principles of good governance have been applied.
During the year Board members have visited operationalsites, overseasGroupoffices, global Leadership trade shows and exhibitions and key customers The Directors on the Board are collectively responsible for the of both business units.
long-term success of the Company.
The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness The current female representation on the Board on all aspects of its role.
The executive Directors are responsible is close to 30% and is therefore ahead of the for the running of the business.
The non-executive Directors are responsible for challenging constructively, exercising independent minimum 25% representation level by 2015 and objective judgement in respect of Board decisions, helping recommended by the Davies Review.
develop strategy proposals and for scrutinising and challenging the actions of Group and business unit senior management.
The importance of diversity in general at Board  level is recognised and the Board members clearly distinct.
The division of their responsibilities is set out comprise a number of different nationalities in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
There is no with a wide range of experience from a variety Deputy Chairman.
During the year, pursuant to the Code, the Chairman met with the other non-executive Directors without the executive An external evaluation of performance of the Directors present on one occasion, and the Senior Independent Board and its Committees was carried out as Director met with the other non-executive Directors, without required by the Code.
the Chairman present, on one occasion.
Operation of the Board The Board is responsible for the Groups strategic development, monitoring achievement of its business objectives, oversight of risk and maintaining a system of effective corporate governance, which includes the responsibility for health, safety, environmental, social and ethical matters.
The Board discharges these responsibilities through a programme of meetings which include regular reviews For more information please go to www.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance framework Victrex plc Board Disclosure Currency Risk Management Nominations Remuneration Audit Committee Executive Team Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee VPS Risk Invibio Risk Head Office Risk Invibio VPS Internal Audit External Audit Management Management Management Business Unit Business Unit Committee Committee Committee ,  adequate time is devoted by Board members to the independent in development and setting of strategy and the progress towards oversight of key areas under their responsibility.
, The terms of reference of the Nominations, Audit, supported by business unit strategies, is approved and updated Remuneration and Risk Management Committees are periodically by the Board.
Key projects are considered in the available on the Companys website www.
com context of the corporate strategy.
and, in paper form on request, from the Registered Board members have been active in 2011 with visits to OfficeoftheCompany.
operationalsites, overseasGroupoffices, globaltradeshows and exhibitions and key customers of both business units.
Board effectiveness Composition and diversity of the Board Matters reserved for the Board and delegation of authority The Board comprises a non-executive Chairman, four other The Board has a clearly documented schedule of matters non-executive Directors and two executive Directors.
The Code reserved for its decision, including approval of the Groups requirement that at least half the Board should be independent strategy, theannualbudgetand,  non-executive Directors has continued to be met.
Changes in values, capital expenditure, contracts, customer credit limits, the composition of the Board during the year are noted in the investments, disposals and entering into strategic alliances, Directors Report.
The Board delegates day to day and business management control to the executive The composition of the Board is intended to ensure that its Directors and business unit Managing Directors who, led by membership represents a mix of backgrounds and experience theChiefExecutive,  that will enhance the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
with other senior managers as appropriate.
In looking for prospective Directors we have regard to the skills of the Board at that time, and the need to address longer The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to standing term succession and business priorities.
The annual formal Committees, as further described on pages 29 to 31, which evaluation of Board, Board Committee and individual  Directors performance takes Board diversity into account of reference and through reports from Committee Chairmen and is instrumental in identifying any new skill requirements, with respect to each meeting.
The terms of reference are , gapsorinefficiencies.
reviewed regularly, with any revisions proposed by the respective The 2011 performance evaluation was conducted by an Committees and then approved by the Board.
The delegation external facilitator and further details are overleaf.
of certain responsibilities to standing Committees ensures that www.
com 25 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance continued Board effectiveness continued Nominations Committee, Audit Committee, Remuneration The Davies Review on Women on Boards  firstexternal The Board welcomed the publication in February of the evaluation of performance, as required by the Code.
The Davies Review on Women on Boards.
Our current female external evaluator, JCA Group, had no other connection with representation on the Board is close to 30% and is therefore the Company.
The external evaluation process conducted in ahead of the minimum 25% representation level by 2015 2011 concluded that the Board and its Committees remain recommended by the Davies Review.
 each Director continues to demonstrate a valuable contribution.
We also recognise the importance of diversity in general at Actions agreed as a result of the Board evaluation included Board level and our Board members comprise a number of further development of the Groups strategic planning and different nationalities with a wide range of experience from talent management processes.
Further information on our Group HR policies including those on equal opportunities and The Chairmans performance is reviewed by the Remuneration diversity is set out on page 20.
Theother non-executive Directors performance is evaluated by the Independence of the Board .
Executive The non-executive Directors including the Chairman, Anita Frew, Directors performance is reviewed by the Remuneration upon her appointment as Chairman on 1 October 2008, are all , exceptin considered by the Board to be independent of the management the case of his own performance review.
In addition, the external and free from any business or other relationship that could evaluation process included assessment of the performance materially interfere with the exercise of their independent of individual Board members.
Once this formal evaluation had judgement.
Giles Kerr is the Senior Independent Director.
taken place, the Chairman held one to one meetings with all the  Directors, .
TheSeniorIndependent  Director held a separate meeting with the external evaluator the Companys existing procedures and has also implemented regarding the performance of the Chairman.
 Information, training and support ariseinfuture.
  appointments held by Directors, details of which are contained   a timely basis.
Group and business unit senior executives also  attend Board meetings as appropriate.
Taking place regularly required of them under the terms of their contracts or letters , overseasGroupoffices, global of appointment.
trade shows and exhibitions and key customers of both Re-election of Directors businessunits,  All Directors retire at each Annual General Meeting AGM management to enhance the Boards understanding of the and may offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
During the year, all Board members visited our Accordingly, all the Directors will retire at the AGM in UK manufacturing sites in Thornton Cleveleys, Rotherham February 2012 and the Notice of AGM on page 78 gives and Seal Sands and various Board members visited our details of those Directors seeking re-election.
Further , medicaltrade information on both the appointment and replacement  of Directors is given in the Directors Report on page 32. customers of each business unit.
Performance evaluation The Groups two business units are managed by separate A formal evaluation of Board, Board Committee and individual boards, which each submit monthly executive commentaries Directors performance is carried out annually.
As part of  the annual Board evaluation process, Directors training .
Inaddition, HeadOfficeGroup and development needs are considered by the Chairman.
functions are consolidated with these business units and the The 2011 Board evaluation was the Boards and its Committees resulting Group position is reported monthly in a Group 26 www.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 executive commentary to the Board.
The Group has a is conducted by way of a show of hands in order to encourage comprehensive process of annual budgeting and regular questions from and interaction with private investors and proxy forecasting linked to the Groups business objectives.
votes lodged on each AGM resolution are announced at the meeting and published on the Companys website.
Training including social, environmental and ethical matters is provided for new Directors as required, by means of a To ensure that the Board, particularly the non-executive tailored induction, and subsequently as required.
Upon their Directors, understands the views of major shareholders, appointment, both Peter Bream and Pamela Kirby received the Companys broker provides a summary of feedback tailored induction programmes which have included meetings from the meetings following the announcement of the  .
business units in order to be briefed on the business strategies, The Board is also regularly provided with summaries of  analysts views on the Company.
In addition, the Chairman principal sites.
During and after induction Directors are is available to meet institutional shareholders.
The Senior encouraged to, and do, visit business locations across the Independent Director and other non-executive Directors Group, meet with Group and business unit management will attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
and regularly refresh and update their skills and knowledge.
No such meetings were requested during the year.
Directors can take independent professional advice where necessary at the Companys expense and have access to the Accountability services of the Company Secretary whose appointment is a Financial and business reporting Board matter and who is responsible for ensuring that the The Board is responsible, in its reporting, for presenting Board operates in accordance with good corporate governance a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups under the Code and relevant regulatory requirements.
 main principle of the Code.
Appropriate levels of insurance cover are obtained for all .
Furtherinformation The statement which gives the reasons why the Directors on Directors indemnities is given in the Directors Report continue to adopt the going concern basis for preparing the on page 33. .
Time commitments Risk management and internal control procedures The Nominations Committee annually reviews the time required The Board, supported by the Audit and Risk Management from each non-executive Director and has found the time Committees, is responsible for determining the nature and   responsibilities effectively.
strategic objectives, for maintaining sound risk management and internal control procedures.
In addition, the Board is Relations with shareholders responsible for establishing formal and transparent arrangements The Board as a whole has a responsibility for ensuring that for considering how it should apply the corporate reporting, risk a satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place, based management and internal control principles and for maintaining on the mutual understanding of objectives.
an appropriate relationship with the Companys auditor.
The Company is always ready, where practicable, to enter into The Boards responsibility for the Groups system of internal dialogue with institutional shareholders to promote a mutual , includingfinancial, operational, understanding of objectives.
Institutional investor relations compliance and risk management, and includes reviewing the activity is normally concentrated in the periods following the systems effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage .
Morebroadly rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business based presentations and site visits are arranged when there objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute .
TheAGM assurance of effective operation, compliance with laws and provides the Board with an opportunity to meet informally and regulations and against material misstatement or loss.
communicate directly with private investors.
com 27 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance continued Accountability continued allows for proportionate and independent investigation Risk management and internal control procedures continued of such matters and for appropriate follow up action.
The Directors have reviewed the internal audit procedures and, The Audit Committee is also responsible for overseeing the as discussed on page 30, have concluded that there exists an Companys relationship with the external auditor and further independent internal audit function as required by the Code.
information on how this is achieved, together with more information This independent internal audit function also supports the on the work of the Audit Committee, is given on pages 29 to 30.
Board in their review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control, as well as the external auditor on matters The Group has complied with the Code provisions on .
internal control by operating throughout the year ended 30 September 2011 and up to the date of approval of this  Annual Report those procedures necessary to implement the for the ongoing evaluation, reporting and management of recommendations of the Turnbull Committee and by reporting internal control and risk management issues, together with in accordance with these recommendations.
an established and robust control environment.
During 2011, the Directors have continued to review the The management of the Group is delegated to the executive effectiveness of this system, supported by the Risk Management Directors.
Authority is delegated to senior executives as appropriate Committee who manages the clear and ongoing process for and the organisational requirements of a rapidly developing identifying,  .
The Risk Management Committee enable the Board to meet its responsibilities for the integrity and reports to the Board twice annually and a formal risk management accuracy of the Groups accounting records.
review is undertaken by the Board annually.
Further information The Audit Committee oversees whistleblowing arrangements, about the ways in which the Group manages its risks is set out bywhichstaffmay, inconfidence,  in the risks section of the Business Review on pages 12 and 13. .
These pages contain a list of the principal external market and The Board is committed to this established whistleblowing , arisk policy, which is available in a variety of languages globally and description and mitigating factors.
Attendance at meetings Directors attendance at the Board and committee meetings convened in the year was as follows: Audit Remuneration Nominations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 8 3 4 2 Chairman Anita Frew 8 8 n a n a 2 2 Executive Directors David Hummel 8 8 n a n a n a 1 Peter Bream 7 8 n a n a n a Non-executive Directors Giles Kerr 8 8 3 3 4 4 2 2 Patrick fide Smedt 8 8 2 3 4 4 2 2 Lawrence Pentz 8 8 3 3 4 4 2 2 2 Pamela Kirby 3 4 n a 1 2 0 1 1 Peter Bream was appointed to the Board with effect from 8 October 2010 and resigned on 6 October 2011.
2 Pamela Kirby was appointed to the Board with effect from 9 February 2011.
Whilst not formally required, Anita Frew, David Hummel and Peter Bream attended a number of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nominations Committee meetings when appropriate.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Nominations Committee Audit Committee Chairman Anita Frew Chairman Giles Kerr The Nominations Committee, comprising all of the TheAuditCommittee, chairedbyGilesKerr, aqualifiedChartered non-executive Directors, is responsible for regularly reviewing , and the structure, size and composition of the Board, including comprising all of the non-executive Directors except the Chairman Board diversity, succession planning and identifying and and Pamela Kirby, is responsible for assisting the Board with recommending appropriate candidates for membership of the .
This Board when vacancies arise.
In considering an appointment, , preliminary the Committee evaluates the balance of skills, knowledge and announcements and any formal announcements relating to experience of the Board and prepares a description of the role financialperformance,  and capabilities required for a particular appointment.
Internal information, before submission to the Board for endorsement.
candidates are considered where appropriate and this most The Committee also reviews the Groups whistleblowing policy.
recently applied for the appointment of Steve Barrow as It is also responsible for overseeing all matters associated with FinanceDirector.
 the appointment, terms, remuneration and performance of the to identify appropriate candidates, as was the case for the external auditor and for reviewing the scope and results of the appointment of Pamela Kirby, where Hanson Green was audit and its cost effectiveness.
The Committee reviews annually the external search consultant.
the independence and objectivity of the external auditor taking The Nominations Committee is also responsible for annually .
reviewing the time required from each non-executive Director.
Such non-audit services require approval by the Committee.
Based on recommendations from the Nominations Committee, In considering whether the provision of such services could Directors submit themselves for re-election at the AGM following impair the external auditors independence or objectivity, their appointment and annually thereafter.
the Committee is governed by the following guidelines, which are incorporated in its terms of reference: whether the skills and experience of the external auditor make it a suitable supplier of the non-audit service under consideration: whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to objectivity and independence in the conduct Remuneration Committee of the audit resulting from the provision of such services Chairman Patrick fide Smedt by the external auditor: The Remuneration Committee, comprising all of the non-executive the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels Directors excluding the Chairman, is responsible for reviewing individually and in aggregate relative to the audit fee: and and recommending the framework and policy for remuneration the criteria which govern the compensation of the of the Chairman, executive Directors and senior executives, individuals performing the audit.
which the Board as a whole is responsible for approving.
Once approved, the Remuneration Committee is responsible for  packages for the Chairman, each executive Director, each business units Managing and Finance Directors and the Company Secretary.
The Chairman and executive Directors are responsible for the agreement of non-executive Directors remuneration.
com 29 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee continued At its meeting on 13 May 2011, the Committee reviewed In principle the external auditor should not provide any the Companys interim results announcement and draft service which: Half-yearly Financial Report.
The external auditor reported to the Committee on its review.
The Committee reviewed : the Groups internal audit activities, effectiveness, resource leads to the external auditor making a management decision and reporting structure and concluded that there exists an for the Company: independent internal audit function as required by the Code.
Draft revised terms of reference for the Audit Committee were creates a mutuality of interest: or reviewed and approved.
The Committee also considered the leads to the external auditor being put in the role of results of regular internal control reviews.
On 19 September 2011, the external auditor presented its Only Audit Committee members are entitled to attend a proposed fees and scope for the audit for the year ended meeting.
However, the Chairman, the Finance Director, senior 30 September 2011.
The Committee also carried out its terms financeexecutives  and of reference review.
The results of regular internal control reviews  were also considered.
In addition, the Committee considered to attend meetings.
Others are also invited to attend as plans to broaden the scope of internal audits remit to other appropriate.
A section of at least one meeting each year  takes place without management present.
There is a rolling programme of internal control reviews carried At its meeting on 16 November 2011, the Committee reviewed  the Companys preliminary announcement of its results for the , with  effect from 1 October 2010, to the Chairman of the Audit Report and Accounts for that year.
The external auditor reported Committee in relation to internal control matters.
The Audit to the Committee on the conduct of its audit, its review of the Committee receives these reviews from this internal audit accounts, including policies and areas of judgement, and function, reviewsitsfindings,  commented on risk management and control matters.
The resources available to it to perform its work.
Committee carried out the annual appraisal of the external auditor including reviewing non-audit fees and the At its meeting on 22 November 2010, the Committee effectiveness of the audit process.
reviewed the Companys preliminary announcement of its  draft Annual Report and Accounts for that year.
The external auditor reported to the Committee on the conduct of its audit, its review of the accounts, including accounting policies and areas of judgement, and commented on risk management and control matters.
The results of regular internal control reviews were also considered.
The Committee carried out the annual appraisal of the external auditor including reviewing non-audit fees and the effectiveness of the audit process.
com Overview p15 Business Review p621 Governance p2243 Financial Statements p4476 Shareholder Information p7785 Victrex plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 responsibility, .
Inaccordancewith these responsibilities the Committee may make disclosures on behalf of the Board.
The Committee will take advice, including from the Companys broker, external auditor and legal advisers, on the form and content of any disclosure under consideration.
Risk Management Committee The Committee comprises all Directors of the Company and senior Chairman Lawrence Pentz financeexecutives.
 be appointed on an ad hoc basis.
Meetings of the Committee The Risk Management Committee is chaired by Lawrence Pentz may be called by any member of the Committee on any period and comprises both executive Directors, the Company Secretary of notice provided that notice is given to all members.
TheCommitteeis responsible for ensuring that all risks facing the Group are reduced to an acceptable level.
This is achieved by an ongoing review which includes identifying all risks faced by the Group and assessing those risks, whilst recognising existing control measures, so that .
Plansaredevelopedand Currency Committee implemented to eliminate, reduce or transfer these risks where Chairman Steve Barrow practicable.
The Committee is also responsible for reviewing the risk management and control process within the Group.
The Currency Committee is chaired by the Finance Director, and ,  The Committee meets quarterly and twice annually reports to .
In addition, the Board annually undertakes a formal manage the Groups currency hedging activities.
The Board is review of the effectiveness of the risk management process, responsible for setting the hedging policy.
internal controls systems and the performance of the Risk Management Committee.
Currently the Group exports 98% of sales from the UK.
The VPS and Invibio business unit Risk Management Committees,  comprising the Directors of each business unit respectively, currency movements by hedging: along with the Company Secretary and senior operational and SHEexecutives, meetquarterly.
TheHeadOffice HO Risk a minimum of 90% and a maximum of 100% of projected Management Committee comprises both executive Directors transaction exposures arising from trading in the along with the Company Secretary and senior ICT, HR and forthcoming six month period: and financeexecutives.
 a minimum of 75% and a maximum of 100% of report into the Group Risk Management Committee and are projected transaction exposures arising in the following responsible for ensuring that all risks facing the business units six month period.
and HO are reduced to an acceptable level.
 Disclosure Committee  Chairman Anita Frew, David Hummel or Steve Barrow transaction exposures and from revised forecasts of future The Disclosure Committees responsibilities are to ensure trading, which can lead to an adjustment of currency cover that the Companys obligations to make timely and accurate in place.
disclosure of information in accordance with any applicable law The impact of this hedging policy is disclosed in notes 15 or regulation are met in circumstances where it is impractical .
for the Board, or any other Board Committee with delegated www.
