52 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Board of directors and Group management 1 2 3 4 5 Directors and senior management GlobeCast from 1995 to 1999.
He was Executive Vice President of Nouvelles Our business is managed by our Board of directors the Board.
Biographical Frontieres Group from December 1999 until the end of 2001 when he details of the directors and senior management at 17 May 2011 are as follows: moved to the position of Chief Executive Officer of Assystem-Brime, a company specialising in industrial engineering.
He returned to France Board of directors Telecom Group in 2003 as Senior Vice President of Group Finance and Chief Chairman Financial Officer.
Until January 2006 he was Senior Executive Vice President, 1.
Sir John Bond, aged 69, became Chairman of Vodafone Group Plc in July in charge of NExT Financial Balance & Value Creation and a member of the 2006, having previously served as a non-executive director of the Board, and France Telecom Group Strategic Committee.
From 2006 to 2008 he was is Chairman of the Nominations and Governance Committee.
He is Chairman Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of TDF Group.
He is President of the of Xstrata plc and a non-executive director of A. P. Mller Mrsk A S and Supervisory Board of Assystem SA in France and serves as a non-executive Shui On Land Limited Hong Kong SAR.
He retired from the position of director on the boards of ISS Equity A S, ISS Holding A S and ISS A S. Group Chairman of HSBC Holdings plc in May 2006.
Previous non-executive directorships include the London Stock Exchange plc, Orange plc, British 5.
Stephen Pusey, aged 49, Group Chief Technology Officer, joined Steel plc, the Court of the Bank of England and Ford Motor Company, US.
He Vodafone in September 2006 and was appointed to the Board in June 2009. is also an advisor to Northern Trust in Chicago.
Sir John will retire from the He is responsible for all aspects of Vodafones networks, IT capability and Board at the conclusion of the Companys AGM on 26 July 2011. research and development.
Prior to joining Vodafone he held the positions of Executive Vice President and President, Nortel EMEA, having joined Executive directors Nortel in 1982 where he gained a wealth of international experience across 2.
Vittorio Colao, Chief Executive, aged 49, was appointed Chief Executive both the wireline and wireless industries and in business applications and of Vodafone Group Plc after the AGM in July 2008.
He joined the Board in solutions.
Prior to Nortel, he spent several years with British Telecom.
October 2006 as Chief Executive, Europe and Deputy Chief Executive.
The early part of his career was spent in the Milan office of McKinsey & Co Deputy Chairman and senior independent director working on media, telecommunications and industrial goods, with additional 6.
John Buchanan, aged 67, became Deputy Chairman and senior responsibility for recruitment.
In 1996 he joined Omnitel Pronto Italia, which independent director in July 2006 and has been a member of the Board since subsequently became Vodafone Italy, and was appointed Chief Executive in April 2003.
He retired from the board of directors of BP p. l. c. in 2002 after six 1999.
He was then appointed Regional Chief Executive Officer, Southern years as Group Chief Financial Officer and executive director following a wideEurope for Vodafone Group Plc in 2001, became a member of the Board in ranging career with the company.
He was a member of the United Kingdom 2002 and was appointed to the role of Regional Chief Executive Officer for Accounting Standards Board from 1997 to 2001.
He is Chairman of Smith & Southern Europe, Middle East and Africa for Vodafone in 2003.
In 2004 he Nephew plc, Senior Independent Director of BHP Billiton Plc, Chairman of The left Vodafone to join RCS MediaGroup, the leading Italian publishing International Chamber of Commerce UK and is Chairman of the trustees for company, where he was Chief Executive until he rejoined Vodafone as Chief the UK Christchurch Earthquake Appeal.
Previous non-executive directorships Executive Officer, Europe.
He sits on the International Advisory Board of include AstraZeneca plc and Boots plc.
Andy Halford, Chief Financial Officer, aged 52, joined the Board in July 7.
Alan Jebson, aged 61, joined the Board in December 2006.
He joined Vodafone in 1999 as Financial Director for Vodafone Limited, he retired from his role as Group Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Holdings the UK operating company, and in 2001 he became Financial Director for plc, a position which included responsibility for IT and Global Resourcing.
Vodafones Northern Europe, Middle East and Africa region.
In 2002 he was During a long career with HSBC he held various positions in IT including the appointed Chief Financial Officer of Verizon Wireless in the US and is position of Group Chief Information Officer.
His roles included responsibility currently a member of the Board of Representatives of the Verizon Wireless for the Groups international systems including the consolidation of HSBC partnership.
Prior to joining Vodafone he was Group Finance Director at East and Midland systems following the acquisition of Midland Bank in 1993.
In December 2010 he was appointed as Chairman originally joined HSBC as Head of IT Audit in 1978 where, building upon his of The Hundred Group of Finance Directors in the UK.
He holds a bachelors qualification as a chartered accountant, he built an international audit team degree in Industrial Economics from Nottingham University and is a Fellow and implemented controls in the groups application systems.
He is also a of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
non-executive director of Experian Group plc and MacDonald Dettwiler and Associates Ltd. in Canada.
Michel Combes, aged 49, Chief Executive Officer, Europe Region, was appointed to the Board in June 2009, having joined the Company in October 8.
Samuel Jonah, aged 61, was appointed to the Board in April 2009.
He began his career at France Telecom in 1986 in the External Executive Chairman of Jonah Capital Pty Limited, an investment holding Networks Division and then moved to the Industrial and International Affairs company in South Africa and serves on the boards of various public and private Division.
After being technical advisor to the Minister of Transportation from companies including The Standard Bank Group.
He previously worked for 1991 to 1995, he served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ashanti Goldfields Company Limited, becoming Chief Executive Officer in
