Governance Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 61 Related party transactions The concept of a related party for the purposes of NASDAQs listing rules The NASDAQ rules require companies to conduct appropriate reviews of differs in certain respects from the definition of a transaction with a related party transactions and potential conflicts of interest via the related party under the Listing Rules.
companys audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors.
Shareholder approval We are subject to extensive provisions under the Listing Rules issued by NASDAQ requires shareholder approval for certain transactions involving the FSA in the UK the Listing Rules governing transactions with related the sale or issuance by a listed company of share capital.
parties, as defined therein, and the Companies Act 2006 also restricts the Under the NASDAQ rules, whether shareholder approval is required for extent to which companies incorporated in England and Wales may enter such transactions depends on, among other things, the number of shares into related party transactions.
to be issued or sold in connection with a transaction, while we are bound Our articles of association contain provisions regarding disclosure of by the provisions of the Listing Rules which state that shareholder interests by our directors and restrictions on their votes in circumstances approval is required, among other things, when the size of a transaction involving conflicts of interest.
exceeds a certain percentage of the size of the listed company In lieu of obtaining an independent review of related party transactions undertaking the transaction.
for conflicts of interests, but in accordance with the Listing Rules, the In accordance with our articles of association we also seek shareholder Companies Act 2006 and our articles of association, we seek shareholder approval annually for issuing shares and to dis-apply the pre-emption rights approval for related party transactions that meet certain financial that apply under law in line with limit guidelines issued by investor bodies.
thresholds or where transactions have unusual features.
Report from the Audit Committee Risk management and internal control The Audit Committee reviewed the process by which the Group evaluated The Audit Committee assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities its control environment, its risk assessment process and the way in which in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the significant business risks were managed.
It also considered the Group Audit assessment of internal controls.
The Audit Committee also reviews the Directors reports on the effectiveness of internal controls, significant effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function and manages the identified frauds and any identified fraud that involved management or Companys relationship with the external auditor.
For further details, its employees with a significant role in internal controls.
The Audit Committee terms of reference can be found on the Vodafone website www.
was also responsible for oversight of the Groups compliance activities in com governance.
relation to section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee is composed of independent, non-executive directors selected to provide the wide range of financial and commercial Internal audit expertise necessary to fulfil the Committees duties.
The membership of The Audit Committee monitored and reviewed the scope, extent and the Committee is set out in the table on page 57.
By invitation of the effectiveness of the activity of the Group Internal Audit department and Chairman of the Audit Committee, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial received reports from the Group Audit Director which included updates Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Director of Financial Reporting, on audit activities, progress of the Group audit plan, the results of any the Group Audit Director and the external auditor also attend the Audit unsatisfactory audits and the action plans to address these areas, and Committee meetings.
Relevant people from the business are also invited resource requirements of the internal audit department.
The Audit to attend certain meetings in order to provide insight and enhance the Committee held private discussions with the Group Audit Director as Audit Committees awareness of key issues and developments in the necessary throughout the year.
business which are relevant to the Audit Committee in the performance of its role.
External auditor The Audit Committee reviewed and monitored the independence of the During the year ended 31 March 2011 the principal activities of the Audit external auditor and the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process Committee were as follows: and provided the Board with its recommendation to the shareholders on the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor.
The Audit Financial reporting Committee approved the scope and fees for audit services and, after The Audit Committee reviewed and discussed with management and the consideration of whether they were permissible under the Groups external auditor the half-year and annual financial statements focusing on, policies, non-audit services provided by Deloitte LLP.
amongst other matters: Private meetings were held with Deloitte LLP without management being the quality and acceptability of accounting policies and practices: present to ensure that there were no restrictions on the scope or the clarity of the disclosures and compliance with financial reporting independence of their audit.
standards and relevant financial and governance reporting requirements: and Audit Committee effectiveness material areas in which significant judgements have been applied.
The Audit Committee conducts a formal review of its effectiveness annually and concluded that its performance was effective.
Details of the To aid their review, the Audit Committee considered reports from the Group Board and Committee evaluation process can be found under Financial Controller and the Director of Financial Reporting and also reports Performance evaluation on page 56. from the external auditor, Deloitte LLP, on the scope and outcome of their half-year review and annual audit.
Nick Land On behalf of the Audit Committee
