56 Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued that companies adopt a boardroom diversity policy: we expect to comply Information and professional development with any such recommendation.
The Board recognises the importance of From time to time the Board receives detailed presentations from non-Board gender balance throughout the Group and continues to support Vittorio members on matters of significance.
Financial plans, including budgets and Colao in his efforts to build a diverse organisation.
Further information, forecasts, are regularly discussed at Board meetings.
The non-executive including the proportions of women in senior management and within directors periodically visit different parts of the Group and are provided with the organisation overall, is contained in our 2011 sustainability report at briefings and information to assist them in performing their duties.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training The Deputy Chairman, John Buchanan, is the nominated Senior Independent programmes are provided and the Company Secretary organises the Director and his role includes being available for approach or representation programmes.
Individual directors are also expected to take responsibility for by directors or significant shareholders who may feel inhibited about raising identifying their training needs and to take steps to ensure that they are issues with the Chairman.
He is also responsible for conducting an annual adequately informed about the Company and their responsibilities as a review of the performance of the Chairman and, in the event it should be director.
The Board is confident that all its members have the knowledge, necessary, convening a meeting of the non-executive directors.
ability and experience to perform the functions required of a director of a listed company.
We consider all of our present non-executive directors to be fully independent.
The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors On appointment, individual directors undergo an induction programme and is satisfied that these do not conflict with their duties as directors of covering, amongst other things: the Company.
Changes to the commitments of the directors are reported to the Board.
the business of the Group: their legal and regulatory responsibilities as directors: There are no cross-directorships or significant links between directors briefings and presentations from relevant executives: and serving on the Board through involvement in other companies or bodies.
For opportunities to visit business operations.
the purpose of section 175 of the Companies Act 2006, the Companys articles of association include a general power for the directors to authorise If appropriate the induction will also include briefings on the scope of the any matter which would or might otherwise constitute or give rise to a internal audit function and the role of the Audit Committee, meetings with breach of the duty of a director under this section, to avoid a situation in the external auditor and other areas the Company Secretary deems which a director has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts appropriate considering the directors area of responsibility.
Throughout or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
To this end their period in office the directors are continually updated on the Groups procedures have been established for the disclosure of any such conflicts businesses and the regulatory and industry specific environments in which and also for the consideration and authorisation of these conflicts by the it operates.
These updates are by way of written briefings and meetings with Board, where relevant.
The directors are required to complete a conflicts senior executives and, where appropriate, external sources.
questionnaire, initially on appointment and annually thereafter.
In the event of a potential conflict being identified, details of that conflict would be Performance evaluation submitted to the Board excluding the director to whom the potential Performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual conflict related for consideration and, as appropriate, authorisation in directors takes place on an annual basis and is conducted within the terms accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the articles of association.
of reference of the Nominations and Governance Committee with the aim Where an authorisation was granted, it would be recorded in a register of of improving the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, individual potential conflicts and reviewed periodically.
On an ongoing basis directors contributions and the Groups performance as a whole.
The evaluation is are responsible for notifying the Company Secretary if they become aware designed to determine whether the Board continues to be capable of of actual or potential conflict situations or a change in circumstances providing the high level judgement required and whether, as a Board, the relating to an existing authorisation.
To date, no conflicts of interest have directors are informed and up to date with the business and its goals and been identified.
understand the context within which it operates.
Every three years the performance evaluation is conducted by an independent external advisor.
Under the laws of England and Wales, the executive and non-executive The last external evaluation took place in respect of the 2010 financial year.
directors are equal members of the Board and have overall collective responsibility for the Companys direction.
In particular, non-executive This year the Board undertook a formal self-evaluation of its own directors are responsible for: performance.
The process was led by the Chairman and included a review of the administration of the Board and its committees covering the operation bringing a wide range of skills and experience, including independent of the Board and its committees, agendas, reports and information produced judgement on issues of strategy, performance, financial controls and for their consideration.
Using questionnaires completed by all directors, the systems of risk management: Chairman produced a report on Board performance which was sent to and constructively challenging the strategy proposed by the Chief Executive considered by the Nominations and Governance Committee before being and executive directors: discussed with the Board members at a Board meeting.
scrutinising and challenging performance across the Groups business: assessing risk and the integrity of the financial information and The Chairman led the assessment of the Chief Executive and the noncontrols: and executive directors, the Chief Executive undertook the performance reviews ensuring appropriate remuneration and succession planning for the executive directors and the Senior Independent Director led the arrangements are in place in relation to executive directors and other review of the performance of the Chairman.
The Chairman reported the results of the evaluations at the Board meeting in March 2011.
The performance of each director of the Board was found to Board effectiveness be effective and it was concluded that the Board provides the effective Appointments to the Board leadership and control required for a listed company.
The Nominations and There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of Governance Committee confirmed to the Board that the contributions new directors to the Board.
Candidates are identified and selected on merit made by the directors offering themselves for election and re-election at against objective criteria and with due regard to the benefits of diversity on the AGM in July 2011 continue to be effective and that the Company should the Board, including gender.
This process was followed during the recruitment support their election and re-election.
In addition, the Board considered of Renee James and Gerard Kleisterlee and is described in the section on the recommendations made by directors during the Board performance Nominations and Governance Committee set out on page 57. evaluation for the improvement of Board procedures and its effectiveness.
