Governance Vodafone Group Plc Annual Report 2011 55 Corporate governance We are committed to high standards of corporate governance which we consider are critical to business integrity and to maintaining investors trust in us.
We expect all our directors, employees and suppliers to act with honesty, integrity and fairness.
Our business principles set out the standards we set ourselves to ensure we operate lawfully, with integrity and with respect for the culture of every country in which we do business.
Compliance with the Combined Code Board meetings The Board meets at least eight times a year and the meetings are structured Our ordinary shares are listed in the UK on the London Stock Exchange.
In to allow open discussion.
All directors participate in discussing strategy, accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, we confirm trading and financial performance and risk management.
All substantive that throughout the year ended 31 March 2011 and at the date of this agenda items have comprehensive briefing material which is circulated one document we were compliant with the provisions of, and applied the week before the meeting.
principles of, Section 1 of the 2008 FRC Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The Combined Code can be found on The following table shows the number of years directors have been on the the FRC website www.
This corporate governance section, Board at 31 March 2011 and their attendance at scheduled Board meetings together with the Directors remuneration section on pages 62 to 73, they were eligible to attend during the year: provides detail of how we apply the principles and comply with the provisions of the Combined Code.
Years Meetings on Board attended The FRC issued the new UK Corporate Governance Code in 2010, applicable Sir John Bond 6 8 8 for financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
We will report on it for John Buchanan 8 8 8 the first time in our 2012 financial year and intend to be in compliance.
Vittorio Colao 4 8 8 Michel Combes 1 8 8 Corporate governance statement Andy Halford 5 8 8 Renee James since 1 January 2011 1 3 3 We comply with the corporate governance statement requirements Alan Jebson 4 7 8 pursuant to the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules by virtue of the Samuel Jonah 2 8 8 information included in this Corporate governance section of the annual Nick Land 4 8 8 report together with information contained in the Shareholder information Anne Lauvergeon 5 6 8 section on pages 132 to 138.
Simon Murray until 27 July 2010 2 2 Stephen Pusey 1 8 8 Board organisation and structure Luc Vandevelde 7 8 8 Anthony Watson 5 8 8 The role of the Board Philip Yea 5 8 8 The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and has the powers, authorities and duties vested in it by and pursuant to the relevant laws of England and Wales and the articles of association of the In addition to regular Board meetings, there are a number of other meetings Company.
The Board: to deal with specific matters.
Directors unable to attend a Board meeting because of another engagement are nevertheless provided with all the has final responsibility for the management, direction and performance information relevant for such meetings and are able to discuss issues arising of our businesses: in the meeting with the Chairman or the Chief Executive.
is required to exercise objective judgement on all corporate matters independent from executive management: Division of responsibilities is accountable to shareholders for the proper conduct of the business: and The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a is responsible for ensuring the effectiveness of and reporting on our division of responsibilities that is clearly established, set out in writing and system of corporate governance.
agreed by the Board to ensure that no one person has unfettered powers of decision.
The Chairman is responsible for the operation, leadership and The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for its decision and governance of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
these include: The Chief Executive is responsible for the management of the Groups business and the implementation of Board strategy and policy.
Group strategy and long-term plans: major capital projects, acquisitions or divestments: Board balance and independence annual budget and operating plan: Our Board consists of 15 directors, 13 of whom served throughout the year.
Group financial structure, including tax and treasury: At 31 March 2011, in addition to the Chairman, Sir John Bond, there were four annual and half-year financial results and shareholder communications: executive directors and nine non-executive directors.
Renee James and system of internal control and risk management: and Gerard Kleisterlee were appointed as non-executive directors with effect senior management structure, responsibilities and succession plans.
from 1 January 2011 and 1 April 2011 respectively.
Simon Murray was a member of the Board until his retirement at the annual general meeting The schedule is reviewed annually.
It was last formally reviewed in March AGM on 27 July 2010.
2011 at which time, it was determined that no amendments were required.
The Board welcomed the publication of the Davies Review on Women on Other specific responsibilities are delegated to Board committees which Boards in February 2011.
It is our aspiration to have a minimum of 25% operate within clearly defined terms of reference.
Details of the female representation on the Board by 2015.
Subject to securing suitable responsibilities delegated to the Board committees are given on pages 57 candidates, we intend to effect the changes required to the Boards and 58. composition by recruiting additional directors and or filling vacancies which arise when directors do not seek re-election, by appointing new directors who fit the skills criteria and gender balance which would meet the Boards aspirations.
The FRC is currently consulting on changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code which may result in the Code including a recommendation
