36 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Corporate governance report Introduction Board meetings The Board is committed to the principles of good governance In the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011, the Board met eight and good corporate governance is an integral part of the Boards times, with one meeting in Santiago, which combined visits to the stewardship obligations.
The Group constantly aims for best Weir Minerals sites in Chile and Brasil, one meeting at the Group practice in all matters and, by doing so, promotes the success conference in Perthshire, one held in London and the remainder of the business to the benefit of the shareholders.
held at the Companys head office in Glasgow.
There is regular contact outside formal meetings between the chairman, chief The Boards review of its effectiveness, conducted during the executive and the other directors.
period, considered its composition and skills and concluded that it has the right experience to address and respond to the The following table identifies the attendance record of individual challenges it faces.
directors at the eight board meetings held during 2011.
Corporate governance code Name Attendance The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code took effect from 29 June 2010, replacing the Combined Code Lord Smith 8 of 8 on Corporate Governance 2008 as the standard of good Keith Cochrane 8 of 8 governance practice in the UK.
The Financial Services Authority Michael Dearden 8 of 8 1 requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied Alan Ferguson 1 of 1 2 with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
Melanie Gee 5 of 5 The Board considers that the Company complied with the Stephen King 7 of 8 Richard Menell 7 of 8 Code for the whole of the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011.
Alan Mitchelson 8 of 8 In respect of Code provision B.
7.1 the Board decided in early John Mogford 8 of 8 2011 to adopt this provision and therefore all executive and Lord Robertson 8 of 8 non-executive directors retired and offered themselves for Jon Stanton 8 of 8 re-election commencing from the 2011 annual general meeting.
1 This section of the Annual Report along with the Remuneration Alan Ferguson joined the board on 13 December 2011.
2 report on pages 44 to 53 provide details of how the Company Melanie Gee joined the board on 4 May 2011. has applied the main principles of the Code during the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011.
Further information on the Code is Changes to the Board publicly available on the Financial Reporting Councils website Details of the current directors of the Company are set out on www.
Melanie Gee joined the Board on 4 May 2011 and Alan Ferguson on 13 December 2011.
The Board of directors The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for its Re-election of directors decision.
This schedule is reviewed regularly and includes In accordance with the Code, all directors submit themselves approval of: for annual re-election by shareholders.
Each new director may be appointed by the Board, but is subject to election by Environmental, health and safety and sustainability policies.
shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment.
Annual and half-year financial results, interim management Any non-executive director who has served on the Board for statements and trading updates.
more than six years is subject to a particularly rigorous review.
Group strategy and the annual operating budget.
Changes to the Groups management and control structure.
Major capital expenditure, acquisitions and disposals.
Risk management strategy and the system of internal control.
37 Board information and development Board balance and independence On joining the Board, directors are provided with documentation As at 30 December 2011, the Board comprises the chairman, on the Group and its activities.
New directors are provided with chief executive, finance director, legal and commercial director an appropriate induction programme and, where appropriate, and seven non-executive directors.
Michael Dearden is the site visits are arranged to major business units.
Ongoing training senior independent director.
Lord Robertson will replace Michael is provided as necessary.
Dearden as senior independent director following his retirement from the board after the annual general meeting in 2012.
All directors are provided with updates on corporate governance developments, legislative and regulatory changes and relevant There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent industry and technical information.
professional advice, where appropriate, on any matter at the Companys expense.
The company secretary is responsible for The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate ensuring that board procedures are followed and all directors information to enable it to discharge its duties and any further have direct access to the advice and services of the company back-up papers and information are readily available to all secretary.
The company secretary is also responsible for directors on request to the company secretary.
The chairman facilitating the induction and professional development of ensures that non-executive directors are properly briefed on the board members and information flows within the Board, any issues arising at board meetings and non-executive its committees and between the non-executive directors directors have access to the chairman at any time.
Review of board effectiveness All directors bring their own independent judgement to major Our 2011 review of board effectiveness was led by an matters affecting the Group.
Each of the non-executive directors independent third party who undertook interviews with the is considered by the Company to be independent.
chairman, each of the directors and the external auditors, in addition, an assessment of the chairmans performance was None of the non-executive directors has any material business carried out by the senior independent director.
Feedback was or other relationship with the Company or its management.
sought on the operation of the principal board committees Each member of the Board has considerable experience at a and on the contributions of individual directors.
senior level in other companies, which allows for well informed and broad based debate.
The board structure ensures that no The review considered the effectiveness of leadership, individual or group dominates the decision-making process.
governance arrangements and management practices in a number of areas including: There is a division of responsibilities between the chairman, who is responsible for leading and running the Board and related Board constitution including the mix of skills, knowledge matters, and the chief executive, who has executive responsibility and experience.
for running the Groups business and developing the appropriate organisational structure for a global organisation.
The chief Relationships between the Board, committees and executive chairs the Group Executive Committee.
Responsibilities, delegated authorities and reporting lines.
The executive directors have contracts of service with one years notice, whilst non-executive directors appointments can Succession planning, induction and training.
be terminated at any time with six months notice.
The letters of appointment of the chairman and the non-executive directors, Communication with shareholders.
which are available for inspection at the Companys registered The review concluded that there was an effective Board led by office, set out the required commitment to the Company.
A number of detailed recommendations will Details of the directors service contracts, remuneration and be followed up by the chairman.
interests in share awards are set out in the Remuneration report on pages 44 to 53.
38 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Corporate governance report continued Directors conflicts of interests Notice of the annual general meeting is sent to shareholders Each director has a duty under the Companies Act 2006 at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Company the 2006 Act to avoid a situation where he has, or can have, conducts the vote at the annual general meeting by electronic a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, poll and the result of the votes including proxies is published with the Companys interests.
The Company has adopted a on the Companys website after the annual general meeting.
formal procedure for the disclosure, review, authorisation and Electronic proxy voting, details of which are included in the management of directors conflicts of interest and potential notice of the 2012 annual general meeting, is available.
Voting conflicts of interest in accordance with these provisions.
The participation at the annual general meetings in 2009, 2010 and procedure requires directors formally to notify the Board, via the 2011 was 64%, 63% and 67% respectively.
company secretary, as soon as they become aware of any actual Communications or potential conflict of interest with their duties to the Company The Board considers that the annual report and financial or of any material change in existing or potential conflicts that statements and interim statements present a balanced and may have been authorised by the Board.
The Board continues understandable assessment of the Groups performance and to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular prospects.
The Group frequently publicises other business basis.
A register is maintained of all such disclosures and the developments through the specialised trade press and its terms of any such authorisation.
own internal bulletins, which have wide circulation, and through Directors indemnities the news section on both the divisional and Company websites.
The Company has granted indemnities to each of its directors During 2011, the Group produced a corporate brochure in respect of all losses arising out of or in connection with the which is available on the Group website at www.
execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities as directors The website also provides additional company information, is to the extent permitted by the 2006 Act and the Companys regularly updated and includes the presentations to shareholders articles of association.
In addition, directors and officers of given at the announcements of the full year and interim results.
the Company and its subsidiaries and trustees of its pension The website also contains an online version of the notice of schemes are covered by directors & officers liability insurance.
the annual general meeting, the annual report and financial statements and the interim report.
Shareholders The Company is committed to a process of continual dialogue Board committees with its shareholders.
This dialogue is taken forward by the Where appropriate, matters are delegated to board committees, Groups investor relations programme and includes regular all of which have written terms of reference which are available update meetings and presentations with major shareholders and on the Companys website.
The company secretary acts as industry analysts.
Feedback from these presentations, which is secretary to all these committees.
reported to the Board, gives investors an opportunity to comment Group Executive Committee on the quality of the communications they receive in their contact The Group Executive Committee comprises the chief executive, with the chief executive and finance director.
Attendees at finance director, legal and commercial director whose the results presentations include the chairman, the executive biographies are on pages 30 and 31, three divisional managing directors, the senior independent director and a number of directors, the director of operations support and development the non-executive directors.
The Company also encourages and HR director whose details are set out below: communication with private shareholders throughout the year and welcomes their participation at shareholder meetings.
In Dean Jenkins 40 was appointed the Power & Industrial addition to the chairmans statement at the annual general Divisional Managing Director on 1 January 2011 and is based in meeting, a trading update to shareholders is given and details East Kilbride, UK.
He previously worked for Qantas Airlines and of the Companys trading activities are on display.
The directors the Australian listed infrastructure services company UGL Ltd, attend the annual general meeting and the chairmen of the Audit, most recently as Chief Executive of the latters Rail Division.
Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The date of the key publications in 2012 can be found on the Companys website.
39 Steve Noon 47 is the Oil & Gas Divisional Managing Director General Administration Committee based in Fort Worth, USA.
Steve has worked with several multiThe principal duties of the General Administration Committee nationals including Schefenacker Vision Systems, James Hardie are to allot shares under the Group Long Term Incentive Plan Industries and The Toro Company.
Before joining the Group in and other matters of a routine nature.
This Committee comprises 2007, he held the position of president of Schefenacker Vision the executive members of the Board and meets as required.
Remuneration Committee Scot Smith 48 is the Minerals Divisional Managing Director The chairman of the Committee is Michael Dearden.
The other based in Madison, USA.
Prior to joining the Group in 2001, members of the Committee are Lord Robertson, John Mogford Scot spent 18 years in the automotive industry with companies until 29 July 2011 and Richard Menell from 29 July 2011. such as Van Dresser Corporation, General Motors and Britax.
Melanie Gee will become a member of the Committee and Within Britax, Scot held a number of positions including Committee chairman following the annual general meeting.
marketing director, managing director of Britax Geco and The secretary to the Committee is Alan Mitchelson.
latterly regional managing director for the Americas.
The Committee consists exclusively of non-executive directors Pauline Lafferty 46 is the Director of Human Resources based at who are independent of management and free from any business the Groups Head Office.
Before joining the Group in July 2011, or other relationship which could materially interfere with the Pauline spent 13 years in executive search with Miles Partnership exercise of their independent judgement.
No member of the and Russell Reynolds Associates in the UK and Australia.
Prior Committee has any personal financial interest, other than as to this, Pauline held business planning and operational roles for a shareholder, in the matters decided by the Committee.
11 years with Motorola and Digital Equipment Corporation DEC The minutes of each meeting are circulated to the Board.
in Scotland, Australia and Hong Kong, ultimately becoming Asia Pacific Director of Supply for DEC.
The responsibilities of the Committee are as follows: Gavin Nicol 51 is the Director of Operations Support & To determine the policy on the remuneration and performance Development based at the Groups Head Office.
Before joining of executive directors of the Company.
the Group Executive in July 2011, he was President of Weir SPM To determine the conditions of employment, including levels of for two years, based in Fort Worth, Texas.
Gavin joined Weir in salary, pension arrangements, bonuses and share awards of 2005 and was managing director of the Weir Pumps business the members of the Group Executive Committee.
Before joining Weir, Gavin worked for a number of multinationals including the Terex Corporation, To determine targets for any performance-related pay PWC and Coats Viyella.
In the 52 weeks ended 30 December 2011, the Group Executive To recommend to the Board the remuneration of the chairman Committee met 12 times.
The Group Executive Committee is responsible for ensuring that The Committee is constituted and operated throughout each of the Groups businesses is managed effectively and that 2011 in accordance with the relevant provisions of the Code.
the key performance indicators of the Group, as approved by the The Committees terms of reference can be found on the Board, are achieved.
The Committees role includes the preparation of the Group The Committee met five times in 2011.
The following table budget for approval by the Board, management of business identifies the attendance record of individual directors at the performance to achieve the Group budget, establishing and Committee meetings held during 2011. maintaining reporting systems which provide clear and consistent information on all aspects of business performance, managing Name Attendance and minimising corporate risk and ensuring that the necessary mechanisms are in place to achieve effective inter-divisional Michael Dearden chairman 5 of 5 coordination in areas such as purchasing, branding and career John Mogford 3 of 3 development planning.
It also approves major items of capital Lord Robertson 5 of 5 expenditure within limits authorised by the Board.
Richard Menell 1 of 2 40 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee Audit Committee The members of the Committee during 2011 were Lord The chairman of the Committee is Stephen King.
During 2011, Smith chairman, Keith Cochrane, Michael Dearden and Lord the other members of the Committee were Melanie Gee from Robertson.
Alan Mitchelson acts as secretary to the Committee.
Richard Menell served on the The Committee meets at least twice a year and at other times Committee until 4 May 2011.
Alan Ferguson was appointed when necessary and in 2011 met four times.
The following table to the Committee on 13 December 2011.
The secretary to the identifies the attendance record of individual directors at the Committee is Alan Mitchelson.
In addition, the chairman, chief Committee meetings held during 2011. executive, finance director, head of internal audit and external auditors attend each meeting.
The head of internal audit and external auditors also have access to the chairman of the Name Attendance Committee outside formal Committee meetings.
Lord Smith chairman 4 of 4 The Board is satisfied that Stephen King has recent and relevant Keith Cochrane 4 of 4 financial experience.
As previously announced, Alan Ferguson Michael Dearden 4 of 4 will take over from Stephen King as chairman of the Committee.
Lord Robertson 4 of 4 The Board is satisfied that Alan Ferguson has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee has the ability to call on Group employees to The Committee uses external search consultants to assist it in assist in its work and also has access to independent advice.
The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for The Committee primarily monitors the composition and balance overseeing the financial reporting and internal risk management of the Board and its committees and identifies and recommends control functions and for making recommendations to the Board to the Board the appointment of new directors.
During the year, in relation to the appointment of the Groups external auditors.
following discussion of the recommendations of the Lord Davies The Committees terms of reference can be found on the report on boardroom diversity, the Committee determined not Companys website.
to set a specific female Board member quota.
All appointments to the Board will continue to be based on the diversity of The Committee is charged with responsibility to the Board contribution, experience and required skills, irrespective for satisfying itself, on behalf of the Board as a whole, that of gender.
the financial affairs of the Group are conducted with openness, integrity and accountability and in accordance with such existing The Committees terms of reference establish a framework statutory and regulatory provisions and codes as are applicable through which it can operate to ensure the selection process to the Group and to report on these matters to the Board.
of Board candidates is conducted in a formal, disciplined and objective manner.
When considering candidates, the Committee Its duties are to: evaluates the balance in skills, knowledge and experience of the Consider the appointment, resignation or dismissal of the Board and prepares a description of the role and capabilities auditors and the level of audit fee.
required for the particular appointment.
The Committee also reviews the succession planning and leadership needs of the Discuss with the auditors the nature and scope of the audit.
organisation and ensures that, on appointment, all directors receive a formal contract or letter of appointment as appropriate.
Review the draft interim and annual financial statements before The Committees terms of reference are available on the submission to the Board for approval.
Discuss any problems and reservations arising from the annual audit and any matters the auditors may wish to raise.
Discuss with the auditors the Groups system of internal financial controls and any recommendations for improvement.
Consider the findings of internal investigations and managements response.
Oversee the implementation of systems for financial control and risk management.
Pre-approve non-audit services provided by the auditor.
Review the internal audit programme and its implementation.
Receive and review internal audit reports.
41 The Committee also reviews the guidance issued by bodies During 2011, the Committee conducted an in depth review of such as the Financial Reporting Council into the work of audit the performance of the external auditors with a scope that went committees and incorporates any recommendations into its beyond the regular effectiveness review.
The review considered, working practices.
inter alia, the team, the scope of the audit and overall value for money provided.
The review identified improvement areas which There were four meetings in 2011, in January, March, July have been addressed by the external auditors and accordingly and September.
The following table identifies the attendance it was not considered necessary to conduct a broader tender record of individual directors at the Committee meetings held process.
In accordance with applicable ethical and professional during 2011. standards the external auditors are required to periodically rotate partners at a Group, divisional or country level in order Name Attendance to maintain their independence and objectivity with the lead partner required to rotate every five years.
Such changes are Stephen King chairman 4 of 4 carefully planned to ensure the Company benefits from continuity Richard Menell 2 of 2 of staffing without incurring undue risk or inefficiency.
The John Mogford 4 of 4 Annual Report 2011 is the final signing year for the incumbent Melanie Gee 2 of 2 lead partner and during the year the Committee has reviewed the process to select the new lead partner culminating in the approval of the appointment for the next five years from 2012.
Having carried out the review described above and having The Committee maintains a formal calendar of items for satisfied itself that the external auditors remain independent consideration at its meetings and within the annual audit cycle to and effective, the Committee recommended to the Board that ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of the Code.
Ernst & Young LLP be re-appointed as the Companys external During the March meeting, the Committee undertook a full review auditor for 2012.
There are no contractual obligations restricting of the audit with the Groups auditors.
the Groups choice of external auditors and the Committee also In the course of 2011, the Committee discussed the following keeps under review the value for money of the audit.
matters: Non-audit fee work conducted by Ernst & Young LLP over the The annual report and financial statements, the half year report past year for assurance services amounted to 14% of the total and interim management statements, any significant audit fees including audit fees.
The Committee considers that the issues, accounting policies and financial reporting issues and level and nature of non-audit work does not compromise the judgements identified by the finance director and the auditors.
independence of the external auditors.
The annual report disclosures relevant to the Committee, The minutes of each meeting are circulated to the Board.
including the going concern statement and the reports on The Committees terms of reference can be found on the risk management and internal control.
The internal audit scope and approach for 2011.
The Committee maintains a policy on the appointment and role of the auditors.
This includes guidelines on their appointment The Group accounting policies.
which is subject to regular review and on their ongoing work The findings of internal audit reviews.
to ensure that the independence of the Groups auditors is not threatened, particularly by the provision of non-audit services.
The Groups risk process and the results of the compliance scorecard.
Prior approval of the Committee is required where the expected cost of non-audit services provided by the appointed external The fees for Ernst & Young LLP for 2011. auditors is in excess of 75,000.
The anti-bribery and corruption assurance framework.
The day-to-day implementation of the Committees policies The audit strategy for year end 2011 audit.
is delegated to the finance director who in turn monitors each of the Groups subsidiaries to ensure that all engagements The fraud and error guidelines contained in ISA240.
fall within the Committees guidelines.
Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP in respect of audit and assurance services of 1.8m 2010: 1.6m in respect of 2011 were approved by the Committee.
42 The Weir Group PLC Annual Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors report Corporate governance report continued Code of Conduct To support this approach the Group operates a rigorous and The Weir Code of Conduct was launched on the Groups global transparent risk management framework which promotes the Intranet and the companys website at the end of December use of quality risk information in the development of strategy 2010.
The Code of Conduct sets out the Groups commitment and decision making.
to doing business at all times in an ethical and transparent The Weir Group risk management framework provides guidance manner and explains in practical terms the behaviours and and focus across the organisation and facilitates the embedding values expected from all Group employees and how they of risk management practices and culture.
The company can raise concerns or ask questions.
managing directors are responsible for the day-to-day control The Code of Conduct is supported by: of risk management within their individual companies.
The Group divisional managing directors are ultimately responsible for risk A hotline which is available to all employees to report any management throughout their divisions and ensuring that they concerns or apparent breaches of the Code of Conduct.
comply with the Groups corporate risk appetite.
The Groups This is a confidential service run by an independent provider.
risk and control manager is responsible for the co-ordination for all risk activities within the Group.
Each division will assist the Online training modules provide an introduction to the Code risk and control manager in the flow of risk information and the of Conduct and practical scenarios that may be faced by active monitoring of the risk management process within their employees in their day to day work.
A training module on anti-bribery and corruption which is mandatory for employees in high risk territories.
In the first instance, each Group operating company and business identifies all key risks that might reduce the ability Further training in the form of local Town Hall meetings for of that operating company to achieve its business objectives.
As part of this process, the operating companies prepare a report identifying the relative probability and severity of the risks The Board and Group Executive Committee regularly review identified, the process for managing and mitigating these risks performance against the Code of Conduct.
More information and the means by which management might be assured that the can be found in the Sustainability report on pages 67 to 68. processes are effective.
This risk assessment process and the Internal control accompanying action plans are identified on a risk dashboard In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on internal control, for their respective business.
These are reported through the the Board ensures that there is an ongoing process for divisions to the Group Executive Committee on a monthly basis.
identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by Group companies.
This process has been in place throughout Finally, a Group-wide risk dashboard is prepared, which identifies 2011 and up until the date of this report, applying to all Group the key divisional and Group risks.
The Group risk dashboard is companies but not the Groups joint ventures.
The directors have considered and adopted by the Board which is responsible for overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control the risk management strategy.
and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board delegates to The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than executive management the responsibility for designing, operating eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and and monitoring both the system and the maintenance of effective can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against internal control in each of the businesses which comprise the material misstatement or loss.
In addition, each operating company is responsible for the operation of key internal controls and to formally assess the The principal risks and uncertainties identified by the Group effectiveness of the internal control environment through the risk dashboard and how they are managed or mitigated are submission, twice yearly, of the Group compliance scorecard.
An internal audit function is in place to review and challenge the The Board has monitored the effectiveness of the Groups effectiveness of key internal controls and to suggest relevant system of internal control during the financial year.
This is refined actions to address potential weaknesses.
The internal audit as necessary to meet changes in the Groups business and review programme is based on a risk based approach that helps associated risks.
to prioritise resource upon the areas of perceived greatest risk to Regular performance reports are provided to the executive the Group.
This process is supplemented by a number of peer directors, the Audit Committee and the Board, as appropriate.
reviews that seek to further monitor and evaluate the process Where weaknesses are identified, plans and timetables for of internal control and share best practice around the Group.
addressing them are also reported.
Internal audit and peer review reports are reviewed by the Audit Committee which considers and determines relevant action in respect of any control issues raised.
43 In addition to the Group risk and control framework, other Each of the directors, as at the date of this report, confirms to procedures which are fundamental to the Groups system of the best of his knowledge that: internal control are as follows: The financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, A clearly defined organisational structure within which individual liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group.
responsibilities are identified and monitored.
The directors report includes a fair review of the development A Group compliance scorecard which records compliance and performance of the business and the position of the with policies and procedures.
Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Policies and procedures manuals which are in place and communicated to all Group operating companies through the The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting Global Intranet.
The managing directors are responsible for records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time ensuring that each company observes and implements these the financial position of the Group and enable them to ensure policies and procedures, which are continuously reviewed that the Group financial statements comply with the 2006 Act and updated.
and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and hence for taking A comprehensive annual planning and financial reporting reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and system incorporating consolidated management accounts, other irregularities.
which compares results with forecast and the previous year on a monthly and cumulative basis.
Management information Going concern systems provide directors with relevant and timely reports that The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has identify significant variations from approved forecasts, and adequate resources to continue to operate for the foreseeable revised forecasts for the financial year are produced four future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern times a year.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
In forming this view, the directors have reviewed the Groups budgets, plans and The Groups internal control procedures described in this section cash flow forecasts, including market downturn sensitivities.
have not been extended to cover its interests in joint ventures.
In addition, the directors have considered the potential impact The Group has board representation on each of its joint venture of credit risk and liquidity risk detailed in note 30 to the Group companies where separate systems of internal control have financial statements on pages 113 to 121.
Each of these items been adopted.
has been considered in relation to the Groups banking facilities described on page 101.
Directors statement of responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report Audit and auditors and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law So far as each of the directors is aware, there is no relevant audit and regulations.
information as defined by section 481 of the 2006 Act of which Company law requires the directors to prepare financial the Companys auditors are unaware.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law, the directors Each of the directors has taken all of the steps that he ought to have prepared the Group financial statements in accordance with have taken as a director to make himself aware of any relevant International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors by the European Union and the Company financial statements in are aware of that information.
accordance with UK Accounting Standards and applicable law.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: Alan Mitchelson Secretary Select suitable accounting policies and then apply Signed and approved for and on behalf of the Board them consistently.
29 February 2012 Make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
State that the Group financial statements have complied with IFRS as adopted by the European Union, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
State for the Company financial statements whether the applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures being disclosed and explained.
The directors confirm that they have complied with the above requirements in preparing the financial statements.
