Corporate governance report Whitbread is committed to developed, partly in order to align How important is the role of the maintaining high standards of the Company's policies with the non-executive directors?
corporate governance to enhance new UK Bribery Act, and will be The non-executive directors play performance and for the protection briefed to employees.
a very important role on the of its shareholders.
It is about Whitbread Board in giving the ensuring that the Company is The Board benefit of their experience and managed with integrity and Who is on the Board of directors?
knowledge and by constructively transparency.
The new UK Corporate The Board currently comprises the challenging the Whitbread Governance Code the 2010 Code Chairman, three executive directors executive team.
came into force during the year, but and five independent non-executive only applies to accounting periods directors, one of whom has been In particular, Whitbreads nonbeginning on or after 29 June 2010. appointed Senior Independent executive directors add great For Whitbreads 2010 11 financial Director.
Biographies of each of the value in the following areas: year the 2008 Combined Code on directors are set out on pages 20 Strategy constructively Corporate Governance the 2008 and 21 of the Annual Report.
We challenging and helping to Code still applied and the Company believe that the balance of skills develop proposals on strategy: is required to make a compliance and experience on the Board is Performance scrutinising the statement in respect of the 2008 appropriate for the requirements performance of management Code in this report.
Simon Barratt, of the Company.
in meeting agreed goals and General Counsel, explains below how objectives and monitoring the the main and supporting principles Is there clarity between the roles of reporting of performance: and of the 2008 Code which is available the Chairman and Chief Executive?
Risk being satisfied through the at www.
uk were applied The roles of Chairman and Chief activity of the Audit Committee, during the year and also provides Executive are separate, with the Finance Director and the an update on how the Company responsibilities clearly divided executive team that appropriate will amend some of its governance between them.
processes are in place for processes to reflect the 2010 Code.
producing the appropriate The Chairman is responsible for: financial information, and Did Whitbread comply with leadership of the Board and assessing the financial controls the 2008 Code?
setting its agenda: and systems of risk management.
During the year the Company ensuring, through the General complied with all provisions set Counsel, that the members of the What is the role of the Senior out in Section 1 of the 2008 Code.
Board receive accurate, timely and Independent Director?
clear information and that there is Stephen Williams, as the Senior Details of how Whitbread has a good flow of information: Independent Director, is available to applied the main and supporting working with the Chief Executive shareholders if they have concerns principles of the 2008 Code with to ensure effective communication which the normal channels have regard to remuneration can be with shareholders: failed to resolve or which would found in the remuneration report on ensuring a culture of openness and be inappropriate to raise with the pages 31 to 34.
In addition, details of debate around the Board table: Chairman or the executive team.
the membership and activities of the managing the Board to ensure He also: Remuneration Committee can be that sufficient time is allowed for leads the evaluation of the found on page 29. the discussion of complex Chairman on behalf of the other or contentious issues: directors: How did the Board satisfy ensuring that the directors provides support to the Chairman itself of the adequacy of continually update their in the delivery of his objectives: its governance procedures?
knowledge and capabilities: provides a sounding board for the The General Counsel prepared ensuring that the members of the Chairman: and a full report to the Board on Board develop an understanding of is available to serve as an the Companys governance the views of the major investors: and intermediary for the other arrangements.
This was considered the annual evaluation of the directors if necessary.
at the January Board meeting performance of the Board and where it was concluded that the its committees and implementing How does the Board demonstrate Company had been fully compliant the action required following independence?
with the 2008 Code during the year.
The Board is committed to In addition, the Company takes the ensuring a majority of directors are view that corporate governance The Chief Executive is responsible for: independent.
The non-executive is not a matter for the Board or recommending the strategic directors all act in an independent its committees alone in behaving direction of the Company: manner at meetings in providing and working in the right way.
The overseeing the day-to-day constructive challenge.
Additionally, Code of Ethics covers dealings with management of the Company: both the 2008 and 2010 Codes list a customers, suppliers and government the line management of senior number of circumstances that might officials: safeguarding the Companys executives: call the independence of a director assets: keeping accurate and reliable the activities of the Whitbread into question and the Board is records: and avoiding conflicts of Directors Forum a group of satisfied that no such circumstances interest.
Its principal message is the Companys most senior exist for any of the Companys nonthat all employees must behave executives: and executive directors.
None of the with honesty and integrity.
A new ensuring effective communication current non-executive directors have Global Code of Conduct is being with shareholders and employees.
served for longer than nine years.
26 In line with the 2010 Code all Directors are required to notify every three years.
The Board is directors will be subject to annual the General Counsel of any new considering the manner in which re-election from this year onwards.
conflicts or potential conflicts as it will respond to this provision.
and when they arise during the How does the Board operate?
These are then considered How are directors kept up to date The Board holds meetings and approved by the Board, if with new developments?
regularly and for specific purposes, as appropriate, at the next meeting.
The monthly Secretariat report and when required.
During the year All authorisations are for a period gives updates to directors on there were eleven Board meetings.
of twelve months and an annual relevant corporate legislation, such Attendance by directors at Board process is in place for the Board to as the Bribery Act, and specific meetings and Board committees review all notifications and approve sessions are arranged at Board is set out in the table on page 29. them for a further twelve months.
meetings on topics such as health Before each Board meeting directors In authorising a conflict or potential and safety and pensions.
During are given timely and appropriate conflict, the Board considers the year directors attended training information, including monthly whether the matter being approved courses and seminars, or received financial and trading reports.
would affect the directors ability tailored training, on a number of to act in accordance with his her relevant issues including: There is a schedule of matters duties to the Company.
No director company law: which are dealt with exclusively by is counted as part of a quorum board practice: the Board.
These include approval in respect of the authorisation of audit committees: of financial statements and the his her own conflict situation.
It remuneration committees: preliminary announcement of the half is recognised that all companies health and safety: and full-year results, changes relating organisations are potential role of the Chairman: to the Groups capital structure, customers of Whitbread and the stewardship code: the Group business plan, the Group Board has authorised all directors challenge of leadership: budget, material investments or current external directorships on corporate responsibility: disposals, fundamental changes that basis.
pensions: and to the internal control system and board responsibility.
maintaining sound risk management How does the Board review The Board receives regular and internal control systems.
investor relations reports, which During the year the performance include share price performance, What were the Boards key of the Board, and individual movements in institutional holdings activities during the year?
directors contributions to the and the reaction of investors to During the year, among other Board, are appraised by the the communications programme.
This year each director The Board is also informed of legal reviewed and agreed the Groups completed a formal questionnaire and corporate governance updates business plans and strategy: on the Boards performance and and best practice.
set the budget for the year: the Chairman met or spoke to each reviewed the operational and director on a one to one basis.
financial performance of the The performance of the Boards businesses: committees was also reviewed oversaw the orderly succession of during the year.
Chief Executive: reviewed the funding policy and The results of the review were agreed the US private placement: discussed by the Board and approved the acquisition of appropriate action plans were Coffee Nation: and agreed.
There was a consistently reviewed the YOUR SAY positive response from directors engagement results.
on the effectiveness of the Board and its committees.
As a result of What is the Boards policy and the review a number of actions procedure for identifying and will be taken including giving considering directors conflicts greater opportunity for the nonof interest?
executive members of the Board The Companies Act 2006 provisions to visit Whitbread outlets, and the relating to the duty of directors to introduction of an updated rolling avoid conflicts of interest came into Board meeting agenda.
In August 2008 the directors completed a The performance of the Chairman questionnaire to determine whether is evaluated during the year by any conflicts or potential conflicts the Senior Independent Director required authorisation by the who reviews the Chairmans Board.
The conflicts and potential performance with each of the conflicts disclosed by directors directors and discusses the results were considered and authorised by with the Chairman.
the Board at the following Board meeting.
Any new directors joining A provision of the 2010 Code states the Board are required to complete that evaluation of the Board should the same questionnaire.
be externally facilitated at least 27 Corporate governance report Internal control the Code of Ethics, which is Board committees Does the Company maintain communicated to employees: What committees does the adequate systems of internal the operational audit team which Board have?
has been outsourced to PwC The Company has an Audit The Board is responsible for the activity, which reports on the Committee, a Nomination Committee Groups systems of internal control effectiveness of operational and and a Remuneration Committee.
The and risk management, and for financial controls across the Group: committees operate within defined reviewing their effectiveness.
These and terms of reference, copies of which systems are designed to manage the Audit Committee regularly can be found on the Companys rather than eliminate risk of failure reviews the major findings from website: www.
They both operational and external can only provide reasonable, and audit.
Audit Committee not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Management and specialists Members of Committee: within the finance department Simon Melliss Chairman The Board has established an are responsible for ensuring the ongoing process for identifying, appropriate maintenance of financial Richard Baker evaluating and managing the records and processes that ensure Wendy Becker Groups significant risks.
This all financial information is relevant, process was in place throughout reliable, in accordance with the the 2010 11 financial year and up applicable laws and regulations, The Audit Committee comprises to the date of this report.
The and distributed both internally three non-executive directors under process is regularly reviewed by the and externally in a timely manner.
the chairmanship of Simon Melliss, Board and accords with the internal A review of the consolidation and who is Chief Financial Officer of control guidance for directors in financial statements is completed Hammerson plc, and has recent the Combined Code.
A report of by management to ensure that the and relevant financial experience.
the key risks can be found on financial position and results of the pages 18 and 19.
The role of the Committee is All financial information published to assist the Board in fulfilling Key elements of the Groups risk by the Group is subject to the its corporate governance and management and internal control approval of the Audit Committee.
oversight responsibilities by: system include: monitoring, reviewing and the formulation, evaluation and The Board, acting through the Audit reporting to the Board on annual approval by the Board Committee, has directed the work the integrity of the financial of business plans and budgets.
of PwCs operational audit team to statements, the effectiveness of Actual results are reported a rolling risk based audit agenda.
the Groups risk management monthly against budget and the The Committee approves a rolling system and internal controls, previous years figures.
Key risks audit programme, ensuring that all the scope, objectivity and are identified and action plans significant areas of the business effectiveness of the operational prepared accordingly: are independently reviewed within auditors, the independence, the production by each business at least a three year period.
The objectivity and effectiveness of the of a risks and controls matrix, programme and findings of the external auditors, and any matters covering major risks and plans reviews are continually assessed in respect of which it considers which are considered regularly to ensure they take account of that action or improvement is by the management boards the latest information and, in needed in this context and making and form the basis of the Group particular, the results of the annual recommendations as to the steps risks matrix considered by the review of internal controls.
The to be taken: Audit Committee: effectiveness of the operational developing and implementing a regular review by the Board of audit team is reviewed annually by policy on the engagement of the changes in the major risks facing the Committee.
The Committee external auditor to supply nonthe Group and development of considers the principal risks audit services: and appropriate action plans: identified by the risk management making recommendations to the consideration of risks and process which are also considered the Board, for it to be put to the appropriate action plans, when by the main and management shareholders for their approval appraising and approving all boards throughout the year.
in general meeting, in relation to major capital and revenue projects the appointment of the external and change programmes.
A post An annual review of internal controls auditors, and approving the completion review of each major is undertaken by the Board with the remuneration and terms of their project is undertaken: assistance of the Audit Committee, engagement.
financial policies, controls and which reports to the March Board procedures manuals, which are meeting.
regularly reviewed and updated: the limits of authority, which are prescribed for employees.
Whitbreads organisational structure allows the appropriate segregation of tasks: 28 Audit Nomination Remuneration The Committee generally holds 7 Board Committee Committee Committee three meetings in a year.
In October and April each year the Number of meetings 11 3 5 8 Committee considers the half in the financial year and full-year financial statements Anthony Habgood 11 5 8 respectively.
As part of that process the management team present 1 Andy Harrison 6 the statements to the Committee Patrick Dempsey 11 with the external auditors Ernst & Young and operational auditors Christopher Rogers 11 PwC present.
Ernst & Young 2 Alan Parker 7 3 present a paper on the audit review process and the main points of 3 Richard Baker 11 3 1 discussion that have arisen.
PwC Wendy Becker 11 3 1 7 report on the internal audits carried out in the respective periods.
4 Ian Cheshire 1 1 5 Simon Melliss 11 3 3 In March each year the Committee considers, in detail, internal control Stephen Williams 11 5 8 processes including treasury, tax 6 Philip Clarke 8 1 7 and retail audit reports along with a Group risk analysis.
Members of the executive team attended commitee meetings as appropriate.
The performance of the external and operational audits are 1 Andy Harrison was appointed as a director on 1 September 2010.
Six Board meetings considered each year along were held after that date.
with the effectiveness of the 2 Alan Parker retired on 30 November 2010.
Eight Board meetings and four Nomination Committee itself.
The Committee Committee meetings were held up to that date.
3 Richard Baker was appointed to the Remuneration Committee since the year end.
also meets with both the external 4 Ian Cheshire was appointed to the Board on 1 February 2011.
One Board meeting and operational auditors without and one Remuneration Committee meeting was held after that date.
the executive team being present.
5 Simon Melliss was appointed as member of the Nomination Committee on 22 April 2010.
Terms of reference are reviewed Two Nomination Committee meetings were held after that date and he attended one annually.
Chief Executive Succession Committee meeting prior to that date.
6 Philip Clarke resigned as director on 1 March 2011.
Ten Board meetings and seven During the year the Audit Remuneration Committee meetings were held up to that date.
Committee engaged in a full review 7 Number of meetings includes one Chief Executive Succession Committee meeting.
of the provision of external audit This was the meeting attended by Richard Baker, Wendy Becker and Philip Clarke.
services, where other audit firms were given the opportunity to tender.
Following presentations from determining the remuneration of size and composition of the Board each bidding firm it was agreed that the executive directors and the and makes recommendations to the Ernst & Young would continue to be Chairman, approving the executive Board with regard to any potential the Companys auditor.
incentive schemes and monitoring appointments.
Before making the remuneration of other senior recommendations an evaluation Remuneration Committee executives.
Full details of the of the skills and experience on the Committees work are set out in Board is made and a description Members of Committee: the remuneration report on pages of the role and capabilities 31 to 34. required is prepared.
During Ian Cheshire Chairman the current year the Committee Richard Baker Nomination Committee recommended the appointment of Ian Cheshire having appointed Wendy Becker Members of Committee: an external search consultancy.
Anthony Habgood The appointment followed the Anthony Habgood Chairman decision of Philip Clarke to step Stephen Williams Simon Melliss down from the Board as a result of his appointment as Chief Executive Stephen Williams The Remuneration Committee of Tesco.
Ian Cheshire is a serving comprises four non-executive Chief Executive of a large successful directors and the Company The Nomination Committee international consumer-facing Chairman under the chairmanship comprises two non-executive business, and is able to provide of Ian Cheshire who is Group Chief directors and the Company Whitbread with valuable advice and Executive of Kingfisher plc.
Ian Chairman, who also chairs the support as we grow both in the UK replaced Philip Clarke as Chairman Committee.
of the Committee on 1 March 2011.
The Nomination Committee is In addition the Committee reviews The Remuneration Committees responsible for succession planning the composition of the Audit and role is to assist the Board in and regularly reviews the structure, Remuneration Committees.
29 Corporate governance report Shareholder relations How does the Company interact Any shareholder may contact the with private investors?
Chairman or, if appropriate, the Annual and interim results Senior Independent Director to presentations are webcast live so raise any issue, including those that all shareholders can receive relating to strategy and governance.
the same information at the same Alternatively, shareholders may time.
The Company has taken raise any such issues with one or advantage of the provisions in the all of the non-executive directors Companies Act 2006, which allows of the Company.
The General communication to be made with Counsel can facilitate any such shareholders electronically unless communication if requested.
they have requested hard copy documentation.
The Companys Recent topics of interest to investors website provides comprehensive have been the new Chief Executives information for private shareholders, strategic plans, the development with the Annual Report and of dynamic pricing in Premier Inn, Accounts, trading statements, expansion plans for the businesses, interim management statements including internationally and the and public announcements all being impact of continuing cost inflation.
How does the Company interact The Board recognises the with institutional investors?
importance of two-way Institutional shareholders, fund communication with the Companys managers and analysts are shareholders and believes the briefed at regular meetings and Annual General Meeting provides presentations.
Following the full a forum for the Board to inform year and interim results in April shareholders about how the and October respectively, the Company has performed during Chief Executive and the Finance the year.
Private shareholders have Director have meetings with the opportunity to put questions institutional investors.
The Chairman to the Board at the AGM and at all also had meetings with a number other times by emailing or writing of the largest shareholders in to the Company.
Wherever possible, the Company during the year.
all directors attend the AGM.
At Andy Harrison met a number the 2011 AGM, all voting will be of shareholders when he joined on a poll.
Electronic handsets will the Company to get a good be utilised and voting results will understanding of their views.
be displayed on a screen at the meeting.
In addition, the audited At the annual Board strategy poll results will be disclosed on meeting in November 2010, the Companys website following reports were presented which the meeting, and announced described the views of major by regulatory news service.
The shareholders of the Company information that is required by and its current strategy.
6, information relating to believed that the Board, including the share capital of the Company, the Senior Independent Director, can be found within the directors has an adequate understanding report on pages 22 and 25. of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
No other meetings have been requested by shareholders with the Chairman or Senior Independent Director.
Non-executive directors are able to attend these meetings and would do so if requested by major shareholders.
