34 Corporate governance report In this section UK Corporate Governance Code 34 UK Corporate Governance Code The Board has prepared this report with reference to the 34 The Board UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial 34 Membership Reporting Council in June 2010.
34 Performance evaluation and training During the year, the Group reviewed, under the auspices of the Boards Corporate 35 Senior Independent Director Compliance and Responsibility Committee, and revised its Corporate Governance 35 Non-Executive Directors Compliance Statement.
The statement, which sets out how the Group complies with 35 Board responsibilities each of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, was approved 35 Management Board by the Board.
That document also sets out the statement of the division of responsibilities 35 Committees of the Board between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer, the list of matters reserved to 36 Nomination Committee the Board, the membership of the Board and of the various Board Committees together 36 Remuneration Committee with the terms of reference of the various standing Board Committees.
This document 36 Audit Committee is available in the Investor Relations section of the Groups website, 38 C orporate Compliance and www.
co. uk corporate Responsibility Committee The Board 38 Shareholder relations a Membership 38 Code compliance On 30 January 2011, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and six Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Non-Executive Chairman and the Chief Executive CEO, which has been set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Marc Bolland resigned from the Board on 1 February 2010 and, on the same day, Johanna Waterous joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director.
Dalton Philips joined the Board on 29 March 2010.
On 9 September 2010 Martyn Jones stepped down from the Board.
On 9 March 2011 Paul Manduca stepped down from the Board.
On 31 January 2011 the Company announced that, with effect from the Companys AGM on 9 June 2011, Mark Gunter will step down from the Board.
On 9 March 2011 Brian Flanagan informed the Board that he will step down from the Board, again with effect from the Companys 2011 AGM.
Throughout the period, the majority of the Board consisted of independent Non-Executive Directors.
Details of the appointments, roles and backgrounds of the Directors are set out on page 33. b Performance evaluation and training The performance of the Board, its committees and its Directors are assessed and appraised regularly.
The Chairman is responsible for monitoring the performance of the Chief Executive, who in turn is responsible for monitoring the performance of the Executive Directors.
During the year, a review of the effectiveness of the Boards four principal standing Committees Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Compliance and Responsibility was completed by an external agency, Independent Audit Limited.
That review resulted in a formal report which was presented to the full Board in October 2010 and the principal findings of that review work were considered specifically by the chairs of each of those Committees.
Whilst minor improvements to the workings of the individual Committees were recommended and have been, or are being, implemented, the review process disclosed no material matters of concern.
A full independent external review of the Board and the individual Directors will be carried out before the end of the 2011 12 financial year and any major findings will be reported upon in the Corporate governance report for the period ending in January 2012.
As reported in the 2010 Annual report, this review was deferred until the current financial year because of the change of Chief Executive during 2009 10.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 35 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 The Board is satisfied that the arrangements for review and All Directors are provided with a comprehensive, formal appraisal of the performance of the Board, its Committees and and tailored induction to the business.
The minimum time individual Directors are appropriate.
The Board is also confident commitment expected of the Non-Executive Directors is one that the initiatives which have been implemented already or which day per month attendance at meetings, together with attendance are in progress will enable the Group to satisfy the best practice at the Annual General Meeting, Board away days and site visits, recommendations of the Code in relation to Board evaluation.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Non-Executive Directors commits sufficient time During the course of the 2010 11 financial year, the Group has to the business of the Group and contributes to the governance continued with its series of Board training sessions, presented and operations of the Group.
by the Groups external advisers, on various key issues of importance to the Group.
This training was designed to address e Board responsibilities matters of specific relevance to the Group and covered a range The Board is responsible for setting and approving the strategy and of topics including: key policies of the Group, and for monitoring the progress towards achieving these objectives.
It monitors financial performance, D irectors duties: and critical operational issues and risks.
The Board also approves all d evelopments in the audit process and key audit issues circulars, listing particulars, resolutions and correspondence to of judgement.
shareholders including the Annual report, half yearly financial report and interim management statements.
The training programme was established in the 2009 10 financial year and will be refreshed and updated so that regular updates are The formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board remains provided to the Board on key governance, corporate practice and unaltered and further details are available in the Corporate legal accounting issues.
Governance Compliance Statement set out in the Investor Relations section of the Groups website c Senior Independent Director www.
co. uk corporate Paul Manduca, the Senior Independent Director SID until 9 March 2011, has been available to shareholders throughout the period The Company Secretary organises the appropriate level of as an alternative to the Chairman, CEO and the Group Finance insurance cover for Directors to defend themselves against Director.
The SID ensures that he is available to meet shareholders legal claims and civil actions.
The level of cover is currently during the year and reports any relevant findings to the Board or 60m in aggregate.
With effect from 10 March 2011, Nigel Robertson will assume the role of SID and will be similarly available to shareholders.
Management Board The Management Board is made up of representatives of the senior d Non-Executive Directors management of the Group and is chaired by the Chief Executive.
The Non-Executive Directors provide a varied range of skills It has detailed terms of reference and has responsibility for the and experience to the Group.
The Board is satisfied that all day-to-day operations of the Group.
This includes development Non-Executive Directors, including the Non-Executive Chairman, and implementation of strategy subject to overall supervision remain independent according to the definition contained in the by the Board, financial performance, reporting and control, risk Combined Code.
No Non-Executive Director: management, operational improvement programmes, the entry by the Group into major contracts and commitments, the h as previously been employed by the Group within the last development of corporate policies and procedures and the ongoing five years: review and supervision of the operational activities of the business h as had a material business relationship with the Group within of the Group.
It reviews and makes recommendations to the Board the last three years: in respect of budgets and long term planning and dividend levels as well as reviewing proposed announcements, whether financial or r eceives remuneration other than Directors fees: related to ad hoc events.
It also keeps under supervision the h as close family ties with any of the Groups advisers, Directors Groups senior management talent, capabilities and succession plans.
or senior employees: Committees of the Board h olds cross-directorships or has significant links with other The principal committees of the Board are the Audit, directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate Compliance and r epresents a significant shareholder: or Responsibility CCR Committees.
h as served on the Board for more than nine years.
Full terms of reference of the Committees are available on request and in the Corporate Governance Compliance Statement set out in the Investor Relations section of the Groups website www.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011 36 Corporate governance report continued a Nomination Committee The activities of the Remuneration Committee during the year During the year the activities of the Committee were focused on are set out in more detail in the Directors remuneration report advice to the executive management on the establishment and on page 40. composition of the Management Board and on senior management succession planning.
The Committee has engaged an executive c Audit Committee search agency, MWM Consulting, to assist in the process of The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee the responsibility identification of potential candidates to join the Board as and for reviewing on its behalf and making recommendations to the when appropriate.
Board as to: the integrity of financial reports: b Remuneration Committee the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk The objective of the Groups remuneration policy is to encourage a strong performance culture and an emphasis on long term management system: and shareholder value creation.
The intention is to position the independence of the external auditors.
remuneration arrangements competitively against the market, with a clear reward structure to enable the Group to attract, The Audit Committees responsibilities have not changed retain and motivate the best talent who are key to the Groups during the year.
The Audit Committee regularly considers the professional The Group HR Director has advised the Group on all remuneration development needs of its members, and whether adequate related matters, including pensions and Executive Directors technical information is being provided.
Where necessary this advice was supplemented by it will seek independent external advice at the Groups expense, external advisers.
with such arrangements made through the Company Secretary.
The committee also receives advice from its appointed advisers The Audit Committee is chaired by Philip Cox who has the requisite Hewitt New Bridge Street on remuneration matters, Pension recent and relevant financial experience.
The Chairman, the CEO, Capital Strategies Limited a member of the Jardine Lloyd the Group Finance Director, the Head of Risk and Internal Audit Thompson Group in respect of pensions, and Ashurst LLP and other finance department representatives have attended in respect of Executive Directors contracts.
During the year, the membership of those Committees was: Committee membership Name Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR Sir Ian Gibson Dalton Philips Philip Cox Brian Flanagan Penny Hughes Martyn Jones Paul Manduca Nigel Robertson Johanna Waterous Chair of the Committee The Directors attended the following number of Board and Committee meetings: Committee membership Number of meetings Board Nomination Remuneration Audit CCR 11 11 6 6 13 13 4 4 Sir Ian Gibson Dalton Philips 9 9 5 5 3 3 10 11 Richard Pennycook Mark Gunter 10 11 10 11 6 6 12 13 6 6 Philip Cox Brian Flanagan 10 11 5 6 12 13 6 6 9 11 6 6 9 13 5 6 Penny Hughes Martyn Jones 8 8 3 3 11 11 5 6 13 13 Paul Manduca Nigel Robertson 10 11 6 6 13 13 2 2 4 4 10 11 6 6 10 13 6 6 3 4 Johanna Waterous Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011 37 Strategic review 4 21 Performance review 22 31 Governance 32 51 Group financial statements 52 88 Company financial statements 89 101 Investor information 102 105 i Overview of actions taken by the Audit Committee When assessing the non-audit services for approval the Audit in discharging its duties Committee will take the following into consideration: The Committee has received and reviewed reports and whether the skills and experience of the audit firm make presentations from senior management to fulfil its terms it the most suitable supplier of the non-audit service: of reference.
To meet its responsibilities in this respect, the Committee considered: whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity or independence in the conduct i nterim and preliminary announcements, together with any of the audit resulting from the provision of such services by other formal announcements relating to financial performance: the external auditor: t he accounting principles, policies and procedures adopted in the nature of the non-audit services, the related fee levels and the the Groups financial statements, including, where necessary, fee levels individually and in aggregate relative to the audit fee: and challenging the judgements made: and the criteria which govern the compensation of the individuals t he potential effects of tax and pensions accounting and other performing the audit.
significant judgemental and complex accounting issues dealt with in the accounts.
KPMG also follows its own ethical guidelines and continually reviews its audit team to ensure that its independence is not The Audit Committee oversees the Groups relationship with compromised.
Private meetings are held with the external auditors, without management present.
The purpose of these The Audit Committee has determined that it will review not less meetings is to understand their views on the control and than annually whether the incumbent auditors should remain in governance environment and managements effectiveness within place or whether an auditor selection process should be initiated.
To fulfil its responsibilities in respect of the independence and effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee reviewed: ii Internal control t he terms, areas of responsibility, duties and scope of work The Board is responsible for setting a system of internal controls for of the external auditors as set out in the engagement letter: the Group and reviewing its effectiveness.
Executive management is responsible for implementing and maintaining the system of t he external auditors work plan for the Group: controls.
This system is intended to manage rather than eliminate t he detailed findings of the audit, including a discussion the risk of not meeting the Groups strategic objectives, whilst of any major issues that arose during the audit: recognising that certain inherent risks may be outside the Groups control.
The Board recognises that any system of internal control t he letter from KPMG Audit Plc confirming its independence can only seek to provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance and objectivity: and against material misstatement or loss.
t he audit fee and the extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors.
The Board delegates to the Audit Committee the review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management In this period, the external auditors have continued to provide a systems.
During the year, the Committee discharged this significant level of non-audit work, primarily to provide the Board responsibility by: with independent assurance in respect of IT systems replacement.
receiving and considering regular reports from the internal audit The Board believes that this activity is a reasonable extension of function on the status of internal control and risk management their statutory audit work and that there are safeguards in place systems across the Group.
The Committee also reviewed the to avoid a threat to their independence or objectivity.
The Board departments findings, annual plan and the resources available has a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply to it to perform its work: non-audit services and the Committee has reviewed the scope of non-audit services provided by the external auditors to ensure reviewing the external auditors management letters on internal that there was no impairment of objectivity.
A copy of that financial control: non-audit services policy is available in the Corporate Governance seeking reports from senior management on the effectiveness Compliance Statement set out in the Investor Relations section of the management of key risk areas: and of the Groups website at www.
co. uk corporate This non-audit services policy is designed to assist the Company monitoring the adequacy and timeliness of managements and each of its subsidiaries in ensuring that the engagement of response to identified audit issues.
the external auditors to provide non-audit services: The Audit Committee receives regular reports from the Head i s only carried out in appropriate circumstances: of Risk and Internal Audit on any whistle-blowing activity in i s transparent: and respect of concerns expressed by colleagues about possible malpractice or wrongdoing.
Whilst there were no significant d oes not impair the judgement or independence of the concerns raised by colleagues, all actions required were external auditors.
discussed and agreed with the Committee.
co. uk annualreport11 Annual report and financial statements 2011 38 Corporate governance report continued The Board is satisfied that a continual process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks has been in place for the financial year and up to the date of this Annual report.
To date, no material financial problems have been identified that would affect the results reported in these financial statements.
The Board confirms that if significant weaknesses had been identified during this review the Board would have taken the necessary steps to remedy them.
d Corporate Compliance and Responsibility Committee CCR The CCR Committee, chaired by a Non-Executive Director, Nigel Robertson, reviews and oversees the development and implementation of policy in relation to health and safety, environmental, competitive and ethical compliance, corporate social responsibility CSR, including the Groups engagement with community organisations and charitable bodies, and governance and other reputational management issues.
With effect from 10 March 2011 Penny Hughes has been appointed as chair of the CCR Committee.
The Committees remit does not cover operational matters but it performs an oversight, monitoring and advisory role in relation to these key areas in the Companys governance and development.
The Committee, which reports to the Board, was set up and met four times during the financial year and, as well as reviewing its terms of reference, it received presentations on the Groups CSR, health and safety and competition compliance policies and procedures.
Shareholder relations The CEO and the Group Finance Director meet regularly with analysts and institutional shareholders.
The Investor Relations Director also maintains a programme of work that reports to the Board the requirements and information needs of institutional and major investors.
This is part of the regular contact that the Group maintains with its institutional shareholders.
All Directors, Executive and Non-Executive, attend the AGM unless unavoidably unable to do so.
The Chairs of the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and CCR Committees are available to answer any questions.
Additionally, the Groups brokers sought independent feedback from investors following the annual and interim results in 2010.
This feedback was reported to the Board.
Code compliance The Board has been kept fully up to date by the Company Secretary and the Head of Risk and Internal Audit as to the developments in corporate governance following the Walker Review and the Financial Reporting Councils revision of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is confident that its corporate governance policies and procedures are appropriate and that the Company is fully compliant with the Code.
Notably, although not yet required to do so, the Board has resolved that it will comply with the best practice recommendation set out in Code Provision B.
7.1 such that all directors will be submitted for re-election at its AGM.
Wm Morrison Supermarkets PLC Annual report and financial statements 2011
