56 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report We refreshed the composition of the Board over the last 12months making two new appointments in the 2010 11 financial year and one since the year end.
Four of our NonExecutive Directors have been appointed to the Board inthe last two years.
The Board and I believe these new appointments bring additional depth and diversity of experience to the Board, while ensuring the composition andsize remains well suited to our business.
As I referred toin my Chairmans statement, we welcome the findings and recommendations of the Davies Report Women on Boards.
There will soon be two women on the Board and I expect the diversity ofour Board to meet the recommendations of the Foreword from the Chairman Davies Report by 2015.
We also continue to put significant Governance within Wolseley effort intosuccession planning forDirectors both Executive and Non Executive and all senior management.
As mentioned in my Chairmans statement, the Board iscommitted to the highest standards of corporate Recent developments governance.
At Wolseley, we believe that good I ensure that I am kept fully aware of the recent developments governancecomes from an effective Board which in the eld of corporate governance.
The Board as a whole providesstrong leadership to the Company and engages has been proactive in addressing many of the recent wellwith both management and stakeholders.
This year developments, including the annual re-election of directors weare moving forward, building on the high standards ofFTSE 350 companies adopted last year ahead of the setbymy predecessor.
implementation of the provision in the UK Corporate Leadership, effectiveness and diversity Governance Code, externally facilitated performance evaluations every three years our last external evaluation was Although the change in our tax residence to Switzerland in 2009 and our next is scheduled to be conducted in 2012 hasresulted in some practical changes to the Companys and Lord Davies recommendations on gender diversity.
governance structure, fundamentally we have not changed our governance standards.
From the beginning of my As Chairman, I will take responsibility for providing the Board Chairmanship, I have fostered an environment for the Board with the opportunity to consider all developments in this eld whereby constructive challenge and open debate is actively and, where appropriate for Wolseley, for ensuring that encouraged at all meetings.
I am mindful that it is my Directors receive appropriate training and education on responsibility as Chairman of the Board to provide strong governance issues as required so that we maintain our high leadership to ensure the Board is effective and to oversee standards of corporate governance.
theimplementation of the Groups strategy.
As we do each year, the Board reviewed its effectiveness and the overall strength of the Companys governance and controls framework.
We will undertake a full external evaluation in financial year 2011 12.
Gareth Davis Chairman Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 57 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Compliance statement Compliance with the Code Throughout the accounting period to which this report Following the move of our corporate headquarters to relates, the Company applied all of the principles set out in Switzerland, Wolseley plc a public company limited by sectionsA to E of the Code for the period under review shares, incorporated in Jersey with registered number andhas, throughout the year, complied with the detailed 106605 and tax resident in Switzerland became the new provisions set out therein.
The Companys auditors, parent company of the Wolseley Group, pursuant to a  LLP, are required to review scheme of arrangement under Part 26 of the UK Companies whetherthe above statement reects the Companys Act 2006 the UK Companies Act.
Wolseley plc is listed on compliance with the nine provisions of the Code specified the London Stock Exchange, and is therefore subject to the fortheir review by the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
It complies and to report if it does not reect such compliance.
No such with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code report has been made.
the Code and relevant institutional shareholder guidelines.
Although as a Jersey incorporated company the Company Corporate and governance structure is not subject to the UK Companies Act, the Board retains its strong commitment to high standards of governance and Wolseley plc, a Jersey registered company, became the new corporate responsibility.
Therefore, the Board considers it parent company of the Wolseley Group on 23 November appropriate to provide shareholder safeguards which are 2010.
Thediagram below sets out the governance structure similar to those that apply to a UK registered company.
of thenew company, including where meetings are held.
At the date of this report, for financial years beginning on or To maintain Wolseleys tax residence in Switzerland, the after 29 June 2010, the principal governance rules applying majority of meetings of the Board must be held there, and to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange are tomaintain the benets of that tax residence, no meeting contained in the Code.
A copy of the Code is available from requiring decisions of a strategic or substantive nature must the Financial Reporting Councils website at www.
be held in the United Kingdom.
All meetings of the Board uk corporate ukcgcode.
This report, including the report andall Committees of the Board are held outside the from the Audit Committee and the Remuneration report, UnitedKingdom.
describes how the Board has complied with the Codes The Committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the mainprinciples of good governance, as contained in sections Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and A to E of the Code, and seeks to demonstrate how those the Major Announcements Committee.
Other committees principles have been applied during the year under review.
which implement those strategic decisions or whose remit does notextend to strategic or substantive decisions include the Executive Committee, Treasury Committee, Disclosure Committee and other ad hoc committees.
Those committees may meet in the United Kingdom.
Board and Committee structure Wolseley plc Board and Committees of the Board Board Meetings held in Switzerland or outside the UK.
These take decisions of a strategic or substantive nature.
Major Audit Remuneration Nominations Announcements Other committees Executive Treasury Disclosure Ad hoc Meetings may be held in the UK.
These implement strategic decisions and executive or administrative matters.
58 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on Our Board anad hoc basis as required by time-critical business needs.
The Boards primary role is to provide effective and There were nine scheduled meetings during the year and entrepreneurial leadership necessary to enable the Groups Director attendance is shown in the table opposite.
The table business objectives to be met and to review the overall shows those meetings which each Director attended and strategic development of the Group as a whole.
The Board was eligible to attend as a member of the Board rather than iscollectively responsible for the long-term success of the as an invitee.
In addition to the scheduled meetings, two Company.
It has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it unscheduled meetings were convened at short notice to deal for its decision, while day-to-day operational decisions are with transactions, which some Directors were unable to managed by the Executive Committee, led by the Group attendbecause of prior commitments which could not be Chief Executive.
The Board reviewed and updated the re-scheduled.
Ineach case, the matters discussed at matters reserved for its consideration in March 2011. thoseunscheduled meetings had alreadybeen considered Thecategories of matters that are reserved for the indetail by the full Board at previous meetings.
Ofthose two Board are: unscheduled meetings, the first was attended by Messrs Clarke, Martin and Roach and the second by MsBamford strategy and management: and Messrs Davis, Clarke, Martin, Meakins andRoach.
corporate structure: Details of changes to the composition of the Board during the year are shown on page 59. financial reporting and controls: All Directors are required to attend all meetings of the Board tax and treasury matters: or Committees of which they are a member, so that they major commitments: keep fully up to date with the business.
They are expected toconstructively challenge all the proposals brought to the communication: meetings.
In accordance with the Code, papers and other board and senior management appointments: information are delivered at times that allow Directors to beproperly briefed in advance of meetings to ensure that remuneration: they are provided with sufficient resources to undertake delegation of authority: theirduties.
To further improve efficiency and to provide ease of access to information, Board and Committee papers are corporate governance: published in advance via a secure web portal, allowing policies: and access using an iPad at each meeting.
Meetings led by the Senior Independent Director between the Non Executive Directors, both with and without the Meeting attendance eligibility at Board Meetings held 1 presence of the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive, during the year ended 31 July 2011 are scheduled in the Boards annual timetable.
Both Board Name Position Scheduled meetings and Committee meetings are conducted within an 2 environment fostered by the Chairman which allows for G Davis Chairman 8 8 challenge and debate.
All Directors are fully aware of the J Whybrow Chairman 4 4 rolethat the Non Executive Directors play in providing T Bamford Non Executive Director 3 3 constructive challenge on all matters.
M Clarke Non Executive Director 3 3 A Duff Non Executive Director 8 8 A Le Goff Non Executive Director 2 2 J Martin Chief Financial officer 9 9 I Meakins Group Chief Executive 9 9 J Murray Non Executive Director 1 1 F Roach Chief Executive, North America 8 8 3 N Stein Non Executive Director 4 5 M Wareing Non Executive Director 8 8 1 The details of meeting attendance and eligibility noted above include two meetings of Wolseley plc now known as Wolseley Limited, one meeting of Wolseley plc as the new holding company of the Group relating to the redomiciliation, andall subsequent scheduled Board meetings of Wolseley plc.
2 Prior to his appointment as Chairman on 20 January 2011, Mr Davis attended Board meetings in his capacity as a Non Executive Director.
3 Due to a prior scheduled commitment, Mr Stein was unable to attend oneBoard meeting.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 59 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Board ensures that it stays in touch with the management of the business units so that it understands thechanging dynamics of their markets.
In addition to visits by the Board at operating locations, management make frequent presentations to the Board on their current and planned activities.
This provides opportunities for more indepth and informal discussions.
The table below summarises some of the matters discussed by the Board during the year: Redomiciliation change in corporate headquarters.
Sweden Board meeting The Board visited Stockholm in Sweden on 21 October Board and executive succession planning.
The programme included presentations from local management within the Beijer and other DT businesses, Corporate values.
visits to a Beijer showroom and meetings with showroom employees.
Strategy and Resource allocation process.
Our Directors Board composition As at 31 July 2011, the Board of Directors was made up of eight members consisting of the Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non Executive Directors.
During the financial year, two new Non Executive Directors were appointed to the Board.
Since the year end, the Company announced the appointment of another Non Executive Director, Karen Witts.
After that appointment, 22per cent of the Board will be women.
The table below summarises the changes to the Board effected duringthe year: Date Name Position Change 30 September 2010 James Murray Non Executive Director Stepped down 23 November 2010 Alain Le Goff Non Executive Director Stepped down 20 January 2011 John Whybrow Chairman Stepped down 20 January 2011 Gareth Davis Chairman Appointed and stepped down as Senior Independent Director 20 January 2011 Andrew Duff Senior Independent Director Appointed 22 March 2011 Nigel Stein Non Executive Director Stepped down 22 March 2011 Tessa Bamford Non Executive Director New appointment 22 March 2011 Michael Clarke Non Executive Director New appointment Biographical details of each of the Directors in ofce as at 31 July 2011 are shown on pages 54 and 55.
Executive Non Executive split as at 31 July 2011 Chairman 1 Non Executive Directors 4 Executive Directors 3 60 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued The Chairman and the Non Executive Directors are each Andrew Duff, as Senior Independent Director, makes sure considered by the Board to be independent of management that he is available for approach by or representations from and free of any relationship which could materially interfere investors and shareholders, where communication through with the exercise of their independent judgement.
External the Chairman or the Executive Directors may not seem directorships held by such Directors are not considered to appropriate.
He is also a sounding board for the Chairman impact on their independence where such directorships are and an intermediary for the other Directors when necessary.
of companies which have historically had and continue to do Induction and development of the Directors business with Wolseley as there are robust processes in place in relation to conicts of interests.
The Companys The Chairman, assisted by the Group Company Secretary policy relating to the terms of appointment and the and General Counsel, is responsible for the induction and remuneration of both the Executive and Non Executive continuing development of all Directors.
Following their Directors is detailed in the Remuneration report.
appointment, a formal comprehensive and tailored induction is provided.
This includes provision of relevant current and Board balance and succession planning historical information about the Company and the Group, The Nominations Committee, as well as the Board as a briengs on corporate governance and on remuneration and whole, considers succession planning and the appropriate audit issues.
The Directors are also made aware that there composition of the Board to ensure that the Board has the isan established procedure for all Directors, if deemed correct balance of individuals to discharge its duties effectively.
necessary, to take independent professional advice at the The new appointment of three Non Executive Directors Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
inthelast 12 months, recommended to the Board by the Thisisin addition to the direct access that every Director Nominations Committee, has brought additional depth hasto the Company Secretary, who is charged with ensuring anddiversity of experience, while ensuring the composition that Board procedures are followed and that good corporate andsize remains well suited to Wolseleys business.
governance and compliance is implemented throughout theGroup.
The material provided to the Directors is Our current Board contains a wealth of experience and supplemented by meetings, as required, with major skillscovering a broad range of businesses, industries and shareholders, visits to operations across the Group and advisory roles.
In addition, some members of the Board have one-to-one meetings with members of the Executive extensive financial experience.
Collectively, this provides Committee and other senior executives at the Group services Wolseley with a strong, varied and insightful Board.
When considered appropriate, meetings details of each Directors skills and experience are shown in with external advisers may also be arranged.
Tessa Bamfords the biographical details of the Directors on pages 54 and 55. and Michael Clarkes induction to their roles as Non Executive Succession planning at both Board level and throughout Directors followed the process described above.
senior management level is on the Boards agenda and Each of the Non Executive Directors brings his or her own timetable.
During the year, the Board also undertook its senior level of experience and expertise to the Board.
As part formal annual review of the senior leadership team.
of their continuing development, the Executive Directors are Roles of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and encouraged to take on not more than one external non SeniorIndependent Director executive directorship on the board of a non-competitor company, for which they may retain payments received in The distinct roles of, and division of responsibility between, respect of such appointment, as the Board believes there are the Chairman and Group Chief Executive are acknowledged, significant benets to be achieved for both the Company and set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
In order to avoid any potential conict of Gareth Davis, as Chairman, is responsible for the overall interest, all appointments are subject to the Boards approval.
leadership and governance of the Board including induction, All Non Executive Directors are aware, at appointment, of the development and performance evaluation and for ensuring time commitment expected of them: although there is no that the Directors have an understanding of the views of requirement as to the number of other directorships they theCompanys major shareholders.
He is responsible for mayhold, they are required to discuss with the Chairman ensuring a healthy culture of challenge and debate at Board anyadditional directorships prior to acceptance.
The Board and Committee meetings.
As permitted under the Code, monitors the extent of Directors other interests toensure theChairman chairs one other board of directors in the thatthe effectiveness of the Board is not compromised.
FTSE100, as noted in his biographical details on page 54.
Theexternal appointments for all Directors areshown in the biographical details of the Directors on pages 54 and 55.
Ian Meakins, as Group Chief Executive, is responsible for theeffective leadership of the Company, strong and focused management and development of the Group, delivery of the Companys objectives and strategy agreed by the Board, good relationships and communications with investors andprudent financial controls.
A number of duties which derive from these responsibilities include developing andimplementing policies relating to health and safety andcorporate responsibility.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 61 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Re-election of Directors Board effectiveness: Board evaluation It has been Board policy that Non Executive Directors are Each of the Directors continues to be considered by the normally appointed for an initial term of three years, which is Board to be effective and to demonstrate commitment to then reviewed and extended for up to a further two threehisor her respective role.
The Board is required, under year periods.
It is also Board policy that Non Executive theCode, to complete an externally facilitated Board Directors should not generally serve on the Board for more performance evaluation every three years.
The last external than nine years and that, in cases where it is proposed to evaluation of the Boards own performance and that of the exceed this period, the Director concerned will retire annually individual Directors was completed during 2009.
Due to the and seek re-election.
The Companys Articles of Association recent changes to the Board, the Board carried out an also provide that one-third of the Directors should retire by effectiveness review internally during the year and agreed rotation each year and that each Director will seek re-election toconduct a comprehensive, externally facilitated review by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting AGM inthe financial year 2011 12. at least once every three years.
In addition, new Directors are The internal review used a set of questions adapted to subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity address the activities and concerns of the Board, the Audit after their appointment.
Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
The questions Nevertheless, all Directors will, in accordance with the Code, were in the form of online surveys which encouraged seek election or re-election at the Companys AGM each year.
comment and qualitative evaluation of the Boards and of Ms Bamford, Mr Clarke and Ms Witts will seek election each Committees effectiveness, the individual members and having been appointed to the Board since the last AGM.
Full the contributions received from advisers.
The results of the biographical details of the Directors seeking election can be surveys formed thebasis of discussion of areas for further found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting.
As required improvement bythe Board and the Committees.
by the Code, and to allow transparency, the terms and Risk management conditions of appointment of all Directors are available for inspection by any person at its registered ofce in Jersey, at The Board is ultimately responsible for determining the its corporate headquarters in Switzerland and at its Group natureand extent of the significant risks it is willing to take services ofce in the United Kingdom, and will be available inachieving its strategic objectives and for maintaining for inspection at the AGM in Switzerland prior to the meeting.
soundrisk management and internal control systems.
Additional details regarding service agreements and letters TheBoard requires the Audit Committee to conduct more ofengagement are contained in the Remuneration report detailed oversight of risk.
Further details on the role of the onpages 73 and 77.
Audit Committee can be found on page 64.
For details of theprocess of risk management within the business, Board effectiveness: Board procedures and furtherinformation can befound in the section entitled responsibilities Riskmanagement and internal control on page 38.
A 12-month rolling programme of items for discussion by the Indemnities Board is prepared to ensure that all matters reserved to the Board and other strategic issues are considered at The Company indemnifies its Directors in respect of liabilities appropriate times.
Together with the Group Chief Executive incurred as a result of their ofce in accordance with the and the Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, Articles of Association and to the maximum extent permitted the Chairman ensures that the Board is kept properly by Jersey law.
Qualifying third-party indemnity provisions informed and is consulted on all matters reserved to it and tothe maximum extent permitted by English law were that papers and other information are delivered in a timely granted to all Directors then in ofce and to the Group fashion.
Company Secretary by Wolseley plc now known as Wolseley Limited and these remain in force as at the dateof this The Board has processes and procedures in place which report.
When Wolseley plc a Jersey registered company require a Director to identify and declare actual or potential became the new holding company, additional third-party conicts of interest, whether matter-specic or situational.
indemnity provisions were granted by the Company.
The Such notications can be made by a Director at a Board Company has also arranged appropriate insurance coverage meeting or in writing.
All Directors have a continuing duty to in respect of legal action against its Directors and ofcers.
In accordance with the Companys Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance would Articles of Association, the Board may authorise potential provide any coverage to the extent that a Director is proved conicts which can be limited in scope.
Such authorisations to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
During the year under review, the conict management procedures were adhered to and operated effectively.
62 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued The Annual Report and Accounts are available to all Relations with shareholders shareholders either in paper form or electronically and Communication with shareholders canbeaccessed via the Wolseley plc website at www.
com or via Shareview, an internet service The Company places considerable importance on offered by the Companys Registrars, as detailed in communication with its shareholders, including its employee Shareholder information on page 158.
The Groups Full Year shareholders.
Our investor relations policy reects our and Half Year Results, as well as all announcements issued commitment to our shareholders.
It includes: to the London Stock Exchange, are published on the regular dialogue with institutional shareholders and financial Wolseley plc website.
During the year the Company issued analysts with the close involvement of the Group Chief regular updates to the market and these, together with Executive and Chief Financial officer: copies of presentations to analysts and interviews with the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, are also an up to date record of financial analysts forecasts, which posted on the Wolseley plc website.
iskeptand published on the Wolseley plc website at www.
com: an announcement each quarter incorporating sales, Percentage of holders split between institutional and other private investors and individuals profitability by region, net debt and appropriate as at 31 July 2011 commentary: Institutional promotion of communication with shareholders, ensuring and other Individual private investors that the views of our major shareholders are reported to the investors 99.3% 0.7% Board by the Chief Financial officer and bythe Chairman and are discussed at its meetings: the maintenance of contact, when appropriate, with shareholders to discuss overall remuneration plans andpolicies: and a report each quarter incorporating revenue and profitability by region, net debt and appropriate commentary.
Investor communication is governed by written guidelines toensure the appropriate and prompt disclosure of sensitive Concentration of investors as at 31 July 2011 information which could affect the Companys share price.
% 36.3 35.1 17.9 10.7 The Chairman meets with the larger institutional shareholders 100% at least once a year.
He ensures that the Board as a whole maintains an appropriate dialogue with shareholders.
80% TheNon Executive Directors are encouraged to attend presentations of the Full Year and Half Year Results.
60% Aseniorexecutive, reporting to the Chief Financial officer, has day-to-day responsibility for all investor relations matters 40% and for contact with institutional shareholders, as well as with financial analysts, brokers and the media.
20% The Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer see Top 5 Rest of Rest of Others the major institutional shareholders face to face at least twice investors top 30 top 100 investors investors a year following the full year and half year financial results.
The Board receives institutional shareholder feedback following these meetings and receives an annual formal presentation outlining the investor relations programme Geographical breakdown of shareholder base forthe year.
Institutional investors only as at 31 July 2011 During the year ended 31 July 2011 the Group Chief Executive Rest of World 3.9% and Chief Financial officer spent 33 days respectively Europe engaged in investor relations activities attending 88 meetings 16.6% United collectively.
The investor relations function additionally Kingdom spent15 days meeting with institutions comprising a further 47.8% 76 meetings.
There were a total of 164 investor meetings inthe year.
North America 31.7% Chancery Lane Serle Street Kingsway Metallstrasse Gubelstrasse Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 63 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Substantial share interests AGM resolutions As at the date of this report, the Company had received The resolutions to be proposed at the AGM to be held on notication of the following material shareholdings pursuant 29November 2011, together with explanatory notes, appear to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK Listing in the Notice of AGM which is posted to each shareholder in Authority: advance of the meeting.
Thisdocument is available on the Wolseley plc website.
Number Percentage of shares held of issued voting Name millions share capital Switzerland Blackrock, Inc 39,073,305 13.714% Venue: Parkhotel, Industriestrasse 14, CH-6304, Capital Research and Zug Switzerland Management Company 14,731,312 5.178% Time: 3pm CET Cevian Capital II GP Limited 14,690,088 5.165% Fidelity 14,070,947 4.957% AXA S. A.
13,065,225 4.603% Legal and General Group plc 11,234,843 3.958% Brenplatz Zug Bahnhof Rail station Annual General Meeting AGM The AGM will take place on 29 November 2011 at Parkhotel, Zug Bahnhofplatz Industriestrasse 14, Zug, Switzerland with an audio-visual link to The Lincoln Centre, London, UK.
Thelinkwill allow active Parkhotel two-way participation by persons physically present inSwitzerland and the UK.
Kino Full details of the AGM are contained in the Notice of Annual Gotthard GeneralMeeting.
Metalliplatz AGM procedure The Notice of the AGM is circulated to all shareholders atleast 20 working days before such meeting and it is London Company policy not to combine resolutions to be proposed at general meetings.
All shareholders are invited to the Venue: The Lincoln Centre, 18 Lincolns Inn Fields Companys AGM, at which they have the opportunity to put London WC2A 3ED, United Kingdom questions to the Board.
It is standard practice to have the Time: 2pm GMT Senior Independent Director and the chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees available in person to answer questions.
Some questions may not be answered at the meeting, should they not be in the interests of the Company, involve the disclosure of condential information or if it would not be to the good order of the The Lincoln Centre meeting.
The Chairman may also nominate a Company representative to answer a specic question after the AGM ormay refer to a response on the Wolseley plc website.
The proxy votes received for and against each resolution, aswell as abstentions which may be recorded on the proxy form accompanying the Notice of Meeting, are counted before the AGM and the results of all votes are made available shortly after the meeting.
The results are also announced to the London Stock Exchange via Regulatory News Service and are published on the Wolseley plc website.
Using your smartphone, scan this code to download details about Wolseleys AGM.
Alternatively, please visit the Wolseley plc website at www.
com Chancery Lane Holborn High Holborn Lincolns Inn Fields Portugal Street Carey Street Aldwych Fleet Street Parker Street Great Queen Street Dammstrasse Albisstrasse Baarerstrasse Industriestrasse 64 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Role and responsibilities Our Committees The Audit Committee has wide-ranging oversight of Details of the Wolseley plc Board and Committee governance responsibilities assigned to it by the Board.
These are to: structure can be found on page 57.
The formal terms of reference for the Committees of the Board, which have assist the Board to full its responsibilities relating to beenapproved by the Board and comply with the Code, external financial reporting and associated announcements areavailable from the Group Company Secretary and including: General Counsel and canalso be found on the Wolseley plc the Half Year and Full Year financial statements, including website at www.
Membership and activities the requirements for financial reporting: and of the various Committees are summarised on pages 64 to 68.
The Group Company Secretary and General Counsel, the Half Year and Annual Full Year results announcements whoseappointment and removal is a matter for the Board made to the London Stock Exchange: asawhole, acts as Secretary to all Committees.
review key accounting and auditing issues: Committees of the Board review the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management procedures: Audit Committee report regularly to the Board on compliance in relation to the business activities for which it has responsibility within its terms of reference: ensure that it has an agenda which is linked to events in the Companys financial calendar: review the Companys policies and procedures relating to governance, risk and control and, in addition to the regular items, each member of the Committee may request reports Michael Wareing, Chairman on matters of interest: develop, implement and monitor the Companys policy on external audit: Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held 1 during the year ended 31 July 2011 : monitor independence, objectivity and compliance with ethical and regulatory requirements in relation to external Meetings during the year: 4 audit: Current members review the effectiveness of the external auditor: M Wareing Chairman 4 4 recommend the appointment and reappointment of the T Bamford 0 0 Companys external auditors: M Clarke 1 1 review annually a formal letter provided by the external A Duff 2 2 auditors conrming their independence and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory requirements Members who stepped down during the year: and professional standards: G Davis 2 2 review the effectiveness of the internal audit function: J Murray 1 1 review of litigation, contingent liabilities and tax matters, N Stein 3 3 including compliance with statutory tax obligations: and 1 The Committee is made up of four Non Executive Directors and the Board monitor fraud reports and the operation of the Companys considers that the chairman and each member of the Committee is whistleblowing policy.
independent within the denition set out in the Code and that each of them has relevant financial experience.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 65 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Activities The Committees membership is reviewed by the Details of the activities of the Committee during the financial Nominations Committee and by the chairman of the Audit year ended 31 July 2011 and a full discussion of how the Committee at regular intervals.
Members of the Committee Audit Committee discharges it responsibilities are set out in are appointed by the Board following recommendations by the Report from the Audit Committee on pages 69 and 70. the Nominations Committee.
All members of the Committee Remuneration Committee receive appropriate induction, which is in addition to the induction which all new Directors receive and includes an overview of the business, its financial dynamics and risks.
Members of the Committee may undertake ongoing training as required.
Audit Committee members are expected to have an understanding of the following areas: the principles of, contents of and developments in financial reporting, including the applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice and, in particular, the appropriateness of the Companys Andrew Duff, Chairman accounting policies and integrity of the financial statements: the Companys wider corporate policies and its nancing: Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held and during the year ended 31 July 2011: the Companys systems of internal control and matters that Meetings during the year: 6 require the use of judgement in the presentation of Current members: accounts and key gures as well as the role of internal and external auditors.
A Duff Chairman 6 6 T Bamford 2 2 Each member of the Committee brings relevant experience at a senior executive level.
In addition to the existing M Clarke 1 1 members of the Audit Committee, Mr Wareing, who was M Wareing 3 3 International Chief Executive of KPMG until his retirement in September 2009, continues to provide the Board with further Members who stepped down during the year: assurance that the Audit Committee has the appropriate A Le Goff 2 2 skills and experience and that it meets the Code requirements that at least one member of the Committee has N Stein 3 4 significant, recent and relevant financial experience.
The G Davis 3 3 expertise and experience of each member of the Committee are summarised on pages 54 and 55.
The table above sets out the members of the Committee The Committee invites the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, andtheir attendance during the year.
Full details of the Chief Financial officer, Group Financial Controller and the Committees responsibilities, governance and activities Head of Internal Audit, together with senior representatives of during the year are detailed in the Remuneration report the Companys external auditors, to attend each meeting and onpages 72 to 82. receive its papers, although it reserves part of each meeting for discussions without those invitees present.
Other senior executives are also invited to certain meetings to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
The Committee members periodically meet the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors without the presence of executive management.
The chairman of the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the key issues covered by the Committee, and the Board also receives copies of the minutes of each meeting.
During the year, the Committee critically reviewed its own performance and considered where improvements could be made.
In addition, the Committees terms of reference were reviewed during the year.
The chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
66 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Nominations Committee Governance Mr Davis succeeded Mr Whybrow as chairman of the Nominations Committee on 20 January 2011.
Mr Le Goff, MrMurray and Mr Stein all ceased to be members of the Committee on the dates they stepped down from the Board.
Ms Bamford and Mr Clarke were appointed to the Committee on 22 March 2011.
There is a formal procedure in place for selecting and recruiting Directors as detailed in the role and responsibilities Gareth Davis, Chairman section opposite.
During the year, the Committee retained an external search agency to assist in the process of identifying potential candidates for nomination to the Board.
Members and attendance eligibility at meetings held The chairman of the Committee attends the Annual General during the year ended 31 July 2011: Meeting to respond to any questions shareholders may raise Meetings during the year: 3 on the Committees activities.
Current members: Activities G Davis Chairman 2 2 The matters discussed by the Committee during the financial T Bamford 2 2 year ended 31 July 2011 included: M Clarke 2 2 the appointment of a successor Chairman: 1 A Duff 2 3 the appointment of a new Senior Independent Director: M Wareing 3 3 the appointment of new Non Executive Directors to the Board: and Members who left during the year: a review of the Committees terms of reference.
A Le Goff 1 1 During the year, the Committee in recognising the impact of J Murray 1 1 the Davies Report ensured that skills, experience, potential N Stein 1 1 and overall balance of the Board as well as diversity J Whybrow 0 0 including gender were fully considered in relation to the appointments mentioned above.
When the Committee 1 Owing to scheduling conicts, Mr Duff was unable to attend one Nominations considered the appointment of a successor Chairman, Committee meeting.
MrWhybrow and Mr Davis absented themselves from Role and responsibilities themeeting.
The Nominations Committee responsibilities are to: The proposed activities for the Committee in financial year 2011 12 will be to continue to monitor and assess the Boards review the structure, size and composition of the Board and composition and diversity, longer term succession planning its Committees: and potential further recruitment of Non Executive Directors.
make recommendations with regard to any changes that are considered necessary, both in the identication and nomination of new Directors and the continuation of existing Directors in ofce: evaluate the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and, in light of that evaluation, prepare the description of the relevant role and capabilities required of prospective candidates: Gareth Davis Chairman of the Nominations Committee make its recommendations to the Board, after a rigorous interview process for shortlisted candidates: retain external search consultants for appointments to the Board: and advise the Board on succession planning for Board appointments, although the Board itself has overall responsibility for succession generally.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 67 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Other Committees Major Announcements Committee Executive Committee John Martin, Chairman Ian Meakins, Chairman Members during the year ended 31 July 2011: Members during the year ended 31 July 2011: Current members: Current members: J Martin Chief Financial officer Chairman I Meakins Group Chief Executive Chairman G Davis Chairman of the Board S Ashmore Managing Director, UK M Fearon Group Communications T England Group Chief Information officer  P Gardies Managing Director, France I Meakins Group Chief Executive J Martin Chief Financial officer R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel C Morrison Group HR Director Members who stepped down during the year: F Roach Chief Executive officer, North America J Whybrow Chairman of the Board R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel S Weirse Managing Director, Nordic region Role and responsibilities The Committee meets as required to consider the Role and responsibilities Companys disclosure obligations in relation to material The Executive Committee meets at least 10 times each year information in circumstances where the matter i is outside and these meetings usually take place prior to Board the scope of the authority of the Disclosure Committee or meetings.
The Committee addresses operational business ii has been referred to it by the Disclosure Committee as issues and is responsible for implementing Group strategy being a matter that may involve an announcement relating and policies, day-to-day management and monitoring toa decision of a strategic nature or iii is otherwise of such business performance Management matters are addressed signicance or sensitivity that it ought properly be considered by the Executive Committee and other committees to whom by the Committee.
The Committees terms of reference specic authority has been delegated to implement Board anticipate that it would meet usually only in exceptional strategy or policy.
circumstances where information has come to light which isof an unexpected, non-routine, and material nature.
TheCommittee therefore has no meetings scheduled, anditwas not required to meet during the year.
68 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Treasury Committee Disclosure Committee Members during the year ended 31 July 2011: Members during the year ended 31 July 2011: Current members: Current members: J Martin Chief Financial officer Chairman J Martin Chief Financial officer Chairman I Meakins Group Chief Executive M Fearon Group Communications and Investor Relations Director R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel I Meakins Group Chief Executive M Verrier Group Treasurer R Shoylekov Group Company Secretary and General Counsel M Webb Group Financial Controller Role and responsibilities Role and responsibilities The Disclosure Committee meets as required to deal with all The Treasury Committees role is to consider treasury policy, matters relating to public announcements of the Company including financial structures and investments, tax and and, in particular, the Companys obligations under the treasury strategy, policies and certain transactions on behalf Listing and Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the UK of the Group, and to review the performance and compliance Listing Authority.
The Committee also assists in the design, of the tax and treasury function, within a framework implementation and periodic evaluation of the Companys delegated by the Board.
It makes recommendations to the disclosure controls and procedures.
Announcements relating Board in matters such as overall nancing structure and to any matters which the Board has designated as reserved strategy and currency exposure.
matters, or matters of a substantive or strategic nature, are As part of the review of corporate governance during the dealt with by the Board or by the Major Announcements creation of the new holding company, the Board revised the Committee.
scope and terms of reference of the Treasury Committee.
The Board retains responsibility for treasury and tax strategy Other ad hoc committees and has claried the Treasury Committees responsibilities as orientated principally towards the implementation of treasury As required by the demands of business, the Board may and tax strategy and policies.
appoint ad hoc committees to facilitate the implementation ofits decisions or to consider specic matters in further detail between scheduled meetings.
The Board may delegate matters of a substantive nature to a special purpose Committee.
If it does so it will generally have already considered the matter in depth at a full Board meeting butmay require further review prior to final approval.
Strategic overview Business and performance Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 69 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Within the constraints of the APB Ethical Standards on Report from the Audit Committee Auditing, PwC undertake certain due diligence reviews and The composition, attendance, matters of governance and provide assistance on tax matters each year.
The provision of responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out on pages non-audit services within such constraints of the agreed 64 and 65.
Full details of how the business implements its policy is assessed on a case by case basis so that the risk management and controls on a Group-wide basis are set best-placed adviser is retained.
Under the policy, the external out in Risk management and internal control section at pages auditors cannot be engaged to perform any of the following 38 to 43.
The activities of the Committee include reviews of services: external and internal audits, internal controls, financial book-keeping services related to accounting records or reporting, and risk management systems.
financial statements: Audit Committee activities in relation to External audit design and implementation of financial information systems: and external auditors appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions and During the year,  LLP PwC contributions in kind reports: undertook both external audit and certain non-audit work.
Representatives from PwC are invited to attend Audit actuarial services: Committee meetings.
They provide the Committee with internal audit outsourcing services: relevant reports, reviews, information and advice.
management functions including human resources: The Committee reviewed and approved the terms, areas of responsibility and scope of the audit including schedules of broker or dealer, investment adviser or investment banking unadjusted errors and representation letters as set out in the services: or external auditors engagement letter.
During the year, PwC legal and other services unrelated to audit work.
provided audit related services such as regulatory and statutory reporting, and reviewing shareholder and other The Committee considers at each meeting all requests for, circulars relating to the redomiciliation.
PwC report tothe and engagements of, non-audit work to be performed by Committee any material departures from Group accounting PwC for the Company, to ensure that the provision of those policies and procedures that they identify duringthe course non-audit services falls within the agreed policy regarding of their audit work.
None were found inthelast year.
such services and does not impair the objectivity or independence of the external auditors.
The policy requires pre-approval by the chairman of the Committee where a level set by the Committee is exceeded, for any non-audit work subject to maximum budget levels.
The total fees paid to PwC in the year ended 31 July 2011 together with a comparison of fees paid in the year ended 31July 2010 are set out in the table below.
Further disclosure of the non-audit fees paid during the year ended 31 July 2011 can be found in note 3 to the consolidated financial statements on page 99.
Fees paid Of which fees related Year total to non-audit work 1 2011 7.6 million 3.9 million 2 2010 10.4 million 6.7 million 1 1.2 million of the non-audit fees were pursuant to work required in relation tothe Groups change in corporate structure and domicile.
2 1 million of the non-audit fees were pursuant to work required in relation tothe Groups proposed change in corporate structure and domicile.
70 Wolseley plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Although PwC have been the Companys auditors for a The Board retains overall responsibility for internal control, number of years, the Committee is satisfied with their forestablishing the systems of internal control and reviewing effectiveness and independence having conducted a review their effectiveness and for the identication and management of PwCs effectiveness during the year.
The Committee did of business risk.
On behalf of the Board, the Committee not consider it necessary this year to conduct a tender monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups process for the appointment of its auditors.
Inaccordance internalcontrol systems, accounting policies and practices, withUK regulations, PwC adhere to a rotation policy standards of risk management and risk management basedon best practice and accounting standards which procedures and compliance controls, as well as the theCommittee monitors.
Accordingly, a new lead audit Companys statements on internal controls, before they partner was appointed in September 2010. areagreed by the Board for each years Annual Report.
Management is responsible for establishing and maintaining Audit Committee activities relating to internal audit adequate internal control over financial reporting for the The Head of Internal Audit attends all Audit Committee Group including the consolidation process.
The Committee meetings in addition to having regular meetings with the monitors the work undertaken by the Advanced Control chairman of the Committee.
At each Committee meeting, Environment ACE team whose focus ison the accuracy aninternal audit report is presented and discussed.
Inadecentralised Group, where local management has considerable autonomy to run and develop Throughout the year, the Committee reviewed the internal their businesses, Wolseley has a well-designed system of audit functions plans and its achievements against those internal control.
Thisis necessary to safeguard shareholders plans.
The Committee considered the results of the audits investment and the Companys assets and depends on undertaken by the internal audit function and considered the regular evaluation on the extent of the risks to which the adequacy of managements response to matters raised, Company is exposed.
including the time taken to resolve any such matters.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups internal The Companys systems comply with the guidance set out in audit function, including its terms of reference, its audit plans, the Turnbull Report Internal Control: Guidance for Directors its general performance and its relationship with the external on the Combined Code.
An ongoing process is in place for auditors.
This annual review was undertaken using guidance identifying, managing and evaluating the risks faced by the issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England Group, and the effective internal controls required to maintain and Wales and the Institute of Internal Auditors UK.
The Groups internal control systems are TheCommittee reviews key performance indicators relating designed to manage rather than eliminate business risk.
to theactivity of the department.
These reviews occur either These systems and their effectiveness have been in place for ateach Committee meeting, or annually when KPIs are the full financial year and up to the date on which the financial reviewed against the audit plan.
statements were approved, and are reviewed by the Board regularly to deal with any changing circumstances.
Audit Committee activities in relation to risk management and internal control The Companys whistleblowing policy, which supports theGroup-wide Code of Conduct, is monitored by the The Committee receives and reviews a risk management Committee.
All matters reported are investigated and, where report on a six monthly basis prepared by the Group Head appropriate, reported to the Committee, together with details ofRisk.
Such reports are presented to the Committee by of any corrective action taken.
A report which includes theChief Financial officer and summarise submissions statistics on the volume and general nature of all disclosures fromacross all areas of the business which the Executive made is submitted to the Committee quarterly.
During the Committee and senior management have reviewed.
year, the Committee reviewed the report at each meeting.
The chairman of the Committee then reports to the Board on The Group has international condential telephone reporting any matters which have arisen from the Committees review lines and a secure website reporting facility, which are of the way in which the risk management and internal control operated on its behalf by an independent third party.
processes have been applied and on any breakdowns in, or Thereporting channels are a condential means for exceptions to, these processes.
These processes have been employees to notify any concerns about actual or potential in place throughout the year ended 31 July 2011 and have breaches of law or Company policy, including in relation continued to the date of this report.
toaccounting, risk issues, internal controls, auditing issues and related matters.
A copy of the Groups Code of Further information on the Groups approach and how Conductis available on the Wolseley plc website at therisk management process works is set out in Risk www.
management and internal control on pages 38 to 43.
Michael Wareing CMG, on behalf of the Audit Committee
