How were doing Public Relations & Public Affairs Hill Knowlton Strategies Report by Jack Martin right Global chairman and chief executive officer During my first full year as Hill Knowlton Strategies global chairman and CEO, our worldwide team underwent a series of significant changes.
As part of these changes, we rebranded the company, reorganized our regional structure and created an effective talent initiative that not only recruits strong candidates but also grows our current talent from within.
During 2011, we took stronger steps to highlight our research and digital offerings which have helped grow our client base and established a stronger client service team.
Together, these changes amount to much more than the adding of a word or the changing of a logo: they mark the beginning of a new era of strategic communications that integrates consulting with a tradition of innovative public relations services.
I believe Hill Knowlton Strategies is leading the way for the industry.
During this year of transition, Hill Knowlton Strategies identified investments and priorities to enhance our companys success.
We created a new global position focused on client service across our network.
The new positions aim is client as global COO and brings deep expertise in crisis, corporate revenue expansion, and the retention and development of our reputation management, public affairs and marketing H K client leaders.
Over the last year, the value of our largest communications.
50 clients has grown 20% over budget.
With digital media increasingly becoming one of the We placed a strong emphasis and equal value on two core dominant new highways between traditional organizations constituencies: our talent and our clients.
Clients expect the and the public, H K took significant steps in growing its best talent, and our talent expects blue-chip clients.
Taking the lessons and best practices client service was complemented by our continued investment of the political world, in which a digital strategy is arguably in talent, ensuring that the best people are available for every the most important communications element, we sought client team, regardless of geography.
leaders in that space to join the firm.
Andrew Bleeker joined as global digital practice director after successfully running President Obamas online marketing operation during the Exemplary client service was 2008 campaign, and Rishi Saha joined the digital team in Australia, the Middle East, Africa and South & Central Asia complemented by our continued after running UK Prime Minister David Camerons digital investment in talent, ensuring that the communications office.
best people are available for every client Throughout our regions, Hill Knowlton Strategies has been chosen for numerous high-level campaigns for clients around team, regardless of geography the world.
In East Africa, Procter & Gamble appointed H K, along with the International Marketing Council of South Africa, to assist with maintaining the countrys momentum following To ensure that we are able to provide the best possible counsel its hosting of the World Cup.
In Asia, we represented Yue Xiu to our clients, H K Strategies invested in senior leadership in China and CJ-Jeil Jedang in Korea.
Other key new clients around the world.
In the US, Ian Bailey and Claire Koeneman, include the Department of Health & Aging NeHTA Australia who both have more than 20 years of corporate and financial and the Royal Canadian Mint in Canada, which named H K communications experience, took the reins in New York and as its agency of record.
Europe continued to bring in successful Chicago, respectively, and Dr Luis fide la Calle, the former clients such as P&G Global Olympics, SABIC, Brand South undersecretary for international trade negotiations in Mexicos Africa and Novartis.
The US, meanwhile, now represents Ministry of the Economy, joined as president of H Ks Latin Yahoo!, salesforce.
com, Americas Natural Gas Alliance, the America region.
On the global level, Cassandra Carr, formerly PGA and Aon Corporation in various client campaigns.
The the senior executive vice president of external affairs for AT&T, firms technology practice added new clients, including Adobe now serves as vice chair of talent and, finally, Ken Luce joined Omniture, Facebook, MSFT in India and Etisalat in the WPP ANNUAL REPORT 2011 65
