How we behave Directorsreport Review of the Audit Committee and associated fees are pre-approved by the committee, either as individual assignments or as aggregate amounts Report by Paul Spencer for specified categories of services.
All fees are summarised  periodically for the committee to assess the aggregate value of non-audit fees against audit fees.
The level of fees for 2011 is shown in note 3 on page 159.
Dear share owner In line with the committees responsibility to review and appoint the external auditors and approve their remuneration uring 2011, Jeffrey Rosen, Colin Day and Sol Trujillo and terms of engagement, in 2011 we monitored Deloittes were my colleagues on the committee.
independence, objectivity and performance with reference to D We held seven meetings during the year, which were frequent reports from Deloitte during the year covering the also attended by invitation for all or part of any meeting by overall audit strategy and the progress and results of the audit.
the external auditors, the Companys chairman, the Group The committee recommends the reappointment of Deloitte.
finance director, Bud Morten, the director of internal audit, Other work carried out by the committee in 2011 included: the Group chief counsel, deputy Group chief counsel and monitoring the integrity of the Companys the Company Secretary.
Preparatory meetings were also held financial statements and reviewing significant financial with the internal and external auditors as well as members reporting judgements: of the Companys senior management including the heads reviewing internal financial control and internal of the tax, treasury, legal and Group reporting teams.
audit activities: The committee received presentations from the heads of assisting the Board in meeting its responsibilities in internal audit, finance and treasury.
The committee also respect of reviewing and reporting on the systems and key received reports from the Disclosure Committee in relation elements of risk management as they affect the Group: to the Disclosure Committees review and work on financial reviewing the Group Treasury policy with particular reports.
The Board received regular reports on all matters focus on debtors, funding foreign exchange and cash of particular significance arising at the committee meetings.
management and the continued ability of the Group The committees terms of reference, which are reviewed to adopt the going concern basis in preparing with the Board annually and most recently in April 2012, financial statements: are available for inspection on the Companys website at reviewing reports on any material litigation or regulatory www.
com and are on display prior to and at all reviews involving Group companies: general meetings of the Company.
reviewing the Groups mergers and acquisitions strategy, During the year, the committee and its members were any significant acquisitions, due diligence procedures and formally assessed by the chairman of the Company for integration processes and the debt financing by the Group: their technical suitability to be members and also for its reviewing new business models proposed by overall effectiveness.
The Board has designated me as the Group companies: committees financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act reviewing the Groups Code of Business Conduct SOX purposes and as having recent and relevant financial and supporting training programs: experience for the purposes of the Combined Code and reviewing the Groups tax strategy and domicile: the UK Corporate Governance Code.
monitoring the accounting and legal reporting The committee has once again overseen the progress requirements, including all relevant regulations of the UK towards compliance with Section 404 of SOX for 2011, Listing Authority, the SEC and NASDAQ and the Jersey through regular status reports submitted by the internal Financial Services Commission with which the Company and external auditors.
must comply: The committee received and reviewed regular reports reviewing the procedures and supporting training on both our Right to Speak helpline, which is made available programs being implemented by the Group in response to our people to enable them to communicate confidentially to the UK Bribery Act and US Foreign Corrupt Practices on matters of concern and the actions taken in response to Act and increased regulatory focus: and those calls.
reviewing the Groups reporting systems and back office The committee has established a policy regarding nonintegration initiatives.
audit services that may be provided by the external auditors, I would like to thank my colleagues on the committee, the which prohibits certain categories of work in line with parent company executives and the external advisors for their relevant guidance on independence, such as ethical standards help in another successful year.
issued by the Auditing Practices Board and SOX.
Other categories of work may be provided by the auditors if it is Paul Spencer appropriate for them to do so.
The provision of such services 20 April 2012 108 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011
