How we behave Directors report Onceagain,   committees:PhilipLader, aschairmanofthe  Committee:PaulSpencer, aschairmanofthe AuditCommittee:andJeffreyRosen, aschairman .
Review of the Companys governance and the Nomination and Governance Committee Dear share owner record year, 2011, thanks to supportive clients, innovative strategy, award-winning creativity, and, especially, the talent and commitment A of WPP teams around the world.
Our long-term strategy geographic and product diversification and investment in digital and Consumer Insight businesses is paying off.
Recognized by the Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativitys first Holding Company of the Year Award, WPP maintains its leadership in advertising, as well as media investment management.
Yet it is now established that the Group is a comprehensive communications services company, with a powerful, increased focus on the power of proprietary data and analytics.
The operating teams superb day-in, day-out performance this past year was evidenced in continuing dedicated service to major clients, significant new business wins, disciplined expense controls, and innovative leadership in talent and treasury management, acquisitions and cross-company collaboration.
Central to these achievements, however, has been what my prior years reports have referred to as managements indefatigable entrepreneurship.
Calibration of such energies with prudent corporate governance continues to be among your Boards principal responsibilities.
We have therefore sought to exercise rigorous directors oversight, particularly emphasizing all aspects of risk WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 105 How we behave Directorsreport This was accomplished by frequent and candid exchanges of views with WPP business leaders, clients, government officials and securities analysts.
At every Board meeting, the Group chief executives Brand Check focusing on clients, talent and competitors enabled non-executive directors evaluation of both enterprise risk and management nimbleness in seizing opportunities.
To these efforts, a broad diversity of backgrounds, experience and perspective was brought by your directors: residents of, and educated in, Europe, the USs East and West Coasts and South, the Middle East and Asia, working across the globe in Asian media and advertising, Wall Street investment banking and investment management, the City of Londons pension fund oversight, international management consulting, private equity and angel investing, business education, manufacturing, consumer products and retail management, internet start-ups, government and non-profits.
Three non-executive directors were prominent Report by Philip Lader above businesswomen.
Most important, your directors are Chairman of the Company remarkably independent-minded.
and chairman of the Nomination The Board, and I personally, understand, but greatly  regret, the decision of our colleague, Lubna Olayan, not to stand for re-election.
The demands of her Saudi Arabianbased company as well as education, charitable, and other management.
Parent-company execution of our strategic commercial interests precluded, in her judgment, her ongoing objectives, as well as operating companies financial and participation with our Board, service which often occasioned creative performance, are closely monitored.
Industry, considerable effort and sacrifice on her part.
She has been finance and individual businesses indicators are regularly an exemplary director.
And we hope to enlist her informal reviewed and assessed.
We endeavour to aggregate and counsel for WPP and, in other contexts, to continue our optimize, preserve and enhance the Groups enormous prized relationships.
As to your Boards responsibility related to succession To these ends, we met, as a full Board or in committees, planning and management development, we continued last 24 times in 2011: regularly, as a Board, in Dublin, year to review the roles of some 200 senior managers and Washington and New York: but for first-hand understanding rising stars.
Given the size and complexity of some of the of WPPs African and Middle Eastern activities, we also met Groups operating companies which, if independent, in Cape Town with the Groups regional leaders and major would rank among the industrys largest, there is a large clients.
Innumerable times throughout the year, directors, and impressive pool of seasoned executives who are capable senior management, operating company leaders, professional of undertaking important new roles.
advisors and share owners convened.
And there continues We applaud Sir Martin Sorrells remarkable work and to be near-daily exchange of emails between directors, encourage his continued, vigorous and effective leadership.
the Group chief executive and me.
He and your Board, nevertheless, periodically and in several Throughout, our governance practices have been structured sessions, exchange candid, specific, current characterized by common sense: opinions about the candidates, internal and external, best with extensive briefings on new medias impact qualified to succeed him at some point.
I firmly maintain the on consumer behaviour, emerging trends in our industry, position, however, that lest public discussion of this subject rapidly-growing geographic markets, and economic foster speculation and distraction the content of these and financial market conditions: ongoing deliberations should remain strictly confidential.
by regular examinations of client services, personnel Throughout 2011, I participated in numerous corporate transitions and creative work, as well as internal financial governance conferences, seminars and studies, and it is controls, income statement and balance sheet issues, my belief that your Boards rigorous practices comply with, and integration of acquisitions: and or exceed, traditional and evolving standards applicable in refinement of our performance-driven remuneration to a worldwide enterprise of WPPs complexity and programs and evaluation of talent recruitment, development, entrepreneurial drive.
Moreover, your Board, particularly its motivation and retention.
senior independent director, our Group chief executive and I, 106 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 How we behave Directorsreport welcome substantive engagement with share owners on Our Company Secretary, Group chief counsel, countless governance, financial, compensation and other matters.
dedicated WPP team members and highly competent Notwithstanding such rigorous governance, this Board professionals provide essential, invaluable support to the continually tailors best practices to this specific organization.
We are privileged to represent share For example, we respectfully assert, contrary to some advisory owners and continue to be devoted to the mission and groups preference, that a directors independence should success of this extraordinary business.
be determined on a factual, rather than mere timeline basis.
With its scale and range of commercial activities, WPP benefits Philip Lader enormously from directors who have long experience with 20 April 2012 the organization and are actively engaged in the Groups governance: and their independence should be determined not by arbitrary standards e. g. nine-year tenure limitations, but on a case-by-case basis.
Continuity of directors and the chairman, in your Boards opinion, serve when reviewed formally and annually, as we do share owners best interests.
Any appearance of conflict with published governance guidelines are fully disclosed.
And to ensure that a majority of our share owners concur with these positions and review each directors performance annually, our directors terms are limited to one year, and the Group chief executive serves at will.
As to our committees, I attended all of the Audit Committees meetings in 2011 by invitation of its chairman and, with his consent, will continue this practice to stay fully abreast of the committees and our auditors findings.
The mission of what was formerly the Nominations Committee ranging from consideration of the Boards and committees composition, potential new members, directors potential conflicts of interest, each committees terms of reference, to the Boards thorough self-evaluation has been expanded to include overview of corporate governance and sustainability.
Participation of the Group chief executive, the Company Secretary and the Group chief counsel is invited at each of this committees meetings.
In 2011, the committee met formally twice, occasionally addressed committee matters as a sub-set of the full Board or non-executive directors meetings, and frequently conversed informally.
For the Boards review of its own operations, each director completed a confidential questionnaire and identified opportunities for improvement.
Separate conversations were then held between each director and either the chairman or the senior independent director, who also led the non-executive directors assessment of my performance as chairman.
From these findings, we continued implementing changes to enhance the Boards performance.
In each of these ways, and our general conduct, your Board seeks to comply with and throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2011, WPP plc did so or surpassed the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, NASDAQs rules, US Sarbanes-Oxley requirements and, where practicable, guidelines issued by institutional investors and their representative bodies.
We trust that, in all our undertakings, the independence of your Board is evident.
