How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Conflicts of interest Internal control The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to WPP operates a system of internal control, which is consider and, if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a maintained and reviewed in accordance with the UK director has an interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, Corporate Governance Code and the guidance in the Turnbull with the interests of the Company Situational Conflicts.
Report as well as Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities The Board has a formal system in place for directors to declare Exchange Act 1934.
In the opinion of the Board, the Company Situational Conflicts to be considered for authorisation by has complied throughout the year and up to the date of the those directors who have no interest in the matter being approval of this Annual Report and Accounts with the considered.
In deciding whether to authorise a Situational Turnbull Report and has also complied with the relevant Conflict, the non-conflicted directors must act honestly and provisions of the Securities Exchange Act 1934. in good faith with a view to the best interests of the Company The Board which receives advice from the Audit and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the Committee has overall responsibility for the system of internal authorisation, or subsequently, if they think this is appropriate.
control and risk management in the Group and has reviewed Any Situational Conflicts considered, and any the effectiveness of the system during the year and up to the authorisations given, are recorded in the relevant minutes.
In the context of the scope and complexity The prescribed procedures have been followed in deciding of this system, the Board can only give reasonable, not whether, and on what terms, to authorise Situational absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Conflicts and the Board believes that the systems it has in The system of controls is designed to manage, but may not place for reporting and considering Situational Conflicts eliminate, the risks of failure to achieve WPPs objectives.
For certain joint ventures and associates, WPP operates controls over the inclusion of their financial data but places reliance upon the systems of internal control operating within Share owner relations our partners infrastructure and the obligations upon partners boards relating to the effectiveness of their own systems.
The relationship with share owners, potential share owners The principal elements of internal control are and investment analysts is given the highest priority by described below.
The Company has a well-developed and continuous Control environment program to address the needs of share owners, investment institutions and analysts for a regular flow of information The quality and competence of our people, their integrity, about the Company, its strategy, performance and competitive ethics and behaviour are all vital to the maintenance of position.
Given the wide geographic distribution of the the Groups system of internal control.
Companys current and potential share owners, this program The Code of Business Conduct which is regularly reviewed includes regular visits to investors, particularly by the Group by the Audit Committee and the Board and was updated in chief executive, the Group finance director, the deputy Group 2011, sets out the principal obligations of all employees.
finance director and the head of investor relations, in the UK, Directors and senior executives throughout the Group are Continental Europe and the major financial centres in North required each year to sign this Code.
The WPP Policy Book America and also in Asia Pacific and Latin America.
The which was also updated in 2011 includes the Code of Company provides a preliminary announcement, an interim Business Conduct and human resource practices, as well as management statement at the end of the first and third guidance on practices in many operational areas.
Breaches or quarters which includes a trading update, an interim report alleged breaches of this Code of Conduct are investigated by at half year and a trading update and presentation at the the director of internal audit and the Group chief counsel.
The Group has an  helpline, Right The Company ensures that it has a proper dialogue to Speak, to enable our people to report issues that they feel with share owners and their representative bodies through unable to raise locally.
A number of issues have been raised executive and non-executive directors in relation to during 2011 through 42 calls to this helpline, all of which remuneration and corporate governance matters as and have been followed through and investigated where when appropriate.
The chairman provides feedback to appropriate and reported to the Audit Committee.
the Board on issues raised with him by share owners.
com, provides current and historical financial information, including trading statements, news releases and presentations and the Companys statement of its corporate governance practices.
110 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Risk assessment Control activities and monitoring Risk monitoring of all of the Groups operations throughout Policies and procedures for all operating companies are set the world is given the highest priority by the Group chief out and communicated in the WPP Policy Book, internal executive, the Group finance director, the chairman of the control bulletins and accounting guidelines.
The application Audit Committee and the Board, as it is essential to the of these policies and procedures is monitored within the creation and protection of share owner value and the individual businesses and by the Companys director of development of the careers of our people.
The Board realises internal audit and the Group chief counsel.
that WPP is a service company and its ongoing prosperity Operating companies are required to maintain and depends on being able to continue to provide a quality update documentation of their internal controls and service to its existing and potential clients in a creative, processes.
This documentation incorporates an analysis efficient and economic way.
of business risks, detailed control activities and monitoring, Identification, management and monitoring of together with controls over security of data and the provision sustainability risks including social, environmental and of timely and reliable information to management.
IT and ethical risks is fully integrated into the Groups risk financial controls are also included.
The internal audit department was responsible for reviews At each Board meeting, the Group chief executive presents and testing of the documentation and the relevant controls a Brand Check review of each of the business operations, for a majority of the Group during 2011, the results of which including an assessment of the risk in each business, providing were reported to the Audit Committee.
feedback on the business risks and details of any change in the risk profile since the last Board meeting.
Financial reporting The Brand Check covers such issues as: the possibility of the win or loss of major business e. g. as Each operating company annually updates a three-year a result of a change of senior management at a major client : strategic plan which incorporates financial objectives.
the addition or loss of a key executive of the Group: These are reviewed by the parent companys management introduction of new legislation in an important market: and are agreed with the chief executive of the relevant sustainability, including risks relating to marketing ethics, operating company.
privacy and employment: The Group operates a rigorous procedure for the political instability in an important market: and development of operating company budgets which build changes in accounting or corporate governance practice.
During the final quarter of each Each operating group undertakes monthly and quarterly financial year, operating companies prepare detailed budgets procedures and day-to-day management activities to review for the following year for review by the parent company.
their operations and business risks.
These are formally The Groups budget is reviewed by the Board before being communicated to the Group chief executive, other executive adopted formally.
Operating company results are reported directors and senior executives in monthly reports and monthly and are reviewed locally, regionally and globally quarterly review meetings and, in turn, to the Board.
by the business groups and by Group management on a Paul Richardson provides an annual assessment of consolidated basis and ultimately by the Board.
The results sustainability risks and performance to the Nomination are compared to budget and the previous year, with full-year and Governance Committee.
forecasts prepared and updated quarterly throughout the year.
The Board is firmly of the opinion that the monitoring of risk The Company reports to share owners four times a year.
is strongly embedded in the culture of the Company and of the At each year-end, all operating companies supply their operating companies, in a manner which the Board considers full-year financial results with such additional information as goes beyond the Turnbull recommendations and the requirements is appropriate.
This information is consolidated to allow the of Rules 13a-14 and 15 under the Securities Exchange Act 1934.
Group to present the necessary disclosures for International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS including International Principal risks and uncertainties Accounting Standards IAS.
The Disclosure Committee gives further assurance that The Board has considered the principal risks and publicly-released information is free from material omission uncertainties affecting the Group as at 31 December 2011 or misstatement.
and up to the date of this report.
These are described on pages 112 to 114.
As set out above, the Group has specific policies in place to ensure that risks are properly evaluated and managed at the appropriate level within the Group.
WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 111 How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Principal risks and uncertainties Issue Potential impact How it is managed Clients      ,  .
112 WPP ANNUALREPORT2011 How we behave TheBoardofDirectors Issue Potential impact How it is managed Financial  .
Mergers & Acquisitions   Business, legal,      andclientsneeds.
