64 Governance Corporate Governance Report Letter from the chairman Dear Shareholder I am pleased to present the Boards Annual Report on corporate governance.
I would like to reiterate my personal commitment and that of the Board to the continued maintenance of excellent governance across the Group and in ensuring the framework in place is meaningful, relevant and focused on our business.
This year we have heeded the Financial Reporting Councils FRC drive to cut clutter from governance reporting.
We have therefore sought to focus on what has changed rather than boiler plate disclosure seeking to cover all aspects of our governance framework.
We will still make available online more detailed standing information and, to that end, we have signposted where this information can be found throughout this report.
We hope investors and the governance community will support us in our endeavour to make the report more meaningful.
During the year the Board has particularly focused on the following areas.
Succession planning As we announced on 2 June 2011, Keith Clarke will retire as chief executive and director at the end of July 2011, having steered the Group back to being a high performing business, successfully navigated a world recession and charted the course for growth.
The Board and I are delighted to welcome Dr Uwe Krueger as his successor, who joined the Board on 14 June 2011.
We are also pleased that Keith will remain with the Group as director of sustainability and to assist with the development of our Middle East business.
This is an example of the proactive approach that we follow in succession planning throughout the Group.
This succession planning exercise is explained in greater detail in the Nomination Committee section of this report.
Expanded geographic footprint The transformation of the Group following our acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation in North America led to the restructuring of the business to follow a regional model.
In response to our new regional business model, the Strategy Group was formed and is now the principal body through which managerial responsibility is discharged.
Work to embed our systems and processes in the expanded Group, including our governance framework, continues.
Progress to date has been good and we are confident that the acquired business is operating within an appropriate control framework whilst this work is completed.
Shareholder engagement The Board engaged a third party to conduct an independent appraisal of shareholder engagement by the Company.
The results of this exercise were presented to the Board in June 2010 and additional resource was committed to enhance our existing investor relations activities.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Governance 65 For more information about our governance framework visit: www.
com investors governance Gender diversity The Board has led by example in driving diversity and, in particular, gender diversity within the Group.
I am pleased to report that women now comprise 22.2% of the Board.
The Boards focus remains on attracting the right talent and skills irrespective of gender or ethnicity.
Whilst none of the Strategy Group and only 4% of the Group Executive are female, women account for 11% of the senior management population and 27.7% of employees.
The Board recognises that this gender imbalance needs to be addressed and the Strategy Group has been tasked with doing so.
To this end, the Board will continue to dedicate time to consider diversity over the coming months.
Further information regarding the Groups approach to diversity can be found within the Human Resources Review page 47.
Best practice The Company was required to comply with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code adopted by the FRC in June 2008 during the year ended 31 March 2011.
In addition, the following report addresses the Companys compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code, which applies to the Company from 1 April 2011.
We have chosen to report on the requirements introduced by the UK Code to ensure the Group is operating in line with best practice.
With regard to the implementation of the UK Code, I can confirm that all directors of the Company will be subject to annual re-election with effect from the Annual General Meeting AGM to be held in 2011.
The externally facilitated evaluation of the Boards performance originally planned to be undertaken in 2011 has been postponed in light of the appointment of Dr Uwe Krueger as chief executive from 1 August 2011. Business conduct The Board believes in conducting the Groups affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in maintaining the highest ethical standards in its business dealings.
The Groups business conduct policy sets out the standards of behaviour we expect from our staff in our dealings with clients, suppliers, colleagues and other parties.
The policy was reviewed and refreshed during the year.
The Board also updated the Groups whistleblower policy to ensure it continued to support the business conduct policy.
A new multi-lingual, multi-jurisdictional service run by an independent third party was launched to enable employees and third parties to raise matters of concern in confidence.
Allan Cook CBE Chairman 15 June 2011 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction 66 Governance Corporate Governance Report continued Statement of compliance with the Combined Code and the UK Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2011 the Company complied with the provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code.
In addition, at 1 April 2011 and as at the date of this report the Company complied with the provisions of the UK Code.
Full details of the Groups governance framework are available on the Companys website www.
Leadership The Board is responsible for determining the long term direction and strategic aims of the Company within a framework of appropriate and robust controls.
Within this framework it has developed a matrix of delegated authorities to enable the efficient and effective operation of the Groups businesses, with operational management delegated to the chief executive.
In response to our new regional business model, the chief executive restructured the operational management of the Group to align operating activities with Group strategy.
The senior executive team now comprises the Strategy Group and the Group Executive.
The roles of the Strategy Group and Group Executive are explained in more detail in Our Strategy page 12.
The Board has retained control of a number of matters for its sole consideration.
The schedule of matters reserved to the Board includes: the consideration and approval of strategy general oversight of the Groups operations the Groups capital, corporate, management and control structures approval of financial statements and shareholder communications approval of dividend policy and interim dividends approval of Group policies implementation and monitoring of internal control and risk management systems significant contracts, acquisitions and disposals material changes to the Groups pension schemes.
Whilst the Board has specific responsibility for those matters reserved for its consideration, in certain areas, specific responsibility is delegated to committees of the Board within defined terms of reference.
The activities of these committees are discussed in more detail later in this report and their terms of reference are available on the Groups website www.
com or on request from the company secretary.
In addition the Board may delegate authority to a standing committee, consisting of any two directors, to provide the final sign-off for an agreed course of action within pre-defined parameters.
A summary of the agenda items discussed by the Board during the year is provided in table 1.
Table 1: Key matters considered by the Board during the year Theme Agenda items Financial reporting Approval of trading updates and interim management statements Approval of the full year results, 2010 AGM notice of meeting and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2010 Approval of the half year results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2010 Quarterly performance updates and business reviews Strategy Group strategy development, approval and implementation Acquisition and integration of The PBSJ Corporation and its subsidiaries Defined benefit pensions deficit Dividend recommendation and approval as appropriate Refinancing of the Companys banking facilities n. triple.
a joint venture and the creation of the strategic partnership in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Budget Budget for our North American acquisition for the six months to 31 March 2011 Budget for the Group for the year ending 31 March 2012 Business presentations Information services support function Safety maturity model M25 DBFO project Middle East business strategy Business of our North American acquisition UK Design & Engineering business UK Rail business WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Governance 67 For more detailed information about how the Board and its committees operate visit: www.
com investors leadership Theme Agenda items Governance Review of adequate procedures in connection with the Bribery Act 2010 the Bribery Act Approval of proposed new articles of association for shareholder consideration Governance framework review, including review of risk management and internal controls Approval of refreshed business conduct, whistleblower and other key corporate policies and committee terms of reference Revised operational management structure and the creation of the Strategy Group Conflicts of interest and annual review of authorised conflicts Shareholder Implementation of an American Depositary Receipts programme engagement Report from third party regarding shareholder engagement Updates from the executive directors on the views of shareholders following investor meetings Independent feedback from investor meetings from the Groups broker Employees Succession planning for the chief executive Review of the results of the 2010 employee engagement survey Succession planning for senior personnel and diversity Board Non-executive directors fees Outcomes of the 2010 review of Board effectiveness The membership of the Board during the year is shown in table 2 along with a summary of attendance at meetings of the Board and its committees.
Biographies for each of the directors are provided separately pages 58 and 59.
1, 2 Table 2: Board membership and Board and committee meeting attendance Audit Remuneration Nomination Director Board Committee Committee Committee Chairman Allan Cook Nomination Committee chairman 14 14 6 6 Executive directors Keith Clarke chief executive 14 14 6 6 Heath Drewett Group finance director 14 14 Alun Griffiths Group HR director 14 14 Senior independent director Admiral the Lord Boyce 14 14 7 7 6 6 Independent non-executive directors Fiona Clutterbuck 14 14 4 4 7 7 6 6 Joanne Curin Audit Committee chairman 14 14 4 4 6 6 Raj Rajagopal 14 14 7 7 6 6 2 Sir Peter Williams Remuneration Committee chairman 11 14 3 4 6 7 5 6 1.
Attendance is expressed as number of meetings attended number eligible to attend.
Sir Peter Williams was unable to attend certain meetings as he was attending meetings of the Review of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change to which he was appointed.
Lord Boyce chaired the meeting of the Remuneration Committee that Sir Peter was unable to attend.
During the year Allan Cook was appointed as a non-executive director of Marshall of Cambridge Holdings Limited, chairman of the Sector Skills Council for Science, Engineering and Manufacturing Technologies SEMTA, a member of the operating executive board of J. F. Lehman & Company, chairman of UK Trade & Investments Advanced Engineering Sector Advisory Board and chairman of SELEX Galileo Ltd.
He sought the approval of the Board for each of these appointments in advance of accepting them.
Allan continues to spend at least three days per week with Atkins, enabling him to commit the time necessary to carry out his responsibilities as chairman fully.
A more detailed statement regarding how the Board operates is available on the Groups website www.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction 68 Governance For more information about Corporate Governance Report how the Board ensures it is continued operating effectively visit: www.
com investors effectiveness Effectiveness Nomination Committee A summary of the key matters discussed by the Nomination Committee during the financial year is shown in table 3.
Table 3: Key matters considered by the Nomination Committee during the year Theme Agenda items Succession planning Executive and non-executive directors Senior management Board appointments Succession planning for the chief executive Election and re-election of directors in accordance with the Companys articles of association Chairmans external commitments Women on Boards report from Lord Davies Employees Diversity of employees within the Group, particularly with regard to gender diversity The Board has taken a proactive approach to succession planning.
In early 2010 the Board commissioned a market scan to identify potential candidates for the position of chief executive from within the Group, from Atkins immediate competitors and from other sectors and countries.
This positioned the Company well for the subsequent search for a successor to Keith Clarke, which was undertaken with the support of Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann.
The search for Keiths successor included consideration of internal candidates, several of whom have the potential in the longer term to undertake a role at this level.
At the first stage, the succession planning process included interviews with each member of the Board to identify and reach agreement on the challenges facing the Group in the next phase of its development.
This enabled the Committee to specify the skills, experience and capabilities required of a successor to the current chief executive and ultimately led to the creation of a detailed job specification.
This job specification was used as a template against which each candidate was assessed alongside a robust interview process, involving all members of the Board.
Information regarding the Committee, including its terms of reference, is available on the Groups website www.
Performance evaluation Allan Cook undertook a comprehensive evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors via private one-to-one meetings in late 2010.
The final report, prepared with the assistance of Richard Webster, the company secretary, was considered in detail at a meeting in early 2011.
The Board was content that its overall performance remained satisfactory but is not complacent and continually seeks to drive further improvement.
A number of improvements were identified in 2010 as outlined in table 4.
Table 4: Board performance evaluation observations Observation Action s Board focus Ensure the Board is able to focus on the right issues, Enhance the use of a rolling 12-month agenda to ensure the Board is able in the right level of detail and at the right time to devote its time to matters more effectively Succession planning Consider the approach to succession planning to ensure Maintain the focus on the Groups succession planning process which was it is sufficiently robust to meet the Groups needs commenced by the Nomination Committee, paying particular attention to diversity Shareholder engagement Continue to communicate our message effectively and The remit of the investor relations team has been reviewed and reinvigorated efficiently to existing and potential shareholders and the Board will continue to monitor shareholder engagement to ensure it remains effective The key findings of the performance review will be the subject of focus in the current financial year and progress will be considered as part of the next performance evaluation.
It is anticipated that the evaluation that was to be facilitated by an external third party in 2011 will now be undertaken next year.
WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Governance 69 The committees terms of reference may be viewed at: www.
com investors tor Commitment During the year all directors, particularly the non-executive directors, committed significant additional time to the Company.
This time was specifically dedicated to considering the acquisition of The PBSJ Corporation and the process to identify a potential successor to the position of chief executive.
It is expected that the internationalisation of the Group will continue to place increased time demands on the directors.
Development Allan Cook regularly reviews training requirements with each director.
The company secretary ensures suitable opportunities are identified.
During the year the directors have undertaken training on topics including directors remuneration, senior executive remuneration, corporate reporting, technical accounting, corporate governance, risk and assurance and the Bribery Act.
On joining the Board, directors take part in a formal induction process.
This includes the provision of past Board materials to provide background information on the Group, information on Board processes and governance, site visits and meetings with key employees.
The induction is tailored to each new directors specific needs.
Uwe Krueger is receiving a comprehensive induction programme, which commenced immediately following the announcement of his appointment.
Accountability Financial reporting Statements regarding directors responsibilities and the status of the business as a going concern are given in the Directors Report pages 62 and 63.
Internal controls The Board is responsible for reviewing and approving the Groups governance framework and ensuring its adequacy and effectiveness, as set out in the Turnbull guidance.
The Groups governance framework is illustrated in figure 1.
Figure 1: Governance framework The Atkins Group Board Articles of association Matters reserved Terms of reference Effectiveness review Group policies Business performance controls Approved strategy Business strategy reviews Quarterly business reviews Targets Monthly reporting Business management boards Project controls Commercial risk and audit framework Business management system Group authority matrix Service delivery process and procedures Project managers and directors Commercial procedures and guidance notes Operational risk reviews and logs Project summary reports Project audits Values and ethics WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Audit and risk Quality, safety and environment People Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction 70 Governance For more information about Corporate Governance Report our internal controls visit: continued www.
com investors accountability Our governance framework reflects the devolved and decentralised structure of the Group, which is considered a key part of the Groups ability to deliver multi-local services to its clients.
Under this structure authority and control are delegated from the chief executive to the regional managing directors each of whom are members of the Strategy Group, from them to the managing directors of the principal businesses many of whom are members of the Group Executive and then downward to business and project managers as appropriate.
Within this framework: authority is delegated within clearly prescribed limits decisions are escalated where either project size or risk profile require a higher level of authority activity and performance are tracked through monthly and quarterly reports effectiveness is audited via internal audit and self-assessment controls.
The governance framework is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve stated business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Following our North American acquisition, an integration programme was implemented to embed the Groups governance framework within the acquired business.
Work under this integration programme is ongoing and hence the governance framework described here is not yet fully operational.
Progress to date has been good and we are confident that an appropriate control framework is in operation whilst this work is completed.
Joint ventures in which the Company does not have overall control are not covered by the Groups governance framework.
For these joint ventures, systems of internal control are applied as agreed between the joint venture parties.
The Board monitored and reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups governance framework, which includes internal controls and risk management, on a continual basis throughout the year ended 31 March 2011 and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report.
Support was provided by the Groups Risk Committee, the internal audit function and the Companys independent auditor.
Audit Committee A summary of the key matters discussed by the Audit Committee during the financial year is shown in table 5.
Table 5: Key matters considered by the Committee during the year Theme Agenda items Financial reporting Judgemental issues regarding the results for the year ended 31 March 2010 including review of accounting policies Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the year ended 31 March 2010 Draft full year results and associated documentation for the year ended 31 March 2010 Judgemental issues regarding the results for the six months ended 30 September 2010 Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the six months ended 30 September 2010 Draft half year results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 September 2010 Plans for the preparation of the full year results for the year ended 31 March 2011 Internal controls Review of internal controls Internal controls within our North American acquisition Proposed whistleblower policy amendments and arrangements for employees to raise concerns in confidence Reports on whistleblower confidential hotline activity Further development of internal control systems Internal audit Conclusion of a comprehensive internal audit effectiveness review Internal audit outsourcing arrangement and new head of internal audit Consideration of internal audit plan for 2011 12 Regular reviews of internal audit findings Independent auditor Independent audit plan for the six months to 30 September 2010 and strategy for the year ended 31 March 2011 Review of the policy regarding non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Review of audit and non-audit fees paid to the independent auditor and its independence Recommendation regarding the reappointment of the independent auditor Approval in line with policy of non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Risk Annual review of the activities of the Group Risk Committee Review of Group risk log Latest guidance from the FRC regarding going concern and liquidity risks WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Introduction Reviews Governance Financial Statements Investor information Governance 71 For more information about our relations with shareholders visit: www.
com investors relations The Committee concluded a comprehensive effectiveness review of the Groups internal audit function during the year and appointed Ernst & Young EY to provide internal audit services to the Group excluding the business acquired in North America.
Since the end of the financial year, EY has also been appointed to provide internal audit services to the business acquired in North America.
The new arrangement seeks to ensure that the function is fully resourced, leading edge and able to draw on the resources and specialist expertise of the wider EY group.
An EY employee has assumed the role of head of internal audit.
The new head of internal audit met with key business and function leaders as part of a tailored induction to the Group to enable him to identify further improvements to the internal audit function and plan.
As a result of the outsourcing, the internal audit function now reviews rather than conducts the annual self-certification process undertaken by management.
This process requires managers throughout the Group to personally confirm the testing of the internal controls and compliance with Group policies within their business or function and the steps taken to address actual or potential issues that are identified.
Central reporting continues to enable good practice to be shared throughout the Group.
The independent auditor is currently  LLP PwC, who has acted in this capacity since the Company listed on the London Stock Exchange in 1996.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the independent auditor is working well and remains satisfied with its effectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to date to require the firm to tender for the audit work although it has considered its appointment on an annual basis.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of independent auditor.
The impact on independence, if any, of non-audit work performed by the independent auditor is considered regularly by the Committee.
Approval is required prior to the independent auditor commencing any material non-audit work in accordance with a Group policy approved annually by the Committee.
The policy identifies certain non-audit work that may be awarded with the approval of the executive directors, within certain limited financial parameters, and other work that requires the specific approval of the Committee.
Certain work, such as providing bookkeeping services, is prohibited.
The appointment of former employees of the independent auditor to positions in the Group is also regulated by the Committee.
The fees paid to the independent auditor for audit and non-audit work are detailed in note 5 to the Financial Statements page 107.
Approximately 84% of the non-audit fees incurred related to matters associated with our North American acquisition and it was therefore considered appropriate, in light of PwCs detailed understanding of the Group, to engage its services in this regard.
The Committee concluded that the level of the non-audit fees, which represent a value of 146% of the audit fees for the Group, did not have a negative impact on PwCs independence.
Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration Report pages 72 to 83.
Relations with shareholders The Annual Report, half year results and AGM are the primary means used by the Board for communicating with all Company shareholders.
The Board also recognises the importance of the internet as a means of communicating widely, quickly and cost-effectively and an investor relations section is provided on the Groups website www.
com investors to facilitate communications with shareholders.
We have enhanced our corporate governance disclosure online to ensure up to date, detailed standing information is available throughout the year.
For the first time this year we will call a poll for all resolutions considered at the AGM rather than voting on a show of hands.
This is to bring the Company in line with best practice and allows all shareholders, present in person or by proxy, to vote on all resolutions in proportion to their shareholding.
Details of the 2011 AGM are set out in a separate Notice of Meeting.
Approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by Richard Webster Company secretary 15 June 2011 WS Atkins plc Annual Report 2011 Investor information Financial Statements Governance Reviews Introduction
