com Corporate Governance report continued All items of capital expenditure including major organic projects and viii Further initiatives 92 acquisitions are submitted for approval throughout the year in accordance We are committed to the ongoing review and improvement of our policies, with delegated authority limits.
Capital expenditure submissions include systems and processes.
financial, technical and sustainable development evaluations.
Financial We have a control self assessment process in place through which analysis includes an evaluation of the projects net present value calculated the Chief Executive of each business unit is required to sign a Letter of on a life-of-mine project model using our latest quarterly macroeconomics Representation covering a wide range of topics at both the half-year and assumptions Group assumptions and a risk-adjusted discount rate which year-end, which are presented to the business unit audit committees and reects specic country and project risk: internal rate of return: payback any exceptions are interrogated.
period: and the commodity price at which the proposed project breaks even.
Sensitivity analysis on key value drivers is performed and for major projects Relations with shareholders this is often supplemented with additional risk analysis such as Monte Carlo Dialogue with shareholders simulation.
Major projects or acquisitions that require the approval of either Our Board places considerable importance on effective communication with our Chief Executive, Executive Committee or the Board are assessed in the shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, assisted by the context of whether the proposal is consistent with our strategic aims, our Executive General Manager of Group Strategy and Corporate Affairs, maintain operational capacity to execute the project within an acceptable risk a regular dialogue and series of briengs with analysts and institutional tolerance, and any Group funding constraints.
Project progress against investors throughout the year.
We also operate a structured programme of budgeted capital expenditure and project milestones is reported in the investor and analyst site visits.
Presentations are given by the Chief Executive monthly Group Management Report and discussed at both Executive and Chief Financial officer after preliminary announcements of both the Committee and Board meetings.
half-year and year-end results, and in the event of a major transaction or Procedures are also in place for peer review and the early involvement corporate event.
Care is taken to ensure that any price-sensitive information of independent technical experts to review and provide independent is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time, assurance on major capital projects.
Reviews are carried out after the in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the SIX project is complete, and for some projects during the construction period, Swiss Exchange requirements.
to monitor progress against plan: and major overruns and non-conformance Our Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders to hear any to sustainable development goals are investigated.
concerns that contact with the Group Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Acquisitions to complement our commodity business unit organic growth Financial officer failed to resolve or for which such contact was inappropriate.
strategy, and which are aligned to our overall Group strategy, are generally All shareholders can obtain access to the annual reports and other initiated and executed by business development teams with close current information about Xstrata through its website at www.
co-operation from the corporate centre.
The Operating and Financial reviews on pages 46 to 77 include a detailed v Treasury Committee report on the business and future developments.
A Treasury Committee operates as a sub-committee of the Xstrata Schweiz Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting AG Executive Committee.
It comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief All directors normally attend Xstratas AGM.
Shareholders are invited to Financial officer, the Group Treasurer and Group Controller.
The Committee ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors after the formal recommends Group policy, which is submitted to our Board for approval, proceedings have ended.
At the time of the listing in March 2002, relating to all aspects of funding, management of interest rate and foreign shareholders in the former Xstrata AG were informed that the Company exchange exposures.
It also coordinates relationships with banks, rating would offer shareholders the opportunity to attend general meetings in agencies and other financial institutions.
The Committee monitors all Switzerland where the head ofce resides, even though the Company was significant treasury activities undertaken by our business units to ensure incorporated and has its registered ofce in England.
Given this history, our they comply with its recommended policy.
Board continues to consider it is appropriate for the AGM to be held in Zug, vi Business Principles and Code of Conduct Switzerland.
A live and archived webcast of the AGM is also provided via We offer independent condential whistleblower hotlines in the countries Xstratas website.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with institutional in which we operate so that our employees, contractors or other and private investors and welcomes their participation.
At the AGM on parties can report any breach of our Business Principles and Code of 4 May 2011, the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Conduct including bribery, fraud or corruption.
The contact details are Nominations and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committees published in the Statement of Business Principles which are found at were present to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed www.
com sustainability policies businessprinciples at the AGM on 1 May 2012 can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Our Board has determined that voting on all resolutions at the AGM will be through a vii Group policies and Business Principles poll.
Each member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each fully All our businesses are expected to operate within the Board level authority paid ordinary share of which she he is a holder.
limits and the Group policies that govern inter alia: Statement of Business Principles: Code of Conduct: Sustainable Development: Corporate Social Involvement: Treasury: Group Risk Management: Bribery, Fraud and Board committees Corruption: Group Investor, Media and Public Communications: Data The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and HSEC Protection and Privacy: Inside Information and Securities Dealing: Committees are available on the Companys website at Information Security and Anti-Trust Competition Law.
com about management boardcommittee | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements The Audit Committee is responsible for providing our Board with a critical and 93 Audit Committee independent oversight of the Groups financial reporting and audit processes: reviewing compliance with the Turnbull Guidance, specically with reference Members to the effectiveness of our internal controls and risk management systems: Peter Hooley Committee Chairman reviewing and monitoring the independence of our external auditor and independent approving non-audit services: and reviewing our ethical standards of business behaviour, including bribery, fraud and whistleblowing procedures.
Claude Lamoureux independent All members of the Committee are nancially literate and the Committee David Rough independent Chairman, Peter Hooley, is considered by the Board to have recent and relevant financial experience.
Ian Strachan independent Our Chief Executive, Chief Financial officer, Group Controller, representatives of our external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit normally attend the Audit Committee meetings, but are not allowed to vote.
Invitations to attend Responsibilities: meetings may also be extended to other directors and managers.
To ensure During the year under review, the Committee: best practice across the Group, the chairman of each business unit audit committee and its chief executive are also invited to attend Audit Committee t reviewed the 2010 preliminary results and annual financial statements meetings on a rotational basis every other year.
The Audit Committee met and in so doing reviewed managements and the external auditors three times during the year ended 31 December 2011.
After each meeting, detailed reports thereon, the appropriateness of the Groups accounting the Chairman reported on its proceedings to the Board.
policies, its continuing as a going concern, asset impairment charges, litigation, taxation and other judgemental matters, and recommended A member of the Audit Committee also attends the meetings of the business their approval by the Board: unit audit committees to help promote a co-ordinated and consistent approach among the Groups audit committees.
t reviewed Related Party transactions for 2010, and the Ore Reserves and Mineral Resources Report for 2011 which was reviewed by an Following each Committee meeting, separate meetings were held by the independent expert to ensure consistency of reporting across the Committee with the external auditors in the absence of executive Group and with international standards: management, with executive management in the absence of the external auditors and with the internal auditor in the absence of executive t reviewed the 2011 half-yearly report in a like manner as the annual management and the external auditors.
financial statements: The Group has a specic policy governing the conduct of non-audit work by t reviewed the external auditors plan and scope for the audit of the 2011 the external auditors which ensures that we comply with the requirements of financial statements, and approved their remuneration and terms of the Combined Code, the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees and the Ethical engagement both for audit and non-audit work.
It agreed to increase Standards for Auditors published by the Auditing Practices Board.
The policy the financial limits for prior approval of pre-approved non-audit services is available on Xstratas website at www.
The auditors are at its meeting in December 2011 and also considered and approved the permitted to provide non-audit services that are not in conict with auditor engagement of the auditors in respect of non-audit assignments: independence and objectivity.
At each meeting, reports are submitted to the Audit Committee detailing any non-audit fees paid to the external auditors.
t recommended to the Board the reappointment of the external auditors A range of non-audit services have been pre-approved in principle by the following conrmation of their objectivity and independence, and a Audit Committee, however, where the fee for those pre-approved services satisfactory evaluation of their effectiveness: is likely to be less than $250,000, prior approval of the Chief Financial officer t reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal is required: where the fee is likely to be more than $250,000 but less than control systems, including the scope of and the results of testing of the $500,000 for such services, prior approval of the Chairman of the Audit systems by the internal auditors: at each meeting received reports on Committee is required: and where the fee is likely to be in excess of $500,000, findings and progress on recommendations are received, including prior approval of the Committee is required.
reports on the project management and delivery of major projects: Fees paid to our auditor for audit services, audit-related services and other t reviewed the roll-out and communication of the Group Policy on Bribery, non-audit services per service type are detailed in Note 10 to the financial Fraud and Corruption and the broader ethical behaviour Code of statements on page 145.
Our external auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, were Conduct, and the introduction of related training programmes, as well requested to provide certain non-audit services when it was concluded they as the role and scope of internal audit in this area: were the most appropriate supplier due to their knowledge of the business, efficiency, cost effectiveness and status as a leading rm for the specic t reviewed Groups treasury, hedging, tax and pension affairs and the services being requested.
structure and limits of the Groups insurance arrangements: The Audit Committee is supported and assisted in its work by separate audit t reviewed reports on ethics training and on whistleblowing and fraudcommittees for each business unit in line with the Groups decentralised related matters and their resolution: commodity business unit model.
The business unit audit committees are independent of the executive management of the business unit and are t reviewed the effectiveness of the internal audit function and approved chaired by suitably qualied individuals independent of Xstrata.
The terms the plans for 2012: and of reference of these committees follow those of Xstratas Audit Committee.
t conducted an assessment of its own effectiveness and all matters Meeting dates precede those of Xstratas Audit Committee and minutes of required by law, regulation and good corporate governance, including their meetings are circulated to Xstratas Audit Committee.
the duties and responsibilities delegated to it by the Board, were satisfactorily covered by the Committee.
com Corporate Governance report continued 94 Remuneration Committee Nominations Committee Members Members David Rough Committee Sir John Bond Committee Chairman from 4 May 2011 Chairman and member from 4 May 2011 Sir John Bond member from 4 May 2011 David Rough independent Con Fauconnier independent Sir Steve Robson independent Sir Steve Robson independent Ivan Glasenberg Non-executive member from 4 May 2011 and member until 4 May 2011 Willy Strothotte Chairman and member until 4 May 2011 Responsibilities Responsibilities The Remuneration Committee is responsible for considering and The Nominations Committee is responsible for reviewing the structure, determining all elements of the remuneration of our Chief Executive, size and composition including the skills, knowledge, experience and Chief Financial officer and members of our Executive Committee and diversity of the Board and making recommendations with regard to any for determining targets for any performance-related pay schemes.
At its changes: identifying and nominating candidates for election: evaluating meetings, the Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the the balance of skills, knowledge and experience and, in the light of this Board in regard to all elements of the remuneration for these individuals evaluation, preparation of a description of the role and capabilities after receiving independent advice on benchmarking and best practice required for a particular appointment.
and after taking into account general pay practices for all Xstrata The Nominations Committee considers candidates from a wide range of employees.
The remuneration of non-executive directors, other than backgrounds.
Nominations are based on merit but objective criteria, such the Chairman, is approved by our Chairman and Chief Executive.
as the benets of a diverse Board, are considered as well, as is whether The Chairmans remuneration is determined by the Remuneration the candidates have enough time available to devote to the position.
It Committee while he is absent.
also gives full consideration to succession planning for directors and other The Committee met three times during the year.
The Chief Executive senior executives, taking into account any challenges and opportunities attends meetings by invitation but does not participate at a meeting our business may face, and the skills and expertise needed on the Board of the Committee or during the relevant part at which any part of his in the future.
Directors potential conict of interest situations are also remuneration is being discussed or participate in any recommendation considered by the Nominations Committee and subsequent or decision concerning his remuneration.
recommendations made to the Board.
During the year under review, the Committee: During the year under review, the Committee: t determined bonuses for 2010 performance for the executive directors t reviewed a short-list for the appointment of a new Chairman and and members of the Executive Committee: subsequently making a recommendation to the Board for the appointment of Sir John Bond as a director and Chairman: t approved the Remuneration report for the 2010 Annual Report: t reviewed a succession plan and framework over the period 2012 t reviewed the fees for non-executive directors in 2011: to 2014 for the retirement and appointment of non-executive directors to ensure an orderly succession to the Board.
However, in the light t approved the number of share options and contingent share awards of potential developments it was recommended that it would be to be awarded under the Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP and the imprudent to lose the benefit of the experience and knowledge individual awards to members of the Executive Committee: of long serving directors who had knowledge of the Company t approved salary increases for members for the Executive Committee: since its otation, even though they may no longer be deemed independent, by replacing them on the Board in 2012: t determined the amount of the total award to be granted under the Xstrata LTIP in 2012: t reviewed the recommendations of the Davies Report with respect to the appointment of women to boards and agreed that the Company t consulted with and received feedback from major investors representing should aim to appoint one woman to the board at the 2012 AGM: and 52% of the share capital on the proposed design of a new Long Term approved of a statement to be posted on Xstratas website: Incentive Plan, in view of the expiry of the current LTIP in March 2012.
Taking the views of major investors and current UK market best practice t mandated Egon Zehnder International to commence a search for and into consideration, the Remuneration Committee agreed the principles to prepare a shortlist of candidates for appointment to the Board.
Prior to implementation, the proposed plan would be specified that candidates should have major project experience and or subject to further consultation with shareholders and ultimately to relevant country experience and that the short-list should include one shareholder approval at a general meeting: and or more suitably qualied women who t the criteria.
As a result of the approach from Glencore to merge Xstrata with Glencore, the t approved revised updated Terms of Reference of the Committee.
Committee agreed to defer the consideration of potential candidates Details of Xstratas remuneration for executive directors, benets, for appointment to the Board: share options, retirement benefit entitlements, service contracts and t agreed the format and process for the annual Board evaluation to be compensation payments are given in the Remuneration report on pages 96 conducted internally following the external evaluation undertaken the to 109.
A resolution to approve the Remuneration report will be proposed previous year: subsequently reviewed the summary of replies to the at the forthcoming AGM.
Board evaluation and directors individual comments: and received feedback from the Chairman on individual director appraisals: and t approved revised and updated Terms of Reference of the Committee.
com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 95 t monitored and evaluated reports on high potential risk incidents and the Health, Safety, Environment & Community Committee results of investigations into fatalities and other critical HSEC incidents.
Members There were 11 critical incidents during the year, including six fatalities.
Ian Strachan Committee Chairman This represents an increase from six critical incidents, including three independent fatalities in 2010: Mick Davis Chief Executive officer t approved the contents of the 2010 Xstrata plc Sustainability Report Con Fauconnier independent and noted that it fullled the requirements of the socially responsible investment community: Claude Lamoureux independent t reviewed the three core elements of the Xstrata Group Assurance David Rough independent Program i. e. Assurance of the annual Sustainability Report: sustainable development Standards Audit, and sustainable development Risk Audits: undertaken by Group Internal Audit : particularly reviewing the status of operationally focused sustainable development Risk Audits Responsibilities conducted by Internal Audit.
The Committee noted that the reports The Health, Safety, Environment & Community Committee HSEC is generally provided assurance to management and the Board that high responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the Board risk areas of the business are being managed appropriately and that an on the direction, appropriateness and effectiveness of our sustainable adequate control framework is in place: development strategy, management approach and governance, and t reviewed the integration and treatment of sustainable development in performance.
It also reviews the outcomes of all investigations into Xstratas Risk Management Framework and processes: fatalities and critical incidents and keeps the Board informed of new developments, trends and or forthcoming significant legislation on t members of the Committee undertook eld visits to the Koniambo sustainable development matters which may be relevant to our nickel project in New Caledonia and to Mount Isas copper and zinc-lead operations, its assets or employees.
Xstratas Sustainability Report operations in North Queensland to review key HSEC issues, performance for 2011, to be published in April 2012, provides a comprehensive and initiatives at those operations: and report on our sustainable development, material issues and targets, and its related activities and performance.
t noted the Companys leadership position in sustainable development in the mining sector.
Xstrata was named Resource Sector Leader for Basic During the year under review, the Committee: Resources in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexs World and STOXX t monitored and evaluated reports on the effectiveness of Xstratas Indexes, the fourth consecutive year that Xstrata has been named as the Sustainable Development Policy, Sustainable Development resources sector leader and fifth year that Xstrata has been included in Standards, sustainable development strategy and sustainable the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes of sustainability leaders.
development assurance: t reviewed Xstrata Coals sustainability strategy and performance, which Executive Committee included a focus on the Safe Coal Program and Rehabilitation of Land.
Members The Committee noted that the business unit faces unprecedented Mick Davis Committee Chairman challenges in many areas of its business vital to maintaining the social Chief Executive officer licence to operate: in particular on environmental issues related to climate change and land use: Trevor Reid Chief Financial officer Santiago Zaldumbide Xstrata Zinc t reviewed Xstrata Nickels sustainable development programme, which included a focus on safety initiatives and areas of corrective Charlie Sartain Xstrata Copper action and improvement, and on leadership and people management.
Peter Freyberg Xstrata Coal The Committee further noted that Xstrata Nickel had conducted a stakeholder perception survey with positive outcomes and confirmed Ian Pearce Xstrata Nickel that Xstrata Nickel holds a leadership position in the industry.
The Peet Nienaber Xstrata Alloys Committee also discussed major sustainable development issues, in particular biodiversity, health impacts from nickel exposure, and Benny Levene Chief Legal Counsel catastrophic risks: Thras Moraitis Executive General t reviewed Xstrata Alloys sustainability strategy and performance, Manager, Group Strategy and with a particular focus on safety.
The Committee noted the outstanding Corporate Affairs improvement of Xstrata Alloys safety performance over the last year, as well as innovative approaches to instruct and train people by means of Responsibilities new virtual reality training tools.
The Committee recognised that despite The Executive Committee is a committee of the Board of Xstrata Schweiz the challenges, Xstrata Alloys safety performance is well above industry AG, the main operating subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
The Executive Committee average, and Xstrata Alloys is considered an industry leader in South obtains its responsibility and authority from the Xstrata Schweiz AG Board Africa.
The Committee discussed key environmental and sustainability and is directly accountable to the Xstrata plc Board.
Other members of challenges facing Xstrata Alloys which include access to water, senior management are invited to attend Executive Committee meetings permitting for water usage and new mining areas, security of electricity as required.
The Executive Committee is responsible for implementing supply and issues relating to community engagement and social licence strategy, approval of matters consistent with its delegated levels of to operate: authority and overseeing the various businesses that comprise the Group.
It meets regularly during the year.
No meetings are held in the UK.
t reviewed the Sustainable Development Half-Year Summary Report noted that most of the high potential risk incidents involved surface mobile equipment and isolation and access:
