com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 97 Xstratas value creation Remuneration Committee Our approach towards remuneration plays an important role in retaining Members: and incentivising the current management team who have built Xstrata David Rough Committee Chairman from 4 May 2011.
Independent, into a major diversied mining company over the past decade.
Since our non-executive director and Senior Independent Director initial public offering in March 2002, we have transformed from a debtSir John Bond Member from 4 May 2011.
Independent, constrained $500 million company in 2001 into a $56 billion global mining non-executive Chairman of the Board major.
This growth has been accompanied by superior value creation for shareholders.
Since 2002, we have delivered total shareholder returns of Con Fauconnier Member from 5 May 2010.
Independent, some 340% compared to an average for the FTSE100 index of 58%.
non-executive Director We have maintained exceptional levels of retention across all senior Sir Steve Robson Member from 4 May 2011.
Independent, management a core objective of our remuneration policy throughout non-executive Director the past decade.
No Executive Committee members have left to join Willy Strothotte Retired 4 May 2011.
Immediate past Chairman competitors and we have over 90% retention at senior management level.
This low staff turnover is in shareholders interests, given the direct and Details of the Remuneration Committees role, meetings and activities may indirect costs associated with replacing experienced managers in the be found in the Corporate Governance report on page 94. highly competitive global mining market and in the context of Xstratas The Remuneration Committee receives advice on pay and conditions across ambitious organic growth strategy.
Xstrata from the General Manager Human Resources and Legal who also acts We believe our remuneration policy and approach incentivises as Secretary to the Remuneration Committee.
outperformance by executive directors and senior management and During the year, Hay Group provided independent advice to the aligns managements interests with your interests and mine as Xstrata Remuneration Committee on executive remuneration.
Hay Group also shareholders, where possible.
As ever, we welcome your feedback on our provides market information on remuneration for positions below Executive approach to remuneration, including the format and scope of this report.
Freshelds Bruckhaus Deringer provided legal advice on incentive plan rules and KPMG provided external validation of Total Shareholder Return and real cost savings performance.
Remuneration policy Our remuneration policy and practices aim to attract, retain and motivate the high-performing individuals we rely on to deliver our business strategy and create long-term value.
We believe that performance-related pay should David Rough incentivise exceptional performance and that rewards should be closely linked Remuneration Committee Chairman to and commensurate with performance.
Over 80% of the executive pay package is performance-related and therefore at risk i. e. the contractual obligation to pay is dependent on satisfaction of performance criteria.
For exceptional performance, potential pay levels are positioned in the upper quartile of the global mining industry and other global FTSE100 companies.
Performance is assessed on a holistic basis, taking into account a wide variety of factors that are aligned to the delivery of superior long-term returns to Xstratas shareholders and continuous and sustainable improvements in the underlying operating and financial performance of Xstrata.
t Individual performance criteria for annual bonus awards reect health and safety, environment and sustainability performance: financial performance in both absolute and relative terms: and the effective delivery of strategic priorities including the project pipeline, and various lead performance indicators.
The use of multiple factors ensures that bonuses cannot be earned on the basis of inappropriate or risky behaviour and avoids rewarding achievements against one or narrow objectives that come at the expense of performance in other areas.
t The value of long-term incentives is dependent upon both absolute and relative share price performance and vesting is subject to the satisfaction of stretching performance conditions as outlined below under Long Term Incentive Plan.
In the event that performance is below threshold, participants will receive no benefit from long-term incentives.
Pay arrangements are intended to remain in place, so far as is practicable, throughout the business cycle.
We have therefore avoided making frequent changes to incentive arrangements or performance metrics.
com Remuneration report continued In determining policy and practice, the key factors we take into account 98 Base salary include: Purpose t Attract and retain talented and experienced executives t the UK Listing Rules: from an industry in which competition for talent is t the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and associated extremely high guidance attached to it: t Reect the individuals capabilities and experience t the competitive environment for experienced personnel in the global t Reward leadership and direction of Xstrata on behalf extractive industries sector: of shareholders t the guidance provided by a number of institutional investor representative Policy t Reviewed annually with any changes effective bodies: and 1 January t feedback received from shareholders.
t Set at a competitive level benchmarked against We also take into account pay and employment conditions across Xstrata other global mining and major UK companies using when setting the remuneration of executive directors.
We do not believe a independent external data and ination statistics for ratio comparison between executive directors and non-Board employees is key mining markets appropriate.
A ratio comparison does not provide a useful measure of fairness t Consider the individuals skills, experience and or balance due to the vastly different costs of living in the countries where inuence over, and responsibility for, the success we have operations and uctuations in exchange rates.
However, on a regular of the business basis we assess the fairness and balance of our remuneration policies and practice internally and benchmark against our competitors in the various t The impact of any salary increase awarded on the value regions in which we operate.
In 2011, we assessed the remuneration of all of the total package is considered carefully prior to any Group and headquarters roles, including Executive Committee members, change being made with support from external consultants, to benchmark remuneration against t Ensure that our approach to pay is consistent from a global peer group and ensure that our approach to pay is consistent from executive level to support personnel executive level to support personnel.
Link to strategy t Protect and generate shareholder value through the retention and attraction of high-calibre individuals Risk t Enhance retention of key personnel to ensure management business continuity t Structured and policy-driven approach to Elements of remuneration conducting salary reviews The table below sets out a summary of the component elements of our remuneration policy for executive directors.
Salary review for 2012 Salary ination for staff in the mining industry is currently extremely high, with intense competition for qualied and experienced people driven by increased Total remuneration investment in the sector.
Across Xstrata, salary increases for employees were between 4% and 10% in most parts of the business, with increases in excess Fixed pay Performance related pay of 10% for a number of experienced mining, engineering, project manager and senior management roles.
Salary increases for executive directors are Short-term variable pay Long-term variable pay within the range of increases awarded across Xstrata.
Base pay Base salary effective Base salary effective Executive Long-term 1 January 2012 1 January 2011 Committee incentive plan Retirement benets Mick Davis 1,501,500 1,430,000 bonus plan Trevor Reid 815,000 750,000 Added value plan Other benets Santiago Zaldumbide 1,076,400 1,040,000
