com Corporate Governance report continued Appointment of directors Our directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys 90 The rules for the replacement and appointment of directors are set out in the expense to assist them perform their duties.
They have access to the advice Articles of Association.
Directors may only be appointed by the shareholders and services of our Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that of the Company by ordinary resolution and not by the Board of directors.
the Board complies with all governance matters and assists with professional Under the terms of a Relationship Agreement to which the Company is a party development as required.
with Glencore dated 20 March 2002, Glencore, as a significant shareholder Directors receive a tailored and appropriate induction when they join the of Xstrata, can nominate up to three directors or if lower or higher such Board.
There is also ongoing support and resources to extend and refresh number of directors equal to one less than the number of directors who their skills, and knowledge, and keep them up-to-date on our business.
are independent directors, provided that there is at all times a majority of We provide directors with regular updates and information about changes independent directors on the Board.
At present, Glencore has three and proposed changes to laws and regulations that affect the Group or its nominated directors on the Board, Ivan Glasenberg, Telis Mistakidis and businesses: there are special arrangements, including site visits, to ensure Tor Peterson.
they are familiar with our operations: and we offer opportunities for Re-election of directors professional and skills training.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors will Remuneration retire at the forthcoming AGM on 1 May 2012 and all directors will offer Our remuneration policy and practices aim to attract, retain and motivate themselves for re-election.
Following the appraisal of the non-executive the high-performing individuals we rely on to deliver our business strategy directors by the Chairman, the Board was satisfied that each directors and create long-term value.
We believe that performance-related pay should performance continued to be effective and that each director continued incentivise exceptional performance and that rewards should be closely linked to demonstrate commitment to the role, and recommends the re-election to and commensurate with performance.
of those directors standing for re-election.
The Board considered the independence of David Rough, Sir Steve Robson and Ian Strachan and was Our remuneration policy and practices are covered in the Remuneration satisfied that, notwithstanding the fact that they have been directors of the report on pages 96 to 109 and a description of the work of the Remuneration Company for a period in excess of nine years, they each continue to be Committee is provided on page 94. independent in character and judgement.
The Chairman and the other Board directors believe that our business should continue to benefit from Accountability and audit the experience and knowledge of all three directors with more than nine Financial reporting years service, in particular in view of the approach from Glencore in late 2011.
The Board is mindful of its responsibility to present a balanced and clear Discussions with major investors have also indicated no immediate demand assessment of the Companys position and prospects, and the Board is for change.
satisfied that it has met this obligation.
This assessment is primarily provided in the Chairmans statement, the Chief Executives Ofcers strategic review Further details about the directors standing for re-election, their skills and this year and the Operating and Financial reviews contained in this report.
experience, and their roles within the Group are given in the directors The statement of directors responsibilities in respect of the Group and biographies on pages 84 and 85.
Parent Company financial statements is set out on page 116.
New appointments to the Board Risk management and internal control A search for a new independent non-executive director to join the Xstrata General Board was conducted by the Nominations Committee during the year, Our Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the assisted by an international executive search consultancy.
The consultancy was significant risks the Group will manage in order to achieve our strategic given a mandate to prepare a shortlist of candidates with major project and or business objectives.
Every year, it reviews the effectiveness of our risk relevant country experience for appointment to the Board at the 2012 AGM.
management and internal control systems, which cover all material financial, The Nominations Committee instructed the consultancy to include one or operational, compliance, reputational and sustainable development risks, more suitably qualied women in the shortlist.
As a result of the approach in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
This review relies on assessments from Glencore to merge Xstrata with Glencore, the Board decided to defer undertaken by our Audit Committee supported by the commodity business the appointment of new directors to the Board for the time being.
Information and professional development An ongoing process has been established for identifying, evaluating and As part of the annual Board evaluation process, the directors expressed managing the significant risks faced by our business.
The Audit Committee satisfaction that the information provided in the Board papers is of the right reviews this process and the effectiveness of the system of internal control quality, format and length to allow a full understanding of all the relevant by considering the regular reports from management on key risks, mitigating issues with respect to the matters under consideration, and were satisfied that actions and internal controls, management representations and assertions, the Board is kept informed of all areas of major importance to the Company.
the reports on risk management and internal control from Internal Audit, The Board is provided periodically with reports on changes in UK laws and the external auditors and other assurance providers such as sustainable regulation, and Glencores nominated directors brief the Board on market development management.
The review excludes associates of the Group conditions and developments.
The Board is also kept informed through where Xstrata management does not have the ability to dictate or modify circulated monthly reports which include macroeconomic, financial, the internal controls of these entities.
operational and sustainability performance indicators and commentary.
com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements The principal aim of our risk management and internal control systems is Our approach to risk management is value-driven.
Its stated objective is to 91 the management of business risks that are significant to the fullment of ensure an environment where we can condently grow shareholder value the Groups strategic objectives with a view to enhancing the value of the through developing and protecting our people, our assets, our environment shareholders investment and safeguarding of assets.
Our internal control and our reputation.
Our risk management processes are thorough and robust systems have been designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of and an essential element of our approach to business planning.
failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not absolute Our corporate ofces and business units carry out a comprehensive annual assurance against material misstatement or loss.
risk review and update their risk registers accordingly.
Objectives in the A Risk Management and Internal Control Framework covers topics including business plan are aligned with risks, and a summary of the key risks, related the organisational structure, policies, philosophies and accountabilities, ethics, internal controls, accountabilities and planned mitigating actions are responsibilities and reporting.
It describes our risk management and internal appended to the business plan which is reviewed and approved by our control system in depth and allows this to be effectively communicated across Executive Committee and by the Board.
This document is updated annually to keep up-to-date with Progress against plans, significant changes in the business risk prole and the dynamic nature of our business and continuous changes in our structure.
actions taken to address controls and mitigate risks are reported at each Internal Audit is an important element of the overall process by which our business unit audit committee and Xstrata plc Audit Committee meetings, Executive Committee and Board seeks the assurance that risks are properly as well as to our Executive Committee and the Board, as and when necessary.
Risk-based Internal Audit plans, which are The output of the process has been reviewed by the Group and business unit prepared on an annual basis, are approved by the Audit Committee.
audit committees, and accords with the Turnbull Guidance.
We use external service providers to supplement our Group-wide Internal iii Information and financial reporting systems Audit function when we do not have the appropriate skills for specic projects The Groups comprehensive financial reporting procedures include detailed in-house.
This will become particularly relevant as we move into a phase of operational budgets for the year ahead and a plan for the following two years.
higher capital spend with an increased focus on project assurance which will A detailed updated Group forecast is prepared on a monthly basis and require us to employ independent engineers to work with our Internal Audit forecast performance is compared to the budget.
A detailed variance analysis team on major project management reviews.
is prepared comparing both forecast performance to budget and analysing Control environment movements in the forecast from month to month.
These forecasts and reports Our key established elements and procedures to provide an effective risk enable management to monitor performance throughout the year and to take management and internal control system are as follows: relevant and timely action.
i Organisational structure Comprehensive monthly management reports for each business unit and We have a well-dened organisational structure with clear operating on a Group consolidated basis, including updated forecasts for the year, are procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority.
We operate prepared and presented to the Executive Committee by the Group Controller.
The Board sets overall policy, but The Board receives monthly detailed consolidated management accounts, delegates authority to implement this policy to relevant business units and together with an executive summary from our Chief Executive.
Our business units are responsible for implementing iv Investment appraisal business plans within budgets approved by the Board and in accordance with Business units submit expansionary capital expenditure plans as part of the authorisation levels.
annual Budget and Planning process.
Budgeted capital expenditure includes The way in which we conduct our business, what we expect of our managers full development capital for approved projects as well as those that are highly and key accountabilities are embodied in our policies, our Statement of likely to be submitted for approval before the end of the following year.
Study Business Principles, Code of Conduct, Sustainable Development Standards and other related costs in relation to early stage projects are also included and the Board-level authority limits.
but full development capital expenditure is not.
Our overall Group capital expenditure budget and plan is reviewed and approved by both the Executive ii Risk identication and evaluation Committee and the Board.
The Board considers effective risk management as essential to the achievement of our objectives and has implemented a structured and comprehensive system across the Group.
The Group Risk Management Policy is published on the Xstrata website at www.
