com Chairmans statement continued Our sustainability policy framework aims to ensure all of our operations and to ensure that our principles and values are consistently applied wherever we 6 projects are managed to consistent, industry-leading standards, and includes operate around the world.
We rolled out a comprehensive Code of Conduct a rigorous third-party assurance programme to ensure our policies and during the year to provide additional guidance for our employees, contractors standards are being upheld.
Since joining Xstrata a year ago, I have been and partners on how to put our Business Principles into practice and including impressed by the extent to which our people display a genuine commitment specic training on preventing bribery and corruption.
to health and safety, environmental responsibility and mutually beneficial Sustainability information is integrated into our Annual Report.
We also partnerships with communities at every level of the organisation.
Indeed, I publish a separate Sustainability Report and provide detailed information have already seen several examples of Xstratas commitment to sustainability about our sustainability approach and performance on our website.
in action, including during my recent visit with other Board members to the Koniambo nickel project in New Caledonia and Mount Isa copper and zinc Robust corporate governance operations in north-west Queensland.
At Koniambo, I was impressed by the Our Board comprises 13 directors, including a majority of independent, range of environmental initiatives underway to conserve biodiversity including non-executive directors and we are committed to the principles of best the creation of a nursery for native species plants for rehabilitation and efforts practice in corporate governance.
to protect the marine environment.
At Mount Isa, the Directors had first-hand experience of the rigorous safety procedures in place before going At the AGM in May, Willy Strothotte stepped down as Chairman and underground and the efforts involved in ensuring our people are safe while non-executive director of Xstrata, after steering the Group through a period working at deep levels.
of extraordinary growth and value creation for shareholders.
In addition to my own appointment as independent, non-executive Chairman, Tor Peterson and Safety is, of course, the primary concern for our Board and management Telis Mistakidis were nominated by Glencore and elected as non-executive team.
Last year we achieved another substantial reduction in total recordable directors at the AGM, joining Ivan Glasenberg, Chief Executive of Glencore, injuries across the global operations and our safety performance ranks who has served as a non-executive director of Xstrata plc since 2002. amongst the leading companies in our industry.
This is a significant achievement, but I deeply regret to report that six people lost their lives while The directors of our Board have a broad range of experience and expertise, working at our managed operations during the year.
Any loss of life at our but as yet, we do not have any female directors.
We welcome the current operations is unacceptable.
We continue to investigate, analyse and address debate about the best method to increase the representation of women onto the root causes of actual and near-miss incidents, with the rm belief that we UK company Boards.
In the mining industry, women continue to be undercan achieve our ultimate objective of operating without injuries or fatalities.
represented generally and particularly at the most senior levels.
Across our business, we participate in a number of initiatives to encourage women and Broad-based community support for our activities is essential for the longother under-represented groups to join Xstrata and the mining industry, term success of our business and we engage openly with communities as through a combination of mentoring, leadership development programmes early as possible and throughout the life of our operations.
In 2011, we and supportive working practices and policies.
While there is still much to invested $109 million in direct community initiatives on a voluntary basis, achieve, we are starting to see increased participation by women in often in partnerships with local government, civil society and community management roles across the business and we are working to improve groups, to support health, education, community development and enterprise recruitment and retention of indigenous and historically disadvantaged development programmes in the communities in which we work.
people and other minority groups in the regions in which we operate.
We have recently further strengthened our commitment to the concept of At Board level, we aim to appoint the best candidates available, but we shared value, introducing a revised Mission statement and five core values recognise that it is important to have the right mix of skills, experience and that encapsulate the culture we want to promulgate throughout our company, a diverse range of viewpoints in our boardroom.
The principal criteria we use to appoint directors are an assessment of his or her capacity to make a significant contribution to Xstratas Board and his or her ability to enhance the companys ability to create value for its shareholders.
Given the importance of ensuring our selection process is broad and considers the full range of suitable candidates, we have instructed the executive search rms we are working with to include suitable female candidates on any shortlist for new non-executive directors and we hope to welcome a female director to the Board in due course.
