com Directors report continued US$500 million notes due 2037 US$3.0 billion multi-tranche notes 112 On 30 November 2007, Xstrata Finance Canada Limited issued $500 million On 3 November 2011, Xstrata Finance Canada Limited issued $800 million 6.90% notes due 2037, guaranteed by the Company, Xstrata Schweiz AG 2.85% notes due 2014, $700 million 3.6% notes due 2017, $1.0 billion 4.95% and Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited.
The terms of these notes require Xstrata notes due 2021 and $500 million 6.0% notes due 2041.
The notes are Finance Canada Limited to make an offer to each noteholder to repurchase guaranteed by the Company.
The terms of the notes contain change of all or any part of such holders notes at a repurchase price in cash equal to control provisions, in substance, identical to those set out in the referenced 101% of the aggregate principal amount of the notes so repurchased plus any US$500 million notes due 2037 above.
accrued and unpaid interest on the principal amount of the notes repurchased Xstrata plc Long Term Incentive Plan to the date of repurchase, if both of the following occur: The rules of our employee share plans set out the consequences of any i a change of control as dened in the terms and conditions of the notes change of control of the Company on employees rights under the plans.
of Xstrata: and Generally such rights will vest on a change of control and participants will become entitled to acquire shares or, in some cases, to the payment of a ii the notes are rated below investment grade by each of Moodys and cash sum of equivalent value.
Standard & Poors on any date from 30 days prior to the date of the public notice of an arrangement that could result in a change of control Articles of Association as dened in the terms and conditions of the notes until the end of the Our Articles of Association adopted by special resolution on 19 March 2002 60-day period following public notice of the occurrence of a change and amended by special resolutions passed on 9 May 2005, 6 May 2008, and of control.
5 May 2010 may only be amended by special resolution at a general meeting 600 million notes due 2015 of the shareholders.
On 23 May 2008, Xstrata Canada Financial Corporation issued 600,000,000 6.25% guaranteed notes due 2015 and 500,000,000 7.375% guaranteed Share rights notes due 2020 the 2008 MTN Notes.
The 2008 MTN Notes are guaranteed The rights and obligations attached to Xstratas ordinary shares are set out in by each of Xstrata plc, Xstrata Schweiz AG, Xstrata Finance Dubai Limited the Articles of Association, copies of which can be obtained from Companies and Xstrata Finance Canada Limited and were issued pursuant to the House in the UK or by writing to the Company Secretary.
Subject to the $6,000,000,000 Euro Medium Term Note Programme.
Companies Acts as dened in the Articles of Association, and without Pursuant to the terms and conditions of the 2008 MTN Notes, if: prejudice to any rights attached to any existing shares or class of shares, any share may be issued with such rights or restrictions as the Company may by i a change of control occurs as dened in the terms and conditions ordinary resolution determine or, subject to and in default of such of the 2008 MTN Notes : and determination, as the Board may determine.
ii the 2008 MTN Notes carry, on the relevant announcement date Ordinary shares of the change of control: Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, speak and vote at general a an investment grade credit rating is either downgraded to meetings of the Company, and to appoint proxies to exercise their rights.
a non-investment grade credit rating or is withdrawn: or Holders of ordinary shares may receive a dividend and on a winding up may share in the assets of the Company.
b a non-investment grade credit rating is downgraded by one or more notches or is withdrawn: or Deferred shares The holders of deferred shares have neither the right to receive notice of any c no credit rating and a negative rating event as dened in the terms and Company AGM or to attend, speak or vote at any such meeting.
The deferred conditions of the 2008 MTN Notes occurs, each holder has the option to shares have no rights to dividends and, on a winding up or other return of require Xstrata Canada Financial Corp. to redeem such 2008 MTN Notes in capital, entitle the holder only to the repayment of the amounts paid upon cash at the principal amount plus interest accrued to but excluding the such shares after repayment of the nominal amount paid up on the ordinary date of redemption.
shares, the nominal amount paid up on the special voting share plus the US$6.0 billion syndicated facility payment of 100,000 per ordinary share.
The Company may, at its option, On 24 October 2011, Xstrata Schweiz AG and the Company entered into redeem all of the deferred shares in issue at any time but subject to the a $6.0 billion multicurrency revolving syndicated loan facility agreement with minimum capital requirement of the Companies Act 2006 at a price not the banks and financial institutions named therein as lenders the Syndicated exceeding 1.00 for each share to be paid to the relevant registered holders Facilities Agreement and Barclays Capital acting as facility agent.
Upon a change of control, no borrower may make a further utilisation unless Special voting share otherwise agreed.
The majority lenders, as dened in the agreement, can also Certain rights, that are inalienable under Swiss law, have been preserved require that the Syndicated Facilities Agreement is immediately terminated in our Articles of Association by creating a special voting share that carries and declared that all outstanding loans become immediately payable.
weighted voting rights sufficient to defeat any resolution that could amend Alternatively, if the majority lenders do not require cancellation, but a specic or remove these entrenched rights.
The holder of the special voting share is lender does on the basis of internal policy, that particular lender can require the Law Debenture Trust Corporation plc which has entered into a voting that its commitments are cancelled and all amounts outstanding in respect of agreement with the Company, specifying the conditions upon which it is that lenders commitments shall become immediately payable.
entitled to exercise its right to vote.
The special voting share does not carry a right to receive dividends and is entitled to no more than the amount of capital paid up in the event of liquidation.
