com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements On termination of his professional services agreement, other than on 105 Other benets his voluntary termination or termination for gross negligence, Santiago Mick Davis and Trevor Reid receive private medical insurance, life assurance Zaldumbide is entitled to be paid a sum equal to 150% of his annual salary and housing allowance benets.
and his previous years bonus and any accrued basic salary and expenses.
Many of the Xstratas operations are located in areas not well served by Pursuant to a letter of appointment dated 18 March 2002 and subject commercial ight routes and therefore a company-leased aircraft is provided to the continuing existence of his agreement with Asturiana, Santiago for the purposes of business travel by Xstrata executives.
The Remuneration Zaldumbide is engaged as a director of Xstrata.
Santiago Zaldumbide Committee approved in 2008 the private use of Xstrata-leased aircraft for the receives no additional remuneration for his position as director of Xstrata Chief Executive for an agreed maximum number of hours per annum, subject and is not entitled to any compensation in respect of the termination of his to the aircraft not being required for work purposes by other Xstrata ofce as a director of Xstrata.
executives at the relevant time s. Income tax Xstrata policy permits the provision of short-term interest-free loans to Both Mick Davis and Trevor Reid are UK taxpayers and as such pay UK income any eligible employee, including executive directors, to cover periods when tax and, where applicable, National Insurance on their salaries, bonuses, employees suffer double taxation on any employment income because pension allowances, benets-in-kind and long-term incentives.
Santiago they are required to work in multiple jurisdictions and are unable to claim Zaldumbide is tax resident in Spain and as such pays income tax and other repayments or credits for such double taxation until a later point in time.
applicable taxes on his salary, bonuses and long term incentives.
Under the terms of his service agreement, Santiago Zaldumbide receives no other benets.
External appointments No executive directors held external directorships or ofces as at 31 December 2011.
Executive directors service contracts Mick Davis and Trevor Reid have employment agreements with Xstrata effective from 1 February 2002 for a xed term of two years, which have been Non-executive directors subsequently renewed as required for further two-year xed periods.
Fees for non-executive directors are set at the level considered necessary to obtain and retain the services of high-calibre individuals with the relevant skills The employment of Mick Davis and Trevor Reid may be terminated on and experience to bring added depth and breadth to the composition of the 12 months notice being given by Xstrata or the director concerned.
Non-executive directors fees are reviewed annually by the Chairman termination of their employment by Xstrata without notice or if Mick Davis and the Chief Executive in the light of fees payable to non-executive directors or Trevor Reid resigns in circumstances where they cannot in good faith be of comparable companies.
The review of non-executive directors fees for expected to continue in employment, including following a change of control, 2012 resulted in fees being held at the same level as applied for 2011. for example if there is a diminution in role or duties, each director is entitled to be paid a sum equal to 100% of his annual salary plus retirement benets, Non-executive directors are eligible to forego all or part of their directors other benets and his previous years bonus plus any accrued basic salary fees to acquire shares in Xstrata, after deduction of applicable income tax and expenses and to have all entitlements under his retirement benefit plans and social security contributions.
In line with best practice, the non-executive paid in accordance with the plan rules.
As both Mick Davis and Trevor Reid directors do not participate in any performance-related incentive or pension participate in money purchase arrangements, it is not expected that any allowance.
Non-executive directors do not receive expense allowances and significant additional liability would arise in respect of retirement plan any expenses are subject to the provision of receipts.
entitlements beyond that already accrued in Xstratas accounts.
For the There is no arrangement under which a director has agreed to waive future purposes of calculating termination payments, annual bonus is capped at emoluments nor have there been any such waivers during the financial year.
300% of annual salary which is in any event the maximum allowable under There are no outstanding loans or guarantees granted or provided by any the Bonus Plan.
Xstrata company to or for the benefit of any of the non-executive directors.
Santiago Zaldumbide provides his services to Xstrata under a professional Letters of appointment set out the duties and responsibilities of non-executive services agreement entered into between him and Asturiana on 23 July 2007, directors.
The key terms of the letters of appointment are set out in the pursuant to which Santiago Zaldumbide agreed to act as Chairman and table below.
Chief Executive of Xstrata Zinc.
This agreement continues indefinitely unless terminated by one of the parties on at least six months written notice.
The annual gross fee payable to Santiago Zaldumbide for the year ended Period of t In accordance with the UK Corporate 31 December 2011 was 1,040,000.
This annual fee is subject to review in appointment Governance Code, all non-executive directors line with the other executive directors.
Santiago Zaldumbide receives no will offer themselves for re-election at each retirement benets under the terms of his professional services agreement AGM but is eligible to participate in the Bonus Plan and the LTIP.
Notice period From Xstrata t At Xstratas discretion without notice From Director t 6 months notice Compensation for t No compensation for loss of ofce loss of ofce will be awarded
