|| Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.. xstrata.
com Strategic r Strategic review eview Perfor Performance r mance review eview Gover Governance finance Financial statements Financial statements Corporate Governance report 87 87 Chairmans letter At Xstrata, we recognise the leadership role of the Board in taking Board members receive ongoing support and resources to extend and responsibility for the good governance of the company, on behalf of its refresh their skills, knowledge and keep them up-to-date on our business.
As a company, we are fully committed to the principles of Directors visit Xstrata operations and projects on a regular basis to support the best practice of corporate governance and we comply with the UK our understanding of the business and meet operational management.
In 2011, Board members visited the following: t Xstrata Nickel operations in Sudbury, Ontario, Canada: The Xstrata Board t The Koniambo nickel project in New Caledonia: Our Board comprises 13 directors, with a majority of independent, nonexecutive directors.
The role of the Board is to approve the companys t George Fisher, an underground zinc mine in north-west strategy, ensure the appropriate policies and controls are in place to manage Queensland, Australia: the risks associated with achieving our strategy, set the standards of conduct that apply across the Group and consider critical business issues.
The Board is t Mount Isa Mines copper and zinc-lead operations in north-west also responsible for considering, challenging and, if appropriate, approving Queensland Australia: business plans, budgets, major investments and other decisions that require t Xstrata Coals Blakeeld South mine in New South Wales Australia: and Board level approval, within our dened schedule of authority limits and required approvals.
t Various community and social development initiatives local to our sites.
Our performance as a Board and on an individual basis - is evaluated Skills and experience each year, with an external evaluation undertaken at least every three years.
Xstratas Board includes directors with a broad range of relevant skills and Following an external appraisal in 2010, I led an internal evaluation of the experience.
We recognise that it is important to have the right mix of skills Boards performance in 2011, which included a questionnaire and individual and experience as well as a diverse range of viewpoints in our boardroom.
All directors were satisfied with the performance Our aim is always to appoint the best candidates available to our Board and of the Board in general, although we will be extending the time available for any director is appointed following an assessment of his or her capacity to committees of the Board to avoid time constraints impacting our discussions.
make a significant contribution to Xstratas Board and his or her ability to enhance the companys ability to create value for its shareholders.
Given the Merger with Glencore importance of ensuring our selection process is broad and considers the full The most significant issue before the Board in 2011 was a proposal received range of suitable candidates, we have instructed the executive search rms from Glencore, Xstratas largest shareholder, for an all-share merger of the two we are working with to include suitable female candidates on any shortlist for companies.
Following careful consideration, the independent directors of the new non-executive directors.
Board have unanimously recommended the proposal to shareholders.
We believe that the combined company represents an opportunity to create more value for our shareholders than Xstrata can achieve alone and the terms of the proposal are fair to Xstrata shareholders.
Our shareholders will continue to benefit from Xstratas growth projects, operational expertise and dynamic management team.
The proposed Board and management structure protects the interests of Xstrata shareholders in the combined entity and reects the earnings contribution of the combined group, which will be substantially weighted towards earnings from the industrial assets.
The rationale for the merger and further information relating to it is set out in the Chairmans Statement, Chief Executive Ofcers Strategic Review and in various documents available from our website.
