com Remuneration report We reviewed independent pay data including comparisons with global 96 A letter from the Remuneration peer companies and considered the scope of executive roles to determine executive salary increases.
In 2011, and particularly late 2011, most UK Committee Chairman oriented companies faced economic uncertainty as a result of the Eurozone crisis and, in many cases, this was reected in lower-than-ination salary increases.
However, as a global mining business with more than 95% of our Dear fellow shareholder revenues generated from operations outside of Europe, our challenges are different.
The demand for commodities remains strong and there is erce On behalf of the Board and the Remuneration Committee, I am pleased and growing global competition for mining employees, including to present the Xstrata plc 2011 Remuneration report.
The situation is exacerbated by a number of companies, including We have revised the format and content of this years report to improve Xstrata, having ambitious new mining projects around the world.
In the mining transparency and ensure information can be easily analysed and understood.
sector, average salaries for staff, management and executives in most regions In this report, we provide a clear explanation of our rationale for determining in which we operate rose between 4% and 10% year-on-year.
At Xstrata, the remuneration policy, annual awards and longer-term incentives.
overall weighted average salary increase for all personnel was 7%.
Salary increases for executive directors ranged from 3.5% to 8.7% and the weighted Our remuneration policy and practices aim to attract, retain and motivate average was 5.5%.
the high-performing individuals we rely on to deliver our business strategy and create long-term value.
We believe that performance-related pay should In early 2012, we determined annual bonus payments to executive directors.
incentivise exceptional performance and that rewards should be closely The overall bonus pool is determined by return on capital employed and net linked to and commensurate with performance.
profit, while individual performance criteria considers health and safety, financial, operational, environmental and people-related measures.
As a result, performance-related pay represents a significant portion of total pay for all managers across Xstrata.
For executive directors, at risk In a challenging business environment, Xstrata achieved excellent and, in performance-related pay typically represents more than 80% of total available many cases, record performance across such criteria.
We measure performance against a broad range of health and awards reect those achievements, including: safety, sustainability, financial and operational criteria.
We benchmark our t record operating EBITDA rose to $11.6 billion up by 12% compared remuneration against the global mining industry and our primary peer group, to 2010: as well as global FTSE 100 companies.
t record attributable profit of $5.8 billion, which enabled the board to increase the full year dividend by 60% to 40 US cents per share: Focus in 2011 Last year we, the Remuneration Committee, spent time consulting with t ten new projects and expansions were successfully commissioned on shareholders and shareholder representative bodies about designing a new time and budget to increase production volumes: long-term incentive plan, to replace the plan that expired in March 2012. t real cost savings of $391 million were achieved to continue an unbroken We also discussed the feedback from the 2011 AGM with major shareholders.
record of year-on-year sustainable cost savings since 2002: and We considered and approved executive salary increases against a background of heightened focus on executive pay and current market conditions for t total recordable injuries were reduced by 26% compared to 2010 global mining companies.
Finally, in early 2012, we determined executive to 5.2 per million hours worked, our lowest ever level.
In the territories bonus awards, based on Xstrata and individual 2011 performances.
in which we work, our gures are industry leading.
Our remuneration policy and practices aim to attract, retain and motivate the high-performing individuals we rely on to deliver our business strategy and create long-term value.
