com Corporate Governance report continued All items of capital expenditure including major organic projects and viii Further initiatives 92 acquisitions are submitted for approval throughout the year in accordance We are committed to the ongoing review and improvement of our policies, with delegated authority limits.
Capital expenditure submissions include systems and processes.
financial, technical and sustainable development evaluations.
Financial We have a control self assessment process in place through which analysis includes an evaluation of the projects net present value calculated the Chief Executive of each business unit is required to sign a Letter of on a life-of-mine project model using our latest quarterly macroeconomics Representation covering a wide range of topics at both the half-year and assumptions Group assumptions and a risk-adjusted discount rate which year-end, which are presented to the business unit audit committees and reects specic country and project risk: internal rate of return: payback any exceptions are interrogated.
period: and the commodity price at which the proposed project breaks even.
Sensitivity analysis on key value drivers is performed and for major projects Relations with shareholders this is often supplemented with additional risk analysis such as Monte Carlo Dialogue with shareholders simulation.
Major projects or acquisitions that require the approval of either Our Board places considerable importance on effective communication with our Chief Executive, Executive Committee or the Board are assessed in the shareholders.
The Chief Executive and Chief Financial officer, assisted by the context of whether the proposal is consistent with our strategic aims, our Executive General Manager of Group Strategy and Corporate Affairs, maintain operational capacity to execute the project within an acceptable risk a regular dialogue and series of briengs with analysts and institutional tolerance, and any Group funding constraints.
Project progress against investors throughout the year.
We also operate a structured programme of budgeted capital expenditure and project milestones is reported in the investor and analyst site visits.
Presentations are given by the Chief Executive monthly Group Management Report and discussed at both Executive and Chief Financial officer after preliminary announcements of both the Committee and Board meetings.
half-year and year-end results, and in the event of a major transaction or Procedures are also in place for peer review and the early involvement corporate event.
Care is taken to ensure that any price-sensitive information of independent technical experts to review and provide independent is released to all shareholders, institutional and private, at the same time, assurance on major capital projects.
Reviews are carried out after the in accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the SIX project is complete, and for some projects during the construction period, Swiss Exchange requirements.
to monitor progress against plan: and major overruns and non-conformance Our Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders to hear any to sustainable development goals are investigated.
concerns that contact with the Group Chairman, Chief Executive or Chief Acquisitions to complement our commodity business unit organic growth Financial officer failed to resolve or for which such contact was inappropriate.
strategy, and which are aligned to our overall Group strategy, are generally All shareholders can obtain access to the annual reports and other initiated and executed by business development teams with close current information about Xstrata through its website at www.
co-operation from the corporate centre.
The Operating and Financial reviews on pages 46 to 77 include a detailed v Treasury Committee report on the business and future developments.
A Treasury Committee operates as a sub-committee of the Xstrata Schweiz Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting AG Executive Committee.
It comprises the Chief Executive, the Chief All directors normally attend Xstratas AGM.
Shareholders are invited to Financial officer, the Group Treasurer and Group Controller.
The Committee ask questions during the meeting and to meet directors after the formal recommends Group policy, which is submitted to our Board for approval, proceedings have ended.
At the time of the listing in March 2002, relating to all aspects of funding, management of interest rate and foreign shareholders in the former Xstrata AG were informed that the Company exchange exposures.
It also coordinates relationships with banks, rating would offer shareholders the opportunity to attend general meetings in agencies and other financial institutions.
The Committee monitors all Switzerland where the head ofce resides, even though the Company was significant treasury activities undertaken by our business units to ensure incorporated and has its registered ofce in England.
Given this history, our they comply with its recommended policy.
Board continues to consider it is appropriate for the AGM to be held in Zug, vi Business Principles and Code of Conduct Switzerland.
A live and archived webcast of the AGM is also provided via We offer independent condential whistleblower hotlines in the countries Xstratas website.
The Board uses the AGM to communicate with institutional in which we operate so that our employees, contractors or other and private investors and welcomes their participation.
At the AGM on parties can report any breach of our Business Principles and Code of 4 May 2011, the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration, Conduct including bribery, fraud or corruption.
The contact details are Nominations and Health, Safety, Environment and Community Committees published in the Statement of Business Principles which are found at were present to answer questions.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed www.
com sustainability policies businessprinciples at the AGM on 1 May 2012 can be found in the Notice of AGM.
Our Board has determined that voting on all resolutions at the AGM will be through a vii Group policies and Business Principles poll.
Each member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each fully All our businesses are expected to operate within the Board level authority paid ordinary share of which she he is a holder.
limits and the Group policies that govern inter alia: Statement of Business Principles: Code of Conduct: Sustainable Development: Corporate Social Involvement: Treasury: Group Risk Management: Bribery, Fraud and Board committees Corruption: Group Investor, Media and Public Communications: Data The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nominations and HSEC Protection and Privacy: Inside Information and Securities Dealing: Committees are available on the Companys website at Information Security and Anti-Trust Competition Law.
