com Remuneration report continued Bonus awards for 2011 performance 100 The Remuneration Committee believes it was appropriate to pay maximum levels of bonus in respect of performance to 31 December 2011 in light of the exceptional performance achieved: t record operating EBITDA rose to $11.6 billion up by 12% compared to 2010: t record attributable profit of $5.8 billion, which enabled the Board to increase the full year dividend by 60% to 40 US cents per share: t ten new projects and expansions were successfully commissioned on time and budget to increase production volumes: t real cost savings of $391 million were achieved to continue an unbroken record of year-on-year sustainable cost savings since 2002: and t total recordable injuries were reduced by 26% compared to 2010 to 5.2 per million hours worked, our lowest ever level.
The table below sets out the bonus awards including deferred elements structured as nil-cost options granted to the executive directors for 2011 performance and compared with 2010.
The market value of a share on the date of the deferred bonus share award on 17 February 2012 was 11.94.
2 The market value of a share on the date of the deferred bonus share award on 18 February 2011 was 14.68.
Further details regarding the grant of nil-cost options in respect of 2011 performance is outlined in the table on page 107.
Long-term incentive arrangements Long-Term Incentive Plan LTIP Purpose t Align the financial interests of executives with those of shareholders t Incentivise the creation of absolute and relative shareholder value t Incentivise strong cost control t Provide a focus on long-term, sustainable performance Policy t Annual awards granted through conditional shares and market value share options t An aggregate value of 200% of salary awarded increased to 400% of salary in exceptional circumstances t Vesting is dependent upon pre-determined TSR and cost control targets over a three-year period t Awards that do not vest, lapse Link to strategy t Aligned to strategic measures cost control and to outcomes in terms of share price development and relative TSR Risk management t Share based awards ensure a focus on long-term sustainable performance and align management interests with shareholders t Market value option awards only provide a benefit to participants from future absolute share price growth, further aligning management interests with shareholders Term and Expiry t The LTIP was implemented in March 2002 and expired in March 2012 t Its rules will continue to apply for all outstanding awards granted under it t We consulted with a number of Xstrata shareholders and shareholder bodies throughout the fourth quarter of 2011 and received a broad range of views and comments on our proposals for a replacement LTIP.
On 7 February 2012, Xstrata and Glencore announced a proposed merger of the two companies.
If completed, a merger will obviate the need for a replacement LTIP to be implemented.
Consequently, while a revision to our proposed LTIP design was underway following the initial shareholder consultations, we have now postponed plans to consult with shareholders and representative bodies on our revised LTIP design t If for whatever reason, a new LTIP is proposed for Xstrata in the future, we will further consult with shareholders in advance Excludes exceptional items.
com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 101 Plan design Participants Executive directors and the other members of the Executive Committee and those employees with the ability to inuence shareholder value.
Style of award An award under the LTIP comprises a conditional award of shares performance shares and a grant of market value share options, the values of which are measured at face value for performance shares and at Black-Scholes value for share options.
Awards are structured to ensure an equal weighting between the value of performance shares and share options.
For the 2011 award, the value of one option was independently assessed as 36.4% of the market value of one share.
For the 2012 award, the value of one option has been independently assessed as 36.3% of the market value of one share.
Performance period Awards vest on the third anniversary of grant, subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions and other award terms.
Performance For executive directors, 50% of awards are subject to relative TSR performance measured against a bespoke peer group of conditions companies as shown below: t Teck Resources B t Anglo American t Korea Zinc t BHP Billiton t GMexico B t Impala Platinum t MMC Norilsk Nickel t Aurubis t Freeport-Mcmor.
t Rio Tinto t Alcoa t Vale t Arch Coal t Vedanta Resources t Eramet For the portion of the award subject to TSR performance there is zero vesting for below median performance, 50% vests for median performance and full vesting occurs for a performance ranking above the 80th percentile, with vesting between median performance and the 80th percentile assessed on a sliding scale basis.
The remaining 50% of the award vests subject to real cost-saving targets.
Annualised cost savings over the 3 year performance period equal to at least 1% of the operational cost base allow 10% vesting, 2% cost savings delivers 70% vesting and awards vest in full upon achieving 3% or more cost savings.
There is straight-line vesting between each of these points.
Real cost savings are measured in relation to operating costs after adjusting for the effects of ination, exceptional events items such as natural disasters, excluding depreciation, commodity price-linked costs, effects of currencies on translation of local currency costs and planned life-of-mine adjustments.
Other conditions for Awards vest or become exercisable in the event of a change in control, cessation of employment by reason of death, injury, ill release of award health or disability in each of which case they vest or are exercisable immediately and in full or retirement in which case they vest or become exercisable on the normal vesting date subject to satisfaction of the performance conditions.
No unvested awards will vest or become exercisable in the event of cessation by dismissal for cause.
com Remuneration report continued LTIP awards vesting during 2011 102 The table below sets out the level of vesting for executive directors for the 2008 award series under the LTIP which vested on 5 April 2011: % of real cost % of TSR Annualised savings Xstratas TSR element % real cost element Total % rank vesting savings vesting vesting 2008 award 13th out of 15 0.00% 3% 50% 50% Further details of vesting awards are set out on pages 108 and 109 of this report.
Outstanding LTIP awards performance The table below sets out the level of vesting for executive directors for the 2009 award series under the LTIP which vested on 13 March 2012: % of real cost % of TSR Annualised savings Xstratas TSR element % real cost element Total % rank vesting savings vesting vesting 2009 award 6th out of 17 38.89% 3% 50% 88.89% The table below sets out TSR performance ranking information for the 2010 and 2011 award series under the LTIP at 31 December 2011: Xstratas TSR rank % of TSR element vesting 2010 award 10th out of 17 0.00% 2011 award 10th out of 17 0.00% The extent to which the 2010 and 2011 awards may vest overall will depend upon Xstratas TSR ranking and the extent to which the real costs savings targets are met at the end of the respective performance periods.
Added Value Plan AVP Purpose t Incentivise Chief Executive by providing a share of the long-term value of Xstrata created for shareholders t Reward positive growth of Xstrata t Create alignment with shareholders by requiring the Chief Executive officer to maintain a share-holding of 350,000 ordinary shares in order to participate in the AVP Policy t Awards made to Chief Executive only t Last award made under this plan was in 2009 now closed to new awards t Performance measured by means of Xstratas TSR three-year for Phase 1 awards and five-year for Phase 2 awards growth relative to an index of global mining companies Link to strategy t Rewards growth in Xstratas value over and above that created by Xstratas peer companies Risk management t Reward deferral in shares ensures a focus on long-term sustainable performance and aligns management interests with shareholders t Extended performance period smoothes TSR performance | Xstrata | Annual Report 2011 | www.
com Strategic review Performance review Governance Financial statements 103 Plan design Participant The Chief Executive was the only participant of the AVP, which is now closed to any further awards.
Only the 2009 plan cycle remains open under the AVP.
Style of award Reward under the AVP is based upon the growth in Xstratas TSR over the relevant performance period relative to an index of global mining companies that form the TSR Index.
Performance Performance is assessed over periods of both three years Phase 1 and five years Phase 2 from the date of award.
period Performance At the end of a Phase 1 performance period, Xstratas TSR is calculated and compared to the TSR Index which determines the condition added value created for shareholders over the performance period.
If this gure is positive, it is multiplied by a participation percentage which is 0.3% for the 2009 plan cycle to calculate the Phase 1 base reward.
No payments will be made if Xstrata underperforms against the TSR Index.
There is a cap which applies to the calculation at the end of the Phase 1 performance period.
If the cap has been applied then the Chief Executive will become eligible for Phase 2 of the plan cycle.
At the end of the Phase 2 performance period, the calculation will be carried out in the same way as at the end of Phase 1, but only to the extent that performance exceeds the applicable cap.
The absolute value received by shareholders is higher when outperforming a rising market than outperforming a market which is static or falling.
Consequently, two modiers are applied.
Firstly, awards are adjusted in line with the Xstrata share price index.
Secondly, awards are adjusted in line with Xstratas absolute performance.
For the 2009 plan cycle, for absolute TSR of 25% or above, a multiplier of 1 will be applied: and for absolute TSR of -25% or below, a multiplier of 0.5 will be applied.
Between -25% and 25%, straight-line interpolation will apply.
Provided Xstratas TSR is at least equal to the TSR Index, the Phase 1 final reward under each plan cycle will be at least $1 million.
The TSR and share price indices are weighted by market capitalisation.
The comparator group for the 2009 open plan cycle comprises relevant global mining rms.
This group is identical to that used for the LTIP described above.
Terms of payment and 50% of the final reward for a phase of a plan cycle is payable in cash or in shares, as determined by the Remuneration Committee, deferral and other as soon as practicable following determination of the final reward for that phase by the Remuneration Committee.
Of the remaining conditions for release 50% of a Phase 1 final reward, 25% shall be deferred for a period of one year and 25% shall be deferred for a period of two years.
of awards Phase 2 is calculated over a five-year period, with 50% of any additional award paid at the end of that period and the remaining 50% deferred for a further year.
Deferred awards are indexed to the Xstrata share price over the period of deferral.
In the event of a change of control, all open plan cycles will vest immediately, subject to and to the extent of satisfaction of the vesting criteria at that time, save that the Remuneration Committee has discretion to remove the cap that would otherwise apply in the calculation of the Phase 1 return.
In the event of the Chief Executive ceasing to be an Xstrata employee as a result of death, ill health or disability, all open plan cycles will vest immediately, subject to and to the extent of satisfaction of the vesting criteria at that time.
The final reward under each open plan cycle will be calculated as if the performance period terminated on the date of cessation of employment.
In the event of the Chief Executive ceasing to be an Xstrata employee other than in the circumstances described above, all plan cycles will lapse and no payments will be made unless the Remuneration Committee in its absolute discretion determines otherwise.
In the event of a variation in the capital of Xstrata, the participation percentages may be adjusted in such a way as the Remuneration Committee determines.
