com Corporate Governance report continued Matters reserved for the Board 88 The UK Corporate Governance Code Our Board is responsible for: The Board is fully committed to the principle of best practice in corporate governance.
This report describes how Xstrata has applied the main principles t the governance of the Group on behalf of shareholders within a of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
We have complied with the framework of policies and controls that provide for effective risk provisions of the Code since 4 May 2011 following the retirement of Willy assessment and management: Strothotte, who, as Chairman, also chaired the Remuneration Committee.
t leadership and articulation of our objectives and strategy to achieve The UK Corporate Governance Code is available at www.
those objectives: and As well as complying with the UKs corporate governance requirements, t setting standards of conduct, as documented in an approved Statement our secondary listing in Switzerland requires that we also comply with the of Business Principles and a detailed Code of Conduct, which provide regulations of the SIX Swiss Exchange and Swiss securities laws.
an ethical framework for all our businesses.
Disclosure and transparency rules DTR The information required by DTR 7.2.
6 regarding share capital and the While the Board focuses on strategic issues, financial performance, risk Companys Articles of Association as set out in paragraph 13 of Schedule 7 to management and critical business issues, the Board also has a formal the Large and Medium-sized Companies and Group Accounts and Reports schedule of matters specically reserved to it for decision.
These reserved Regulations 2008 is included in the Directors report on pages 110 to 113. matters are documented in a comprehensive regime of authorisation levels and prior approval requirements for key corporate decisions and actions.
They include, but are not limited to, approval of budgets and business plans, Board governance major capital expenditure, major acquisitions and disposals, and other key The directors commitments, and are updated as required.
Certain powers are delegated by Our Board, chaired by Sir John Bond, has 13 directors, comprising three the Board to the Executive Committee which is a committee of the Board of executive directors and ten non-executive directors.
The three executive Xstrata Schweiz AG, the main operating subsidiary of Xstrata plc.
This directors are Mick Davis, Chief Executive, Trevor Reid, Chief Financial officer, committee and a description of its powers are described on page 95. and Santiago Zaldumbide, Chief Executive Xstrata Zinc.
David Rough, an independent, non-executive director, is the Deputy Chairman and Senior Powers of the directors Independent Director.
At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 4 May 2011, Subject to the Memorandum and Articles of Association, UK legislation, and Sir John Bond, Telis Mistakidis and Tor Peterson were elected directors of the any directions given by special resolution, the business of the Company is Company and Willy Strothotte retired from the Board and as Chairman of the managed by the Board, which may exercise all the powers of the Company.
There were no other changes to the membership of our Board The Articles of Association contain specic provisions concerning the power during the year.
Our non-executive directors possess a range of experience to borrow money and also provide the power to make purchases of any of and are of sufciently high calibre to bring independent judgement to bear the Companys own shares.
Directors have no existing authority to purchase on issues of strategy, performance and resources that are vital to our success.
Xstratas own shares but they are authorised to allot and issue ordinary shares.
These powers are exercised under authority of resolutions of the Company Our Board is satisfied that it met and continues to meet the requirements of passed at the AGM held on 4 May 2011.
The Notice of AGM sets out details the Code in maintaining an effective Board which is collectively responsible of the authorities the Company will be seeking at the next AGM to issue and for the long-term success of the Company.
allot ordinary shares of US$0.50 each.
Board balance and independence Board meetings Six of our non-executive directors excluding the Chairman are considered Five scheduled Board meetings were held during the year.
Details of by the Board to be independent of management and free from any business directors attendance at meetings of the Board and of its standing or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of their committees are shown below.
In addition, separate meetings were held with independent judgement.
The Chairman was independent upon appointment.
the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present, Ivan Glasenberg was nominated for re-election, and Telis Mistakidis and and without the Chairman, and by all the directors without the Glencore Tor Peterson were nominated for election by Glencore to the Board at the nominated directors.
There are four formally constituted committees of the Annual General Meeting under the terms of the Relationship Agreement Board.
The role and work of these committees is described in detail on pages dated 20 March 2002 between Xstrata and Glencore.
Ivan Glasenberg is the 93 to 95.
All Board and committee meetings are held in Switzerland.
Chief Executive officer of Glencore International plc.
The Board has considered these associations and considers that the industry expertise and experience of the Glencore nominated directors is beneficial to our business.
