Governance statement Babcock and Good Governance Combined Code compliance Good governance is not just a matter of having policies and The principal governance rules applying to UK companies listed procedures or ticking boxes: it must be part of our culture, the on the London Stock Exchange are now contained in The UK way we go about things almost without having to think about it.
Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code issued by I and my colleagues on the Board are committed to this culture for the Financial reporting Council the FRC in June 2010, but they Babcock in the interests of our customers, our employees and our apply for financial years commencing on or after 29 June 2010. shareholders.
The pages that follow describe the arrangements For financial years commencing prior to that date which is the that we use to underpin this objective and comply with formal case for the Companys financial year covered by this Annual governance codes, but good governance is an ethos, an attitude, Report the principal governance rules were those in the FRCs an approach often more implicit than explicit.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
Mike Turner CBE Chairman Except as noted below under the description of Board balance, the Board considers that the Company complied with the provisions The reports of the Nominations, Audit and Risk and Remuneration of section 1 of the Combined Code during the year under review.
Committees and the information contained or referred to in the It intends that for the financial year commenced on 1 April 2011 section Other statutory and regulatory information and the Company will comply with the provisions of the Governance Directors responsibility statement on pages 54 to 63 form Code and considers that it has been doing so since that date so part of our Governance statement.
Governance focus in the year to 31 March 2011 The Board and its Committees The table on page 50 summarises what the Board did this year.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for corporate governance, Inevitably, much of the Boards governance focus this year has been which it discharges either directly or through its Committees and on the VT acquisition, its integration and the delivery of synergy the structures described in the following pages of this Annual benefits.
Other matters accorded high governance priority included: Report.
business and management restructuring: Reserved matters and delegation succession planning: The Board delegates some of its powers to committees and certain management resources: Directors.
Matters reserved to the Board include: refinancing: strategy: IT transformation plans: budget approval and monitoring of performance: strategy: acquisitions and disposals: the impact of government spending plans and strategic reviews.
approving significant contracts outside the ordinary course of business: Expected areas of focus in the year to 31 March 2012 treasury and borrowing policy: and In the financial year that started on 1 April 2011, the Board will continue to focus its attention on the same priorities as mentioned ethical, social, health, safety, environmental and governance above, but will be paying particular attention to: policy.
strategic development: Committee terms of reference and other delegated authorities are formalised and periodically reviewed.
the challenge of increasing the rate of profitable revenue growth.
In addition to the principal committees of the Board the Risk: the Boards responsibility Remuneration Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Nominations Committee, each of which has its own report in The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for the Groups the pages that follow the Board from time to time establishes system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness.
committees to deal with specific matters on its behalf.
This was the More information on how this responsibility is discharged is to case, for example, in the past year when special committees were be found on pages 43 to 45 of this Annual Report.
established in connection with the acquisition of VT Group plc and the refinancing of part of the Companys borrowing facilities.
There is also a Finance Committee consisting of any two Directors, one of whom is the Group Finance Director, to approve borrowing, guarantees, treasury and related matters in accordance with its detailed terms of reference.
49 Governance statement continued Matters dealt with by the Board in the year to 31 March 2011 in addition to ongoing monitoring of operational and financial performance and matters delegated to the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nominations Committees included: Topic Areas of focus Health, safety and environmental Discussion of half-yearly reports.
The Chief Executive also informs the Board at its monthly meetings performance of any areas of management concern or attention and plans for ongoing improvement.
Monthly operating reports seen by the Board also contain commentary as to incidents and performance.
VT acquisition Preparations for the speedy and efficient implementation and integration of the acquisition from day one.
The acquisition and its terms were announced in March 2010, i. e. in the Management and business restructurings following the acquisition.
preceding financial year Risk mitigation in the integration process.
Plans to secure the synergy and other opportunities presented by the acquisition, and monitoring their progress.
The impact of the UK Governments The Board was kept abreast of and considered the implications of these reviews for the Company.
Strategic and Defence Review SDSR and the Comprehensive Spending Review CSR Strategy Reviewing and updating the Groups long-term strategic plans following the VT acquisition, the SDSR and CSR.
Order book and pipeline Monthly reports of the development of the Groups order book and pipeline and the outlook for them.
Business presentations Presentations from the heads of the new Defence and Security division and VT US on their businesses, management and strategic plans.
Presentation on the RSME contract operations.
Succession planning Presentation on the Groups succession plans for senior management following the VT acquisition.
Management and talent The Board was updated on the many initiatives underway further to improve management training development and development and the recruitment and development of graduates and apprentices.
Pension schemes Regular reports on the position as regards the Groups defined benefit schemes, their impact on the Group and plans to manage the risks presented by them.
Insurance The Companys strategic approach to insurance in the context of risk mitigation.
Financing The Companys financing needs for the VT acquisition and general business operations: options for and the terms of refinancing were reviewed and approved, with a special committee being established to oversee this.
IT The Board received presentations on the adequacy and integration of the Groups IT systems in light of the enlarged size and scale of operations of the Group following the VT acquisition and on a major programme to transform them.
Bribery Act The Board was kept informed of developments and plans for adequate procedures to meet the Acts requirements.
Board, Committee and Director The Board considered and debated the results of the evaluation reviews.
annual evaluation Tax The Board discussed the Groups approach to tax planning.
Budgets The Board reviewed the 2010 11 budget following the VT acquisition and reviewed and approved the budgets for 2011 12 and succeeding years.
Delegated authorities The Board reviewed these in light of the enlarged Group and changed business and management structures following the VT acquisition.
50 Board effectiveness and skills Refreshing of the Board The Board fully understands and accepts its responsibility for the Since 1 April 2011 and over the last three financial years, the success of the Company.
following changes have been made or, in the case of the current year, announced.
It considers that the Companys successful track record to date supports its view that it is effective in the discharge of its duties Year Board changes and responsibilities and that, as can be seen from the Director 2011 2012 Appointment of new Independent biographies on pages 46 and 47, it has a balance of skills, Non-Executive Director: understanding and experience directly relevant to the Groups Intended retirement of Senior principal customers and businesses and the political and commercial Independent Non-Executive worlds in which the Group operates.
The Board is satisfied that each Director: Director has the necessary time to devote to the effective discharge Change of Chairman of the Audit of their responsibilities.
The Board believes that the recent appointment of Ian Duncan 2010 2011 Resignation of Deputy Chairman: and the pending appointment of Kate Swann as new Non-Executive Appointment of new Independent Directors, with effect from 10 November 2010 and 1 June 2011 Non-Executive Director: respectively, add to the breadth and diversity of its outlook and the Appointment of two new commercial and operational experience and expertise available to it.
2009 2010 Retirement of Non-Executive Balance between Independents and Non-Independents Director: The Combined Code and the Governance Code recommend that Appointment of new Independent there should be a balance between Executive and Non-Executive Non-Executive Director.
Directors particularly Independent Directors and that at least half 2008 2009 Retirement of the Chairman: the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Appointment of a new Chairman: Directors determined by the Board to be Independent.
Appointment of new Independent The Company was, for a time, not compliant with the Combined Non-Executive Director: Code in this respect.
On 1 May 2010, Archie Bethel and Kevin Change of Chairman of the Thomas were appointed as Executive Directors to the Board.
As a result, the Board then consisted, disregarding the Chairman, of five Non-Independent Directors four Executive Directors and Chairman and Chief Executive functions Lord Hesketh and four Independent Non-Executives, leaving the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Independent Directors in a minority.
On 8 November 2010, Chief Executive, which is set out in a statement of their respective Lord Hesketh resigned as a Director.
On 10 November 2010, roles and responsibilities approved by the Board.
A copy of this is Ian Duncan became a new Independent Non-Executive Director.
available on the Companys website www.
Since 10 November 2010, the Board has been in compliance with the Combined Code and the Governance Code, in having five Senior Independent Director Independent Non-Executive Directors, four Executive Directors John Rennocks is, and was throughout the year, recognised by the and the Chairman.
Board as the Senior Independent Director to whom concerns can On 13 June 2011, John Rennocks will have been on the Board for be conveyed by shareholders if they have concerns which have nine years.
The Board nonetheless considers that, having announced not been resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief his decision to retire on 31 December 2011, his independence is Executive or Finance Director.
The Chairman looks to him as a not affected for the short period between June and his retirement sounding board and he is available as an intermediary between date and he will continue as a member of the Remuneration, the other Directors and the Chairman.
Nominations and Audit and Risk Committees and as Senior Independent Director until he retires at the end of December.
Group Executive Committee He will, however, step down from his position as Chairman of the The Group Executive Committee is not a formal Board Committee Audit and Risk Committee at the time of the Companys Annual and has no delegated powers as such.
It is made up of the Chief General Meeting in July when he will be replaced in that role by Executive, the Group Finance Director, divisional Chief Executives, Ian Duncan.
the Company Secretary and General Counsel and the Group Director of Organisation and Development.
It is also attended by the heads of the principal overseas operations.
It meets ten times a year and reviews and discusses all matters of material significance to the Groups management, operational and financial performance and strategic development.
Minutes of its meetings are circulated to Board members.
51 Governance statement continued Board proceedings Evaluation General The Board commissions an external Independent review of its effectiveness and that of its committees and members at least every The Board has at least ten scheduled meetings a year.
Additional other year, with an internally led review in the alternate years.
meetings to address specific matters are held as necessary: for The last external review was completed towards the end of financial example, in connection with major acquisitions.
An internal review was carried out in November The Chairman also discusses matters with Non-Executive Directors December 2010 by the Company Secretary by means of confidential without Executive Directors or other managers present.
one-on-one interviews with each Board member.
A summary of these interviews and the findings were then presented to the In addition to its regular meetings, the Board has at least one special Chairman and subsequently to the whole Board at a meeting at meeting each financial year to discuss Group strategy at length.
which the findings were discussed.
The evaluation found all Debate and discussion at Board and committee meetings is Directors to be performing satisfactorily and that the Board and open, challenging and constructive.
Directors regularly receive its Committees were functioning well and effectively.
presentations by functional and operational senior managers.
Information and training for Directors In the Board and Committee evaluation reviews, the Directors confirmed that they were satisfied with the timing and quality The Company makes arrangements for new Non-Executive of the information provided.
Directors to receive detailed business briefings as regards the Groups operations and arranges induction visits for them to the Board appointments the process Groups principal sites.
Ian Duncan has since his appointment in November 2010 visited the Groups Marine and Technology Appointments to the Board are led by the Nominations Committee.
operations in Bristol and Devonport, Support Services Education and It decides upon the desired candidate profile for the post in question Training operations in Berkshire and Defence and Securitys Royal and this frames the search for candidates with the objective of School of Military Engineering contract at Chatham.
He will be ensuring that there is the requisite balance of skills, independence making more visits in the current year, as will Kate Swann.
and knowledge amongst Board members.
Training for new Directors, when appropriate, is arranged with The process for the appointment of Ian Duncan and Kate Swann external providers.
General Director training that might be of as Non-Executive Directors was conducted with the help of potential interest or relevance to Directors generally can be independent external search consultants, as is the Boards normal arranged on request, for which the Company pays if necessary.
practice when seeking new Non-Executive Directors.
The promotion The Company Secretary briefs Board members about significant of Archie Bethel and Kevin Thomas to the Board as Executive changes in the law or governance codes affecting their duties Directors was discussed and approved by the whole Board.
Annual re-election of Directors Non-Executive Directors may at any time make visits to Group businesses or operational sites and Board visits are also made to Directors are normally reappointed at the first Annual General sites.
The Board held its June 2010 meeting at Chatham and will be Meeting following their appointment by the Board and the holding its October 2011 meeting at Rosyth.
Presentations on the Companys Articles of Association require them subsequently Groups businesses and specialist functions are made to the Group to offer themselves for reappointment at least every three years.
However, in accordance with the recommendations of the Governance Code, the entire Board will be submitting itself for Non-Executive Directors receive copies of all minutes of meetings re-election at this years Annual General Meeting and plans to do of the Group Executive Committee and of the principal divisional so in future years.
boards, together with copies of monthly divisional operating reports.
Non-Executive Directors are normally expected to serve, subject Change in Chairmans significant external commitments to re-election, a term of at least three years but their terms of appointment allow for either the Company or the Director to During the year there were no changes to Mike Turners significant terminate the appointment at any time.
The Board is satisfied that his external commitments have no impact on the discharge of his responsibilities to the Company.
52 Relations with shareholders In the year to 31 March 2011 formal contacts with shareholders, potential investors and analysts The Board is keenly aware of the importance of there being a dialogue with shareholders to ensure that the Board keeps abreast Contacts with shareholders, investors and analysts When of and understands shareholders views and opinions.
Letter from the Group Chairman and Remuneration May June It achieves this in a variety of ways: Committee Chairman to leading shareholders and 2010 follow-up meetings if requested on proposals for CEO the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Head of Investor remuneration Relations regularly meet institutional shareholders, potential Letter from the Chairman to leading shareholders July 2010 investors and analysts either individually or as part of group inviting them to meet him, should they wish to do so, meetings: and subsequent meetings communication with major shareholders on specific matters such 21 meetings with analysts Throughout as executive remuneration, where appropriate: 139 meetings with shareholders November there are presentations to or conference calls with analysts and and May investors at the time of announcement of results or major news: 2010 to provide more detailed knowledge of the Group, the Company Roadshow in the USA June 2010 arranges seminars, investor and analyst visits to Company sites and or contract operations: March 2011 investor relations reports describing investor and analyst opinions Presentations to investors from divisional CEOs December are provided regularly to the Board: 2010 and March 2011 the Chairman, in addition to any meetings initiated by major shareholders, sends leading shareholders an annual invitation Results presentations and conference calls May, to meet him, should they wish to do so, to discuss any matter.
September He reports on the meetings to the Board: and November at the Annual General Meeting, shareholders have the opportunity 2010, to raise questions with the Board in the meeting.
All the January and Companys Directors in office at the time attended the 2010 March 2011 Annual General Meeting: Annual General Meeting July 2010 Directors also make themselves available before and after the Extraordinary general meeting VT acquisition June 2010 formal general meeting to talk informally to shareholders, should they wish to do so: In addition to regular contact on a daily basis with analysts and shareholders responding to questions and requests for information.
the Companys website keeps shareholders abreast of developments.
It is regularly updated with press releases and analyst presentations.
Shareholders may register on the website to be sent news releases automatically.
