Report of the Audit and Risk Committee I am pleased to present the report of the Audit and Risk Committee Auditors independence for the year.
I would like to thank Committee members, the  LLP PwC has been the Companys external executive management team and our auditors, both internal and auditor since 2002, and Ernst & Young LLP have provided the external, for the open and honest discussions that take place at our internal audit service since 2003.
The Committee continues to be meetings and the importance they all attach to its work.
I shall be satisfied with the performance and independence of both auditors.
standing down as Committee Chairman in July and am sure that the PwC partners overseeing the Group and divisional level audits are new Chairman, Ian Duncan, will continue to enjoy this support in changed at regular intervals.
John Rennocks Fees are re-evaluated periodically and following significant changes Committee Chairman to the Groups size or structure.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Companys Committees role choice of auditors.
The table on page 56 describes what the Committee does.
Its formal terms of reference are available on the Companys website at Non-audit fees www.
co. uk The Committee regularly considers the engagement of, and level of fees payable to, the internal and external auditors for non-audit Committee membership work, considering potential conflicts and the possibility of actual Current membership of the Committee, and its membership during or perceived threats to their independence.
If their use would lead the year to 31 March 2011, is shown in the table on page 48 to non-audit fees in the year exceeding 20% of their audit fee, the of this Annual Report.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee Chairmans approval is required.
They are used for Committee.
Kate Swann will join the Committee when she takes non-audit services only if it is in the Companys interest to do so.
up office as a Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2011.
For example, it was entirely appropriate and in the Companys interest for the Company to retain PwC in connection with the Chairman preparation and or review of the public documents required for John Rennocks acted as Committee Chairman throughout the the VT Group acquisition, including a review of the Directors financial year and will continue to do so until 7 July 2011 when his working capital and going concern statements made in connection role as Chairman will be taken over by Ian Duncan.
with the transaction, the investigation and evaluation of the accounting policies and practices of VT and their reconciliation with John Rennocks is a former Finance Director of Corus Group PLC those of the Group.
This inevitably resulted in a significant level and sits or has sat on several other audit committees.
Ian Duncan of non-audit fees paid to PwC in the year.
was until June 2010 Finance Director of Royal Mail Holdings PLC.
He is a Chartered Accountant and his former roles have included What the Committee did in the year the position of Corporate Finance Director at British Nuclear Fuels and Chief Financial Officer and Senior Vice President The Committee met formally four times in the year to 31 March at Westinghouse Electric Company LLC in Pennsylvania, USA.
2011 and, on behalf of the Board, addressed the following Both John Rennocks and Ian Duncan are considered by the Board principal topics: to have the necessary recent and relevant financial experience for the role of Committee Chairman.
The Committee invites the Group Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller to attend its meetings.
Non-Executive Directors not sitting on the Committee are also welcome to attend.
The Group Risk Manager attends Committee meetings for discussion of Group risk reports and related items.
Ernst & Young LLP provides internal audit services to the Company.
 LLP is the Groups external auditor.
Both auditors usually attend all or part of the Committees meetings.
The Committee Chairman meets  LLP and Ernst & Young LLP in the absence of executive management, and other Committee members have the opportunity to do so.
55 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee continued Matters considered by the Committee in the year to 31 March 2011 Topic Action Financial results The Committee reviewed full and half year financial statements and related results announcements, having received reports from external auditors.
Those reports drew attention to material matters that require the exercise of a significant element of management judgement and commented on the approach being taken by management and possible alternatives.
These matters were discussed with management in the presence of the auditors before the Committee reached a view on the matters concerned.
The Chairman also met the auditors before significant Audit Committee meetings to hear their views in the absence of management.
Internal controls The Committee reviewed the Companys system of internal controls described on pages 43 to 45 and their effectiveness.
A particular area of focus in the year was on management plans for the early integration of the VT Group businesses into the internal controls system of Babcock International Group.
Fraud The Group Financial Controller reported to each meeting on fraud risk, covering any suspected incidents of fraud, their investigation and remedial or preventive action.
Audit plans The Committee reviewed and approved internal and external audit plans for the year or particular audits, and requested modifications to areas of focus or the timing of audit visits in light of the acquisition of VT Group and the start-up of significant new contract operations.
Internal audit Each meeting considered an internal audit report on findings from audit visits to business units, including follow-up reports on any matters identified in earlier reports as requiring attention or improvement.
The reports contain tracking information to enable the Committee easily to see the controls performance of business units over time and how quickly any matters are addressed.
Risk The Committee received regular detailed reports identifying areas of risk at business unit, divisional and Group level.
The reports assess and prioritise potential impact, describe the risk mitigation steps in place and the preand post-mitigation assessment.
The reports also contain a summary of key risks for the Group, tracking how those issues change over time.
See pages 39 to 42 for the risks currently regarded by the Board as key risks.
Whistleblowing The Committee received regular reports of calls to the external independent whistleblowing service and how they have been investigated and dealt with: it keeps the effectiveness of the arrangements under review.
Audit fees: fees for non-audit Audit and non-audit fees for the external and internal auditors were reviewed by the Committee services: auditor independence and considered as to their effect on auditor independence.
