72 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Dick Olver Chairman Dear Shareholders, These governance reports deal with how the Board discharged its We continue governance duties in 2011.
Being mindful of the different requirements that the users of these reports have, this section has been structured so that we begin with relatively short sections from myself and the toevaluate chairmen of the Board committees highlighting some of the key issues and activities in 2011.
Thereafter, we provide more detailed reporting ourgovernance that explains how we have applied the principles ofthe UK Corporate Governance Code, and also provides other information required by the provisions of the Code and the statutory and regulatory requirements arrangements for the reporting of directors remuneration.
againstour own There are three specific areas of governance that I would like to address: how we achieve effective board committees, boardroom diversity and business conduct.
experiences Effective board committees Executive remuneration has been subject to widespread debate andchanges recently, and part of this has focused on the role of remuneration committees and whether current UK governance structures, based on inbestpractice.
aunitary board, are effective in managing potential conflicts of interest.
With a unitary board, one group of individuals is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the company.
All chairmen are aware of the merits and challenges of operating a unitary board.
Many of us value the significant advantages that a unitary board has over a two-tier board structure.
A unitary board can engage more effectively with executive management in providing strategic direction and entrepreneurial leadership for a company.
However, in order to exercise effective oversight in situations when there are potential conflicts of interest, much reliance is placed on board committees formed of independent non-executive directors.
These committees, and the associated corporate governance practice that has evolved Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 73 over the last two decades, enables the unitary board to manage performing individuals welcome constructive feedback from their robustly the tension between having a single group of individuals peers as it is an essential part of achieving high performance.
Over capable of driving the business commercially and the need for the last six years we have refined our externally facilitated evaluation oversight of executive performance and associated rewards.
process, and I believe that it is not only a useful performance management tool but also an important part of the checks and Effective board committees are a core part of corporate governance balances in our governance structure allowing directors to raise and therefore it is worth analysing the checks and balances our concerns so that they can be dealt with in a timely manner.
governance regime provides: Diversity Membership in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance In last years report and accounts, I commented at length on the Code, our Remuneration and Audit committees are formed benefits of diversity in the boardroom and the steps we were taking to exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
Also, when we ensure that we have visibility of suitable candidates for appointment created our Corporate Responsibility Committee we wanted it to to the Board, regardless of gender.
Since then, Lord Davies report, have the same governance standards as these committees, and Women on Boards, has heightened awareness of this issue and consequently all of its members are independent non-executive ensured that it was an agenda item for many boards and nomination directors.
An important part of our Boards succession planning committees in 2011.
That was the case in BAE Systems and we were involves the membership of the committees and ensuring that we one of the first companies to make a public statement about our have individuals with the rights skills and knowledge to make sure aspirational target and the modest success we have had to date in the committees are effective.
This is particularly important when it increasing the diversity of our board.
comes to committee chairmen, and by way of example, in 2010, we recruited Nick Rose a former FTSE 30 finance director to the Board This is an area where board chairmen can drive change and one that in anticipation that he would succeed Michael Hartnall as chairman Iam happy to support.
However, the timescale over which change can of the Audit Committee, which he duly did in August 2011.
The be achieved must be realistic.
Change will need to be dictated by the Nominations Committee regularly reviews the composition of the natural pace of board succession.
As with any board, ours needs to be Boards committees and makes nominations to the Board on their of a certain size to be effective, beyond which it will start to lose its membership and chairmanship.
Likewise, the performance of the Board would be compromised if we were to simply force vacancies so as to provide Law and regulation the basic duties of directors are an important scope for greater diversity.
Good succession planning requires that element of the UKs governance framework.
The general legal change in board composition is managed so that a board is refreshed duties that directors owe to a company provide all directors with a progressively, with the fresh insight that new members bring being common set of legal obligations that underpins the important role complemented by the accumulated company knowledge and they perform.
Managing conflicts of interest is a core element of a understanding that longer serving directors provide.
That said, there directors legal duties under UK company law.
Training on the is much that can be done to facilitate progress in this important area management of conflicts forms part of our induction programme for and Lord Davies report has provided impetus for change.
Also, on an annual basis, supported by our board effectiveness review, the Board and Nominations Committee review Three of the current members of the Board are women, including one potential conflicts and the independence of the non-executive executive director, Linda Hudson, who runs our US business.
On pages 104 and 105 of these reports you will find the appointment of Paula Rosput Reynolds to the Board in 2011, 25% of formal report of the review of director independence, which is the Board are women.
Chairmen and boards can provide leadership in provided to shareholders to assist them when voting on the annual championing the benefits of greater diversity within businesses.
achieve real change we need to focus on the senior executive pipeline that ultimately leads to the Board and from which executive Disclosure and shareholder stewardship UK companies are directors can be drawn.
Importantly, it is from this pipeline, and those required to report to shareholders each year on governance of many other companies, that the majority of our future nonarrangements and other disclosure requirements either mandated executives will also be drawn.
by law or covered by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
On the basis of those reports, shareholders are in a position to exercise BAE Systems is fostering a culture of inclusion by investing in their stewardship responsibilities and make informed decisions inclusive leadership education and establishing a more flexible work when voting on the resolutions put to shareholders at the Annual environment for all employees.
We recognise that we can do more, General Meeting AGM including specific resolutions on particularly at the more senior levels, and to help achieve this remuneration and the re-appointment of directors.
In these reports members of our Executive Committee are mentoring high potential you will find 20 pages of information on directors remuneration.
women executives and increasing the diversity of participants in our The statutory requirements for remuneration reporting are lengthy global high potential development programmes.
In addition, when and detailed, plus we provide additional information requested by hiring and selecting for senior positions within the Company, we are shareholder bodies, and we review regularly best practice in this ensuring that candidate lists are appropriately diverse.
Finally, we are area and endeavour to evolve our reporting in line with this.
Such measuring our performance, with each business developing transparency is at the heart of how we as directors account to aspirational targets to increase gender diversity in their leadership shareholders for our stewardship of the Company and allow them ranks.
We undertake to report on progress against targets and action toexercise their stewardship when voting on matters such as taken in future years.
How we manage our long-term management resources to meet our Effectiveness review all of our committees are included in the future senior executive requirements is an area of activity that our Boards annual effectiveness review.
Such reviews are externally Nominations Committee has overseen for a number of years.
facilitated with all committee chairmen receiving feedback on the Diversity is an important part of this process and one that is reviewed performance of their committee based on interviews conducted with by the committee on an annual basis.
In addition, our Corporate all Board members.
These reviews provide regular and constructive Responsibility Committee is overseeing what we are doing to embed feedback to the committees to help them perform effectively.
High diversity and inclusion at other levels within the workforce.
Progress 74 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued against diversity and inclusion objectives will form part of the annual that the Company should address in order to be recognised as a incentive plan for senior executives in 2012.
As with all corporate global leader in ethical business conduct.
The Committee, chaired by responsibility objectives, the Committee sets the targets and, based Lord Woolf, issued its report in 2008 and the Board agreed to on performance during the year, makes recommendations on award implement all 23 recommendations contained in the report.
Over a levels to the Remuneration Committee.
three-year period the Company undertook a major programme to embed responsible business conduct into all aspects of the way it Recognising the role that the Nominations Committee is required to operates.
From a governance perspective, the Boards Corporate play in facilitating progress in the area of diversity, the Board agreed Responsibility Committee has played an important role in overseeing during 2011 that the Committees terms of reference should be progress in implementing the recommendations in the Woolf report.
changed to make specific reference to diversity.
During 2011, the Corporate Responsibility Committee reviewed in detail a report produced by Ethical Leadership Group, a leading global Extract from the Terms of Reference of the Nominations compliance adviser, on its independent audit of our business conduct Committee, as amended November 2011 programme and assessment of our progress to date in meeting the Duties Woolf recommendations.
Its report was based on a six-month in-depth Review regularly the balance of skills, experience, diversity review, including focus groups involving over 600 employees.
The including gender, knowledge and independence, and make report concluded that BAE Systems has a solid ethical business recommendations to the Board with regards to any changes programme including many best practice elements and some that it believes are necessary or desirable.
It also recognised that substantial progress has been made against the Woolf recommendations with Prepare a description of the role and capabilities required for well designed processes to ensure continuous improvement.
particular Board appointments having regard to the balance ofexperience, diversity including gender, knowledge and Boards set the values and standards expected by everyone involved independence of the Board.
with a company and, once set, they need to be diligent in ensuring that they are robustly applied.
This was recognised when the BAESystems Board looked at what it needed to do for its part in implementing the The Board has also agreed the following statement of its approach Woolf Committee recommendations and the results of this can be todiversity: seen in the various documents formally adopted by the Board.
A key element of this was ensuring that clear expectations are set with Statement approved at a meeting of the board of directors held regard to the responsible business standards expected of everyone on 15 November 2011 and, in recognising this, we added the following to our Board Charter: Board diversity BAE Systems is committed to maintaining a work environment Extract from the Board Charter, as amended 18 November 2009 inwhich a diverse range of talented people work together to Standards and values improve business performance and competitive advantage.
The The Board shall set global principles, values and standards and Board seeks to maximise its effectiveness by bringing together agree policies and processes to guide the affairs of the Company people with the right mix of skills, knowledge and experience.
in pursuing its strategic intention to become a leader in Diversity, in all its aspects, is an important element in the standards of responsible business conduct among global composition of a board.
Appointments shall always be made on the basis of merit and Board members shall be exemplars of the Companys values, seek to leverage the benefits of diverse talent.
With regard to principles and standards.
gender diversity the Board has agreed the following: In seeking candidates for appointment to the Board, the The Companys Code of Conduct, as agreed with the Board, is provided Nominations Committee shall only engage the services of to all employees and sets out the principles of business conduct that search consultants who have open and inclusive recruitment all employees are expected to follow.
processes that draw from an appropriately diverse pool of candidates.
Extract from the BAE Systems Code of Conduct, section 1.1, It shall have an aspirational target of at least 25% of the Board adopted 1 January 2010 being women by 2015.
As a company and as individuals we are committed to behaving Through its regular reviews of management resources it shall ethically in all aspects of our business.
Success depends on us oversee the effectiveness of the actions being taken by maintaining our corporate reputation and every employee has an management to ensure that the composition of the executive important role to play.
leadership team reflects the entirety of the management talent pool available within the Company and the wider market.
It shall support external programmes that seek to improve Paragraph 3.2.
2 of the BAE Systems Operational Framework gender balance at board level.
We have a Code of Conduct that sets out the standards to which It shall report progress against targets and action taken in the every employee is required to work.
Code of Conduct training for Annual Report and Accounts.
all employees shall be conducted on a regular basis.
All new employees shall receive a copy of the Code of Conduct and The Group supports management and educational programmes introductory training during their induction period.
All employees that are intended to increase diversity within the specialised shall have access to an independent method of raising an issue technical fields from which senior leadership is selected.
or concern through the Ethics Helpline and Ethics Officer network.
Business conduct The Code of Conduct shall be regularly reviewed to ensure it In 2007, the BAE Systems Board set up the Woolf Committee, which remains aligned with leading practice, at least every three years.
was asked to examine the ethical principles and practices underlying the Companys business and identify areas for further improvement Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 75 Responsible business behaviour starts with the people who run the Further details of the matters discussed above and our full company and therefore board succession planning has an important governance report can be found on pages 101 to 109. part to play in being a responsible business.
Again, this is captured in our Board Charter: Extract from the Board Charter, as amended 18 November 2009 People The Board shall be responsible for ensuring that the Company is managed by people with the necessary skills, experience and Dick Olver knowledge to deliver the Companys agreed business strategy Chairman and who demonstrate high standards of responsible business conduct.
The BAE Systems Board requires the Chief Executive to provide clear and visible leadership in responsible business conduct.
Ian King led the Woolf implementation process that has provided the Company with a solid business conduct programme, and the Board and the Corporate Responsibility Committee will be diligent in its ongoing oversight of this.
BOARD PERFORMANCE 2011 OBJECTIVES AND ACHIEVEMENTS 2011 objectives 2011 summary of achievements Strategy For the Company to be able to respond to changing market conditions and an ever-evolving Develop further the process by which the business environment, its longer-term strategy must be a topic of recurring examination, Board engages in the development of discussion and consultation.
In 2011, the Board held detailed strategy discussions at five strategy.
Board meetings and it agreed that at all future sessions it will include strategy as a standing item for consideration.
Succession planning and implementation The Board engaged with the Chief Executive in reviewing the development of senior executives Prioritise support for new Board members and appointments to key Group leadership roles.
The Board was closely involved in the process and long-term succession planning for key that led to the appointment during the year of the new Group Finance Director, Peter Lynas.
Board adopted a policy regarding diversity and it will continue to monitor progress against this.
Operational performance monitoring During 2011, the Board continued to benefit from senior operational executives attending Develop the programme of Deep Dives to meetings on a regular basis, thereby providing directors with a deeper understanding of the complement and validate KPIs and deepen Groups operations and performance.
In addition, directors made visits to various facilities directors understanding of the Groups and operations.
Risk and risk management The Board was briefed regularly on the work led by the Chief Executive reviewing the Monitor the development of crisis Companys Crisis Management Procedures, which included the use of a simulation management planning and the role of the exercise to evaluate their effectiveness.
Establish future The Board, with the assistance of the Corporate Responsibility Committee, continues to milestones after completion of the Woolf provide oversight of responsible business conduct within the Company.
This includes the Report three-year implementation review.
implementation of the recommendations in the report issued by the Ethical Leadership Group on its review of the implementation of the Woolf Committee recommendations.
Stewardship and UK Corporate Governance The Chairman and certain non-executive directors participated in meetings with major codes shareholders during the year.
In addition, the directors are provided with analysts reports Engage with shareholders as they and the results of an annual survey of shareholder sentiment.
implement the Stewardship Code and find ways to expose non-executive directors more directly to shareholders views.
Brand Work has started on the Companys brand narrative and will continue in 2012.
Given the Think about Brand in the context of the changing dynamics of defence budgets worldwide and the evolving nature of the strategic evolving nature of the business.
planning work outlined above, the Board will continue its discussions on brand in 2012.
BOARD PERFORMANCE 2012 OBJECTIVES Strategy Continue to keep strategy under review and support moves to adjust the portfolio of businesses where it is in the interests of shareholders to do so.
Succession planning Increase focus on matching succession and development to the strategic challenges of internationalisation, and the next decade of change in the business environment.
Performance monitoring Extract insight from the new segmentation of business results.
Culture and behaviour Implement improvements and observations identified in the Ethical Leadership Group report and the US monitors reports, and oversee progress against these at Board meetings.
Risk and risk management Continue to review the corporate risk register, including major programme risks and crisis management plans.
Board development Use deep dives to improve understanding of principal markets and other major business issues.
76 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Audit Committee report Nick Rose, Chairman Sir Peter Mason Paula Rosput Reynolds Overview The Committee is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the Audit both internal and external is naturally central to assessing Groups financial reporting, internal control policies, and procedures the effectiveness of financial reporting and internal controls, and in for the identification, assessment and reporting of risk.
It also turn, the effectiveness and quality of audit is of key importance.
monitors the integrity of the Groups financial statements, keeps the During the year, the Committee undertook a comprehensive review of relationship with the Auditors under review, including the scope, level the Auditors effectiveness and performance, including management and cost of non-audit services undertaken by them, and monitors the performance evaluation, independent client service review, future role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function.
audit strategy and fee benchmarking.
Having considered the output of this review, the Committee has recommended to the Board that it The Groups internal control framework, which is based on a set of recommend that shareholders support the re-appointment of the core processes developed over the years, is documented in the Auditors at the 2012 AGM.
Operational Framework and forms the bedrock of the Groups governance processes.
The Committee reviewed, twice during the The Committee also reviewed the effectiveness of the Internal Audit year, the results of the Groups Operational Assurance Statement function during the year, seeking input from key stakeholders within OAS process, through which senior managers across the Group the Group, as well as the views of the external Auditors, and has report on the quality of their businesses implementation of, and concluded that the Internal Audit function continues to remain compliance with, the policies mandated in the Operational effective.
The Committee has agreed the appointment of a new head Framework.
As part of this process, the Committee also reviewed of Internal Audit who will succeed the current incumbent when he theoutput from the OAS process that requires senior managers to retires at the end of the first quarter of 2012. evaluate, identify and report on significant risks to the delivery of Nick Rose, Audit Committee Chairman their business plans, and to report on the status of plans to mitigate such risks.
The Committee derives value from discussing issues directly with operational management, as well as seeing at first hand a practical demonstration of the Groups core control processes, and risk identification and risk mitigation processes.
To this end, the Committee met with senior management in the Groups Electronic Systems business as part of a US site visit undertaken by the Committee in 2011.
Principal activities Internal controls and risk Agreed the internal audit programme for 2011.
Considered reports from the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, Appointed a successor to the current head of Internal Audit.
and the Groups Internal Audit function on work undertaken in Reviewed output from, and considered progress against, the reviewing and auditing the control environment, to assess the internal audit programme twice during the year.
quality and effectiveness of the internal control system.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit function.
Reviewed, twice in the year, the results of the Groups OAS The Auditors process, the Groups internal controls framework.
Agreed the approach and scope of the audit work to be undertaken Reviewed the output from the OAS process that requires by the Auditors.
managers to evaluate, identify and report on significant risks to Reviewed with the Auditors the findings of their work.
the delivery of their business plans, and to report on the status of Reviewed the Groups processes for disclosing information to the plans to mitigate such risks.
Auditors and the related statement in the Annual Report.
Assessed the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and Agreed the fees payable in respect of the 2011 audit work.
reviewed the related disclosures in the Annual Report.
Reviewed the nature and cost of non-audit work undertaken in Financial reporting 2011.
Reviewed the financial statements and the significant financial Undertook a review of the effectiveness and performance of the reporting judgements contained within them.
Auditors which formed part of a wider review of external audit Reviewed liquidity risk and the basis for preparing the Group performance and effectiveness undertaken by the Committee on accounts on a going concern basis.
Reviewed the financial statements in the 2010 and 2011 Annual Received confirmation from the Auditors regarding their Reports, and the 2011 Half-yearly Report, and received a report independence.
from the Auditors on the statements.
Internal audit Agreed with the Corporate Responsibility Committee a programme of internal audit work aimed at assessing the effectiveness of policies and processes relating to key areas of ethical and reputational risk.
For more information on the For more information on the 107 105 Audit Committee Operational Assurance Statement OAS Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 77 Corporate Responsibility Committee report Paul Anderson, Chairman Harriet Green Sir Peter Mason Overview The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Companys One of the key activities performed by the Corporate Responsibility activities from the perspective of corporate responsibility.
As Committee in 2011 was to review the completion of the different industries have different corporate responsibility issues, it implementation programme to address the 23 responsible business is important that the Committee ensures that the Company is conduct recommendations contained in the Woolf Committee Report focused primarily on those that have potentially the most significant issued in 2008.
The services of Ethical Leadership Group, a impact on the current operations and long-term sustainability of its third-party global compliance adviser, were engaged to carry out an business.
Our focus at present is on ethics, safety, diversity and in-depth review to support this and reported back to the Committee inclusion, and environmental sustainability.
During 2011, the on its findings.
The report concluded that BAESystems has a solid Committee reviewed regularly the progress being made against the ethical business programme including many best practice elements objectives we agreed for these areas, and it also spent time with and some opportunities for improvement.
It also recognises that management exploring how we develop our future approach to them.
substantial progress has been made against the Woolf recommendations with well designed processes to ensure The Committee oversees the Companys compliance with corporate continuous improvement.
To help us in this task, we have direct access to the Companys Internal Audit function Members of the Committee need to develop an awareness and and agree its annual audit programme jointly with the Audit understanding of how corporate responsibility matters are managed Committee.
The head of Internal Audit usually attends a number of across the Group.
To help achieve this, Committee members the Committees meetings and briefs us on the findings of relevant participate in both individual and group visits to Company facilities.
He also facilitates our review of the effectiveness of the In addition, we have asked the executives responsible for the Companys Ethics Helpline, and the number and nature of the issues Companys principal businesses to attend meetings and explain how that have been reported.
In addition, the Committee oversees the corporate responsibility matters are managed in their businesses, work undertaken by the external assurer, Deloitte, who have been including how, given differing local conditions, they are approaching engaged by the Company to provide assurance over corporate the agreed corporate responsibility objectives and their success in responsibility metrics reported externally.
Paul Anderson, Corporate Responsibility Committee Chairman Principal activities Corporate responsibility objectives Diversity and inclusion Agreed the principal areas of corporate responsibility that the Reviewed progress in developing the Groups approach to diversity Company should focus on.
Considered Lord Davies report, Women on Boards, Agreed corporate  management objectives, and the Companys approach to Board diversity.
which the Remuneration Committee has incorporated into the Compliance objectives for 2012, and against which annual incentive payments Met with the Chief Counsel Compliance & Regulation and was for executive directors and other senior managers will be briefed on the Companys business conduct compliance determined.
Agreed actual performance against the measures set for the 2010 Met with the Senior Vice President Offset and was briefed on the objectives and made a recommendation to the Remuneration Companys processes for managing commercial offset Committee as to the appropriate level of pay-out for the corporate arrangements.
Met with the head of Government Relations and was briefed on the Risk management Companys processes for managing lobbying activity.
Reviewed the output from the Companys risk management Assurance processes as they relate to corporate  risks, Reviewed a report received from Deloitte on the activities they including the Non-financial Risk Register process.
undertake in providing independent assurance on certain corporate Safety responsibility matters.
Agreed the scope of their activities.
Considered how to evolve the Companys approach to safety Received reports and presentations from the head of Internal management and measuring performance in this area.
Audit on the corporate  work undertaken by the Internal Audit function and the key findings from this.
Environment Reviewed progress in developing the Groups approach to Ethics Helpline environmental sustainability.
Reviewed the working of the Ethics Helpline, and the nature and number of contacts made.
Responsible business conduct Received a presentation on the findings of an independent review Corporate responsibility reporting on the effectiveness of the implementation of the 23 Reviewed and approved the corporate responsibility reporting in recommendations contained in the Woolf Committee Report.
the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts.
Considered the Companys approach to responsible business conduct and objectives for 2012.
For more information on the 108 Corporate Responsibility Committee 78 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Nominations Committee report Dick Olver, Chairman Paul Anderson Sir Peter Mason Overview The Committee is responsible for overseeing the processes for The Committee plans for the progressive refreshing of the Board nominating individuals for appointment to the Board.
In addition, and, in 2011, it conducted searches for two new non-executive ithas oversight over the composition of the principal board directors.
The starting point for these searches was an analysis of committees and who chairs them.
the skills and experience we require in the boardroom.
The search consultants, The Zygos Partnership, were engaged to assist the As part of its executive director succession planning remit, the Committee in this work.
They are signatories to the Voluntary Code of Committee reviews on a regular basis the Companys processes Conduct for Executive Search Firms.
Paula Rosput Reynolds was fordeveloping its senior management resources.
This includes appointed to the Board in April last year, and her appointment long-term succession planning for all senior executive roles.
provides us with excellent US business and boardroom experience.
Throughits involvement in such executive development activities, Lee McIntire was appointed in June and, as the CEO of a global the Committee has visibility of the depth and quality of the senior engineering services and construction company, he provides manager resource, from which candidates for consideration as valuable long-term contracting and programme management skills future executive members of the Board can be drawn.
During 2011, Peter Lynas joined the Board as Group Finance Director All of the principal activities of the Committee during 2011 are having been nominated by the Committee after a search that detailed below and more detailed governance disclosures can be considered both external and internal candidates.
The Committee found on page 108. engaged the search consultants, Spencer Stuart, to facilitate this activity.
The Companys succession planning processes were the Dick Olver, Nominations Committee Chairman starting point for this search and ensured that the Committee had anawareness of potential internal candidates that had been built up over a number of years.
Principal activities Reviewed the composition of the Board and the skills and Reviewed with management the Groups management resources, experience available to it, and conducted searches for new and the succession and development plans for the most senior non-executive directors.
Proposed that the Board extend Carl Symons term of office Reviewed any potential directors conflicts of interest in forafurther three years, such extension being supported by the accordance with UK company law.
Boards externally facilitated annual performance evaluation.
Following the appointment of new directors, reviewed the composition of the principal board committees and proposed changes for the Boards approval.
For more information 108 on the Nominations Committee Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 79 Remuneration Committee report Carl Symon, Chairman Lee McIntire Nick Rose Overview The Committee is responsible for agreeing the remuneration policy Our remuneration strategy is intended to recognise this business and individual packages applicable to the Chairman, executive environment, whilst fostering a Total Performance culture at all levels directors, members of the Executive Committee EC, the Company of the Group, taking into account seniority and local market practice.
Secretary and other senior executives.
Within the agreed policy, the In addition, it is used to drive performance in certain areas of Committee determines the terms and conditions to be included in corporate responsibility that the Company places particular focus service agreements, including termination payments and on, namely safety, the environment, and diversity and inclusion.
In setting remuneration levels, the Committee is sensitive to the pay The Committee determines performance targets applicable to the and conditions of other employees within the Group.
Many of our Companys shortand long-term incentive plans, and approves any employees work at the very leading edge of technology.
We have a employee share-based incentive schemes and associated diverse workforce operating in many countries.
remuneration packages are therefore determined locally to meet local needs, whilst respecting our culture and Values.
In 2011, The members of the Committee are independent non-executive general salary increases for our two largest employee populations in directors, with the Chief Executive and the Companys Chairman the UK and US typically averaged 2.5% and 3.5%, respectively.
attending meetings by invitation only.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration is discussed and no director is involved in In determining the levels of executive reward, the Remuneration deciding his own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as Committee believes it is of utmost importance to ensure a strong secretary to the Committee.
link between actual remuneration received, and the achievement ofour strategic and business objectives.
To ensure that it has access to professional advice that is independent of executive management, the Committee has In 2011, our performance against targets was as follows.
Our appointed Kepler Associates as its Independent Adviser.
Kepler is Earnings per Share EPS of 45.4p was close to stretch: year-end afounding member of the Remuneration Consultants Group RCG cash was slightly above target: and the stretch target for average and complies with the RCGs code of conduct for Remuneration cash was achieved.
Order intake was below target.
Our TSR Consultants to the FTSE 350.
Kepler will not undertake any work performance reflects the sustained under-performance of our share forthe Company whilst they are retained as the Committees price.
The EPS performance against which the annual incentive Independent Adviser.
Representatives from Kepler have attended payment was determined was significantly lower at 42.3p as a result each of the Committees eight meetings during 2011 and will be in of the Committee agreeing that only a portion of the research and attendance at all meetings unless specifically requested otherwise development tax credit would count towards the annual incentive.
The outcomes for the PSP and Share Matching Plan SMP longterm incentives are based on reported diluted underlying EPS of Legal advice to the Committee has been provided by Linklaters who 45.4p.
This will also form the baseline EPS figure against which are appointed by the Company, and who also provided services to performance of the 2012 PSP and SMP awards will be measured.
The Committee is satisfied that the services provided to it by Linklaters are of a technical nature and did Against this performance background, the main aspects of our not create any conflict of interest.
If a conflict of interest were to arise remuneration policy and practice for the year are set out below: in the future, the Committee would appoint separate legal advisers for 2012, the salaries of the Chief Executive and the President and from those used by the Company.
Chief Executive Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. were increased by  PwC, who are appointed by the Company 3.0% and 3.5%, respectively.
The salary of the Group Finance and also provided services to the Company during the year, provided Director was increased by 5% as his salary on appointment in April detailed information on market trends and the competitive 2011 was intentionally set by the Committee below market in positioning of packages.
New Bridge Street Aon Hewitt Limited, order to provide scope for further increases provided his whoare appointed by the Committee, provided advice on the Total performance merited this.
Shareholder Return TSR figures for assessing the performance annual bonus payouts for the executive directors under the annual condition under the Performance Share Plan PSP.
incentive plan ranged from 65.6% to 69.5% of maximum.
During the year, the Committee received material assistance and the growth of EPS over the three-year performance period for the advice on remuneration policy from the Groups Human Resources 2009 awards under the long-term incentive plans was Director, Alastair Imrie, and the Human Resources Director, Reward, approximately 7.57% pa. Consequently: Paul Farley.
Dick Olver, Chairman, and Ian King, Chief Executive, also the SMP award granted in 2009 earned a0.85 match: and provided advice that was of material assistance to the Committee.
of the 50% of the awards of shares granted in March 2009 All of the principal activities of the Committee during 2011 are under the EPS portion of the PSP, 42.42% vest.
detailed below and governance disclosures can be found on the Companys TSR for the 50% of awards of shares granted in page109.
March 2009 under the TSR portion of the PSP was below the BAE Systems is one of the worlds largest and most geographically median position when compared against the comparator group diverse defence, aerospace and security companies.
We operate of18 other defence and aerospace companies, and the related with a clearly defined strategy to deliver sustainable growth in awards accordingly lapsed.
value to shareholders, operating in highly technologically complex markets.
The Group continues to face a more challenging trading environment as governments look for cost savings to address budgetary pressures.
For more information on the 109 Remuneration Committee 80 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Remuneration Committee report continued for 2012 onwards, the composition ofthe TSR comparator group BAESystems, Inc. the associated minimum shareholding has been revised to focus on 12 companies which are more requirement will increase from 200% to 350% of salary.
The representative of the Groups strategic focus as a defence and ChiefExecutives own shareholding comfortably exceeds his security company as set out in greater detail on page 89. minimum shareholding requirement level.
At 31 December 2011, the Group Finance Director, and the President and Chief Executive the annual incentive opportunity applicable to the Group Finance Officer of BAE Systems, Inc. held shares representing Director has been increased from 75% to 80% at on-target and approximately 128% and 149% of salary, respectively, reflecting from 150% to 160% at stretch to ensure the totality of the package their more recent appointments.
remains competitive in accordance with our stated remuneration policy.
The long-term incentive multiple for the President and Chief we are seeking shareholder approval for the introduction of a Executive Officer of BAESystems, Inc. has been increased to Share Option Plan in place of half the current expected value of the 300% to align the package more closely with the US defence and PSP, thereby creating a stronger linkage between absolute share aerospace market.
price improvement and actual remuneration received.
Vesting of option awards made to the executive directors will be subject to a we retained the requirement for one-third of executive directors TSR performance condition.
annual incentives 25% for EC members and other senior executives to be compulsorily deferred into the SMP.
The Companys remuneration strategy and policy, and details of executive remuneration are set out on pages 81 to 100 of this our requirement for executive directors to build up a shareholding report.
of 200% of salary over time, remains unchanged.
In parallel with the proposed increase in the long-term incentive multiple Carl Symon, Remuneration Committee Chairman applicable to the President and Chief Executive Officer of Principal activities Remuneration review Share plans Set the basis for the Committees annual review of executive Reviewed share-based reward arrangements taking account of remuneration, with particular focus on ensuring close alignment market trends, and tested the available dilution capacity for the between the Groups reward framework and creation of Companys executive and all-employee share schemes.
Considered and approved the grant policy for Spring and Autumn Determined the appropriate market comparator group against awards to be made to directors and executives under our which to assess the competitiveness of the total reward package Long-Term Incentive Plans.
for senior executives, including pensions.
Approved the operation of the Group All-Employee Free Shares Reviewed actual pay and bonus levels received against Plan and agreed the level of award to be made based on the comparator group actuals.
Companys performance for the previous year.
Considered relevant corporate governance trends and Sought necessary shareholder approval at the AGM for the developments in the UK, EU and US.
introduction of a new Restricted Share Plan to apply to our USexecutives.
Consulted with shareholders in respect of proposed changes to the remuneration structure and individual packages.
Reviewed and set the policy in respect of the minimum shareholding requirement applicable to senior executives across Reviewed the pay arrangements for senior executives below the the Group.
Remuneration reporting and governance Directors and EC members remuneration Received a report on best practice in remuneration disclosure and Set annual bonus opportunity and share plan grant levels for each opportunities for improvement.
of the executive directors and EC members.
Reviewed and approved the Remuneration Report contained in the Approved remuneration packages for each EC member.
Reviewed prior year financial and non-financial performance, and Periodically reviewed the Committees Terms of Reference and the agreed individual bonus amounts payable.
output of the annual review of Board effectiveness.
Annual bonus and Long-Term Incentive Plans Set financial and non-financial targets and objectives for the annual incentive applicable to executive directors and EC members.
Tested the satisfaction of performance conditions applicable to awards granted under the Companys various Long-Term Incentive Plans.
Reviewed progress of actual performance against targets at regular intervals throughout the year.
