Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 101 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Applying the principles of the UKs Corporate Governance Code Core business processes covering business planning, project The following report details how the Board has applied the principles management, mergers and acquisitions, individual executive in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code performance, and management of performance against business the Code, as required by the UK Listing Rules.
Leadership Delegated responsibilities dealing with the Boards delegation of authority concerning financial, commercial and legal matters.
Principles An effective board collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company A clear division of The Board and its committees monitor the application of values, responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of standards and processes.
This includes a range of activities such as the board and the executive.
No one individual should have the formal review of the effectiveness of internal controls see page unfettered powers of decision The chairman is responsible for the 105. leadership of the board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects To ensure that non-executive directors can constructively challenge of its role Non-executive directors should constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy, the Board has adopted a and help develop proposals on strategy.
process of reviewing the development of strategy and formally approving the agreed strategy for the Company on an annual basis.
In The Companys governance structure is based on the leadership 2011, the Board members were provided with opportunities to principles in the Code.
The core activities of the Board and its engage in strategy development through informal meetings and committees are documented and planned on an annual basis, and workshops as well as formal board meetings.
this forms the basic structure within which the Board operates.
The Board has adopted a document, the Board Charter, in which there is a Effectiveness statement of governance principles that reflect principles contained in Principles Board and committees having an appropriate balance of the Code, and covers the following: skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge their respective duties and responsibilities Strategy reviewing and agreeing strategy: effectively A formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Performance monitoring the performance of the Group and also appointment of new directors All directors to be able to allocate evaluating its own performance: sufficient time to the company to discharge their responsibilities effectively All directors to receive induction on joining and should Standards and values setting standards and values to guide the regularly update and refresh skills and knowledge The board affairs of the Group: should be supplied in a timely manner with information in a form Oversight ensuring an effective system of internal controls is in and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties The place, ensuring that the Board receives timely and accurate board should undertake a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of information on the performance of the Group and the proper its performance, and that of its committees and individual directors delegation of authority: and All directors should be submitted for re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory performance.
People ensuring the Group is managed by individuals with the necessary skills and experience, and that appointments to the Succession planning is used by the Board to deliver two key Board are managed effectively.
responsibilities, firstly to ensure that the Group is managed by The Board Charter also details the separate and distinct roles of the executives with the necessary skills, experience and knowledge, and Chairman and the Chief Executive, and also those of the Senior secondly to ensure that the Board itself has the right balance of Independent Director and Company Secretary.
These are detailed on individuals to be able to effectively discharge its responsibilities.
The page 102, the role of the Chief Executive having been amended in Nominations Committee has specific responsibilities in this area but 2011 with the addition of the following: the Board as a whole is also involved in overseeing the development of management resources in the Group with the aim of ensuring we Owning, and enacting when required, the Companys Crisis have the individuals with the right skills to meet the needs of an Management Procedures and supporting manual, including liaison increasingly complex and global business.
The procedures for the with the Board.
appointment of non-executive and executive directors are detailed in Whilst the Board is ultimately responsible for the success of the the Nominations Committee report.
Company, given the size and complexity of its operations, all but the Following review by the Nominations and Corporate Responsibility most important matters are managed on a delegated basis by the committees, the Board adopted the statement shown on page 74 to Chief Executive and the executives working for him.
The Board act as a guide to future Board succession planning activity and to appoints the Chief Executive and monitors his performance in leading make a clear public statement of its support for greater diversity in the the Company, and providing operational and performance boardroom.
This included the following with regards specifically to the management in delivering the agreed strategy.
Specifically, he is Board: responsible for developing, for the Boards approval, appropriate values and standards to guide all activities undertaken by the It shall have an aspirational target of at least 25% of the Board Company, and also making recommendations on appropriate being women by 2015. delegated responsibilities.
The Operational Framework is the output In seeking candidates for appointment to the Board, the from this process.
It is a document that has evolved over time, subject Nominations Committee shall only engage the services of search to an annual review process that culminates in the Boards review and consultants who have open and inclusive recruitment processes approval.
In approving it the Board is agreeing the following: that draw from an appropriately diverse pool of candidates.
Performance requirements and values i. e. Total Performance and It shall report progress against targets and action taken in the the Values underpinning it.
Organisation structure the roles and accountabilities of the Board There are currently three women on the BAE Systems Board, 25% of and certain senior individuals.
Below the Board, there are two women on the Governance standards the Groups trading principles, internal Executive Committee, 17% of its total membership, and 19% of the controls, operational assurance framework and risk management Groups employees are women.
For more information on 58 diversity and inclusion 102 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES The role of the Chairman The role of the Chief Executive The Chairman is responsible for creating the conditions for the The Chief Executive is responsible for the leadership, and the effective working of the Board and is specifically responsible for the operational and performance management of the Company within following: the strategy and business plan agreed by the Board.
Chairing Board meetings and setting the agenda for such The Chief Executive is specifically responsible for the following in meetings, taking full account of the issues and concerns of all respect of his her relationship with the Board: directors and encouraging their active engagement in Board Developing a business strategy for the Company to be approved discussion.
by the Board on an annual basis.
Promoting the highest standards of corporate governance, Producing business plans for the Company to be approved by the including compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Board on an annual basis.
Overseeing the management of the executive resource and Promoting the requirement that all Board members are exemplars succession planning processes, and presenting annually the of the Companys values, principles and standards.
output from these to the Board and Nominations Committee.
Through the Nominations Committee, ensuring that the Board Ensuring that effective business and financial controls, and risk comprises individuals with an appropriate mixture of skills, management processes are in place across the Company, and experience and knowledge.
that all relevant laws and regulations are complied with.
Ensuring that the Company maintains effective communication Making recommendations to the Board on the appropriate with shareholders, and that their views and any concerns are delegation of authority within the Group.
Keeping the Board informed regularly as to the performance of the Working with the Chief Executive to ensure that the Board receives Company and bringing promptly to the Boards attention all accurate and timely information on the performance of the matters that materially affect, or are capable of materially Company.
affecting, the performance of the Company and the achievement Representing the Company at the highest level and, in conjunction of its strategy.
with the Chief Executive, developing strategic relationships with Developing for the Boards approval appropriate values and major customers and political leaders worldwide.
standards to guide all activities undertaken by the Company.
Leading the evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Providing clear and visible leadership in business conduct.
Promoting the requirement that all Senior Leaders are exemplars Establishing an effective working relationship with the Chief of the Companys values, principles and standards.
Executive, providing support and advice whilst respecting executive responsibility.
Owning the Companys commitment to all aspects of corporate responsibility.
Ensuring that a well constructed induction programme is provided for new directors, that all directors have the opportunity to develop Owning, and enacting when required, the Companys Crisis their understanding of the Company and that they are kept Management Procedures and supporting manual, including informed of matters affecting the Company.
The role of the Senior Independent Director The role of the Company Secretary The Senior Independent Director shall be responsible for the The Company Secretary is specifically responsible for the following: following: Under the direction of the Chairman, ensuring good information Being available to shareholders if they have concerns which flows within the Board and its committees, and between senior contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive management and non-executive directors, as well as facilitating or other executive directors has failed to resolve or for which such induction activities for directors and assisting with their contact is inappropriate.
Providing a sounding board for the Chairman and serving as an Advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance intermediary for the other directors when necessary.
Chairing the Nominations Committee when it is considering the Chairmans succession.
Providing feedback on the Chairmans performance as derived from the evaluation exercise undertaken by the Board.
Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 103 Effectiveness continued whose only interest with BAE Systems is her work with the Board and All non-executive directors are advised of the likely time commitments undertaking similar performance evaluation work for the Executive at appointment and are asked to seek approval from the Nominations Committee.
She was appointed to perform this work in consultation Committee if they wish to take on additional external appointments.
The evaluation process is based The ability of individual directors to allocate sufficient time to the onthe facilitator interviewing each of the directors and recording discharge of their responsibilities is considered as part of the theirviews on how the Board and its committees work, and on the directors annual evaluation process overseen by the Chairman.
Any performance of individual directors.
Feedback on Board performance issues concerning the Chairmans time commitment are dealt with by is presented to a meeting of the Board, which agrees actions and the Nominations Committee, chaired for this purpose by the Senior objectives for the following year based on the information the Independent Director.
facilitator provides and the conclusions that the Board derives from this.
An induction programme is agreed for all new directors aimed at ensuring that they are able to develop an understanding and Individual directors are also subject to annual performance awareness of the Companys core processes, its people and evaluation, and the Chairman meets with each director and provides businesses.
A typical induction programme is shown below.
Committee chairmen also get feedback on committee performance.
Feedback on the Chairmans In addition to the above, as part of the induction process, new performance is provided by the consultant directly to the Boards directors will typically visit the Groups principal operations in order to Senior Independent Director, who discusses this with the other meet employees and gain an understanding of the Groups products non-executive directors before discussing this with the Chairman on and services.
Ongoing training is provided for the Board and individual aone-to-one basis.
Subject to continued satisfactory performance, directors as required.
directors seek re-election on an annual basis.
The Chairman, with the assistance of the Chief Executive and Accountability Company Secretary, is responsible for ensuring that directors are Principles The board to present a balanced and understandable supplied with information in a timely manner that is in a form and of a assessment of the companys position and prospects The board is quality appropriate to enable them to discharge their duties.
In the responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant normal course of business, such information is provided by the Chief risks it is willing to take in achieving its strategic objectives.
The Executive in a regular report to the Board that includes information on board should maintain sound risk management and internal control operational matters, strategic developments, reports on the systems The board should establish formal and transparent performance of Group operations, financial performance relative to arrangements for considering how they should apply the corporate the business plan, business development, corporate responsibility reporting and risk management and internal control principles, and and investor relations.
for maintaining an appropriate relationship with the companys For the last seven years, our annual Board effectiveness evaluations auditor.
have been undertaken by Sheena Crane, an experienced consultant, TYPICAL NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR INDUCTION PROGRAMME Head Office functions approximately ten hours Matters covered Facilitated by Duties of a director, conflicts of interest, Board procedures, Company Secretary corporate governance, Code of Conduct Business planning and control processes Integrated Business Director, Financial Control and Reporting Planning, financial controls Strategy and planning processes Group Strategy Director Enterprise Metrics the measures used by the Board and Managing Director, Performance Excellence management to measure and monitor performance Investor Relations Investor Relations Director Corporate Responsibility Managing Director, Corporate Responsibility Internal Audit Head of Internal Audit Business Development Group Business Development Director Meetings with senior executives approximately four hours Matters covered Facilitated by UK and International London-based Programmes & Support UK defence businesses Group Managing Director, Programmes & Support International Saudi Arabia, Australia, India Group Managing Director, International BAE Systems, Inc. President and Chief Executive Officer, BAE Systems, Inc. Executive Vice Presidents, BAE Systems, Inc.
Operational site visits approximately five days UK Military Air & Information Warton and Samlesbury, Lancashire Maritime Naval Ships Portsmouth, Hampshire US Electronic Systems Nashua, NH US Combat Systems York, PA 104 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued Through this report and, as required, through other periodic financial major shareholders and is in regular contact with them so as to keep statements, the Board is committed to providing shareholders with a them informed of progress on corporate governance matters.
In order clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
to assist in developing an understanding of the views of major shareholders, each year the Company commissions a survey of The arrangements established by the Board for the application of risk investors undertaken by external consultants.
The results of the management and internal control principles are detailed on page 105. survey are presented to the Board.
The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee oversight of the management of the relationship with the Companys auditors, further The Company maintains a comprehensive Investor Relations website details of which can be found in the Audit Committee report on page 76. that provides, amongst other things, information on investing in BAESystems and copies of the presentation materials used for key Remuneration shareholder presentations.
This can be accessed via the Companys Principles Levels of remuneration should be sufficient to attract, website, www.
com retain and motivate directors of the quality required to run the The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to company successfully, but a company should avoid paying more than vote on the resolutions put to shareholders either electronically via is necessary for this purpose.
A significant proportion of executive the Companys website or by post.
All resolutions detailed in the directors remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to Notice of Meeting are voted on by way of a poll so as to ensure that all corporate and individual performance There should be a formal votes are counted on the basis of one vote for every share held.
The and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive result of the voting on all resolutions is published on the Companys remuneration, and for fixing the remuneration packages of website.
No director should be involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
Compliance with the provisions of the Code The Company was compliant with the provisions of the Code The Board has delegated to the Remuneration Committee throughout 2011. responsibility for agreeing remuneration policy, and the individual The Board remuneration of the executive directors, the Chairman, members of The Board comprises a non-executive chairman, eight non-executive the Executive Committee and the Company Secretary see directors and three executive directors.
Remuneration Report on pages 81 to 100.
The Committee is formed exclusively of independent non-executive directors.
The attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its committees in 2011 is shown in the table below.
Relations with shareholders Principles There should be a dialogue with shareholders based on The Board considers all of the non-executive directors, with the the mutual understanding of objectives The board as a whole has exception of the Chairman, to be independent for the purposes of the responsibility for ensuring that a satisfactory dialogue with Code.
Each of these directors has been identified on pages 70 and 71 shareholders takes place The board should use the AGM to of this report.
communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
The Board has appointed Sir Peter Mason as the Senior Independent Director.
Amongst the duties undertaken by Sir Peter during the year The Company has a well-developed investor relations programme was to meet with the non-executive directors without the Chairman managed by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Investor present to discuss the Chairmans performance.
In addition, the Chairman is available to meet with ATTENDANCE BY INDIVIDUAL DIRECTORS AT MEETINGS OF THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES IN 2011 Corporate Non-Executive Audit Responsibility Nominations Remuneration Directors Fees Director Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Mr P M Anderson 9 9 5 5 7 7 Ms H Green 8 9 5 5 Mr M J Hartnall 9 9 4 4 Ms L P Hudson 8 9 1 1 Mr I G King 9 9 1 1 1 Mr P J Lynas 6 6 Sir Peter Mason 9 9 6 6 5 5 7 7 2 Mr L McIntire 5 5 3 3 Mr R L Olver 9 9 7 7 3 Mr R Quarta 8 9 1 1 4 4 1 1 1 Ms P Rosput Reynolds 6 6 5 5 4 Mr G W Rose 2 3 Mr N C Rose 8 9 6 6 8 8 Mr C G Symon 8 9 8 8 5 Mr R K Uppal 2 3 1 1 Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended.
1 Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011.
2 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2011.
3 Retired from the Board on 31 December 2011.
4 Retired from the Board on 31 March 2011.
5 Retired from the Board on 1 April 2011.
Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 105 Sir Peter Mason has recently completed his third three-year term.
process, an assessment is made of the probability of the risk arising Consequently, as required by the Code, the Board has considered and its potential impact on the Groups business plan.
All risks have whether he is independent notwithstanding the fact that he has an owner who is responsible for production and implementation of served as a director for more than nine years.
The Board used its plans aimed at mitigating the risk.
externally facilitated annual evaluation process to provide Board The key financial and non-financial risks identified by the businesses members with the opportunity to consider individually whether they from the risk assessment processes are collated and reviewed by the believed that Sir Peter remained independent despite the length of Executive Committee to identify those issues where the cumulative time he has served on the Board.
The results of this were provided to risk, or possible reputational impacts, could be significant.
the Chairman and he discussed the matter collectively with directors without Sir Peter in attendance.
The directors concluded that he Management responsibility for the management of the Groups most remains independent, and as such his appointment as Senior significant non-financial risks is allocated at the Executive Independent Director and his membership of board committees Committees risk workshops.
The OAS and Non-financial Risk should continue for a further period of 12 months.
In reaching this registers are reviewed regularly by the Executive Committee to decision, the Board noted that his period of office had not coincided to monitor the status and progression of mitigation plans, and these key any significant degree with that of any of the current executive risks are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the ongoing In 2011, the Board was scheduled to meet seven times and in effectiveness of the Companys risk management processes as part addition two days were spent reviewing strategy.
Additional Board of its review of the effectiveness of internal controls.
Also, twice a meetings are called as required and in total the Board met nine times year, the Audit Committee receives reports on the output from the OAS during the year.
process, details of the changes in the risks identified by it and the status of mitigation plans.
The Corporate Responsibility Committee The Companys Articles of Association require that all new directors undertakes a similar role in respect of the Non-financial Risk Register.
seek re-election to the Board at the following AGM.
In addition, the The Board receives reports from the chairmen of these two Board has agreed that in compliance with the UK Corporate committees, providing details of the work they have undertaken.
Governance Code all directors shall seek re-election on an annual basis.
The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting Each year, the Board specifically reviews the risks identified in the risk their reasons for supporting the re-election of those directors seeking management processes.
This is aimed at providing the Board with an re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
appreciation of the key risks within the business and oversight of how they are being managed.
Risk management and internal control During the year, the Company announced that it had agreed a civil Reporting within the Company is structured so that key issues are settlement with the US Department of State in connection with escalated through the management team ultimately to the Board if violations of the US defence export control regulations that were the appropriate.
The Operational Framework provides a common subject of the Companys settlement with the US Justice Department framework across the Company for operational and financial controls, in 2010.
The Board has reviewed the control failures associated with and is reviewed on a regular basis by the Board.
The business policies these settlements, and believes that the Company has systematically and processes detailed within the Operational Framework draw on enhanced relevant compliance policies and processes since the global best practice and their application is mandated across the conduct referred to occurred.
Lifecycle Management LCM is such a process, and promotes the application of best practice programme execution and The Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the Groups facilitates continuous improvement across the Group.
It considers the system of risk management and internal control processes, including whole life of projects from inception to delivery into service and financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management eventual disposal, and its application is critical to our capability in systems, in accordance with the Code and the Turnbull guidance as delivering projects to schedule and cost.
Further key processes are Integrated Business Planning IBP, BAE Systems has developed a system of internal control that was in Quarterly Business Reviews QBR and Total Performance Leadership place throughout 2011 and to the date of this report, that TPL.
The IBP, approved annually by the Board, results in an agreed encompasses, amongst other things, the policies, processes, tasks five-year business plan for each business, together with detailed and behaviours that, taken together, seek to: near-term budgets.
The QBRs evaluate progress against the IBP, and facilitate the effective and efficient operation of the Company: business performance against objectives, measures and milestones.
TPL drives business success by linking individual goals to those of the enable it to respond appropriately to significant operational, organisation, enabling employees to understand how their own financial, compliance and other risks that it faces in carrying out its success contributes to the success of the whole business.
business: Whilst the quality of the control processes is fundamental to the assist in ensuring that internal and external reporting is accurate overall control environment, the consistent application of these and timely, and based on the maintenance of proper records processes is equally important.
The consistent application of supported by robust  processes: and world-class control processes is a key management objective.
The assist in ensuring that the Company complies with applicable laws Company is committed to the protection of its assets, which include and regulations at all times, and also internal policies in respect of human, property and financial resources, through an effective risk the standards of behaviour and conduct mandated by the Board.
management process, underpinned where appropriate by insurance.
On pages 60 and 61 of this report, you will find details of the The Internal Audit team independently reviews the risk identification processes the Company has put in place to manage risk.
For the procedures and control processes implemented by management.
It Board, the key requirements are that the Company has robust provides objective assurance as to the operation and validity of the processes to identity, evaluate and manage risk, and that the systems of internal control through a programme of cyclical reviews directors have visibility of the major risks.
making recommendations for business and control improvements as required.
Risks are identified on a bottom-up basis as part of the Companys Operational Assurance Statement OAS process.
This process is The Board has delegated to the Audit Committee responsibility for mandated across the Group, and requires that the heads of all reviewing in detail the effectiveness of the Companys system of businesses and functions identify their key risks.
As part of this internal controls.
Having undertaken such reviews, the Committee 106 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued reports to the Board on its findings so that the Board as a whole can Going concern take a view on this matter.
In order to assist the Audit Committee and The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to the Board in this review, the Company has developed the OAS process affect its future development, performance and position are set out in see below.
This has been subject to regular review over a number of the Reporting segment reviews on pages 20 to 43.
The financial years, which has resulted in a number of refinements being made.
position of the Group, including information on cash flow, treasury policy and liquidity, can be found in the Financial review on pages 46 to The overall responsibility for the system of internal control within 54.
Principal risks are detailed on pages 62 to 67.
In addition, the BAESystems rests with the directors of the Company.
Responsibility financial statements include, amongst other things, notes on finance for establishing and operating detailed control procedures lies with costs page 125, loans and overdrafts page 149, and financial risk the line leaders of each operating business.
In line with any system of internal control, the policies and processes After making due enquiries, the directors have a reasonable that are mandated in the Operational Framework are designed to expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason they objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The responsibility for internal control procedures with joint ventures and other collaborations rests, on the whole, with the senior management of those operations.
BAE Systems employees on the boards of such entities are required to exert such influence as the Company may have to encourage the adoption of a governance structure that is substantially equivalent to the Operational Framework.
OPERATIONAL ASSURANCE STATEMENT OAS KEY CHARACTERISTICS A half-yearly review process to provide assurance that mandated policies and processes are being complied with, and a formal assessment of business risk.
All senior executives with specific profit or loss accountability for a line of business Line Leaders and functional directors are required to implement robust local processes to determine how their OAS should be completed.
OAS returns are submitted to theChief Executive and reviewed by the head of Internal Audit and Director, Financial Control and Reporting.
Results from the OAS are presented to the Audit and Corporate Responsibility committees, and form part of the Boards regular review of risk.
All returns aremade available to the Groups auditors for use in their audit activities.
The OAS is formed of the following two parts: 1.
Assessment of compliance with the Operational Framework Line Leaders of all businesses and relevant functional directors are required to complete and sign off an OAS recording their formal review of compliance against the Companys Operational Framework covering, amongst other things, the following: Health and safety Advisers General compliance with the Delegated authorities Environment Engineering Operational Framework Financial controls Product safety Business planning Effectiveness of internal Risk management Sponsorship and charitable Lifecycle Management controls in joint ventures and People giving a core Group project associated undertakings Gifts and hospitality Product trading policy and management process Ethical business conduct Conflicts of interest pursuit of exports Mergers, acquisitions and Compliance with law, Security Lobbying and political support disposals regulation and codes Use of IT of practice Where simple yes no answers are not appropriate, an assessment of compliance is required to be made against structured qualitative guidance.
Minimum satisfactory levels of compliance are set by policy.
If not compliant, a robust plan to achieve compliance is mandated and monitored through the Groups performance management processes and at the relevant audit reviewboard.
Identification and management of key risks Line Leaders of all businesses and functional directors are required to identify their key risks nominally 20, and analyse them in terms of size of impact and probability.
An owner is required to be assigned to each risk, and mitigation plans produced and managed by the relevant business.
The Executive Committee conducts risk workshops to analyse and allocate management responsibility for the management of the Groups most significant non-financial risks.
For non-controlled entities in which the Company has board representation, the completion of a separate joint venture OAS is mandated.
Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 107 Board committee governance The full terms of reference of the Audit Committee can be found on the AUDIT COMMITTEE Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Members Governance Nick Rose Chairman, Sir Peter Mason, Paula Rosput Reynolds The Audit Committee was in place throughout 2011.
Ravi Uppal was a member of the Committee up to 1 April 2011.
Michael All its members are independent in accordance with provision B1.1 of Hartnall was a member of the Committee and its chairman up to 31 July the Code.
2011, Mr Rose having succeeded him as chairman on 1 August 2011.
Nick Rose has been chairman of the Committee since 1 August 2011.
Roberto Quarta was a member of the Committee up to 30 March 2011.
He was formerly the finance director of a FTSE 100 company and as Responsibilities such has recent and relevant experience.
His predecessor as Reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups financial reporting, chairman of the Committee, Michael Hartnall, had similar experience.
internal control policies, and procedures for the identification, The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive, Group Finance assessment and reporting of risk.
Director, Director, Financial Control and Reporting, and the head of Monitoring the integrity of the Groups financial statements.
Internal Audit normally attend its meetings.
Reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements.
During the year, the Committee held individual meetings without Group executives present, without the head of Internal Audit present, Monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Internal Audit function solely with the head of Internal Audit present, and also solely with the including approving the appointment or removal of the head of external auditors present.
The Auditors and head of Internal Audit have direct access to the Approving, in conjunction with the Corporate Responsibility Chairman of the Committee.
Committee, an annual programme of internal audit work.
The Committee may obtain at the Companys expense independent Considering and making recommendations to the Board on the professional advice on any matters covered by its terms of reference.
The Committee accepts that certain work of a non-audit nature is best Agreeing the scope of the Auditors annual audit programme and undertaken by the external auditors.
The Committee reviews regularly reviewing the output.
the amount and nature of non-audit work they perform.
It believes that Keeping the relationship with the Auditors under review, including it is not appropriate to limit the level of such work by reference to a set the terms of their engagement and fees, their independence and percentage of the audit fee, as this does not take into account expertise, resources and qualification, and assessing the important judgements that need to be made concerning the nature of effectiveness of the audit process.
work undertaken to help safeguard the Auditors independence.
The Committee has agreed the policy below regarding services provided Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the by the Auditors.
Auditors to supply non-audit services.
POLICY ON NON-AUDIT SERVICES PROVIDED BY THE AUDITORS Prohibited Non-Audit Services Audit-Related Services Permitted Non-Audit Services, subject to Book-keeping and work relating to the Reporting required by law or regulation to approval under the policy preparation of accounting records and be provided by the Auditors: Tax compliance services: financial statements that will ultimately be Reviews of interim financial information: Tax advisory services: subject to external audit: Reporting on regulatory returns: Due diligence services relating to Financial information system design and acquisitions of new businesses or Reporting to a regulator on client assets: implementation: significant investments in businesses, Reporting on government grants: Appraisal or valuation services in respect joint ventures or strategic alliances: of material assets: Reporting on internal financial controls Public reporting on investment circulars: when required by law or regulation: and Actuarial services: Private reporting to sponsors or similar Extended work undertaken at the request Internal auditing: parties in connection with investment of those charged with governance on circulars including comfort letters and Investment adviser or broking: financial information this does not include reporting on working capital statements : Advocacy services: accounting services and or financial Preparing information for third parties controls performed where this work is Secondments to management positions relating to acquisitions and disposals, integrated with the audit work, and is that include decision-making: and including the conversion of financial performed on the same principal terms statements into other accounting Any work where a mutuality of interest is and conditions.
standards: created that could compromise the independence of the Auditors.
Liquidation services in respect of redundant subsidiaries or associate companies: Participation in the evaluation of Internal Audit: and Accounting advice.
108 BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT continued On an annual basis the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as part The Committee has asked that the Chief Executive, Group General of the Boards externally facilitated evaluation process.
Counsel, Managing Director, Corporate Responsibility and the head of Internal Audit normally attend its meetings.
Meetings The Committee met six times in 2011 and details of attendance at The head of the Companys Internal Audit function and Managing these meetings are provided on page 104.
Director of the Corporate Responsibility function have direct access to the Chairman of the Committee.
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE The Committee is responsible for appointing the Corporate Responsibility Assurer presently Deloitte, and keeping under review Members its fees, independence and objectivity, scope of work, and the Paul Anderson Chairman, Harriet Green, Sir Peter Mason expertise and resources available to it.
Responsibilities The Chairman of the Committee reports on the proceedings of all Assisting the Board in overseeing the development of strategy, and Committee meetings to the Board and all directors receive copies of policy on social, environmental and ethical matters.
Keeping under review the effectiveness of the Companys internal The Committee may obtain at the Companys expense independent control policies and procedures for the identification, assessment, professional advice on any matters covered by its terms of reference.
management and reporting of reputational risks, including health and On an annual basis, the Committees effectiveness is reviewed as safety, workplace policies, environmental impact and business ethics.
part of the Boards externally facilitated evaluation process.
Monitoring and reviewing the role and effectiveness of the Companys Meetings Internal Audit function in relation to corporate responsibility and The Committee met five times in 2011 and details of attendance at monitoring the development of the capability and capacity of the these meetings are provided on page 104. function to perform its role with regards to corporate responsibility assurance and, in particular, ethical business conduct.
NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Providing oversight of the Companys compliance with corporate  policies and procedures.
Members Reviewing audit and assurance reports produced by the Corporate Dick Olver Chairman, Paul Anderson, Sir Peter Mason Responsibility Assurer an independent entity appointed to act as Responsibilities an external assurer of the Companys corporate responsibility Reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of the reporting and assessing management responsiveness to Board, and making recommendations to the Board on any recommendations in such reports.
Overseeing and supporting key stakeholder engagement on social, Identifying and nominating for the Boards approval suitable environmental and ethical issues.
candidates to fill any vacancies for non-executive and, with the Making proposals to the Remuneration Committee regarding assistance of the Chief Executive, executive directors.
appropriate corporate  performance Planning for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
objectives for executive directors and, in due course, providing its assessment as to performance against such objectives.
Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit, Corporate Responsibility and Remuneration committees.
Reviewing the Companys arrangements for employees to obtain further advice on ethical issues or raise and report concerns, in The full terms of reference of the Nominations Committee can be confidence, where there may be possible improprieties.
found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the Company Secretary.
Ensuring that the Code of Conduct is regularly reviewed and reflects best practice for such codes.
Governance The Nominations Committee was in place throughout 2011.
It is Ensuring the Corporate Responsibility section of the Companys chaired by the Chairman of the Company.
Whilst he is not deemed to Annual Report and Accounts includes an examination of ethical be independent, the other two members of the Committee are business conduct within the Company.
independent non-executive directors in accordance with provision The full terms of reference of the Corporate Responsibility Committee B1.1 of the Code.
can be found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the When dealing with any matters concerning his membership of the Company Secretary.
Board the Chairman will absent himself from the meeting as required, Governance and meetings will be chaired by the Boards Senior Independent The Corporate Responsibility Committee was in place throughout Director, Sir Peter Mason.
The Committee normally asks the Chief Executive to attend its meetings.
All its members are independent in accordance with provision B1.1 of During the year, the Committee retained the services of the search the Code.
consultants Zygos Partners to assist in identifying potential candidates for nominations to the Board.
Meetings The Committee met seven times in 2011 and details of attendance at these meetings are provided on page 104.
Governance BAE Systems Annual Report 2011 109 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS FEES COMMITTEE Members Members Carl Symon Chairman, Lee McIntire, Nick Rose Dick Olver, Philip Bramwell, Linda Hudson, Ian King Roberto Quarta was a member of the Committee up to 29 June 2011.
Responsibilities Lee McIntire joined the Committee with effect from the same date.
Reviewing the fees payable to non-executive directors excluding the Chairman and making changes to such fees as deemed Responsibilities appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors Fees Committee has Agreeing a policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive delegated authority from the Board to agree fees payable to directors, members of the Executive Committee EC, the Company non-executive directors on its behalf.
Secretary and other senior executives.
Governance Within the agreed policy, determining individual remuneration The Board has approved the following guidelines to be used by the packages for the Chairman, executive directors and EC members.
Committee when discharging its responsibilities: Agreeing the policy on terms and conditions to be included in fees shall be sufficient to attract and retain individuals with the service agreements for the Chairman, executive directors, EC necessary skills, experience and knowledge required to ensure that members, the Company Secretary and other senior executives, the Board is able to discharge its duties effectively: including termination payments and compensation commitments, in setting fees the Committee shall have regard to the amount of where applicable.
time individual non-executive directors are required to devote to their duties, and also the scale and complexity of the business, and Approving any employee share-based incentive schemes and any the responsibility involved: performance conditions to be used for such schemes.
fees payable to non-executive directors shall be paid in cash and Determining any share scheme performance targets.
shall not be performance-related: and The full terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee can be non-executive directors shall not participate in the Companys found on the Companys website or can be obtained from the share-based incentive schemes or pension scheme.
Meetings Governance The Committee meets each year to consider the fees paid to the The Remuneration Committee was in place throughout 2011. non-executive directors.
Details of attendance at its meeting in 2011 are provided on page 104.
All its members are independent in accordance with provision B1.1 of the Code.
The Chief Executive and the Companys Chairman attend Committee meetings by invitation only.
They do not attend where their individual remuneration is discussed and no director is involved in deciding his own remuneration.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Meetings In 2011, the Committee met eight times and details of attendance at these meetings are provided on page 104.
