How we govern our business CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Good corporate governance underpins Capco cHairmans intrOductiOn In my Chairmans Statement I noted that astrong corporate governance structure underpins Capcos culture.
I have a personal interest in corporate governance and am amember of the corporate governance committee of the ICAEW and the 30% Club which encourages increased gender diversity on Boards.
I am therefore pleased to introduce Capcos 2011 Corporate Governance Report.
Good corporate governance underpins our organisation, providing a framework of controls and reporting on which the business operates.
This report describes the operation of the Board and its Committees and explains how we applied the principles of good governance set out in the uK Governance Code last year.
The report provides information on the widerange of matters considered by the Board and Committees during the year.
Ian Durant, Chairman Ofthese, particular attention was given to Groupstrategy.
Board composition remains a key focus, and the report contains an update on our ongoing recruitment of a new Non-executive Director.
We are committed to maintaining the high corporate Our annual Board Evaluation has helped governance standards we have set ourselves, and Board shape our agenda for 2012, and we set out some of the outcomes on page 55. diversity is a key focus.
Capco is committed to maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
This is demonstrated by our early adoption of two key provisions of the new uK Corporate Governance Code last year: annual re-election of Directors, and periodic external Board valuations.
The Board will continue to statement of compliance with the uk explanation monitor corporate governance developments corporate governance code The Board appointed on demerger from and ensure that we maintain the high Throughout 2011 the Company complied Liberty International PLC was felt to offer standards we have set ourselves.
with all relevant provisions set out in the continuity to shareholders and to remove uK Corporate Governance Code, except that the risk of introducing a number of new from 1 January 2011 to 4 February 2011 less Directors to the Company within a short than half the Board comprised independent period of time.
Immediately following the Non-executive Directors.
Following David demerger a search was initiated for an Fischels decision to step down from the additional independent Non-executive Board in February 2011, the Company Director who would be appointed as became fully compliant with the Code.
Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following the appointment of Henry provision Staunton, and the resignation of David B.
1.2 Fischel, the Company is now compliant with this provision.
details of non-compliance From 1 January 2011 to 4 February 2011 less than half the Board comprised independent Non-executive Directors.
52 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements targets as all appointments must be made on tHe bOard name independent?
merit, however gender and wider diversity board composition Ian Hawksworth No issues will be taken into consideration when As at 31 December 2011 the Board comprised Soumen Das No evaluating the skills, knowledge and the Chairman, three Executive Directors and Gary yardley No experience desirable to fill each Board five Non-executive Directors.
The NonGraeme Gordon No vacancy.
We will report on Board Diversity executive Chairman is Ian Durant, the Chief Ian Henderson yes each year from now on.
Executive is Ian Hawksworth and the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director Andrew Huntley yes leadersHip structure isIan Henderson.
Henry Staunton yes The Board is collectively responsible for the Andrew Strang yes board independence long-term success of the Company, and for its The uK Corporate Governance Code requires 4 4 leadership, strategy, control and management.
that, excluding the Chairman, at least half The roles of the Chairman and Chief Each of these Non-executive Directors is considered theBoard should comprise Non-executive to be independent as they met the Combined Codes Executive are distinct and formally Directors determined to be independent.
independence criteria on their appointment as documented, with the Chairman being Non-executive Directors of the Companys former Since February 2011 the Board has comprised responsible for the leadership of the Board, parent Liberty International PLC, and confirmed their the Chairman, four independent Noncontinued independence on appointment as Directors ensuring its effectiveness and setting its executive Directors, one non-independent of the Company.
agenda, and the Chief Executive for Non-executive Director and three developing the Companys strategic direction, board skills ExecutiveDirectors.
implementing policies and strategies decided Information on the skills and experience by the Board and managing the business in of each Director can be found in their Board Independence the most effective way possible.
Day-to-day management of the Group is diversity delegated to the Executive Directors, subject There is currently a lack of gender diversity to formal delegated authority limits, however 1 onthe Capco Board.
The Board intends to certain matters have been reserved for Chairman make an appointment during 2012 that will consideration by the Board.
These matters, 4 strengthen Board Diversity.
Following this which are reviewed annually, include: appointment the percentage of female Independent decisions on the composition of the Board, its Non-executive Directors Directors is expected to be 10%.
Additional Committees, Company strategy, significant information on Capcos recruitment process 1 funding decisions and corporate transactions, for Non-executive Directors is set out on Non-independent delegated authority limits and dividendpolicy.
3 The Board meets formally throughout the Diversity is important to Capco across the Executive Directors year with main meetings timed around the Group.
The Board recognises the benefits that financial calendar, and additional meetings diversity, including gender diversity, brings convened to consider specific matters as and has adopted a Board Diversity Policy.
Attendance at meetings held during Additionally, the Chairman is a member of 2011 is shown in the table on page 55.
If the 30% Club, committed to engaging on The following table sets out which of the matters require approval at short notice, thetopic to bring more women onto uK Directors the Board considers to be written approval is sought from all Directors.
Each independent Director Board papers are circulated several days in We recognise the business benefits of hasconfirmed that there is no reason why advance of meetings to ensure that Directors employing people with varied outlooks.
they should not continue to be considered have sufficient time to consider their content Weare keen to develop female talent and the independent, and the Board is satisfied that prior to the meeting.
ratio of women to men within our Senior they all remain independent in character Management team is 1:1.
The Chairman also meets regularly with on our people practices, including our theNon-executive Directors without the learning and development strategies, is Executive Directors being present.
contained in the Corporate Responsibility report on pages 44 to 49.
The Davies Review on Women on Boards recommended that companies should set out the percentage of women they aim to have on their Boards in 2013 and 2015.
The Board does not feel that it would be appropriate to set www.
com 53 How we govern our business CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINuED leadersHip structure tHe bOard remit: Strategy: Leadership: Risk audit remuneratiOn nOminatiOn cOrpOrate cOmmittee cOmmittee cOmmittee respOnsibility remit remit remit cOmmittee Oversees financial Sets remuneration Recommends Board remit reporting: Monitors policy: Sets Executive appointments: Oversees corporate internal controls: Oversees Director Remuneration Succession planning: responsibility activities risk management: and incentives: Boardevaluation Monitors internal and Approves annual external auditors  Further information: audit committee report remuneration committee nomination committee cr committee page 57 pages 59 and 60 page 57 page 58 corporate responsibility report risk management report directors remuneration report pages 44 to 49 pages 14 to 17 pages 61 to 68 tHe bOard in 2011 In addition to regular reports from the Interim management statements Regular informal Directors updates are also Executive Directors, Company Secretary and held.
These meetings are often combined Risk governance Committee Chairmen, matters considered by withsite visits and are used to keep the Board 9.99% share placing the Board during the year included: updated on topical matters and Group Covent Garden refinancing progress.
Four Directors updates were held Strategy The Bribery Act 2010 during 2011 and topics included a planning 2011 and 2012 Budgets Outcome of Board Evaluation update and a tour of the Masterplan 2010 Annual Results and final dividend Board Diversity Exhibition at Earls Court.
The Directors 2011 Interim Results and interim dividend Committees terms of reference and updates also provide an opportunity for Schedule of matters reserved for theNon-executive Directors to meet 2011 AGM Resolutions Boarddecision seniormanagement.
Significant investment decisions including Delegated authority limits the Seagrave Road Development, land purchases, property acquisitions, disposals Broker updates and leases Changes to South African legislation Property valuations 54 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements board effectiveness board performance and evaluation evaluatiOn prOcess The Board conducts an annual evaluation ofits own performance and that of its Consideration of approach Committees and Directors.
Following the externally facilitated review undertaken by Independent Audit Limited in 2010, it was felt that an internal review led by the Chairman Recommendation of Independent Audit Limiteds online Thinking Board and Company Secretary was appropriate for to Nomination Committee and Board 2011.
It is anticipated that an internal review will also be undertaken during 2012.
Directors were asked to answer questions on a wide range of topics, and to highlight any areas Questionnaires prepared and issued to all Directors they felt needed additional focus.
The outcome of the review was positive, with theBoard judged to be effective and open, Results collated however several areas have been identified forattention during 2012.
In addition to the Board evaluation, during the year the Senior Independent Director Interim Report presented to the Board for discussion andNon-executive Directors conducted their first annual appraisal of the Chairmans performance, and the Chairman undertook an appraisal of the Chief .
Action plan and process for reviewing progress agreed key actions included Appointment of Henry Staunton to Nomination Committee Increase Board diversity Improve planning of Committees annual agendas Develop Board succession plan Expand Non-executive Director development opportunities attendance at meetings name board audit remuneration nomination cr The following table summarises Directors Ian Durant 9 9 2 2 3 3 attendance at Board and Committee meetings Ian Hawksworth 9 9 2 2 3 3 held during 2011.
Graeme Gordon appointed Raymond Fine as his alternate in respect of the one meeting which he was unable toattend.
Henry Staunton was appointed to the Nomination Committee after the 2011 meetings.
com 55 How we govern our business CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINuED reports on shareholder feedback at each typical nOn-executive directOr inductiOn and develOpment Boardmeeting.
The Non-executive Directors On appointment Ongoing are invited to attend the Companys Individual meetings with the Training resultspresentations.
Chairman, Executive Directors Periodic briefings from externaladvisers cOnflicts Of interest and other senior staff Able to take independent advice The Chairmans other business commitments Meetings with external and at the Companys expense are set out in his biography on page 51. internalauditors Have access to the advice and services During the year the Chairman was appointed Site visits of the Company Secretary as a Non-executive Director of Home Retail Copies of Board and Committee Group plc and Greggs plc.
The Board remains Through the Chairman, the Company papers, minutes and other important satisfied that these commitments do not Secretary is responsible for advising the Board Company information provided interfere with the performance of his duties on matters of corporate governance, and External training asChairman.
ensures good information flows within the Briefings Board and its Committees and between senior It is intended that the Deputy Chairman Shareholders are offered the management and Non-executive Directors.
willbe appointed as a Director of the opportunity to meet new Directors supervisory Board of Capcos joint venture inrespect of the Seagrave Road development.
He will receive no remuneration for this cOmmunicatiOn witH will be proposed on each separate issue, appointment.
The Board considered this stakeHOlders and in accordance with the uK Corporate appointment carefully before confirming Our policy Governance Code, each of the Directors will itsapproval and is satisfied that there is The Board is keen to ensure that our offer themselves for re-election.
noconflict of interest and that the shareholders and potential investors have a appointment will not compromise The Chairman and Chairmen of the Board good understanding of Capcos business and .
Committees will be available at the AGM to performance, and that Directors are aware of meet shareholders and answer any questions.
On appointment, and each subsequent year, any issues and concerns which shareholders Should shareholders be unable to successfully Non-executive Directors are required to may have.
The Company communicates with resolve concerns following contact with the confirm in writing that they have sufficient stakeholders in a variety of ways.
Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance time to devote to the Companys affairs.
Director, they may raise them through the corporate website Inaddition they are required to seek prior Senior Independent Director.
Our corporate website approval from the Chairman before taking www.
com allows onany additional external commitments shareholders visitors to access Company information, which may affect their time available to Communication with the Companys investors annual reports and results presentations.
is a priority for the Board.
The Company has The site also includes links to our business anextensive investor relations programme, The Companys Articles of Association permit unit websites and contact details for and during the year the Chief Executive and the Board to authorise potential conflicts of shareholder queries.
We are happy to Finance Director held many meetings with the aDirectors interests that may arise.
The answerqueries by telephone or email Companys major shareholders to discuss the Board has adopted a procedure under which feedback@capitalandcounties.
Groups strategy and explain progress made Directors must notify the Chairman of any across its estates.
Numerous tours of the annual general meeting potential conflicts.
The Chairman then Groups assets with investors and analysts were The AGM allows the Chief Executive to decides whether a conflict exists and also held.
The Chairman also writes to the update our shareholders on the progress of recommends its authorisation by the Board Companys major institutional shareholders the business, and provides an opportunity where appropriate.
A Director who had each year and invites them to meet with him forshareholders to pose questions to the aconflict of interest would not be counted and the Senior Independent Director to discuss Board, and meet senior executives.
inthe quorum or entitled to vote when the any matters they may wish to raise.
Shareholders are encouraged to vote on Board considered the matter in which the theresolutions put to the meeting, either Director had an interest.
The Company has undertaken to consult inperson at the meeting, online or by withits major shareholders before bOard cOmmittees submitting a proxy card.
We publish the implementing any significant changes to The Board has established Audit, results of the votes on all resolutions on .
Remuneration, Nomination and Corporate ourwebsite following themeeting.
The terms of each During 2011 Board Directors also met with Our 2012 AGM will be held on 20 April 2012.
Committee are available on the Companys members of the uK Shareholders Association.
The notice of Annual General Meeting will be website www.
The issued to shareholders at least 20 working The Directors receive regular updates on the activity of each Committee is described on days before the meeting.
Separate resolutions Companys major shareholders, and receive thefollowing pages.
56 understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements audit committee remuneration committee cr committee Members: Members: Members: Henry Staunton Chairman Ian Henderson Chairman Ian Henderson Chairman Ian Henderson Andrew Huntley Ian Hawksworth Andrew Strang Henry Staunton Ian Durant Andrew Strang The Audit Committee, reporting to the Board, The Remuneration Committee has The Corporate Responsibility Committee has responsibility for overseeing the financial responsibility for setting Executive Director has responsibility for overseeing the reporting process, monitoring the remuneration and bonuses, and oversight of Groups activities in the area of corporate effectiveness of internal control, internal senior staffs remuneration.
As at 31 December responsibility on behalf of the Board.
As at audit, risk management, the statutory audit 2011 and the date of this report the Committee 31 December 2011 and the date of this report, and monitoring the independence of the comprises four independent Non-executive the Corporate Responsibility Committee statutory auditors and the provision of Directors, and is chaired by Ian Henderson.
comprised Ian Henderson Chairman, Ian non-audit services.
As at 31 December 2011 The Committee is advised by independent Durant and Ian Hawksworth.
The Committee and the date of this report the Committee consultants, Kepler Associates.
The met three times during 2011.
Attendance comprises three independent Non-executive Committee met three times during 2011 and at these meetings is shown in the table Directors, and is chaired by Henry Staunton met twice early in 2012 to approve bonuses for onpage 55. who is considered to have significant, recent 2011, review salaries and set targets for 2012.
Matters considered by the Committee during and relevant financial experience.
Attendance at the meetings held in 2011 is the year include: shown in the table on page 55.
The Audit Committee met four times during 2010 CR Report 2011.
Attendance at these meetings is shown Matters considered by the Committee during updates from the CR Executive Committee in the table on page 55.
A full report from the year include: Briefing from environmental consultants the Audit Committee is set out on pages 59 Committee terms of reference and 60.
Charitable donations and spend Institutional investor voting reports againstbudget Share schemes and 2011 performance The Groups corporate responsibility targets activities are described on pages 44 to 49.
Awards of share options and matchingshares Directors Remuneration Report Chairman and Chief Executives expenses Annual bonus structure and application across the Group Executive Directors remuneration andtargets Market updates A full Directors Remuneration Report is setout on pages 61 to 68. www.
com 57 How we govern our business CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINuED During the search for an additional Nonnomination committee gOing cOncern executive Director the recruitment process A statement on going concern is set out has been as follows: onpage 70.
The Committee discussed Board dtr disclOsure composition and determined that The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of increased gender diversity was desirable.
theDisclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in this report and the Audit A shortlist of three executive search firms Committee Report, except for information was drawn up and, after a selection process, required under DTR 7.2.
6 which is contained The Zygos Partnership was engaged to in the Directors Report on pages 69 and 70. assist with the recruitment process.
By order of the Board Members: A person specification for the role was Ian Durant Chairman prepared and a list of candidates identified.
Ian Hawksworth The Chairman and Chief Executive are Ian Henderson meeting with shortlisted candidates and Andrew Huntley will report to the Committee before an Henry Staunton appointment is recommended.
Andrew Strang The Nomination Committee has responsibility Ian Durant for making recommendations on Board Chairman appointments and succession to the Board.
As 29 February 2012 at 31 December 2011 and the date of this report, the Nomination Committee comprised IanDurant Chairman, Ian Hawksworth, IanHenderson, Andrew Huntley, Henry Staunton and Andrew Strang.
The Nomination Committee met twice during the year.
Attendance at these meetings is shown in thetable on page 55.
Matters considered by the Committee during the year include: Non-executive Director time commitments Board Diversity and Diversity policy Board and Committee composition Proposed recruitment of NonexecutiveDirector Chairman and Chief Executive performance reviews Board evaluation 58
