understanding our business our business performance How we govern our business our financial statements AuDIT COMMITTEE REPORT Internal Audit Plan and reports Taxation Risk management review Controls update External audit plan Reappointment of external auditors Accounting treatment of matters requiring the use of judgement and estimates Interim Results and Interim ManagementStatements Regulatory developments During 2011 the Audit Committee alsoconsidered: The Bribery Act 2010 Earls Court Development Disaster recovery and business continuityprocedures The Committee met privately during the year with both the external and internal auditors and Committee members attended a private Henry Staunton, Chairman of the Audit Committee meeting with the Companys valuers.
The Committee invites the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director and Financial Controller to attend its meetings together with senior representatives of the I am pleased to introduce Capcos 2011 Audit external and internal auditors.
Other senior management are invited to present such Committee Report.
The Audit Committee is confident reports as are required for the Committee that effective internal controls and risk management todischarge its responsibilities.
It was pleasing that the Boards a external auditors The Committee has oversight of the confidence in the Committee was reflected in the 2011 relationship with the external auditors, with Board evaluation.
responsibility for developing, implementing and monitoring the Companys policy on external audit, and for monitoring the auditors independence, objectivity and The Audit Committee, reporting to the compliance with ethical, professional and Board, has responsibility for overseeing the regulatory requirements.
Following a tender financial reporting process, monitoring the process in 2010  LLP effectiveness of internal controls, internal PwC were appointed as Group auditors.
audit, risk management, the statutory audit The Committee monitored PwCs performance and monitoring the independence of the during 2011 and is satisfied with the service statutory auditors and the provision of received.
The Committee has therefore non-audit services.
recommended to the Board that PwC be reappointed in 2012.
In addition to regular reports from the Financial Controller, matters considered b internal auditors by the Audit Committee each year include: Following an assessment of the internal audit requirement from 2011 onwards, BDO LLP Preliminary Results and Annual Report were appointed as internal auditor in place of Representation letters CSC who had provided transitional services Going Concern after the demerger in 2010.
A five-year audit Management Accounts plan was developed which is aligned to areas Corporate Governance Policies highlighted in the Group risk register.
Valuers reports and valuations www.
com 59 How we govern our business AuDIT COMMITTEE REPORT CONTINuED Aparticular focus for 2011 was a review of reviews the Groups internal controls and with business unit finance functions which thesystems and processes established during risk, and reports to the Board on its work specify the reports and approvals required.
the year following the conclusion of the andconclusions.
Group Internal Audit regularly reviews transitional services previously provided by the effectiveness of internal controls and Ongoing processes for identifying, evaluating CSC.
The Committee also requested that reports its findings to the Audit Committee.
and managing the significant risks faced by abusiness unit review of The Brewery be the Group were in place throughout the year.
An annual risk management review is undertaken.
The work conducted by BDO These controls accord with the Turnbull undertaken to identify risks and review the since their appointment has included guidance Internal Control Guidance for effectiveness of mitigating controls.
Reports reviews of corporation tax compliance, VAT Directors on the Combined Code and on risks and controls are obtained from across compliance, PAyE & NI, expenses, capital remained in place up to the date of the the Group and used by a committee headed by expenditure, health & safety, IT projects, the approval of this Annual Report.
The the Finance Director to compile a Group risk Bribery Act 2010, a business unit review of procedures are reviewed by the Board on register.
The report is received by the Audit TheBrewery, accounts payable and insurance.
Committee, and the Committee Chairman c non-audit services makes a report to the Board.
The key elements of the Groups day-to-day The Company has adopted a policy to ensure procedures and internal control framework The risk register is reviewed twice a year and that the provision of non-audit services by are: upon any material change to the business.
theexternal auditors does not compromise Any risks identified between these reviews itsindependence or objectivity.
The term Formal schedule of matters reserved for will be logged.
The Groups principal risks non-audit services does not include theBoard and uncertainties are set out on pages 14 to 17. reference to any advice on tax.
under the Formal delegated authority limits policy, Executive Directors may commission e bribery act 2010 Formal documentation of significant non-audit work with a cost not exceeding the In advance of the implementation of the transactions lower of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the Bribery Act 2010 on 1 July 2011, the Company The Executive Directors are closely estimated annual level of the auditors fees at undertook a review of its existing policies and involved in the day-to-day operations of that time.
Costs exceeding this limit must be potential risk areas.
A new anti-corruption the business and hold regular meetings approved in advance by the Audit Committee and bribery policy was adopted and issued with senior management to review all Chairman.
In addition, the Executive to staff, and training was given to relevant aspects of the business Directors must give consideration to the employees.
The anti-corruption and bribery The Board received regular updates on preservation of auditor independence: and policy can be viewed on the Companys strategy and project developments at the the external auditors are required to confirm website www.
The formal Board meetings and that they are acting independently and implementation of the new provisions was Directorsupdates mustnot audit their own work: make overseen by the Audit Committee, and two A formal whistleblowing procedure is in management decisions for the Company: reviews of the arrangements were conducted place under which staff may raise matters create a mutuality of interest: develop close by BDO with satisfactory outcomes.
of concern no calls were received during personal relationships with the Companys the year.
personnel: or find themselves in the role of advocate for the Company.
Specific controls relating to financial reporting and consolidation processes include: The total fees paid and payable to PwC in 2011 were 370,000 of which 54,000 related to Management structure with clear lines Henry Staunton non-audit work.
These fees primarily relate of responsibility and accountability, Chairman of the Audit Committee tocorporate finance advisory services.
The staffed byappropriate personnel Committee is satisfied that the external 29 February 2012 A comprehensive system of budgeting auditors remain independent and objective.
The Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports from d internal control and risk theFinance Director which include management forecasts and performance against The Board has overall responsibility for the budget and financialcovenants Groups risk management framework and The internal audit programme undertaken system of internal control and the ongoing by BDO LLP.
The Committee is satisfied review of their effectiveness.
A summary of that the internal audit services provided the risk management framework is set out byBDO were independent and effective.
The framework is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk, and can Group Finance participates in the control only provide reasonable, and not absolute, self-assessment and policy compliance assurance against material misstatement or elements of the risk management loss.
The Audit Committee monitors and framework and sets formal requirements 60
