146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 22 07 2011 14:09 Page 18 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance The Board is required by the Financial Services Authority to report on the extent of its application of the principles and of its compliance with the provisions contained in the Combined Code.
Your Board fully supports the goal of better Corporate Governance and we comply with the majority of the principles of the Combined Code.
We do not comply with the provisions of the Combined Code in connection with non-executive representation on the Board, as we are doubtful that further extending independent non-executive participation at present would benefit our shareholders.
We consider it vital that the principles of a unitary Board of Directors sharing responsibility for all facets of the Companys business should not be undermined by reserving areas of decision making solely for non-executive Directors.
For this reason the matters which the Combined Code recommends should be reserved for audit, nomination and remuneration committees are dealt with by the entire Board and it is intended to continue this practice.
In view of the fact that the Board comprises only five Directors it is also not considered necessary to split the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive.
Executive remuneration is not directly related to performance, but a link is established by the fact that remuneration is not agreed upon until after the results for the year are known.
Changes should be made when they are appropriate and in the best interests of the Company, rather than for the sake of change itself.
This Company has a successful track record and whilst the Board will continue to keep under review any proposals which may improve the efficiency of its operations, the current structure has stood the Company in good stead over many years and should continue to do so in the future.
The Board The Group is controlled through its Board of Directors.
The Boards main roles are to create value for shareholders, to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Group, to approve the Groups strategic objectives and to ensure that the necessary financial and other resources are made available to enable those objectives to be met.
The Board meets regularly throughout the year on both a formal and informal basis.
Comprehensive management information covering all aspects of the Companys business is supplied to the Board in a timely manner and in a form and quality to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Boards principal focus, in accordance with the formal schedule of matters referred to it for decision, is on the formation of strategy and the monitoring and control of operations and financial performance.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that the Board procedures are complied with.
The Board has agreed a procedure for Directors in the furtherance of their duties to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Board consults on a regular basis with the Groups external auditors and are charged with ensuring that their objectivity and independence is safeguarded.
The entire Board is responsible for the selection and approval of candidates for appointment to the Board.
All Directors retire by rotation and submit themselves to shareholders at Annual General Meetings at regular intervals and at least every three years.
During the year there were two full, formal Board Meetings attended by all Directors and three further formal executive Board Meetings attended by both executive Directors.
Page 18 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 22 07 2011 14:09 Page 19 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Directors and Directors Independence The Board currently comprises the Chairman, one executive Director and three non-executive Directors.
The names of the Directors together with their biographical details are set out on page 13.
Mr R E Freshwater and Mr A M Freshwater are not independent by virtue of their membership of the Freshwater family.
The Board acknowledges that in view of his length of service, D Davis is not technically independent.
Directors Remuneration Details of the Directors remuneration are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 16.
Internal Controls The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However, such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Combined Code requires that the Directors review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant business risks faced by the Group and that this process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is reviewed by the Board at regular intervals and accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Board has considered the benefits likely to arise from the appointment of an internal audit function and has concluded that this is not currently necessary having regard to other controls which operate within the Group.
Key elements of the Groups system of internal controls are as follows: Controls environment: The Group is committed to the highest standards of business conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all its operations.
The Group has a clear organisational structure for planning, executing and monitoring business operations in order to achieve the Groups objectives.
Lines of responsibility and delegation of authority are well defined.
Risk identification and evaluation: Management is responsible for the identification and evaluation of key risks applicable to the areas of the property market which impact its objectives.
These risks are assessed on a continual basis and may be associated with a variety of internal and external sources.
The Board considers the risk implications of business decisions including those affecting all major transactions.
Information and communication: Periodic strategic reviews are carried out which include the consideration of long term financial projections.
Financial performance is actively monitored at Board level.
Through these mechanisms group performance is monitored, risks identified in a timely manner, their implications assessed, control procedures re-evaluated and corrective actions agreed and implemented.
Control procedures: The Group has implemented control procedures designed to ensure complete and accurate accounting for financial transactions and to limit the potential exposure to loss of assets Page 19 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 22 07 2011 14:09 Page 20 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 Corporate Governance continued or fraud.
Measures include physical controls, segregation of duties, reviews by management and reviews by external audit to the extent necessary to arrive at their audit opinion.
Monitoring and corrective action: The Board meets regularly, formally and informally, throughout the year to review the internal controls.
This includes an annual review of the significant business risks, formally considering the scope and effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
In addition, the executive Directors and senior management staff have a close involvement in the day to day operations of the Group and as such the controls are subject to ongoing monitoring.
Investor Relations The Board values communication with private and institutional shareholders and with analysts.
The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to meet private shareholders.
Other opportunities are taken during the year to discuss the strategic and other issues with institutional shareholders and analysts.
The Board continues to support the concept of individual resolutions on separate issues at Annual General Meetings.
Details of proxy voting on each resolution are disclosed to the meeting after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
In accordance with the Combined Code, notice of the Annual General Meeting and the Report and Financial Statements will be sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
Financial Reporting The Board is responsible for the preparation of the Report and Financial Statements within which it seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups business.
Further details are given in the Chairmans Statement.
Compliance Statement The Board considers the Company has complied throughout the year ended 31 March 2011 with the provisions of the Combined Code with the exception of the following paragraphs: Paragraph Subject A.
2.12 split of Chairman and CEO roles A.
4.6 appointment of nomination committee and their proceedings A.
6 performance evaluation of the Board A.
7.2 length of service of non-executive directors B.
1.1 performance related remuneration for executive directors B.
2.12 appointment of remuneration committee and their proceedings C. 3.16 appointment of audit committee and their proceedings Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 11, which also refers to the financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities.
In addition, Note 17 to the financial statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its financial risks, together with details of its financial instruments, hedging activities and exposures to credit, liquidity and market risks.
Page 20 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 146120 Project Daejan Holdings R&A Pt2 22 07 2011 14:09 Page 21 Daejan Holdings PLC Report & Financial Statements 2011 As shown in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, the Group generated net cash from operating activities of 26.1 million during the year 2010 17.0 million.
Gearing, on the basis of gross debt to total assets, was 18.6% 2010 16.6%, as restated.
Net debt total loans and borrowings less cash and cash equivalents has remained broadly unchanged at 174.5 million 2010 176.0 million, as restated.
Furthermore, the Group has undrawn committed facilities of 30.6 million at the balance sheet date.
The Group therefore has considerable financial resources and very low gearing.
As a consequence, the Directors consider that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the continued uncertain economic outlook.
Consequently, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern basis of accounting in preparing the financial statements.
