REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS GOVERNANCE Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee leads the process for appointments to theBoard and makes recommendations to the Board when suitable candidates have been identified.
When a vacancy arises the Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge on the Board and on that basis prepares a description of the roles and capabilities required for that appointment.
The search for Board candidates is carried out, and appointments are made, based on merit having regard to the need to maintain a balance of skills and experience on the Board, diversity and, where appropriate, refreshment ofBoard memberships.
External recruitment consultants are used where appropriate.
The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive and all four Non-Executive Directors.
The Board currently comprises of four Executive and five Non-Executive The Chairman chairs themeetings of the Nomination Directors including the Chairman.
Tessa Bamford was appointed to the Committee, except when the business of the meeting relates Board as a Non-Executive Director in July 2009.
Following Lord Davies to the appointment ofhis own successor.
In accordance Report: Women on Boards, the Nomination Committee has reviewed with Code provision B.
2.1. the majority of members the the recommendations, as part of its annual effectiveness exercise.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Company as Committees primary goal is to identify the most appropriate candidates being independent.
The Nomination Committee met on two to join the Board and, accordingly, the Committee has formalised its occasions during the year to explore, amongst other matters, existing process by amending its Terms of Reference to make it clear senior succession issues, review its effectiveness and look at that in considering succession planning it has due regard to the benefits the balance of the Board and its Committees.
Attendance at of diversity on the Board, including gender.
The Nomination Committee each of these meetings isshown in Table 1 onpage 39. will consider the matter further, once the outcome of the review by the FRC is published.
Principal responsibilities The Nomination Committees principal responsibilities include: Internal control and approach to risk management regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition The Board confirms in accordance with principle C. 2 of the Code ofthe Board, having regard to their balance of skills, thatithas maintained a sound risk management and internal controls experience, independence andknowledge: systems, seeking to safeguard shareholders investment and the developing succession plans for Directors and Groups assets.
The Board is responsible for seeking to determine seniorexecutives: thenature and extent of the significant risks that it is appropriate for identifying and nominating candidates to fill Board theGroup to take to achieve its strategic objectives and it is the vacancies and evaluating the role and capabilities responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management required for a particular appointment: toimplement and maintain the Groups internal control and risk reviewing the leadership needs of the Group to ensure management systems within the governance and policy framework continued ability of the Group to compete effectively approved by the Board.
The risk management and internal controls in themarket: systems have been in place throughout the year ended 30 June 2011 annually reviewing, through performance evaluation, the and up to the date of this report, and their effectiveness is regularly time required from Non-Executive Directors to fulfil their reviewed by the Board.
The risk management and internal controls duties: and systems and their effectiveness accord with the Turnbull guidance.
reviewing and making recommendations to the Board The Groups system of internal control is designed to manage risks onthe authorisation of conflicts of interest of new and that may impede the achievement of the Groups business objectives existing Directors.
rather than to eliminate those risks entirely.
The system of internal control therefore provides only reasonable, not absolute, assurance against The Terms of Reference for the Nomination Committee material misstatement or loss.
The system of internal control does, areavailable from the Companys website however, provide reasonable assurance that potential issues can www.
be identified promptly and appropriate remedial action taken.
The Group operates internal controls to ensure that the Groups financial Robert Lawson statements are reconciled to the underlying financial ledgers.
A review CHAIRMAN OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE ofthe consolidated accounts and financial statements is completed bymanagement to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
To enhance the internal control framework, a senior executive Risk Committee was established in the 2009 10 financial year.
The Risk Committee consists of standing members comprising the Group Finance Director, Group General Counsel and Company Secretary, 42 BARRATT DEVELOPMENTS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
