Grainger plc 48 Corporate governance report continued A separate executive directors committee sets, after discussion function which performs relevant reviews as part of a programme with the chairman, the fees of the non-executive directors.
approved by the audit committee.
The committee considers any issues or risks arising from internal audit in order that appropriate The report of the remuneration committee is set out on pages actions can be undertaken for their satisfactory resolution.
The 50to 56. internal audit manager has a direct reporting line to the chairman Nominations committee of the audit committee.
A detailed annual budget is produced The nominations committee comprises Robin Broadhurst each year, together with longer-term projections in accordance chairman, John Barnsley and Robert Hiscox.
John Barnsley joined with the agreed strategy, which are presented to the board for the committee on 09 February 2011.
Bill Tudor John was a consideration and approval.
A fundamental part of the control member until 09 February 2011 when he retired from the board process is the diligent monitoring of actual performance against at the Annual General Meeting.
Where applicable, revisions are made to expected out-turn against which further progress can be The nominations committee reviews the size, balance and monitored.
A detailed management information pack is prepared constitution of the board, formulates plans for succession for both monthly which covers each major area of the business and which executive and non-executive directors and recommends to the includes detailed consolidated results and financial information for board as to whether directors retiring by rotation should be the business as a whole.
The performance of each business area is nominated for re-election by the members.
reviewed monthly by both divisional management and the Appointments to the board are recommended following an operations board and is subsequently reported to the board.
effective search, interview and evaluation process based on The board also discusses in detail the projected financial impact of objective criteria.
major proposed acquisitions and disposals, including their The nominations committee meets as is necessary and met twice financing.
All such proposed substantial investments are during the year under review considered by all directors.
Where meetings are required between board meetings and a full complement of directors cannot be Risk committee achieved, a committee of directors considers the necessary Subsequent to 30 September 2011 it has been agreed to set up a formalities.
The board is also responsible for the discussion and risk committee under the chairmanship of Belinda Richards.
Risk approval of the groups treasury strategy, including mitigation had previously been overseen by the audit committee.
against changes in interest rates.
The groups processes for Internal control internal control have been in place throughout the year and The board is responsible for reviewing and approving the groups accord with the Turnbull guidelines 2005.
The board regularly system of internal control and its adequacy and effectiveness.
reviews the groups processes for internal control and conducts a formal annual review of these processes and the risks relating to The group has a cyclical process for identifying, assessing and the business.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified managing its significant risks, which has been in place for the full from this review in the year.
The process is designed to enable the board to be confident that such risks are mitigated, or controlled as far as Relations with shareholders possible.
It should be noted however, that no system can eliminate The company has held over 100 meetings with shareholders, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives entirely and can analysts and potential investors in the year in addition to the usual only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against half-yearly results announcements and briefings.
Andrew Cunningham and Mark Greenwood, chief executive and The audit committee is delegated the task of reviewing all financial director respectively, have had the vast majority of these identified risks, with the ultimate key risks retained for full board meetings and manage the groups investor relations programme review.
The audit committee reports to the board at every board with the head of corporate affairs.
Feedback is always sought meeting.
Risks and controls are reviewed to ensure effective following such meetings and is presented to the board as a whole management of appropriate strategic, financial, operational and and the board is briefed on the views of major shareholders.
The audit committee also reviews the half year the directors intend to be in attendance at the Annual General and full year financial statements and holds discussions with the Meeting and available to answer questions.
The groups website groups auditors.
In addition, the group has an internal audit includes a specific and comprehensive Investor Relations section,
