Targets fully achieved or in progress 8 8% Grainger plc 32 Corporate responsibility continued 2011 12 Opportunities Energy costs: Externally, CR factors Specific target delivery is assigned to Grainger proactively seeks opportunities such as energy performance are individuals and teams throughout Grainger todistinguish itself from its peers and to increasingly valued into residential and is now integrated into individuals future-proof our assets in order to protect properties and investment is available personal objectives each year.
The operations asset value and secure a long-term income to those companies that demonstrate board reviews progress against targets at stream for the business.
Demand for high least quarterly.
quality rented housing from tenants Legislation: As the UKs largest listed 2010 11 Performance able to exercise choice is likely to rise residential landlord, we are in a unique In 2010 11, we set targets across all as an increasing percentage of the UK position to actively engage with the components of our sustainability strategy, population rent rather than buy.
Government, directly and through aligning impact areas and business industry bodies.
Grainger can influence These risks and opportunities should be priorities through our ETHOS pillars.
and shape future sustainability policy viewed in the context of our risk disclosure A number of 2010 11 targets were in progress to ensure it is both practical and on pages 39 to 41. as of 30 September 2011.
Governance to work towards the achievement of all Physical: If developed in partnership The operations board maintains overall targets that were not completed this year.
with industry, current Government responsibility for CR managing the risks proposals relating to minimum energy associated with the delivery of our strategic efficiency standards and the Green Deal, objectives across multiple business units.
2010 11 performance for example, offer Grainger a significant It consists of the management team Not achieved opportunity to upgrade our properties leading each business unit and shared In progress using third party funding.
Our chief operating officer Substantially achieved Reputation: Community engagement chairs the monthly operations board Achieved and investment are central to the meeting and reports on its activities to Not applicable planning process and are likely to the main board of directors on a quarterly become even more so with the Localism basis.
From 2011 12, each executive board Bill.
A proactive approach can win member will take responsibility for a pillar the trust and respect of stakeholders, of our ETHOS strategy, driving CR from increasing success with planning the highest levels.
In 2010, we established applications and attracting potential the Green Projects Group to manage employees.
With operations across the the opportunities and threats to Grainger UK, Graingers procurement policies can arising from climate change.
Chaired by stimulate local economies.
This year we our chief operating officer, this group is are seeking to understand the make-up an example of how we are embedding of our contractor base from a local vs. our CR strategy further into the business.
