Grainger plc 44 Corporate governance report Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code maintain these levels over the next few years subject always to The board of Grainger is committed to maintaining high standards there being suitable directors with the appropriate quality available.
of corporate governance, which the directors see as fundamental The board reviews non-executive director independence on an to effective management of the business and delivery of annual basis and takes into account the individuals professional long-term shareholder value.
characteristics, their behaviour at board meetings and their The governance rules applicable to all UK companies admitted to contribution to unbiased and independent debate.
the Official List of the UK Listing Authority are set out in the UK All of the non-executive directors are considered by the board to Corporate Governance Code the Code, published by the be independent.
The board fully supports the principles set out in the Code and confirms that it has complied We are aware that, for some investors, length of non-executive with all of the provisions of the Code throughout the financial directors service beyond nine years will prejudice their year ended 30 September 2011. independence.
This report sets out Graingers governance policies and practices Robert Hiscox who will be retiring from the board at the AGM in and includes details of how the group applies the principles and February 2012 has served as a director since March 2002 and John complies with the provisions of the Code.
Barnsley, the senior independent director, has served on the board since February 2003.
The role of the board The board provides leadership of the group and, either directly or The board believe that both Robert Hiscox and John Barnsley through the operation of committees of directors and delegated continue to exercise a degree of rigorous enquiry and intellectual authority, applies independent judgement on matters of strategy, challenge in respect of their roles as non-executive directors and performance, resources including key appointments and as such continue to regard them as independent.
The board sets the groups strategic Their continuity of service has been, and continues to be of objectives and approves and monitors business plans and budgets considerable benefit to the company through a period of submitted by the executive directors and senior management.
significant change in both the executive and non-executive The written statement of matters reserved to the board is directors and provides an important knowledge link with the past reviewed and approved annually by the board and a copy is and an in-depth understanding of the company which is available on the groups website www.
co. uk or from considered to be highly beneficial to the board.
Further, this the company secretary on request.
enhanced duration of service is complimentary to the longer term business cycle applicable to the Grainger business model.
Board composition, structure and roles At the date of this report the board consists of a non-executive The board consisted of a majority of independent non-executive chairman, the chief executive, the chief operating officer, the directors excluding the chairman throughout the year.
property director, the finance director and six non-executive Biographical details of all the current directors are set out on directors.
Bill Tudor John resigned as a non-executive director on The posts of chairman and chief executive are separate and their 9February 2011. roles and responsibilities are clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the board.
A copy of the written statement of roles Belinda Richards was appointed to the Board as an independent is available on the groups website www.
co. uk or from non-executive director on 05 April 2011 and Tony Wray was the company secretary on request.
appointed as an independent non-executive director on 24October 2011.
The chairman is responsible for running the board and ensuring its effectiveness.
The chief executive reports to the chairman, as does Referring to the findings of the Davies Report Women on Boards the company secretary on matters of corporate governance.
The we have over the last three and a half years appointed two chairman is the guardian of the boards decision making and is women to the board as non-executive directors.
As at 30 responsible for ensuring a constructive relationship between September 2011 33% of the non-executive directors and 20% of executive and non-executive directors and for fostering a culture the total board were women.
We would expect to at least of challenge and debate in the boardroom.
