page 44 Helical Bar plc 2011 corporate governance report Chairman and Chief Executive The Combined Code The Chairman and the Chief Executive collectively are responsible for The Group is committed to applying the highest principles of corporate the leadership of the Company.
The Chairmans primary responsibility governance and, except where stated, has complied throughout the is for leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness, whilst the Chief year with the Code provisions set out in Section I of the Combined Executive is responsible for running the Companys business.
The Group will look to implement the additional provisions of responsibilities is clearly established at Helical, is set out in writing and incorporated in the UK Corporate Governance Code, issued in June 2010, approved by the Board.
The Chairman of Helical is Giles Weaver and the during 2011 and has chosen to adopt at this years Annual General Chief Executive is Michael Slade.
Meeting, the requirement that all directors should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
The Group also takes into account the Board composition corporate governance guidelines of institutional shareholders and their The Board currently consists of a Chairman, five executive directors and representative bodies.
The Board is accountable to the Groups shareholders for good corporate The Chairman, Giles Weaver, has been a non-executive director of Helical governance.
This report and the Directors Remuneration Report describe since 1993 and was appointed Chairman in July 2005.
He is a Chartered how the Group complies with the provisions of the Combined Code Accountant by training and has had a career in the financial services 2008 the Code.
sector, including as a current and former Chairman or director of several listed companies in that sector.
The experience he brings to the Group Board of Directors and the skills of leadership and guidance shown in Board meetings, Compliance together with his detachment from day-to-day issues within the Group, provide the Board with the necessary comfort that despite his time as a Helical has 26 employees in the UK, including five executive directors.
non-executive director, he provides an independent approach to the role It operates with a strong management team of senior decision-makers of Chairman of Helical.
Giles Weaver is Chairman of the Nominations and backed up by finance and other support staff.
Given its size the Board do Appointments Committee.
not consider it appropriate to operate both a main board and a separate executive committee, a structure commonly seen in larger companies.
The Senior Independent Director is Antony Beevor who was first However, despite its size, the Group is keen to promote exceptional appointed to the Board in April 2000.
He is a solicitor by training and talent to Board level at the earliest opportunity to expose such individuals worked in the City throughout his career, most recently as Head of to the broader issues facing the business, encourage their long term Corporate Finance at Hambros Bank.
A former Chairman of Croda commitment to the Group and to provide for future succession.
It is for International Plc, he is currently a Deputy Chairman of the Takeover Panel.
these reasons that Helicals Board of five executive directors is larger He was awarded an MBE in January 2010 for services to Fairbridge than those of other comparable listed real estate companies.
Antony Beevor is Chairman of the Audit Committee and a member of the Remuneration and Nominations and Appointments Code provision A.
3 requires a Board to have a balance of executive Committees.
He has served on the Board for more than nine years and and non-executive directors and A.
3.2 stipulates that at least half the accordingly the company has considered whether there are any reasons Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent nonwhy he should not be regarded as independent.
In the view of the Board, executive directors.
In the Groups view, this provision would, given the Antony Beevor continues to provide a robustly independent approach number of executive directors as noted above, create an unnecessarily to his position as a non-executive director and to his roles as Senior large and unwieldy Board.
Accordingly, it has long held the view that the Independent Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
For this appointment of non-executive directors should reect a desire to add reason the Board continues to regard Antony Beevor as an independent complementary skills and experience to the Board and not be driven by a non-executive director.
requirement to match the number of executive directors, provided always that the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders are adequately Wilf Weeks has been a non-executive director of Helical since April 2005. protected.
A former Chairman of European Public Affairs at Weber Shandwick he provides the Board with an in-depth understanding of central and In the Boards view, the current composition of the Board meets the local government and the Civil Service.
He is a member of the Audit, criteria that it is comprised of directors with the appropriate balance of Remuneration and Nominations and Appointments Committees.
skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to enable it to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively.
However, given Andrew Gulliford has been a non-executive director of Helical since March the requirements of A.
3.2, the Group is actively seeking to further 2006.
A former Deputy Senior Partner of Healey & Baker now Cushman strengthen the Board and has appointed an independent search rm, & Wakeeld he headed up their Investment Group.
He is Chairman of the Hanson Green, to assist in the recruitment of a new non-executive Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Nominations director.
corporate governance report Helical Bar plc 2011 page 45 Board responsibilities  SCAPITALSTRUCTURE MAJOR changes to the Groups corporate structure: changes to the Groups The Group supports the concept of an effective Board leading and management and control structure: changes to the Groups listing or controlling the Group.
The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of plc status.
the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be assessed and managed.
s& The Board sets the Groups strategic aims, ensures that the necessary announcements: approval of annual report and accounts, including financial and human resources are in place for the Group to meet its the corporate governance statement and the directors remuneration objectives and reviews management performance.
The Board sets the report: approval of dividend policy: approval of significant changes in Groups values and standards and ensures that the Groups obligations accounting policies or practices: approval of treasury policies.
to its shareholders and others are understood and met.
s  The members of the Board, and the roles of each director are given in the control and risk management.
biographical details of the directors on pages 41 and 44. s# All directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Group.
put to shareholders in general meeting: approval of press releases concerning matters decided by the Board.
"As part of their roles as members of the Board, non-executive directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and s"" the risk appetite of the Group."
"Non-executive directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and s""#OMPANY3ECRETARY monitor the reporting of performance."
They satisfy themselves on the s# PERFORMANCE integrity of financial information and that financial controls and systems evaluations.
of risk management are robust and defensible.
They are responsible for determining appropriate levels of remuneration of executive directors s! and have a prime role in appointing and, where necessary, removing whistle-blowing procedures: share dealing code: health and safety executive directors, and in succession planning.
In addition to Boardroom policy: environmental and corporate social responsibility policy: discussions, the Chairman contacts other non-executive directors by implementation of procedures required by the Bribery Act 2010 and telephone and, if appropriate, will hold meetings with the non executive equal opportunity policy.
directors without the executive directors present.
Directors information and professional development In addition to ad hoc meetings arranged to discuss particular transactions and events and the 2010 AGM, the full Board met on five occasions The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and of during the year under review.
The attendance record of the directors is a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties and its directors shown in the table below.
are free to seek any further information they consider necessary.
The Board has a schedule of matters specically reserved to it for Under the direction of the Chairman, the Company Secretarys decision.
The Board controls the business but delegates day-to-day responsibilities include ensuring good information ows within the Board responsibility to the executive management.
However, there are a number and its Committees and between senior management and non-executive of matters which are required to be or, in the interests of the Group, directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional should only be decided by the Board of Directors as a whole.
The Company Secretary is responsible for of the decisions reserved for the Board is set out below: advising the Board through the Chairman on all governance matters.
The Board ensures that directors, especially non-executive directors, Schedule of matters reserved for the Board: have access to independent professional advice at the Groups expense  where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as of the Group: approval of the Groups long-term objectives and directors.
Training is available for new directors and other directors as commercial strategy: approval of annual administration budgets: necessary.
oversight of the Groups operations: extension of the Groups activities All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company into new business areas: any decision to cease to operate all or any Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board material part of the Groups business.
The Group has arranged appropriate insurance cover in case of legal action against its directors.
Nigel Matthew Giles Michael McNair Gerald BonningJack Antony Wilf Andrew Meetings Weaver Slade Scott Kaye Snook Pitman Beevor Weeks Gulliford Full Board 5 5 4 5 5 5 5 5 5 Audit Committee n a n a n a n a n a n a 2 2 2 Remuneration Committee n a n a n a n a n a n a 3 3 3 Nominations and Appointments Committee 1 n a n a n a n a n a 1 1 1 page 46 Helical Bar plc 2011 corporate governance report Directors performance evaluation Nominations and Appointments Committee The Chairman is responsible for the annual evaluation process, and will The terms of reference of the Nominations and Appointments Committee act on its outcome.
This process involves each director submitting an are available by request and are included on the Groups website at www.
appraisal to the Chairman in respect of the performance of the main helical.
Board, of each member of the Board and in respect of each Board The membership of the Committee is as follows: Committee of which they are a member.
Giles Weaver Chairman The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, Antony Beevor are responsible for the performance evaluation of the Chairman, taking Wilf Weeks into account views of executive directors.
Each director completes an Andrew Gulliford evaluation of the Chairmans performance and provides this evaluation to the senior independent non-executive director.
Directors appointments to the Board During the year the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own Appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
Care is performance and that of its Committees and individual directors in the taken to ensure that appointees have enough time available to devote period and the Chairman reported the results of that evaluation process to the job.
There were no significant matters arising out of the annual evaluation process which required action by the Board.
The Nominations and Appointments Committee controls the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board.
The Senior Independent Director reported that there were no matters arising from the evaluation of the Chairman that necessitated any action Directors re-election or required a meeting to be held without the Chairman present.
The Board has decided to full the requirement of Code Provision B.
I of the UK Corporate Governance Code, issued in June 2010 and applicable Relations with shareholders in full for all accounting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
This The Group values the views of its shareholders and recognises their provision requires all directors of FTSE350 companies to be subject to interest in the Groups strategy and performance, Board membership annual re-election by shareholders.
Whilst the Company is no longer in and quality of management.
It therefore holds regular meetings with, and the FTSE350 the Board has chosen to comply with this provision as it presentations to, its institutional shareholders to discuss its objectives.
accepts that shareholders should annually have the right to vote on each The Group also regularly meets, with the help of its brokers, institutions directors re-election to the board.
The Nominations and Appointments that do not currently hold shares in the Group to inform them of its Committee confirms to shareholders that, following the annual formal objectives.
performance evaluation, these directors continue to be effective and demonstrate commitment to their roles.
During the year Antony Beevor and Andrew Gulliford met with shareholders to discuss certain matters relating to the Group.
Biographical details of the directors are given on pages 41 and 44.
The AGM is used to communicate with private investors and they are The work of the Nominations and Appointments Committee in the year encouraged to participate.
The members of the Audit, Remuneration The Committee met once during the period and a record of attendance at and Nominations and Appointments Committees are available to answer this meeting is shown above.
During this meeting the Committee resolved questions.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each issue so that they that Giles Weaver, Antony Beevor, and Gerald Kaye be recommended to can be given proper consideration and there is a resolution to consider shareholders for re-appointment as directors at the 2010 AGM.
the annual report and accounts.
The Group counts all proxy votes and will indicate the level of proxies lodged on each resolution, after it has been dealt with by a show of hands.
The Group communicates with all shareholders through the issue of regular press releases and through its website at www.
The Group receives regular reports from sector analysts and its investor relations advisors on how it is viewed by its shareholders.
corporate governance report Helical Bar plc 2011 page 47 It is common practice at Helical for Audit Committee meetings to be Accountability and audit attended by all Board members who are available, whether or not they Financial reporting are members of the Audit Committee so that their input may be obtained.
The Board presents a balanced and understandable assessment of Internal control the Groups position and prospects.
It seeks to do so in all published information and in particular in interim and preliminary announcements The Board is responsible for maintaining a sound system of internal and other price-sensitive reports and reports to regulators as well as in control to safeguard shareholders investment and the Groups assets.
the information required to be presented by statutory requirements.
Such a system is designed to manage, but cannot eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
There are inherent limitations in Going concern any control system and, accordingly, even the most effective system can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material The directors have reviewed the current and projected financial position misstatement or loss.
of the Group making reasonable assumptions about future trading performance.
The key features of the Groups system of internal control are as follows: The key areas of sensitivity are: clearly dened organisational responsibilities and limits of authority.
The day-to-day involvement of the executive directors in the running of the  business ensures that these responsibilities and limits are adhered to:   financial controls and review procedures: loan repayments financial information systems including cash ow, profit and capital  expenditure forecasts.
The Board receives regular and comprehensive  reports on the day-to-day running of the business:  an Audit Committee which meets with the auditors and deals with The forecast cashows have been sensitised to eliminate those any significant internal control matter.
In the year under review the cash inows which are less certain and to take account of a further Committee met with the Auditors on two occasions.
From their review the directors believe that the Group has adequate resources to continue to be operational as a Internal audit going concern for the foreseeable future.
The Board reviewed its position during the year to 31 March 2011 and Audit Committee and auditors reafrmed its stance that in view of the relatively small size of the Group it does not consider that an Internal Audit function would provide any The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available by request significant additional assistance in maintaining a system of internal controls.
and are included on the Groups website at www.
The membership of the Committee is as follows: Audit independence Antony Beevor Chairman A policy of reviewing audit independence has been adopted whereby Wilf Weeks non-audit services undertaken by the auditors are approved prior to Andrew Gulliford work being carried out.
During the year under review non-audit services comprised a review of financial performance as required by the Groups The Committee endorses the principles set out in the FRC Guidance on Performance Share Plan.
The audit committee considers the external Audit Committees.
auditors to be independent and has satisfied itself of the effectiveness of the external auditors.
The Board has formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it applies the Groups financial reporting and internal control principles and The Groups policy on awarding non-audit work to its auditors is designed for maintaining an appropriate relationship with its auditors.
to ensure that the Group receives the most appropriate advice without compromising the independence of the auditors.
Whilst no fee caps or Whilst all directors have a duty to act in the interests of the Group, the limits have been set by the Committee, the level of fees would be a factor Audit Committee has a particular role, acting independently from the in considering whether the auditors independence could be affected by executive, to ensure that the interests of shareholders are properly the award of non-audit work.
protected in relation to financial reporting and internal control.
Appointments to the Audit Committee are made by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations and Appointments Committee in consultation with the Audit Committee Chairman.
Giles Weaver The work of the Audit Committee in the year Chairman, on behalf of the Board The Audit Committee met twice during the year.
A record of attendance at these meetings is shown on page 45.
The Audit Committee met the external auditors on both occasions to discuss matters arising from the annual and interim audits, and with the executive board members and Chairman, reviewed and approved: the financial statements of the Group and the Preliminary Announcement of the annual results to 31 March 2010 and the Interim Statement on the half year results to 30 September 2010: the re-appointment of the Groups external auditors: and, the external auditors independence and the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
