Directors' Corporate Directors Corporate Governance Statement Governance Statement identify future candidates for Board roles, the goals of promoting an inclusive environment and diverse participation on the Board are reflected in their search criteria.
The Board reviews both non-executive and executive succession planning annually and as part of that review considers gender diversity.
Although the Board does not believe that the application of quotas promotes effectively the development of appropriate and broad diversity, it does have an aspiration to increase female representation on the Board.
Across BBA Aviation Michael Harper, Chairman more widely, three of the 10-member Executive Management Committee are women: and as at 31 December 2011 approximately I am pleased to introduce the Directors Corporate Governance 19% of the senior executive positions in BBA Aviation were held by Statement.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the continuing women: and approximately 22% of the Groups total workforce were long-term success of BBA Aviation and the delivery of long-term, women.
Further details about the process for Board appointments sustainable value creation for all of BBA Aviations stakeholders.
The and the work of the Nomination Committee are set out in sections 6 Board firmly believes that a major contributor to that success is good and 9b below.
and appropriate corporate governance that is relevant to BBA Aviation, the markets in which it operates and delivery of its longRisk management term, strategic objectives.
The Board is therefore committed to Another item on the corporate governance agenda is the ensuring that appropriate standards of corporate governance are management of risk.
The Board is very strongly of the view that risk maintained throughout the Group.
strategy and risk appetite are matters for the whole Board, while the The Board also considers that its own continuing effectiveness oversight of the processes that underpin risk assessment and internal is vital to the Group delivering its strategic objectives.
As Chairman control are matters that the Board delegates to the relevant I am responsible for leading the Board and ensuring ongoing Committee the Audit Committee, now named the Audit and Risk improvement in the Boards effectiveness, supported by all Committee.
Further details about the risk management process are members of the Board, but in particular by Nick Land, the Senior set out in sections 9c and 10 below.
Independent Director, who also independently meets with the other directors and is available if required to meet with shareholders.
Business ethics In 2011, as part of the Boards regular effectiveness review With the introduction in the UK of the Bribery Act, business ethics is a process, an independent review of its performance was facilitated by third area which has received widespread press coverage in the UK.
The results of the review were In 2010 the Audit Committee received the first of its twice yearly positive and conclusions from the review are set out in more detail in formal reports on business ethics and compliance and in 2011 an section 8 below.
Ethics Implementation Policy was introduced which seeks to codify The Board keeps its policies and procedures under constant the overarching principles and processes that underlie the various review in the light of the continually evolving business and elements set out in more detail in the Code of Business Ethics and governance environment in which BBA Aviation operates.
In 2011 the policies on bribery and corruption and gifts and entertainments.
there have been well publicised, emerging and sometimes Further details are set out in section 10 below and also in the Ethics conflicting views on best practice in a number of areas and a section on the Corporate Social Responsibility page of the BBA number of consultations and proposals in relation to corporate Aviation website.
governance matters to reflect on.
Our views on some of these are set The Board seeks to engage and, as appropriate, consult with its out below.
During the autumn of 2011 an independent third party undertook a survey of investors owning about 40% of the Gender diversity Companys shares and potential investors.
The results were One of the most high profile items on the 2011 corporate informative, demonstrating positive recognition of the strong governance agenda has been the question of gender diversity in the strategic development and financial results of the Group since the Boardroom.
Throughout BBA Aviation we value the diversity of our last survey in 2008, notwithstanding the challenging environment employees at all levels, promote an inclusive environment within which the Group has had to operate.
throughout the organisation and recognise the importance of Board members appreciate their interactions with equality of opportunity.
We do not permit discrimination at any level shareholders and listen carefully to any comments.
I welcome your in our organisation against any employee or applicant for comments on this Corporate Governance Statement and on the employment on the basis of race, religion or belief, colour, gender, 2011 Annual Report more generally.
disability, national origin, age, military service, veteran status, sexual orientation, marital status, or any other protected status.
Michael Harper In relation to the Board, the Nomination Committee carefully Chairman evaluates the existing balance of experience, skills, knowledge, 1 March 2012 independence and diversity of backgrounds when the Committee considers Board succession planning.
The Committee therefore requires that when external search consultants are engaged to Directors Report 57 Directors Corporate 1.
2011 Board and Board Committee Meeting Attendance Governance Statement The Board is committed to ensuring appropriate standards of corporate The table below shows the attendance of Board and Board governance are maintained at BBA Aviation plc.
Committee members at scheduled meetings.
It does not show The Company applies the principles of corporate governance attendance by non-Committee members at meetings to which they set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code which sets were invited.
out the standards of good practice in relation to board leadership and Audit and effectiveness, accountability, remuneration and relations with Risk Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee shareholders.
The Code is publicly available under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the Financial Reporting Number of scheduled Council: www.
The Board monitors the evolution of meetings 7 5 5 2 corporate governance best practice, reviews and updates its Michael Harper 7 2 procedures as required and adopts, where relevant, Simon Pryce 7 1 recommendations of governance review bodies.
Mark Hoad 7 The directors can confirm compliance throughout 2011 with all Nick Land 7 5 5 2 relevant provisions set out in the Code.
The Independent Auditors Report concerning the Companys Mark Harper 7 5 5 2 compliance with the Code appears on page 77.
The Boards Role The Board recognises its collective responsibility for the long-term Simon Pryce retired from the Nomination Committee on 17 June 2011 Hansel Tookes joined the Audit and Risk Committee following the AGM on success of the Company.
Its role includes providing effective 4 May 2011 leadership and agreeing the Groups strategic aims.
It assesses business opportunities and seeks to ensure that appropriate controls Directors unable to attend scheduled meetings or any additional are in place to assess and manage risk.
It is responsible for reviewing meetings arranged at shorter notice discuss with the relevant managements performance and oversees senior level succession chairman their views on the business of that meeting.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys values and standards, ensuring the Companys obligations 4.
The Board and Independence to its shareholders are met.
At the date of this report, the Board comprises the chairman, four There were seven scheduled Board meetings in 2011 and one independent non-executive directors and two executive directors additional meeting.
Details of attendance at scheduled Board and who contribute a wide range of complementary skills and experience.
Board Committee meetings are shown in the table in section 3.
Board Set out on page 8 is a short biography of each current director, meetings focus on strategy and financial and business performance including that of the Chairman, Michael Harper, who joined the Board and during the year there was also a separate meeting of Board of QinetiQ Group plc during 2011. members focusing on the longer-term strategic direction of the The Board has determined that Nick Land, Mark Harper, Peter Group.
Additional meetings are called as required to deal with specific Ratcliffe and Hansel Tookes are independent in character and matters.
The Board agenda is set by the Chairman in consultation with judgement.
The Company has formal procedures in place to ensure the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, other Board that the Boards powers to authorise conflicts are operated effectively members and the Group Secretary.
and such procedures have been followed throughout 2011.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for The Board has decided that all Board members wishing to decision including approval of matters such as: continue serving on the Board will retire and stand for re-election at the strategy and objectives 2012 AGM.
The Board believes that each of the directors should be reGroup policies elected by shareholders because each continues to be effective and annual budgets demonstrates commitment to the role that each of them performs.
dividends During the year the Chairman met the other non-executive acquisitions and disposals of businesses over a certain size directors without the attendance of the executive directors on a expenditure over a certain limit number of occasions and there was a formal meeting of the Senior financial results Independent Director and non-executive directors without the appointment and removal of directors and company secretary Chairman present which included a review of the performance of the Chairman taking into account the views of the executive directors, This schedule of matters is reviewed by the Board each year.
Matters and an assessment of the Board effectiveness review process.
There outside the scope of this formal schedule are decided by were several other occasions during the year when discussions management in accordance with delegated authorities approved by between various directors took place on an informal basis.
the Board and by the Audit and Risk Committee.
Executive directors must obtain the prior consent of the Board The Chairman and each of the non-executive directors has before accepting a non-executive directorship in any other company.
provided assurances to the Board that they remain fully committed to Executive directors may retain the fees from any such directorship.
their respective roles and can dedicate the necessary amount of time No executive directors held non-executive directorships during 2011. to attend to the Companys affairs.
Chairman and Group Chief Executive Appointments of non-executive directors are made by the Board for Governance Statement Throughout 2011 there has continued to be a clear division of an initial term of three years.
This term is subject to the usual regulatory responsibilities between the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive.
provisions and continued satisfactory performance of duties following Michael Harper as the Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the the Boards annual performance evaluation.
Re-appointment for a Board and ensuring its effectiveness.
Simon Pryce as the Group Chief further term is not automatic but may be made by mutual agreement.
Executive is responsible for the development and implementation of All continuing directors of the Company will retire and stand for reBoard strategy and policy and the running of the Groups business.
The written statement of the division of responsibilities between the The fees of the non-executive directors are determined by the two positions was last reviewed by the Board in December 2011.
Board as a whole on the recommendation of the Group Chief Executive.
No director is involved in deciding his own remuneration or fees.
Details of the fees of non-executive directors in 2011 and 2012 are Michael Harper as Chairman is primarily responsible for: set out on page 73 of the Directors Remuneration Report.
Letters of leading the Board and ensuring its effectiveness: appointment for the non-executive directors are available for setting the Board agenda and ensuring the directors receive inspection by shareholders at each AGM and during normal business information in an accurate, clear and timely manner: hours at the Companys registered office.
promoting effective decision-making: ensuring the performance of the Board, its committees and 7.
Information and Professional Development individual directors are evaluated on an annual basis: and The Chairman takes responsibility for ensuring the directors receive ensuring that appropriate Board training and development accurate, timely and clear information with Board and Committee occurs.
papers being circulated sufficiently in advance of meetings.
The Board and its Committees are kept informed of corporate governance and Simon Pryce as Group Chief Executive is responsible for: relevant regulatory developments as they arise and receive topical the development and implementation of Board strategy and business briefings.
The Board also keeps itself informed about the policy: Companys activities through a structured programme of the running of the Groups business: presentations from each of the businesses within the Group and from ensuring that the business strategy and activities are effectively a number of Group functional leaders.
communicated and promoted within and outside the business: In 2011, senior executives also gave presentations to the Board on a and range of projects in development.
building positive relationships with the Companys stakeholders.
The Audit and Risk Committee is routinely briefed on accounting and technical matters by senior management and by the external 6.
In 2011 this included discussion of the exposure drafts The Board acknowledges its responsibility for planned and progressive relating to revenue recognition and lease accounting and of the refreshing of the Board.
It believes that the necessary arrangements to Financial Reporting Councils report relating to risk and manage succession issues promptly and effectively are in place.
is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new The Remuneration Committee receives updates on remuneration directors to the Board, the prime responsibility for which is delegated to trends and market practices as part of its regularly scheduled the Nomination Committee.
Further details about that committee are business and in 2011 Towers Watson also summarised the UK set out in section 9b below.
Governments consultation paper on reporting and its discussion The Nomination Committee had two meetings in 2011 to paper on executive remuneration.
discuss matters relating to succession planning one meeting to The Board has also met more informally with some of the discuss senior executive succession and development planning and Companys corporate advisers.
one to discuss Board succession planning and training.
As mentioned In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman maintains regular in the introduction to this Statement, gender diversity is considered as contact during the year with other directors to discuss specific issues.
one aspect of those discussions, along with, for example, ways of Opportunities exist throughout the year for informal contact between developing and strengthening the pipeline of talent within the Board members and with members of the senior management team.
Group and ways of increasing the interaction between Board Site visits are an important part of the Boards programme, members and senior members of executive management and enabling Board members to meet employees in individual operations.
In June 2011 the Board held one of its scheduled meetings at the There is a written framework for the induction of new directors APPH facility in Runcorn, UK and also visited the site and met the which includes site visits, meetings with senior management and senior management there.
advisers and the provision of corporate documentation.
The focus of In November 2011 the Board held another of its scheduled any induction programme is tailored to the background of the new meetings in Orlando, Florida, visiting both ASIG and Signature director concerned: induction of a new executive director would be facilities there, as well as meeting formally and informally a range mostly focused on the obligations and requirements of being the of senior employees based in the area.
director of a listed company, whereas an induction for a new nonIn 2012 the Board will again hold two of its scheduled seven executive director who already holds other UK listed company meetings outside London: one in Los Angeles and one in Dallas.
directorships would be more focused on introducing the director to the businesses within BBA Aviation.
New non-executive directors would also be available to meet major shareholders on request.
Directors Report 59 Directors Corporate A register of the training that individual directors have undertaken is a. Remuneration Committee Governance Statement maintained by the Company and this register is periodically reviewed Composition by the Chairman with the director concerned as part of the Chairmans The composition of the Remuneration Committee during 2011 is regular review of their training and development needs.
If particular set out in the table below.
All committee members are independent training needs are identified, then plans are put in place and the non-executive directors.
Company provides appropriate resources for developing and During Year updating the directors knowledge and skills.
The Board believes that 01 01 11 Resigned Appointed 31 12 11 01 03 12 the identification of individual training and development needs is Mark Harper primarily the responsibility of each individual director, bearing in mind Chairman the range of experiences and skills that are developed by their Nick Land differing portfolios.
Peter Ratcliffe All directors have access to the advice and services of the Group Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby directors Hansel Tookes wishing to do so in furtherance of their duties may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The Company arranges During 2011 the Remuneration Committee had five scheduled appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal actions against its meetings and one additional meeting.
These meetings were minuted directors.
The Company has also entered into indemnities with its by the Group Secretary.
Executive directors, the Group HR Director directors as described on page 55 of this Directors Report.
and Michael Harper attend Remuneration Committee meetings by invitation.
Board Effectiveness Review As mentioned in the introduction to this Statement, Dr Tracy Long Role of BoardroomReview conducted between July and September The Remuneration Committee has two principal functions: 2011 a board effectiveness review.
Neither Dr Tracy Long nor making recommendations to the Board on the framework and BoardroomReview have any connection with the Company, other Board policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, executive than undertaking this review.
She met and interviewed the directors, directors and other designated senior executives: and the Group Secretary, the Head of Group Internal Audit and the Group determining on behalf of the Board the specific remuneration Financial Controller during July and August: she observed the Board, package for each of the executive directors, including pension Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee meetings that were rights and any compensation payments.
held in August: and she discussed her findings with the Board in a meeting in September.
Overall she concluded that the culture and Work of the Committee contribution of the Board is very positive and features high quality Further details of the work of the Remuneration Committee appear in debate and challenge, with an even contribution from all Board the Directors Remuneration Report.
members and effective Board leadership, supported by an efficient company secretariat, high quality financial information and a b.
Nomination Committee thorough strategic planning and risk management process.
Looking Composition to 2012 and beyond, the areas that Dr Long recommended for further The composition of the Nomination Committee during 2011 is set out discussion and continued development related to the Boards in the table below.
The Nomination Committee now comprises the responsibility for ensuring executive continuity through talent Chairman and four independent non-executive directors.
Although management, the location of Board meetings and the Boards under the UK Corporate Governance Code a Chief Executive is composition and tenure.
The Board currently plans to have its next permitted to be a member of the Nomination Committee, a number of externally facilitated Board evaluation in 2013 or 2014 and will use the US investors appear to have a policy of voting against the re-election of observations from the 2011 evaluation to inform the Boards internally a Chief Executive who sits on the Nomination Committee and as a facilitated review in 2012. result Simon Pryce decided to retire from the Committee on 17 June The Board has reviewed the objectives it set itself in 2011, which 2011, though he continues to be consulted as appropriate.
included items relating to strategy: Board and senior executive During Year management succession planning and development: and 01 01 11 Resigned Appointed 31 12 11 01 03 12 broadening the range of key executives that the Board gains exposure Michael Harper to.
The Board considers it has made good progress against these Chairman objectives, particularly having met a wide range of executives during Simon Pryce 17 06 11 - the course of 2011.
In 2012, as in previous years, the Board has set itself objectives areas to target for improvement and areas of strength to Mark Harper leverage over the next 12 months.
Some of these derive from the Nick Land observations made by BoardroomReview, others are continued Peter Ratcliffe developments from the Boards 2011 and 2010 objectives.
Board Committees Other directors attend Nomination Committee meetings by The Board operates a Remuneration Committee, a Nomination invitation.
The Nomination Committee meets as required.
During 2011 Committee and an Audit and Risk Committee.
Written terms of the Committee had two scheduled meetings.
This was supplemented reference for each Committee are reviewed each year and are by informal meetings, individual briefings and meetings between available on the Groups website www.
com or on request Committee members.
60 Directors Report Directors Corporate Role c. Audit and Risk Committee Governance Statement The primary responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to: make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the appointment of replacement or additional directors: devise and consider succession planning arrangements for directors and senior executives: and regularly review the structure, size and composition of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any changes.
Nick Land, Chairman Work of the Committee of the Audit and Risk As mentioned in the introduction to this Statement, the Nomination Committee Committee carefully evaluates the existing balance of experience, skills, knowledge, independence and diversity of backgrounds on the Board when the Committee considers Board succession planning.
The The Audit and Risk Committee, as can be seen from the description Committee recognises that promoting an inclusive environment and of its role, discharges a number of key responsibilities on behalf of diverse participation on the Board requires that the external search the Board and the Company, including monitoring BBA Aviations consultants used by the Board to identify future candidates for a Board financial reporting processes, overseeing the work of the internal role be requested to approach their search with these goals in mind.
audit team and reporting on the independence and objectivity of Other factors that also need to be taken into account are the current the appointed external auditors.
and future requirements of the Company and, in the case of a nonWhile risk strategy and risk appetite are matters for the whole executive appointment, the time commitment expected.
Board, the oversight of the processes that underpin risk assessment The appointment process is initiated by identifying suitable and internal control are matters that the Board delegates to this external search consultants for the vacancy and preparing details of Committee.
the role and capabilities required for the appointment.
Such consultants will be a signatory to the voluntary code of conduct for Nick Land executive search firms on gender diversity.
The process differs in its Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee detail depending on whether the appointment is for an executive or non-executive position, but the essentials remain the same, and it was Composition followed prior to the appointment to the Board with effect from The composition of the Audit and Risk Committee during 2011 is set 10 April 2012 of Susan Kilsby: an appointment announced by the out in the table below.
Hansel Tookes was appointed to the Company on 27 February 2012.
The consultant draws up a list of Committee on 4 May 2011.
All members of the Audit and Risk potential candidates and a shortlist is created through consultation Committee are independent non-executive directors.
Nick Land, the amongst Nomination Committee members.
The Board as a whole is Committees Chairman, has relevant and recent financial experience also regularly updated as to the status of the appointment process.
and a professional accountancy qualification as considered desirable Meetings as appropriate are arranged with Committee members and by the Financial Reporting Councils Guidance on Audit Committees the Committee aims to ensure that each Board member is given the issued in October 2008 Guidance on Audit Committees.
In addition opportunity to meet any short-listed candidates.
the other Committee members all have experience of corporate The Nomination Committee will then meet to finalise a financial matters and Peter Ratcliffe has a professional accountancy recommendation to the Board regarding the appointment and the qualification.
final appointment rests with the full Board.
During Year Further details about Board appointments and the work of the 01 01 11 Resigned Appointed 31 12 11 01 03 12 Nomination Committee are set out in section 6 above.
Nick Land Chairman Mark Harper Peter Ratcliffe Hansel Tookes 04 05 11 During 2011 the Audit and Risk Committee had five scheduled meetings, generally coinciding with key dates in the financial reporting and audit cycle, and one additional meeting.
The external auditors and Head of Group Internal Audit regularly attend these meetings which are minuted by the Group Secretary.
The Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller also generally join at least part of the Audit and Risk Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee Chairman may call a meeting at the request of any director or the Companys external auditors.
Directors Report 61 Directors Corporate Role consideration of matters relating to the change to reporting in Governance Statement The Audit and Risk Committee may consider any matter that might US dollars: have a financial impact on the Group.
However, its primary roles are to: discussion of the overall strategy and approach of Group Internal monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal Audit: control and risk assessment: consideration of the roles of the Board and of the Committee in monitor the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit relation to risk strategy and risk process oversight: and function: other topics that are described in more detail in section 10. review the Companys external audit function including the annual audit plan and results of the external audit and the In 2011 the Audit and Risk Committee held two confidential sessions independence of the external auditors: without management present with the Head of Group Internal Audit monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys financial and with the external auditors.
statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, including a review of the 10.
Audit and Accountability significant financial reporting judgements contained within them: a.
Auditor Independence and Audit Effectiveness and Central to the Audit and Risk Committees work is the review and establish and oversee the Companys arrangements for employee monitoring of the external auditors independence and objectivity disclosure and fraud prevention arrangements within the Company.
and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Committee carried out a formal audit service assessment in respect of work carried out during Work of the Committee the year including a review of audit plans and the qualifications, The Committee reviews twice yearly reports on the Groups key expertise, resources, effectiveness and independence of the external business risks and the Audit and Risk Committee whose members are auditors.
The Audit and Risk Committee has also carried out a self also members of the Remuneration Committee is aware of the assessment and believes that it has satisfied the requirements of the importance of keeping the appropriateness of incentive structures Code and the Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Committee has under review.
The Committee assesses compliance with the directors confirmed that during the year it had formal and transparent responsibility statement.
arrangements for considering corporate reporting and risk There is a twice yearly formal report to the Committee on management and internal control principles and maintaining an business ethics and compliance, which includes such matters as the appropriate relationship with the Companys auditors.
review of the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct Policy under One of the safeguards to ensure auditor objectivity and which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible independence is the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
services by its external auditors.
The policy prohibits the Groups The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to external auditors from carrying out certain additional services for the the Board regarding the remuneration and appointment of its Group including book-keeping, internal audit, valuations, actuarial external auditors.
While the appointment of external auditors is services and financial systems design and implementation.
Services considered each year, it is the policy of the Committee to review the which the external auditors may be permitted to carry out include appointment in greater detail at least every five years, taking into assurance services such as reporting accountant work and, in limited account a number of factors, including audit effectiveness at both circumstances, tax services.
The Committee is satisfied that the operating company and Group-level: quality, continuity and depth of majority of the tax services supplied by Deloitte LLP are complianceresources: and expertise and competitiveness of fees.
A detailed related and represent a small proportion of Group tax fees.
The Companys policy is not to use the external auditors for review was last completed in 2008.
The appointment of Senior Statutory Auditor is also rotated every five years and the Committee is acquisition and due diligence work.
However, where the Group considers it appropriate or where conflicts arise, suppliers other than considering the timing of the next rotation, as Nigel Mercer was appointed to this role for the 2008 audit.
the preferred supplier may be asked to tender.
This would only include the external auditors in unusual and exceptional circumstances.
The Audit and Risk Committee discharges its responsibilities through the review of written reports circulated in advance of Non-audit fees paid or due to the external auditors are regularly meetings and by discussing these reports and any other matters with reviewed by the Committee and those paid in 2011 are set out in note the relevant auditors and management.
2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Topics covered by the Committee during 2011 and to date in If fees for non-audit projects within the scope of permitted tax 2012 included: services are expected to exceed 250,000 in a particular year, then the Audit and Risk Committee Chairman is required to pre-approve each review of any significant issues from reports from both the internal and external audits: project.
In any event, specific project approval is required by the Committee Chairman for any such project where estimated fees consideration of the audit fee and the balance between audit and non-audit fees: exceed 100,000.
Pre-approval is required for remuneration-related or other non-tax projects where fees are estimated to exceed 25,000. assessment of the risk of the possible withdrawal of Deloitte LLP from the external auditor market: These limits are reviewed annually.
Deloitte LLP have confirmed that all non-audit services they annual review of the terms of reference of the Committee, of the schedule of the Committees agenda items for the forthcoming performed during the year were permitted by APB Ethical Standards and do not impair their independence or objectivity.
On the basis of year and of BBA Aviations matrix of authority levels: a review of the lessons learned from the post-investment their own review of the services performed, the requirement of preapproval and the auditors confirmation, the Committee is satisfied appraisals undertaken by Group Internal Audit: that the non-audit services currently provided by Deloitte LLP do not impair their independence and objectivity.
An organisational structure is in place at both head office and Governance Statement Overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for divisional level which clearly defines responsibilities for reviewing its effectiveness rests with the directors.
Management is operational, accounting, taxation, treasury, legal, company accountable to the directors for monitoring this system and for secretarial and insurance functions.
providing assurance to the directors that it has done so.
The system of internal control is essentially an ongoing process embedded in the 3.
An internal audit function undertakes a programme of risk-based Groups businesses for identifying, evaluating and managing the reviews of controls and business processes.
The role of internal significant risks faced by the Group, including social, environmental audit is defined in a Group Internal Audit Charter and this and ethical risks.
The Group considers that it has adequate information includes its terms of reference, the standards which it adheres to, to identify and assess significant risks and opportunities affecting its the scope and coverage of its work and its reporting processes.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives a report from internal This ongoing process has been in place for the year ended audit at each meeting which includes opinions on the adequacy 31 December 2011 and up to 1 March 2012 and the directors can and effectiveness of controls by site, together with a summary of therefore confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness in key issues, work schedules and details of any action required.
In accordance with the internal control requirements of the Code accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Audit throughout that period.
and Risk Committee monitors and reviews the effectiveness of The Groups internal system of control is reviewed annually by internal audit using outside specialists as well as self-assessment the directors and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial techniques.
Reporting Council in October 2005: Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Code known as the Turnbull guidance.
A Group Finance Manual details accounting policies and financial system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to controls applicable to all reporting units.
The Group accounting achieve business objectives.
It can provide reasonable but not absolute policies are aligned with International Financial Reporting assurance against material misstatement or loss, to the extent that is Standards.
Compliance with these policies is reviewed as part of appropriate, taking account of costs and benefits.
The principal risks and uncertainties which the Group faces are summarised on page 17, together with a description of their potential 5.
An annual budgeting exercise is carried out to set targets for impact and mitigations in place.
The main features of the Groups each of the Groups reporting units.
internal control and risk management systems are listed below.
Detailed management accounts are submitted monthly to 1.
The risks identified through a detailed written self-assessment management which measure actual performance against budget process carried out by division and by function are recorded on and forecasts.
The monthly forecasts of sales, profits and operating a risk register together with the mitigations in place.
This covers cash are updated on a quarterly basis.
A monthly report is provided a range of different types of risks, such as: to the Board, based on these management accounts, highlighting business: key issues and summarising the detailed financial information financial: provided by the operating units.
The integrity of management compliance: accounts with the underlying financial records is subject to review operational: and as part of the internal audit process.
other categories of risks including health, safety and environmental risks.
Capital expenditure is controlled by means of budgets, In addition the risks identified are plotted on risk maps and both authorisation levels requiring the approval of major projects by the self-assessments and the risk maps are reviewed by Group the Group directors and by post-investment appraisals.
The Internal Audit and by senior management at the operating review lessons learned from the post-investment appraisals are also shared with members of senior management.
meetings held with each business.
The outcome from these reviews is then discussed twice each year at meetings of the Executive Management Committee, with the results being 8.
Defined procedures are laid down for investments, currency and presented to the Audit and Risk Committee, which in turn reviews commodity hedging, granting of guarantees and use of treasury products.
the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control on behalf of the Board.
The Audit and Risk Committee receives a 9.
A detailed matrix defines the levels of authority for the Groups report at least twice a year from the Group Finance Director detailing the key risks and the work undertaken in managing the senior executives and their direct reports in relation to acquisitions, capital expenditure, commercial and employee contracts and risks faced by the Group.
Based on this information the Board reviews the risks and confirms they are satisfied that the risks are treasury matters.
This matrix is authorised by the Audit and Risk Committee on behalf of the Board and is reviewed on an annual appropriately mitigated.
If this is not the case they request that management take further action.
Compliance with the authority matrix is reviewed as part of the internal audit process.
The process to identify risks and their mitigation has been supplemented by risk workshops carried out within a number of 10.
All significant acquisitions and disposals of companies or operating units and with the Executive Management Committee and other members of senior management.
businesses are approved by the Board.
A Group policies manual sets out policies and procedures 11.
Shareholder Relations Governance Statement concerning: business ethics, bribery and corruption, gifts and The Board as a whole is routinely kept up to date on corporate entertainments, equal opportunities and anti-harassment, governance developments and the views of BBA Aviations major competition law, legal policy, data privacy, CSR, market shareholders.
The executive directors undertake an annual disclosure and communications and share dealing.
A bi-annual programme of meetings with banks, institutional shareholders, fund review of compliance with such policies by Group companies is managers and analysts to maintain a continuing dialogue with the carried out and senior executives are also required to confirm Companys providers of finance.
The Board receives formal written compliance with certain policies twice a year.
Group policies are reports from its brokers as well as reports from the executive complemented by divisional and company-led initiatives and are directors regarding the views of shareholders following its preliminary supplemented by the Groups Disclosure of Unethical Conduct and half yearly results announcements and at other times as Policy which includes a 24-hour hotline available to all appropriate.
employees, supported by a formal investigation protocol and All non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent regular reporting to the Audit and Risk Committee as part of the Director, are available to meet with major shareholders and, as in twice yearly report on Business Ethics and Compliance.
In 2011 previous years, the Chairman prior to the AGM in 2011, contacted the there were initiatives to review and refresh the processes major shareholders at that time, formally offering them the supporting the Disclosure of Unethical Conduct hotline.
In opportunity to raise any issues or questions.
The Chairman of the addition an Ethics Implementation policy was introduced in 2011 Remuneration Committee and the Chairman also maintain contact as which seeks to codify the overarching principles and processes required with major shareholders about directors remuneration that underlie the various elements set out in more detail in the matters.
The Board considers that its non-executive directors, Code of Business Ethics and the policies on bribery and including its current Senior Independent Director, Nick Land, have a corruption and gifts and entertainments.
Compliance with all good level of understanding of the issues and concerns of major these policies and with the Groups procedures concerning the shareholders, as required by the Code.
appointment and remuneration of foreign agents is reviewed as During the autumn of 2011 an independent third party part of the ongoing BBA Aviation Internal Audit Programme and undertook a survey of investors owning about 40% of the Companys the effectiveness of these policies is assessed alongside the risk shares and potential investors and presented the results to the Board review process described in item 1 above.
The results were informative and showed good progress since the survey conducted in autumn 2008, demonstrating positive 12.
A Group Safety Management System Manual details policies, recognition of the strong strategic development and financial results standards and procedures which are applicable throughout the of the Group in that period, notwithstanding the challenging Group.
Annual self-assessment and or audits are carried out at environment within which the Group has had to operate.
company level against these Group standards.
An executive The Companys AGM is used as an opportunity to communicate summary Health, Safety and Environmental HSE report is reviewed with private investors.
It is intended that notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the at each meeting of the Executive Management Committee.
In addition, in 2011 the Executive Management Committee held an meeting.
Michael Harper as Chairman of the Board and the Nomination Committee, Nick Land as Chairman of the Audit and Risk externally facilitated workshop to discuss natural resource risk management.
The Board also receives a summary HSE report in Committee and Senior Independent Director, and Mark Harper as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and CSR Responsible addition to updates on HSE activities.
These reports cover all Group companies and are prepared by the internal Group HSE Director will each be available to answer questions, as appropriate, at the AGM.
Shareholders are given the opportunity of voting separately function.
Senior managers performance and related financial incentives are tied in part to their success against selected on each proposal.
The Company counts all proxy votes cast in respect of the AGM and makes available the proxy voting figures for, against, annual HSE improvement objectives.
Further details about HSE matters are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Report at discretion and vote withheld on each resolution.
The voting results of the AGM, together with the details of proxy votes cast prior 2010-2011 on the BBA Aviation website.
BBA Aviations Group Internal Audit team includes a number of questions on CSR to the meeting, are made available on request and on the Companys website.
The results of the AGM are announced to the market via a matters in the annual Control Risk Assessment questionnaire which is completed by each of the operating businesses.
Directors Corporate Governance Statement approved by the responses are reviewed and collated by Group Internal Audit and then discussed by the Groups CSR Steering Committee and Board on 1 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by: used in the development of future CSR action plans.
Michael Harper Chairman 64 Directors Report
