Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 27 Our business Corporate Governance report Our governance Our results The Board is responsible to shareholders for the management Following this search two new Independent Non-Executive and control of the Companys activities and is committed to the Directors have been appointed to the Board: Tim Freshwater highest standards of Corporate Governance, as set out in the joined the Board effective 1 January 2012, and Clare Hollingsworth UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code may will join the Board effective 2 April 2012.
As explained above be reviewed on the website of the Financial Reporting Council at Timothy Ingram will stand down as a Non-Executive Director at www.
It is the Boards view that the Company was fully the conclusion of the AGM on 9 May 2012, following which Martin compliant with the provisions of the Code during the year.
Angle will replace him as the Senior Independent Director.
From the date of Timothy Ingrams retirement from the Board, the Board The following section together with the Directors report on pages will comprise the Non-Executive Chairman, four Independent 24 to 26 and the Directors Remuneration report on pages 33 Non-Executive Directors and two Executive Directors.
to 39 provides details of how the Company applies the principles and complies with the provisions of the Code.
The biographies of the Board members appear on pages 22 and 23.
Board composition and balance During the year, the Board comprised a Non-Executive Functioning of the Board Chairman, three Independent Non-Executive Directors and The Directors receive management information, including financial, two Executive Directors.
operating and strategic reports, in advance of Board meetings.
The Board receives presentations from non-board members The posts of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separated.
on matters of significance and periodically meetings are held in The Chairman is responsible for the workings and leadership of regional centres to give the Board greater insight into the business the Board and for the balance of its membership.
The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary Chief Executive is responsible for leading and managing the provides the Board with ongoing reports that cover legal and business within the authorities delegated by the Board.
The Board considers that during the year the Company was The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically in full compliance with the Code, which requires that at least reserved to it for decision making, although its primary role is to half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are Independent provide leadership and to review the overall strategic development NonExecutive Directors.
In addition, the Board sets the Groups values and standards and ensures that the Groups businesses In this regard, the Board considers Martin Angle, Timothy Ingram act ethically and that its obligations to its shareholders are and Charles McVeigh to be Independent Non-Executive Directors, understood and met.
The Board is specifically responsible for: who are independent of management and have no business or other relationship which could interfere materially with the exercise approval of Group strategy and its budgetary and of their judgement.
In particular, and notwithstanding his long business plans: service on the Board, the Board continues to consider that Charles McVeigh remains entirely independent in character and judgement.
approval of significant investments, any decision to divest or close any Group business and capital expenditure: Since 1 November 2004, Timothy Ingram has been the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director is review of performance, assessed against the Groups available to shareholders if they have concerns which have strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets: not been addressed by contact with the Chairman and or approval of annual and half year results and interim Group Chief Executive.
management statements, accounting policies and the As part of the Boards succession planning, and to ensure that appointment and, subject to shareholder approval, it has the blend of skills, experience and independence that it remuneration of the external auditors: requires to provide leadership and to shape the overall strategic approval of the dividend policy and interim dividends and development of the Group, and in particular in the context of the the recommendation of final dividends: planned retirement of Timothy Ingram from the Board on 9 May 2012, Spencer Stuart was appointed during the year to conduct changes to the Groups capital structure and the issue of a search for two new Independent Non-Executive Directors.
In any securities: commissioning this search, the Nomination Committee reviewed establishing the Groups risk appetite, system of internal what additional steps it could take to address concerns about control, governance and approval authorities: creating a more diverse board and asked Spencer Stuart to ensure that a representative number of women with the desired skill sets executive performance and succession planning, including were included in the shortlists.
the appointment of new Directors: and determining standards of ethics and policy in relation to business practice, health, safety, environment, social and community responsibilities.
28 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance report continued At its meetings during the year, the Board discharged the Board performance and evaluation duties above and received updates on the following: financial In 2010, the Board engaged Lintstock Limited Lintstock on performance: key management changes: material new projects: a three year appointment to undertake an annual independent financial plans: legal and regulatory updates, and in particular: evaluation of Board and Board Committee performance and to identify areas where performance and procedures might be reviewed Board membership and commenced a search further improved.
Lintstocks evaluation considers: for new Non-Executive Directors culminating in two appointments: Tim Freshwater joined the Board with Board composition, expertise and dynamics: effect from 1 January 2012 and Clare Hollingsworth will Board support, time management and Board Committee join the Board with effect from 2 April 2012: performance: introduced a new consolidated Group Code of Conduct to strategic, operational and risk oversight, in particular testing ensure that the Groups ethical trading policies were readily this following the restructuring of the Board in 2010, available to all employees, and in particular to ensure that succession planning and human resource management: and employees have a single reference point which is available in local language as appropriate which details the Groups priorities for change.
commitment to ethical business and the Groups requirements On completion of the review process, Lintstock presented a in this respect.
This Code also serves to address the issues report, considering the key themes and issues raised, and raised by the UK Bribery Act 2010: formulated a number of recommendations to further enhance reviewed the strategies and policies being pursued to mitigate Board effectiveness and confirming the Boards major priorities risks, particularly those in relation to financial services: and for 2012 as being strategy development and implementation, succession planning and people development and the further maintained the Directors conflicts of interests register.
development of a global approach to client servicing.
One of the Boards meetings during the year was specifically A performance assessment of the Non-Executive Directors and devoted to the review and approval of the Groups strategy.
the Group Chief Executive was undertaken by the Chairman Members of the Group Executive Board joined this meeting to during the year.
In addition, the Group Chief Executive conducted present the proposed strategy of the business or service line for a performance review of the Group Chief Financial Officer, and which they were responsible.
The delivery of strategic plans is the Senior Independent Director led a review of the Chairmans continually monitored and reviewed by the Board and periodic performance, with input from all Directors.
updates on progress and market developments are presented by the Groups business heads.
The individual assessments of each Director confirmed that performance was effective, and the Board subsequently endorsed As well as planned briefings, Directors are also expected to take these assessments and confirmed that the contributions made responsibility for identifying their own individual needs and to by each Director, each of whom with the exception of Timothy take appropriate steps to ensure that they are properly informed Ingram, in accordance with the Code, offers themselves for about the Group and their responsibilities as a Director.
re-election at the AGM on 9 May 2012, continued to be effective The Board has delegated authority to certain committees to carry and that the Company should support their re-election.
The details out specified objectives as defined by their terms of reference.
of the Directors, are set out on page 22.
Additional information on the responsibility of each of the Board Directors conflicts of interest Committees appears on pages 29 to 31.
From 1 October 2008, Directors have had a statutory duty to Board induction and training avoid situations in which they have, or could have, an interest that An induction programme is provided for each new Director which conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
introduces the Groups business, its operations, strategic plans, A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter key risks and its governance arrangements, and includes one to has been authorised in accordance with the Articles by the other one briefings from Business Heads and an introduction to each Directors.
The Board has adopted a set of guiding principles on Group business development strategy.
managing conflicts and approved a process for identifying current and future actual and potential conflicts of interest.
It was also Where appropriate, tailored training courses are made available agreed that the Nominations Committee would review authorised and Directors also receive regular updates on developments in conflicts at least annually or if and when a new potential conflict legislative and regulatory matters.
situation was identified or a potential conflict situation materialised.
During 2011, actual and potential conflicts of interest that were identified by each Director were subsequently authorised by the Committee, subject to appropriate conditions in accordance with the guiding principles.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 29 Our business Our governance Our results Board meetings Nomination Committee During the year the Board held eight scheduled meetings and a The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for separate strategic review to confirm Group strategy.
Directors reviewing and progressing appointments to the Board or Board attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings composition.
During the year, the Committee comprised the convened in the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: three Independent Non-Executive Directors, together with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
The Committee is chaired Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee by the Group Chairman, Peter Smith save in circumstances where the Chairmans succession is considered.
The Committee meets Number of at least once a year and met twice during 2011.
The Committees meetings in year 8 4 5 2 main activities during the year included: Attended Attended Attended Attended considering the balance of skills, knowledge and experience Non-Executive available to the Board, particularly in the context of the planned Directors retirement of Timothy Ingram, the Senior Independent Director, from the Board on 9 May 2012, and commissioning a search Peter Smith 8 5 2 to secure new Independent Non-Executive Directors with the Martin Angle 8 4 5 2 desired profiles: Timothy Ingram 7 3 3 2 reviewing leadership needs of the organisation with a view to Charles McVeigh 8 4 5 2 ensuring the continued ability to compete effectively in the marketplace: Executive Directors considering the proposed re-appointment of the Non-Executive Directors, before making a recommendation Jeremy Helsby 8 2 to the Board regarding their re-election: and Simon Shaw 8 considering and approving the Directors potential Conflict Members of the Group Executive Board of Interests.
The Board and Committee meetings are structured to allow open The Committee provides a forum to consider Board succession discussion.
All Directors receive detailed papers in advance of planning and to make recommendations to the Board on specified Board meetings.
When unable to be present in person, Directors matters including its composition, structure, size and balance.
may attend by audio or video conference.
When Directors are not The Articles provide that Directors must submit themselves for able to attend Board or Committee meetings, their comments on re-election every three years and that newly appointed Directors the papers to be considered at that meeting are relayed in advance must submit themselves for reappointment at the first AGM to the Chairman of that meeting.
Notwithstanding the requirements The Non-Executive Directors meet separately at least twice each provided by the Articles, the Board has resolved, consistent with year without the presence of the Executive Directors and also the recommendations of the Code which applies to financial years meet at least once a year without the Chairman, at which time starting on or after 29 June 2010, that all Directors should stand the Chairmans performance is appraised.
In making recommendations to shareholders for the reappointment re-election of any Director, the Nomination The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary, whose Committee considers the Directors performance and their ongoing appointment is a matter reserved for the Board, is responsible contribution to the success of the Company and makes its relevant for advising and supporting the Chairman and the Board on recommendation to the Board.
company law and corporate governance matters and for ensuring that Board procedures are followed, as well as ensuring that there The Board endorses the aims of the Davies Report entitled is a smooth flow of information to enable effective decision making.
Women on the Board and when considering future appointments All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the will, with the support of the Nomination Committee, base such Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and through him have appointments on merit, against an objective criteria and with access to independent professional advice in respect of their duties due regard for the benefits of diversity including gender diversity.
These principles were applied to the search that the Committee commissioned during 2011 for two new additional Independent Board committees Non-Executive Directors.
The Board has delegated certain authorities to committees each with formal terms of reference, which are available on request or on the Companys website www.
The membership of each committee is detailed on page 22.
The principal committees of the Board are as follows: 30 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance report continued Audit Committee During the last 12 months, the Committee in particular oversaw The Committee comprised the three Independent Non-Executive the launch of the Groups new Code of Conduct, and the Directors and is chaired by Martin Angle.
The Committee met four implementation of additional controls to support its introduction, times during the year.
The meetings are also attended by the Group considered the control framework in each of the Groups main Chairman Non-Executive, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief businesses and agreed recommendations for further improving Financial Officer, Group Financial Controller, representatives from these and specifically considered the controls around the Groups the internal and the external auditors, Group Director of Audit and valuation practices to ensure that these remained robust.
Risk, Group Legal Director & Company Secretary and other senior To enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively, executives of the Group by invitation.
Martin Angle has recent, the Committee relies on information and support from management and relevant financial experience and the Board considers that across the business.
the members of the Audit Committee collectively have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to carry out the functions The Committee also considers on an ongoing basis the of the Committee.
independence of the external auditors and has established policies to consider the appropriateness or otherwise of appointing the Subsequent to year end, Tim Freshwater was appointed as a external auditors to perform non-audit services, including member of the Audit Committee effective from the date of his consideration as to whether the auditors are the most suitable appointment on 1 January 2012 and Charles McVeigh retired supplier of such services.
as a member of the Committee effective 31 January 2012, in accordance with the FRC Guidance on Audit Committees, having As detailed on page 26 the external auditors are already served three 3 year terms as a member of the Committee.
The external auditors are responsible for the annual audit and have also provided The Board has delegated to the Committee responsibility for certain non-audit services to the Company, principally advice overseeing the financial reporting, internal risk management and on taxation matters.
The approval of the Committee is required control functions and for making recommendations to the Board in prior to awarding contracts to the external auditors for non-audit relation to the appointment of the Companys internal and external services in excess of 100,000.
Below this level the Chairman Auditors.
The Committee is authorised to investigate any matter is kept appraised of new instructions given to the external within its terms of reference and, where necessary, to obtain auditors for the delivery of non-audit services.
The Audit external legal or other independent professional advice.
The Committee is satisfied that such work was best undertaken by Committees principal activities during the year have included:  LLP and the objectivity of the external reviewing the half year and annual financial statements with auditors has not been impaired by reason of this further work.
The particular reference to accounting policies, together with Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors significant estimates and financial reporting judgements and is working well and remains satisfied with their effectiveness and the disclosures made therein: continued independence.
Accordingly, it has not considered it necessary to tender the audit work since the audit was last monitoring the financial reporting process: tendered in 2000, although the merits of undertaking a tender process remain under continuous review.
The external auditors are reviewing management representations made to the required to rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group audit external auditors: every five years and the last partner change was in 2011.
There are reviewing the Groups procedures to ensure that all relevant no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of information is disclosed: external auditor.
The Auditors report appears on page 41. discussing any issues arising out of the half year review or The provision of internal audit services during 2011 was jointly the full year audit with the external auditors in the absence delivered by the Groups internal audit team and a panel of management where appropriate : arrangement with BDO LLP and Grant Thornton LLP.
The Boards responsibility for internal control and risk is detailed on pages 31 making recommendations to the Board with regard to and 32. continuing the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors: Remuneration Committee During the year the Committee comprised the three Independent overseeing the Groups relations with the external auditors Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman, and and the effectiveness of the audit process: was chaired by Charles McVeigh.
It meets at least three times reviewing and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups a year.
The Group Legal Director & Company Secretary is internal financial controls and their application: secretary to the Committee and also provides advice to it.
On his appointment effective 1 January 2012, Tim Freshwater monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit became a member of the Remuneration Committee.
With function, reviewing all reports prepared by the internal auditors effect from 2 April 2012 the Committee will be chaired by Clare and assessing managements responses to such reports: and Hollingsworth, and Charles McVeigh will cease to be a member.
reviewing and assessing the effectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management systems see pages 19 and 20.
Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 31 Our business Our governance Our results The Committees principal responsibilities are to determine The AGM provides the Board with a valuable opportunity to Company policy on senior executive remuneration and to agree communicate with private shareholders and is generally attended the remuneration packages of the Executive Directors and by all the Directors.
Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask members of the Group Executive Board.
The Committee questions during the meeting and to meet Directors following the excluding the Non-Executive Chairman also determines the conclusion of the formal part of the meeting.
In accordance with level of fees payable to the Non-Executive Chairman.
the Code, the level and manner of voting of proxies lodged on each resolution at the AGM is declared at the meeting and published on In addition to the above responsibilities, during 2011 the Committee the Companys website.
The Directors aim to give as much notice commissioned Towers Watson, its external adviser, to undertake of the AGM as possible which will be at least 21 clear days, as a review of the Groups remuneration policy and in particular to required by the Articles.
In accordance with the Articles, electronic consider the appropriateness of the Groups profit sharing and and paper proxy appointments and voting instructions must be longer term incentive arrangements.
Towers Watson concluded received not later than 48 hours before a general meeting.
that these remained appropriate, in particular given the strong linkage between financial performance and reward.
No changes The Company has taken advantage of the provisions within to the structure of the Groups remuneration arrangements were the Companies Act 2006 which allow communications with proposed or effected following this review.
shareholders to be made electronically where shareholders have not requested hard copy documentation.
Details of the information Given the central part that remuneration plays in the success of available for shareholders can be found on page 100.
Information the Group, in terms of recruitment, motivation and retention of about the Company is also available on the Companys website high quality employees, the Group Chief Executive is consulted www.
on the remuneration package of the Group Chief Financial Officer and attends Committee meetings by invitation.
The Committee Internal control and risk management reviews the remuneration of the other members of the Group The Board has overall responsibility for establishing and maintaining Executive Board.
the Groups system of risk management and internal control to safeguard shareholders investments and the Groups assets, and The Committee is advised by Towers Watson and the Group for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
However, such a Legal Director & Company Secretary.
The Committee does not system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of deal with the fees paid to the Non-Executive Directors, which are failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only decided by the Executive Directors and the Chairman except reasonable and not absolute assurance against material when his own fee is being discussed.
The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages 33 Key elements of the Groups system of risk management and to 39.
The Remuneration report will be put to shareholders for internal control are: approval at the AGM on 9 May 2012. a comprehensive system for planning and reporting the Group Executive Board GEB performance of each operating subsidiary.
The GEB and the The GEB comprises the Group Chief Executive, the Group Chief Board meet regularly and review the Groups results against Financial Officer, the heads of the Groups principal businesses plan and the previous year.
The Group regularly reviews and the Group Legal Director & Company Secretary.
Clear responsibilities are given to leadership of the Group Chief Executive, the GEB is responsible for operational and financial managers for the maintenance of overseeing the development and implementation of strategy, the effective financial controls and the production of accurate operational performance of the Group and other specific matters and timely financial management information: delegated to it by the Board.
the regular review and assessment of the performance of An explanation of how the Group creates and preserves value, the business including in relation to risk management and and the strategy for delivering its objectives is included in the internal control by the Board and its subcommittees, Group Chief Executives review on pages 6 to 13. including the GEB: Members of the GEB are detailed on page 23. attendance at operating subsidiary and associate boards by the Group Chief Executive and Group Chief Financial Officer.
Relations with shareholders These boards and their associated committees also meet The Group recognises the importance of maintaining regular regularly and have formal reporting structures.
Directors of dialogue with its shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and operating subsidiaries are also closely involved in the day to Group Chief Financial Officer have a regular programme of day business of their respective operations and are tasked meetings and presentations with analysts and investors, including with identifying key risks and ensuring that appropriate action presentations following the publication of the Companys full and is taken to mitigate and manage these: half year results.
This programme maintains the ongoing two-way dialogue between the Company and shareholders, and helps to a Group Risk Management Policy which sets out the ensure that the Board is aware of shareholders views on a timely process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key basis.
The Board also receives feedback at least twice each risks to the Groups business objectives, supported by an year from its corporate brokers on investors and the markets appropriate organisational structure and clearly defined perceptions of the Company.
The Chairman and the Senior management responsibilities: Independent Director are also available to shareholders.
32 Savills plc Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance report continued a Group Risk Committee which reports to the GEB and is Whistle-blowing tasked with the review, discussion and challenge of key risks The Group encourages employees to report any concerns which reported, the ongoing Group-wide development of internal they feel need to be brought to the attention of management.
control and the monitoring of internal audits and other sources Whistle-blowing procedures, which are published on the Groups of assurance on the effectiveness of internal controls.
The intranet site, are available to employees who are concerned about Committee is chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer possible impropriety, financial or otherwise, and who may wish to and consists of senior subsidiary business management and ensure that action is taken without fear of victimisation or reprisal.
Group function heads including the Group Director of Risk Code of Conduct and Internal Audit, Group Legal Director & Company Secretary During the year, the Group introduced a new consolidated Group and Group IT Director: Code of Conduct to ensure that the Groups ethical trading policies a programme of assurance activities which assesses the were readily available to all employees, and in particular to ensure effectiveness of the Groups internal controls in respect of that employees have a single reference point which is available in key risks which includes: local language as appropriate which details the Groups commitment and approach to ethical business.
a programme of internal audits undertaken in accordance with an annual risk based plan approved by the Audit Going concern Committee.
The plan is designed to ensure that internal The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely audit reviews are focused on priority controls across the to affect its future development, performance and position are Group to provide both independent review and challenge set out in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 6 to 13. on the effectiveness of these controls, and the promotion The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position of good practice and consistency in their development: and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial review on pages 14 and 15.
In addition, Note 3 to the financial statements compliance programmes within the Groups regulated includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for businesses in support of the Groups commitment to managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: conduct its business responsibly and in accordance with details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its all laws and regulations to which its business activities are exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
subject: and The Group has considerable financial resources, including a an annual self assessment and certification by 50m committed revolving credit facility that matures on management of the existence and effectiveness of the 31 March 2014, together with a broad spread of businesses controls within each of the Groups operating subsidiaries.
across different geographic areas and sectors, some of which The results are collated for review and challenge by the enjoy stable revenue under contract with a number of customers.
Group Risk Committee and onward reporting to the As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well GEB and Audit Committee.
placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of risk management and internal After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation control.
In performing its review of effectiveness, the Audit that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to Committee considered the following reports and activities: continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in internal audit reports on the review of priority controls across preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
the Group and the monitoring of management actions arising: By order of the Board managements own assessment of the performance of the system of risk management and internal control during 2011: Peter Smith Chairman invitation of key financial and operational managers to present on the operation of the system of risk management and 14 March 2012 internal control within their businesses: reports from the Group Director of Risk and Internal Audit including reporting on Group-wide key risk assessment activity and annual self assessment findings: and reports from the external auditors on any issues identified during the course of their work.
The Board, having reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control, can confirm that necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified.
