Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 50 Corporate governance statement Under the companys Articles of Association all directors are subject to reelection to the board every three years.
Any director appointed by the Effective board during the year will also stand for appointment by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Despite this the board has discussed the new requirement of the UK Corporate oversight.
Governance Code and has agreed that all directors should offer themselves forreelection on an annual basis effective from the April 2012 Annual Board composition Compliance with the UK General Meeting.
Corporate Governance Code During 2011 four of the seven members of the board were independent Division of responsibilities It is the boards view that the company nonexecutive directors: David Lowden, has fully complied with the provisions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer IainFerguson, Per Utnegaard and the UK Corporate Governance Code The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Andrew Wood.
Each of the directors throughout 2011 except in relation to the Executive Officer are separately held has a diversity of experience and annual election of directors.
In the 2010 and the division of their responsibilities together reflect a suitable breadth of Annual Report and Accounts the board isclearly established, set out in writing strategic management and financial highlighted that all directors would offer and regularly reviewed by the board.
experience and all have significant themselves for re-election on an annual international experience.
In respect The Chairman, Christopher Kemball, basis effective from the April 2012 of the nonexecutive directors, isresponsible for the leadership of the Annual General Meeting.
Per Untegaard is currently the Chief board, ensuring its effectiveness by Further information on the UK Executive Officer of Swisport and is creating and managing a constructive Corporate Governance Code can be based in Switzerland, IainFerguson and relationship between the executive found on the Financial Reporting David Lowden have previously been andnonexecutive directors.
His role Councils website atwww.
Chief Executive Officers of UK listed isto promote a culture of openness, companies, with significant international challenge and debate, ensuring that operations, and Andrew Wood is a there is adequate time available Leadership previous Group Finance Director of fordiscussion.
Although it is the twoFTSE 250 companies.
responsibility of the Chief Executive Role of the board Officer and Finance Director to engage In respect of the executive directors, The board is responsible for providing with shareholders on a daytoday basis, Peter Ventress is an experienced leader effective leadership and direction in the Chairmans role includes maintaining with many years experience as an order to deliver value to shareholders an overview of such matters.
international Chief Executive Officer and and stakeholders.
The principal role of Kevin Quinn has been Finance Director Peter Ventress, the Chief Executive the board is to set the parameters by of the group for over six years and is Officer, is responsible for leading and which the group seeks to promote and Chairman of the Business Services managing the business within the deepen the interests of its shareholders Association.
authorities delegated by the board.
and to monitor the performance of the Heisaccountable for: the overall executives to whom it delegates the Following Christopher Kemballs performance and management of management of the business.
Although decision to retire from the board, thegroup: the development of group not involved in day-to-day management IainFerguson will become the new strategy for approval by the board: activities, the board does have a formal nonexecutive Chairman with effect ensuring that the board is fully informed schedule of matters reserved to it.
from 26th April 2012. of all important matters: succession These matters include inter alia: planning for key management roles: Appointments to the board group strategy, business objectives, k andCorporate Responsibility.
long-range plans and annual budgets: Through the nomination committee, theboard ensures that there is a formal, annual and interim results and interim k rigorous and transparent procedure for management statements: theappointment of new directors to the k material acquisitions, disposals board.
All appointments are preceded Balance of non-executive directors andcontracts: by an evaluation of the balance of skills, and executive directors experience and knowledge of the 31st December 2011 k major changes to the groups internal current board members.
The nomination 1 Non-executive controls or to its risk management 1 Chairman 1 committee then prepares a candidate orfinancial reporting policies and specification and appoints external 2 2 Executive procedures: and directors 2 advisers to assist the committee in major changes to the groups capital, k thesearch for a new director.
Further 3 Independent non-executive corporate or management structure.
detailsofthework undertaken by the 3 directors 4 nomination committee during 2011 are Matters which are outside the scope of 4 Non-independent detailed on page 58. the reserved matters are decided by the non-executive directors 0 executive management.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 51 The executive board Peter Ventress Kevin Quinn David Lawler Chief Executive Officer Finance Director Company Secretary See biography on page 48 See biography on page 49 See biography on page 49 Christian Ellegaard Steve Finch Peter Havus Chris Thrush Managing Director, Managing Director, Managing Director, Group Director, Facility UK Flat Linen Workwear Human Resources Christian joined the group in 1993 Steve joined the group in 1996 Peter joined the group in 1985 Chris was appointed Group and was appointed Managing through the acquisition of Spring and was appointed Managing Director, Human Resources in Director of the Nordic Region in Grove Services where he held the Director for the Continent region May 2011.
He has previously held 2007, having held a number of position of Commercial Director in 2007.
He has held a number of HR Director roles with Corporate senior posts, including Managing and was appointed Managing senior posts, including Managing Express N. V. DePuy, a Johnson Director in Denmark.
Christian Director of the Sunlight Service Director Sweden, Managing and Johnson company, Gestetner holds a BSc in Economics and Group in 2001.
Prior to joining Director Denmark and Chief and the University of Lancaster Business Administration from the Spring Grove in 1995, Steve spent Operating Officer, mainland inthe UK.
He has lived and Copenhagen Business School 25 years in the telecommunications Europe, having started his career worked extensively outside the and an MBA from Monterey industry, latterly as Sales Director in in the textile rental industry in UK in Europe, the USA and Asia.
Peter holds He holds an MBA and is a Fellow On 1st January 2012 he was Steve holdsan MBA from Bath adegree in Economics.
of the Chartered Institute of appointed Managing Director, University.
On 1stJanuary 2012 he On1stJanuary 2012 he was Personnel and Development.
was appointed Managing Director, appointed Managing Director, UK Flat Linen.
Between board meetings there is Their functions include: Collectively the non-executive regular interaction and collaboration directorshave brought a wide range of developing the groups strategy and k between the Chief Executive Officer international experience and expertise budget for board approval: and the Chairman and, where required, to the board and will continue to do so.
k monitoring the financial, operational All the non-executives occupy or have and service performance of the group occupied senior positions in industry The executive board and reviewing the group risk register: and consequently are able to contribute The executive board sits at the apex of significantly to board decision-making.
management decision-making within allocating resources across the k the company.
It is chaired by the Chief groupwithin parameters agreed Senior Independent Director Executive Officer, Peter Ventress.
bythe board: Iain Ferguson, our Senior Independent Theother members are: the Finance Director, plays an important role on the planning and initiating major k Director, Kevin Quinn, the three Business board.
He is an experienced and trusted cross-business programmes: and Line Managing Directors, Christian sounding board for the Chairman and Ellegaard, Peter Havus and Steve developing leadership and future talent Chief Executive Officer, while also acting Finch, Chris Thrush the newly appointed programmes and securing strong as a communication channel between Group Director, Human Resources and succession planning for thegroup.
the Chairman and non-executive the Company Secretary, David Lawler.
directors and shareholders, when Nonexecutive directors In addition to regular and ad hoc necessary.
A new Senior Independent Details of the non-executive directors communication between its members, Director will be appointed in advance are set out onpages 48 and 49 and the executive board formally met eleven ofIain Ferguson becoming Chairman their biographies reflect suitable times during 2011. on26th April 2012. breadth anddepth of strategic, The members of the executive management and financial experience.
boardhave collective responsibility The board considers that during 2011 forthe day-to-day running of the the non-executive directors were groups business.
integral toproviding a solid foundation for good corporate governance for the group, ensuring that no individual or group ofindividuals dominated the boards decision-making and that this will remain the case for 2012.
Length of tenure of non-executive directors Non-executive director Chairman Non-executive director Chairman 31st December 2011 industry background experience previous positions 1 CEO listed plc 2 1 03 years 3 1 Business 1 1 1 services 1 2 CFO listed plc 1 2 46 years 0 2 FMCG 1 4 5 3 CEO 3 79 years 1 3 2 large group 1 3 Industrial 4 More than transportation 1 4 Partner 9 years 0 3 4 2 professional 4 Logistics 3 services 1 distribution 1 5 Financial Advisory 1 Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 52 Corporate governance statement continued Board independence obtain independent professional advice Iain Ferguson, was a member oftheAdvisory Board to at the companys expense.
No director The board considers that in 2011 made use of this facility during 2011.
 LLP, the allfournon-executive directors companys auditors until 2nd December remained independent from executive Per Utnegaard has served on the 2011.
Accordingly, he was not a member management, free from any business boardfor more than seven years and ofthe audit committee since his orother relationship that could asa result the board has in particular appointment in March 2010 and did materially interfere with the exercise reviewed the extent to which he remains nottake part in any board discussions oftheir judgement.
Following this review, the regarding the appointment of the board are of the view that he continues external auditor.
To safeguard their independence, to demonstrate strong independence directors are not entitled to vote on incharacter and judgement and in anymatter in which they have a material themanner in which he discharges Effectiveness personal interest unless the directors hisresponsibilities as a director.
unanimously decide otherwise and, Board activities in 2011 Consequently, the board is satisfied where necessary, directors are required that, despite his length of tenure, there The board requires that all directors to absent themselves from a meeting isno association with management that devote sufficient time to discharge their ofthe board while such matters are could compromise his independence duties effectively and to use their best being discussed.
and that therefore he remains endeavours to attend meetings.
During To strengthen the independence of independent.
2011 the board met nine times, including thenon-executive directors and to a strategy implementation meeting enable them to discuss more freely the Conflicts of interest inMarch, specifically to review and performance of the groups executive challenge the implementation of the The board has put procedures in place management, the Chairman meets strategic review by management.
There to resolve situations where a director formally with the non-executive were also visits to Norway and Poland in has a conflict of interest.
As part of directors at least once each year May and September.
The main areas of these procedures, the board: without the executives being present.
focus in 2011 are detailed on page 53.
In2011, this meeting was held on considers each conflict situation k Inaddition, as referred to above, the 26thOctober.
separately based on its particular non-executive directors met without the facts: executive directors on 26th October 2011.
The independence of the directors isfurther supported by the work k considers the conflict situation in During 2011 all the directors confirmed oftheCompany Secretary whose conjunction with all other directors that they have been able to allocate appointment and removal is the duties and obligations under the sufficient time to discharge their responsibility of the board as a whole.
The Company Secretary, who is also keeps records and board minutes k The attendance of all individual directors secretary to the audit, nomination and as to authorisations granted by at board and committee meetings for remuneration committees, ensures that directors and the scope of any the year ended 31st December 2011 is board procedures are complied with approvals given: and detailedbelow.
and provides advice on corporate governance and regulatory compliance.
regularly reviews conflict k All directors have unrestricted access to authorisations.
the advice and services of the Company The board has complied with these Secretary.
There is also an agreed procedures during the year.
procedure by which directors can, for the purposes of discharging their duties, Board and committee Committee Board Audit Remuneration Nomination compositionand attendance memberships Independent meetings committee committee committee Total number of meetings 9 3 5 1 Executive directors P J Ventress Nom No 9 1 K Quinn No 9 Non-executive directors C R M Kemball Nom, Rem No 9 5 1 I G T Ferguson Nom, Rem Yes 9 5 1 D S Lowden Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 9 3 5 1 P H Utnegaard Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 9 2 5 1 A R Wood Audit, Nom, Rem Yes 9 3 5 1 Excluding: non-executive directors meetings, a board meeting on 13th July to discuss the Facility Agreement and two nomination sub-committee meetings in December in respect of the recruitment of a new non-executive Chairman Per Utnegaard was unable to attend the meeting on 19th August due to a long-standing family commitment Including: 6 bimonthly board meetings, 2 offsite meetings, 1 strategy meeting Excluding two meetings in respect of the appointment of a new non-executive Chairman Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 53 The main areas the board focused on during 2011 were: Strategy formulation, k Held an additional board meeting on 11th March 2011 to review andassess the risks in implementation respect of implementing the strategy agreed by the board in 2010 and monitoring k Received regular updates from the Chief Executive Officer on the implementation ofthe 2010 strategy review Reviewed and approved the 535 million revolving credit facility k k Received presentations from Christian Ellegaard on Sales Effectiveness in August, fromChris Thrush thenewly appointed Group Director, Human Resources on Management Development and Succession inOctober and from Steve Finch on Procurement inDecember Performance monitoring Reviewed monthly reports from the Chief Executive Officer and the Regional k ManagingDirectors onthe key issues affecting the business k Reviewed monthly reports from the Finance Director on performance against budget and forecast k Reviewed reports from the Finance Director on the financial position ofthe group, whichincluded treasury management Reviewed regular reports from the chairman of the audit committee on matters k discussed at audit committee meetings Approved the full year and half year results for the group k Reviewed reports on peer group comparison of results following the release k ofpreliminary and half year results Made recommendations regarding the 2010 final dividend andapproved the 2011 k interim dividend k Approved the groups budget for 2012 and medium-term plan Governance and risk k Reviewed reports on governance issues, including changes arising from the introduction of the new UK Corporate Governance Code, FRC Guidance on Board Effectiveness and onBoard and Risks and updates on changes in company law k Performed regular reviews of the significant risks affecting the group Attended a board training session on risk identification and risk appetite k Reviewed regular reports and key performance indicators on health and safety and k corporate social responsibility issues Updated the terms of reference for the nomination, audit and remuneration committees k Reviewed and approved the groups new delegated authorities k k Reviewed and approved the groups guidelines on anti-bribery and corruption inadvance of the introduction of the UK Bribery Act 2011 In February 2012, discussed the effectiveness of the board following the 2011 external k board evaluation Received reports from each board committees chairman k Received internal audit reports k k Received post-acquisition reviews on Klarner and ISS mats acquisitions Meeting country Attended meetings with the executive board in March, May and September k management Met the Norwegian management team on 18th 19thMay 2011 k site visits k Met the Polish management team on 20th 21st September 2011 Shareholder Reviewed reports from brokers on shareholder feedback from meetings with the k engagement ChiefExecutive Officer and Finance Director Attended a non-executive directors dinner with institutional investors on 7th December 2011 k Made preparations in respect of the 2011 Annual General Meeting k k Reviewed 2011 Annual General Meeting proxy voting statistics Other Reviewed and agreed the appointment specification for the non-executive Chairman k Approved the recommendation of the nomination sub-committee that Iain Ferguson k should be appointed as non-executive Chairman from 26th April 2012 Approved the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts k Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 54 Corporate governance statement continued Induction, training and There is a formal induction programme The Chief Executive Officer and the for all new non-executive directors Finance Director ensure that the information flow covering, for example: the operations boardis kept fully aware on a timely The Chairman is responsible for and activities of the group including basis of business issues and prospects ensuring that all non-executive sitevisits and meeting members of throughout the group.
Both are directorsreceive ongoing training thesenior management teams : the members of the executive board and anddevelopment so that they can groups key financial and non-financial are directors of Sunlight Service Group, appropriately perform their duties.
risks: therole of the board and the the holding company of our UK trading During the last quarter of 2011 the decision-making matters reserved to businesses and of Berendsen A S, Chairman met individually with each itand the responsibilities of the groups themanagement company of our non-executive director to discuss their board committees.
In addition, specific training and development during2011 they periodically attended Formal board meetings are held six requirements and to agree a training individual country board meetings, times each year.
Prior to each board programme for 2012.
Training and meeting the management teams of meeting an agenda with supporting development needs were also discussed each operation.
The key issues raised papers is circulated to the directors, at the non-executive directors meeting atthese meetings are then brought to which ensures they have all the latest on 26th October 2011 and, where the attention of the board.
Included with appropriate, during the annual these papers are detailed monthly As in previous years, during 2011 the evaluation of each director.
Each accounts together with reports from board met senior management teams non-executive director currently serving theChief Executive Officer, Finance at group locations.
This involved site on the board has confirmed that in 2011 Director and the business line visits to Norway in May 2011 and they have kept themselves properly ManagingDirectors.
These briefed on and informed about comprehensive visits gave board currentissues.
After each board meeting, there is a members detailed insights into the comprehensive follow-up procedure by During 2011, all of our UK-based operations of our businesses, their the Company Secretary to ensure that non-executive directors joined and challenges and opportunities.
actions are completed as agreed by the wereactive members of the Deloitte Thesevisits and subsequently agreed board.
Briefing packs are also circulated Academy which provides regular follow-up actions demonstrate the free at times when board meetings are not updates on key financial and business flow of information and communication scheduled.
These briefing packs ensure issues.
We also held a number of board between the board and the senior that the non-executive directors are briefing sessions where external management teams within the group.
kept well-informed of the latest issues advisers provided updates on In2012 we have arranged for the board affecting the group.
During 2011, we remuneration and risk appetite, and an to meet all the management teams implemented a new electronic board economist provided indications on the fromour new core growth business paper system so that directors can economic outlook for 2012 and 2013. lines.
This will involve reviewing and access all board papers and briefing discussing the business line strategy packs quickly and securely.
inworkwear, facility and UK flat linen and willinclude site visits in the UK andtheNetherlands.
Overseeing integration of new Meeting the Polish businesses in Norway management team The board visited Oslo in Norway on Poland is our fastest growing market and 18th 19thMay 2011 in order to be updated on where we have made significant investment integration of the two recent acquisitions from over the last few years in our plant network.
ISS in 2009 mats and 2010 washrooms and The board visited our Warsaw facility on to see the extension to the Herbergsen facility.
20th 21stSeptember in order to meet the The agenda also included a presentation from Polish management team and understand the the Norwegian management team on their challenges affecting a high growth business.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 55 In consultation with the Chairman and the December meetings of the audit Delivering focus through external Chief Executive Officer, the Company committee, remuneration committee board evaluation Secretary manages the provision of and board.
In December 2011, the board initiated its first information tothe board for their Among other things the review external board evaluation.
The board found formalboard meetings and at other investigated a variety of aspects the review very informative and, following a appropriate times.
The Chairman detailed discussion on 21st February, agreed associated with board effectiveness, andChief Executive Officer also ona number of focus areas for 2012. specifically: maintain regular informalcontact withall directors.
The way in which the board defines k its role and approaches its work The Chairman also holds informal strategy, risk and control, meetings with non-executive directors, performance management, without executives being present, to andcommunication : discuss any issues affecting the group.
k The way in which the board works together culture and dynamics, Performance evaluation andoptimises its use of time and A comprehensive evaluation of itscontribution to the company.
theperformance of the board, its In addition, the executive directors are committees and each of its directors evaluated regarding their executive iscarried out annually.
The process duties through a separate process isledby the Chairman and supported by the Company Secretary.
For 2011 whereby the Chairman and the non-executive directors assess the anindependent external review of ChiefExecutive Officer and the Chief theeffectiveness of the board was Executive Officer assesses the Finance performed by Dr Tracy Long of Director and other members of the Boardroom Review who provides no executive board.
other services to the company who individually met each director and theCompany Secretary and attended The full results of the board evaluation were discussed at the Board meeting on 21st February 2012.
The board has concluded that, following this comprehensive review, the board and its committees operate effectively and also that each director iscontributing to the overall effectiveness and success of the group.
Nevertheless, in light of the evaluation, the board hasidentified a number of areas to further improve its performance.
Board performance evaluation 2011 objectives 2011 achievements Supporting the Chief Executive Officer and executive Regular meetings with Chairman and Chief Executive Officer team incommunicating and executing the new strategy A separate board meeting was held on 11th March in respect ofimplementing the new business line strategy Ensuring that executive remuneration for 2012 is aligned Kepler Associates appointed to advise the withthe new strategy and business structure  Remuneration committee met five times during 2011 Successfully complete shareholder consultation on changes to short-term incentive arrangements in Q4 2011 Repositioning on a timely basis the manage for value In Q4 2011, the board reviewed and approved the 2012 businesses in line with the new strategy budget and medium-term plans and strategy for all manage for valuebusinesses Ensuring increased focus on talent management Group Director, Human Resources appointed in May 2011 andsuccession planning Outline plans on talent management and succession planning presented to the board in October 2011 For 2012 the board set the following performance objectives for itself: T o support the Chief Executive Officer and management team in executing the strategic plan k T o develop a deeper understanding of and involvement in the groups external landscape k k T o expand its knowledge of each business line and meet each of the core growth management teams T o improve the boards understanding of leadership development and succession planning k Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 56 Corporate governance statement continued Financial reporting Anti-bribery and corruption Accountability In addition to the general internal In January 2011 we distributed Financial and business reporting controls and risk management instructions relating to anti-bribery and processes described above, the group corruption to all of our business units On pages 6 and 7 we provide an also has specific internal controls and which outlined how they should be explanation of the basis on which risk management systems to govern adopting a risk-based approach to thegroup generates value over the thefinancial reporting process and managing this issue.
Training material long-term and how we intend to preparation of the annual financial was also distributed to all relevant deliveron our strategic objectives.
These systems include clear personnel and to support these policies and procedures for ensuring instructions further, we issued guidance Risk management and internal control that the groups financial reporting on risk assessment and due diligence Pages 32 to 39 outline how the processes and the preparation of its procedures to all business units in June boardoversees risk management consolidated accounts comply with 2011.
The audit committee is regularly andinternalcontrol.
allrelevant regulatory reporting updated on compliance.
These are comprehensively Annual assessment of the effectiveness detailed inthe Group Finance Manual, Whistleblowing of internal control systems which is used by the businesses in the The board and audit committee The group has a system by which staff preparation of theirresults.
Financial requested, received and reviewed may, in confidence, raise concerns control requirements are also set out in reports from senior management, its about possible wrongdoing in financial the Group Finance Manual Minimum advisers, group Internal Audit and our reporting or other matters.
Management external auditors to help annually assess the system was operational throughout representations covering compliance the effectiveness of the groups internal the group in 15 countries.
Due to the with relevant policies and the accuracy control systems.
diversity of our workforce, the system of financial information are alsocollated operates in 25 languages.
Procedures Through the ongoing processes on a biannual basis.
are in place to ensure issues raised are outlined on pages 32 and 33, areas Detailed accounts for each reporting addressed in a prompt, thorough and forimprovement in internal controls entity are prepared monthly, comprising confidential manner.
TheCompany arecontinuously identified and action income statement, cash flow and Secretary is required to report to plans are devised.
Progress towards balance sheet in a manner very similar theaudit committee twice a year, in completion of actions is regularly to the year end and half yearly reporting February and August, on the integrity of monitored by management and the processes.
These are subject to these procedures, the state of ongoing board.
Theboard considers thatnone management review and analysis in the investigations and conclusions reached.
ofthe areas of improvement identified financial review cycle as set out above.
During 2011 group employees used this constitute a significant failing system to raise concerns about eight orweakness.
separate issues, all of which were The board considers that the responded to appropriately.
information that it receives is sufficient to enable it to review the effectiveness of the groups internal controls in accordance with the internal control guidance for directors issued by the TurnbullReview Group.
Analysis of our shareholders by range Size of shareholding Size of shareholding at 31st December 2011 at 31st December 2011 Percentage of issued capital 5 Percentage of holders 1 Up to 1 Up to 4 1 1 2 3 10,000 83.8% 3 10,000 1.5% 2 2 10,001 up to 2 10,001 up to 100,000 9.6% 100,000 3.8% 4 3 100,000 3 100,000 5 up to 1 million 5.1% up to 1 million 17.2% 4 1 million up to 4 1 million up to 10 million 1.4% 10 million 42.0% 5 10 million 0.1% 5 10 million 35.5% Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 57 In addition, on 7th December 2011 the Annual General Meeting Relations with shareholders Chairman hosted a dinner where major The Annual General Meeting takes shareholders had the opportunity to Shareholder engagement placein London.
The 2012 meeting meet and raise issues directly with the willbe held on 26th April at the Royal Shareholders play an important role in non-executive directors without the Aeronautical Society, 4Hamilton Place, the groups governance by electing the executives being present.
Formal notification is sent to directors, by monitoring and rewarding attended by five major shareholders shareholders approximately six weeks their performance and by engaging in representing approximately 43% of the inadvance and in any event at least constructive dialogue with the board.
Other The Chairman is responsible for On 13th December 2011 the Chief general meetings may also be convened ensuring that there is ongoing and Executive Officer and Finance Director from time to time on at least 21 days effective communication with provided analysts and shareholders notice or where certain requirements shareholders and that all directors are withan update on how the group was are met, including prior approval made aware of the groups major progressing with the implementation byshareholders, by way of special shareholders issues and concerns.
ofstrategy and the performance of resolution, on 14 days notice.
Ifshareholders have any concerns, thebusiness lines under the new TheAnnual General Meeting gives which the normal channels of organisational structure.
shareholders an opportunity to hear communication to the Chief Executive about the general development of the All the directors at the time of the 2011 Officer, the Finance Director or the business and to ask questions of the Annual General Meeting attended that Chairman have failed to resolve or for Chairman and, through him, the meeting and it is expected that all which contact is inappropriate, then the chairmen of the key committees and boardmembers will attend the Annual Senior Independent Director is available other directors.
General Meeting on 26th April 2012 and to address them.
To that end, both the will be available to meet shareholders.
Details of the meeting and the Chairman and the Senior Independent This provides an excellent opportunity, resolutions to be proposed together Director make themselves available, particularly for our private shareholders, with explanatory notes are set out in when requested, for meetings with to meet board members and discuss theNotice of Meeting which is sent to investors on issues relating to the any areas of concern.
shareholders and is also available on groups governance and strategy.
To facilitate easier voting for our The groups shareholders are shareholders who hold their shares in Any shareholder attending the Annual mainlyinstitutional investors, certificated form, we will enable them General Meeting has the right to ask holding98% ofour issued share capital.
tovote electronically through our questions.
Any such question relating Our shareholder engagement strategy Registrars website.
tothe business will be dealt with is therefore predominantly focused atthemeeting, except in certain onthese investors.
The Chief Executive The company is committed to circumstances including if it is Officer andFinance Director offer increasing shareholder value and undesirable in the interests of the meetings, through our brokers, to a communicates its achievements and company or the good order of the wide range of institutional investors prospects to its shareholders in an meeting to do so, or if to do so would withthe objective of meeting major accurate and timely manner.
Apart involve the disclosure of confidential shareholders at least twice each year.
fromthe Annual General Meeting, information.
Shareholders attending the thecompany communicates with its During 2011, 71 separate meetings, meeting are informed of the number of shareholders by way of the annual including one in Denmark and three proxy votes lodged for each resolution.
report and accounts and the interim inSweden, were held with major results announcement.
Significant shareholders, with either the Chief matters relating to the trading or Executive Officer or the Finance development of the business are Director or sometimes both.
disseminated to the market by way Thesefocused primarily on the groups ofStock Exchange announcements tradingoperations and the strategic which appear on the companys website review.
Where significant views were www.
expressed, either during or following themeeting via our brokers, these were recorded and circulated to all directors.
Analysis of our shareholder base between institutional and private investors Number of private Issued capital to private and institutional investors and institutional investors at 31st December 2011 at 31st December 2011 1 2 1 2 1 Institutional 590 1 Institutional 98% 2 Individual 1,365 2 Individual 2% Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 58 Corporate governance statement continued Diversity Board committees Nomination committee report The board statement on Diversity The three principal isdetailed on page 3.
Members in 2011: committees of the board are Within the company as a whole, the Christopher Kemball chairman the nomination committee, issue of diversity is an important one for the audit committee and the Iain Ferguson us because, as a company, we operate remuneration committee.
in diverse environments in 15 countries, David Lowden with employees from many different Per Utnegaard ethnic, social and cultural backgrounds.
We therefore face the challenge of Andrew Wood promoting equality, inclusion and Peter Ventress fairness in our various workplaces.
Through increasing focus, the business Composition benefit we believe we gain is the The nomination committee met three creation of an environment where times during 2011 in April and twice employees are tolerant and respect inDecember in respect of appointing differences and everyone feels valued.
This, in turn, encourages our people to Asat31stDecember 2011, four of the fulfil their potential, show their full talent sixmembers of the committee are and maximise their contribution to the regarded by the board asindependent.
Functions Within our management structure The nomination committee is wehave embarked upon a process responsible for board succession ofanalysing the composition of the planning and makes recommendations management teams throughout our to the board on the appointment and laundry operations in terms of gender, reappointment of all directors.
It also nationality and, as far as records allow, keeps under review succession planning ethnicity.
The results of this monitoring for senior executives.
Theterms of will be communicated to improve reference of the nomination committee management awareness and ultimately were reviewed and approved by the the promotion of a management board in April 2011 andare available on structure reflective of the total the companys website or upon request employee population.
Focus areas for 2012: Activities in 2011 During 2011 the committees main k Recruitment and induction of new activity has involved the selection and non-executive director appointment of a new non-executive Ensure further development in the k Chairman following the decision by management succession and Christopher Kemball to retire in April development plans for executive 2012.
A sub-committee was formed of board and senior executives unconflicted non-executive directors and Peter Ventress.
Recruitment Review diversity throughout our k consultants, The Miles Partnership, operations in terms of gender, wereretained, a detailed candidate nationality and ethnicity specification including expected time commitment was prepared, and the sub-committee interviewed a number of internal candidates and considered available external candidates before the board appointed Iain Ferguson.
Prior toappointment, the board satisfied itself that Iain Ferguson fully met the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details of his other commitments are detailed on page 49.
Iain has significant knowledge and experience of both chairing boards and working at plc board level.
He has previously been Executive Chairman ofBirds Eye Walls and is currently anon-executive director of Balfour Beatty plc and Greggs plc.
Overview Strategy and performance Business line review Risk Corporate responsibility Governance Financial statements Investors Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 59 The board requires the audit committee The last competitive audit tender was in Audit committee report members to have an understanding of: 2006, when  LLP wasappointed by the board on Members in 2011: the principles of, content of, and k therecommendation of the audit developments in financial reporting Andrew Wood chairman committee.
There are no contractual including the applicable accounting obligations that restrict the audit David Lowden standards and statements of committees capacity to recommend recommended practice: Per Utnegaard aparticular firm for appointment key aspects of the groups asauditor.
k Composition operations including corporate The group follows a pre-approval policy The audit committee met three times policies, group financing and systems for the provision of non-audit services during 2011, in February, August of internal control: by the external auditor which was andDecember.
All members of the matters that influence or distort reviewed by the Audit Committee on committee are non-executive directors k the presentation of accounts and key 19thAugust 2011.
In most instances, the and are considered by the board to figures: and individual threshold for the pre-approval beindependent.
of any non-audit services is 50,000. the role of internal and external The Chairman, the Finance Director, k Other accounting firms were used for theHead of Group Internal Audit, auditing and risk management.
larger, non-audit services, including theGroup Risk Manager and senior taxation and consultancy advice.
representatives from the external Functions Theobjective ofmaintaining a policy The audit committees principal function auditors and Group Finance onnon-audit services is to ensure department attend each meeting at is to enable the board to monitor the thatthe provision of such services integrity of the groups financial reports therequest of the committee chairman.
doesnotimpair the external auditors At least once each year, the committee and to manage the boards relationship independence or objectivity.
with the groups external auditors.
meets with the external auditors and the Theexternal auditor cannot be Group Head of Internal Audit without Itsother functions include reviewing engagedtoperform any assignment andmonitoring: the financial reporting executive management present.
From where the output is then subject to process: the annual audit: the time to time, the committee chairman theirreview asexternal auditor.
Details effectiveness of the groups internal also meets in private session with the of services provided by the groups controls: the groups internal audit and Head of Group Internal Audit and the auditor and itsassociates are included risk management systems, and the external auditors without any other innote 3 on page 94.
The following are independence of the external auditor member of management being present.
specifically prohibited: and its provision of non-audit services.
The board considers that the committee appraisal or valuation services, k The audit committee is required to chairman has sufficient recent and fairness opinions or report its findings to the board, relevant financial experience to contribution-in-kind reports: identifying any matters on which it discharge the committees duties.
considers that action or improvement broker or dealer, investment adviser Andrew Wood is a Chartered k is needed, and make recommendations or investment banking services: Management Accountant and was on the steps to be taken.
Group Finance Director of two bookkeeping services related k FTSE250 listed companies for over The committees terms of reference to accounting records or financial 15years until his recent retirement.
were reviewed and approved by the statements: board in February 2011.
They include all The group provides an induction design and implementation k relevant matters required by Section programme for new audit committee of financial information systems: 7.1.
3 of the Disclosure and Transparency members and, where required, provides Rules and the UK Corporate internal audit outsourcing services: ongoing training to enable all the k Governance Code and are available on committee members to carry out their legal and other services unrelated k the companys website or on request duties.
The induction programme to the audit: or from the Company Secretary.
covers the role of the audit committee, management functions including its terms of reference and expected k External audit human resources.
time commitment by members and The audit committee manages the anoverview of the groups business, relationship with the external auditor The total sum invoiced to the group including the main business and onbehalf of the board.
It considers the byits external auditor for non-audit financial dynamics and risks.
Ongoing reappointment of the external auditor services provided in 2011 was training includes attendance at formal each year, as well as remuneration 0.3million 2010: 0.3 million.
conferences and briefing by external andother terms of engagement, and Thetotal sum invoiced by them advisers.
makes a recommendation to the forauditservices inrespect of the board.
Theaudit committee is satisfied sameperiod was 1.0million with theauditors effectiveness and 2010:1.0million.
independence and has not considered itnecessary to require an independent tender process.
Berendsen plc Report and Accounts 2011 60 Corporate governance statement continued Internal audit reviewed and agreed the scope of the k Remuneration The group employs internal auditors audit work to be undertaken by the committeereport with skills and experience relevant external auditors: totheoperations of the group and Members in 2011: k agreed the fees to be paid to the supplements this with external external auditors for their audit of the David Lowden chairman resources where specialist expertise is December 2011 report and financial required.
Internal audit activities are Iain Ferguson statements and June 2011 half yearly co-ordinated centrally by the Head of financial report: Christopher Kemball Group Internal Audit who is accountable to the audit committee and has access k undertaken an assessment of the Per Utnegaard to the committee or its Chairman at any qualifications, expertise and Andrew Wood time during the year.
resources, and independence of the external auditor and the effectiveness Resigned as Chairman of the Committee on Internal audit utilises a risk-based 28thApril 2011 of theaudit process.
This included methodology that focuses on providing consideration of a report on the audit assurance on the key business risks and Full details of the committees firms own quality control procedures: changes the business is going through.
composition, role, authority and This is supplemented by a series of core reviewed and updated the group k activities are set out in the report assurance reviews in the areas of policy on all non-audit services to be ondirectors remuneration on finance and IT, including ensuring performed by the groups external pages61to 68, which will be subject compliance with the groups financial auditor.
This identifies services which toan advisory vote by shareholders minimum control framework.
the external auditors cannot perform atthe Annual General Meeting on and requires that the committee 26thApril 2012.
An internal audit strategy has been pre-approve non-audit services that developed which will see a transition to exceed pre-set thresholds: Other information required by the a fully integrated assurance framework FSAs corporate governance rules during 2012.
A key theme to internal agreed a programme of work for the k audit activity in 2011 has been to ensure groups internal audit function: Certain information required by the there is an appropriate framework of FSAs corporate governance rules to be k received reports from the Head of governance and control for the set out or referred to in this corporate Group Internal Audit on the work implementation of the group strategic governance statement is set out in the undertaken by internal audit and plan.
Theauditcommittee receives Directors report, on pages 69 to 72, management responses to proposals regular reports on the results of internal underthe headings: Restrictions on made in the audit reports issued auditswork and monitors the status transfer of securities in the company: during the year: ofrecommendations arising.
The Amendment of Articles of Association: committee reviews annually the k monitored and reviewed the Appointment and replacement of adequacy, qualifications and experience effectiveness of the groups internal directors: Powers of the directors: of the groups internal audit resources audit function: Substantial shareholdings and Purchase and the nature and scope of internal of own shares.
k reviewed the whistleblowing audit activity in the context of the arrangements in place for staff to By order of the board groups risk management system set raise concerns in confidence about out on pages 32 and 33. possible wrongdoing in financial Actions taken by the audit committee reporting or other matters and, David Lawler Company Secretary in2011 whererequired, ensured independent During the year the audit committee has: investigation and reviewed the 23rd February 2012 results:and reviewed the key accounting k judgement areas of goodwill k reviewed the FRC Guidance for Audit impairment, provision for future losses Committees dated December 2010 on decontamination contracts and and requested that a number of other key areas of judgement: changes to group policies and procedures be made.
The committee reviewed the preliminary k chairman reports on each announcement and the June 2011 committee meeting at the following half-yearly financial report.
the review the committee received a report from theexternal auditors on Focus areas for 2012: their audit ofthe annual report and financial statements and review of the Monitor the regulatory and reporting k half yearly financial report: updates for IFRS Group reporting: reviewed the effectiveness of the Ensure that the groups system of k k groups internal controls and related internal control is effective under disclosures made in the annual report thenew business line organisation and financial statements: structure: k considered the output from the k Review the independence group-wide process used to identify, of externalauditors: and evaluate and mitigate risks: k Ensure the key risks identified by theboard are effectively managed.
