Audit Committee report Dear shareholder On the following pages are set out the Audit Committees Report for 2011.
The Report comprises four sections: Committee overview Activities in 2011 Auditors Internal control Throughout 2011, the Audit Committee continued to monitor the integrity of the Groups financial statements: to assist the Board in reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal control and risk management systems: and to review arrangements for its employees to raise concerns in confidence.
During the year, the Committee also adopted policies and reviewed the procedures put in place designed to ensure the Groups compliance with the Bribery Act 2010.
The Committee works to a structured programme of activities, with agenda items focused to coincide with key events in the annual financial reporting cycle.
The Committee reports regularly to the Board on its work and has made recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment and remuneration of the external auditor.
Nigel Hall Chairman Audit Committee 1 March 2012 Committee overview Composition The Committee is comprised entirely of Non-Executive Directors.
The current members are: Nigel Hall Chairman Stuart Beevor Richard Walker Sir Tim Wilson Manjit Wolstenholme appointed 1 December 2011 Nigel Hall is a Chartered Accountant and was, until February 2003, Finance Director of Arcadia Group plc formerly The Burton Group plc.
Nigel will, by the time of the AGM, have served nine years in office and will then step down from the Board.
At that time, Manjit Wolstenholme will take on the role of Chair of the Audit Committee.
Manjit is also a Chartered Accountant, having qualified with Coopers & Lybrand now .
She was formally a Director and Co-Head of Investment Banking at Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein.
Biographical details of the members of the Committee, including their qualifications, are set out on page 43.
Full details of attendance at meetings of the Committee can be found in the table on page 49.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, the Chairman, the Group CFO, the external auditors KPMG and representatives of senior management regularly attend Committee meetings.
Committee members have the opportunity to meet privately with the external auditors as required.
50 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Role The role of the Committee is to: review the actions and judgements of management in relation to the Groups financial statements, operating and financial reviews, preliminary announcements, interim reports and related formal statements review the effectiveness of the Groups systems for internal financial control, financial reporting and risk management review the Companys procedures for whistle blowing, ensuring that arrangements are in place by which staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about, amongst other things, improprieties in matters of financial reporting and financial control consider annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function consider and make recommendations on the appointment, removal and remuneration of the external auditor Activities in 2011 In 2011, the activities of the Committee during the year included: reviewing the Groups financial statements including the format and layout of the detailed disclosures reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies reviewing the Groups cash flow forecasts and facilities to support the going concern statement in the Annual Report reviewing and approving the annual external audit process, the external auditors strategy and plan for the audit, considering the findings of that work and confirming that all significant matters had been satisfactorily resolved reviewing the management letter arising from the 2010 year-end external audit and monitoring implementation of recommended improvements monitoring the non-audit services provided to the Group by the external auditor reviewing the results of the review undertaken of the Groups risk management processes reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups whistle blowing process reviewing processes for the prevention of bribery and fraud considering the performance and effectiveness of the external auditor considering the performance and effectiveness of the Committee itself Having reviewed the Groups existing internal control systems including an operational compliance audit regime, it was not considered necessary to establish an internal audit function.
However, that position is being reviewed.
Auditors Independence and objectivity The Committee regularly monitors the other services provided to the Group by its external auditor and has developed a formal policy to ensure this does not impair their independence or objectivity.
Pursuant to that policy, differentiation is made between i work that would be inappropriate for the external auditors to perform: ii work that is clearly audit-related or required to be performed by the Companys external auditors: iii work that is often cost effectively performed by the external auditor as a result of its unique position and knowledge of the Company: and iv other work.
In relation to category i, the Committee will not support the use of the external auditor for any services deemed to be incompatible with auditor independence by professional or government regulations.
For category ii work, management has discretion to use the external auditor without prior consultation with the Committee, although the nature of the work and the associated fees are regularly reported to the Committee.
For category iii work, management has discretion to use the audit firm without prior consultation with the Committee for any piece of work for which the individual fee does not exceed 50,000.
Where the cumulative fees for this category of work are expected to exceed the budgeted annual audit fee in any year, or an individual fee exceeds 50,000, the Chairman of the Committee will be consulted.
For category iv work, management would normally review a range of possible suppliers of such services and select the most appropriate supplier.
If management identifies the external auditor as the best supplier in a specific field and also believes that such assignment would not prejudice the independence of the external auditor, then an evaluated request is made to the Committee to confirm the appointment to any appointment involving fees in excess of 10,000.
The Committee also reviews any potential threat to the objectivity and independence of the external auditor, including, in particular, those potential threats identified by the Auditing Practices Board in its independence guidelines.
The Committee determines and then reports to the Board, whether or not it is satisfied that the independence of the external auditor is not jeopardised, taking into account the external auditors own submissions to the Committee and or the Board.
Details of the remuneration paid to the external auditor are set out in the table below: 2011 2010 m m Auditors remuneration Fees payable to the Companys auditor for the audit of the Companys financial statements 0.1 0.2 Fees payable to the Companys auditors for other services The audit of the Companys subsidiaries 0.1 0.1 Taxation 0.4 0.3 The senior audit partner and the independent reviewing partner serve no more than five years continuously in either role and other key partners serve no longer than seven consecutive years.
The Committee monitors the tenure of partners and senior staff.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Audit Committee report continued Performance The Committee performs a specific evaluation of the performance of the external auditor annually, through assessment of the results of questionnaires completed by relevant senior management, in addition to Committee members own views of auditor performance.
Re-appointment During the year, the Committee reviewed the tenure of the external auditor KPMG Audit Plc has been UNITEs auditor since 1999, its performance, the level of audit fees paid to the external auditor and the level of non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor.
Following that review, the Committee recommended to the Board that a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
The resolution was passed and KPMG Audit Plc was re-appointed for a further year.
A resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year is to be proposed at this years AGM.
Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and for regularly reviewing the effectiveness of those systems.
The Committee assists the Board in reviewing such systems which include, amongst other things, the following: Financial reporting The Group has a comprehensive budgeting system with an annual business plan approved by the Board.
Operating results and cash flows are reported on monthly and compared against budget.
Forecasts are reviewed throughout the year and revised as necessary.
The Company reports to shareholders on a half-yearly basis.
Investment appraisal The Company has clearly defined guidelines for capital expenditure.
These include annual budgets, detailed appraisal and review procedures, levels of authority and due diligence requirements where investment or development properties are being acquired.
Post-investment appraisals are performed for major investments.
Risk management The Leadership Team of UNITE has established a Risk Committee, which is chaired by Joe Lister, the Group CFO.
The other members of the Risk Committee are Richard Simpson Managing Director, Property, Richard Smith Managing Director, Operations, Paul Harris Strategy and Corporate Relations Director and Andrew Reid Company Secretary and Group Legal Officer.
The Risk Committee is responsible for the delivery of the Groups Risk Management Framework, which includes: managing the governance structure for risk management and reporting on risk management matters to the Board and the Audit Committee reviewing and challenging management plans for key Group and functional risks managing procedures for monitoring and escalation of key risks embedding a culture of risk ownership throughout the Group Through the work of the Risk Committee, the Board is satisfied with the high level risk management controls in place, although all areas of the business are kept under review and new controls introduced as appropriate.
An analysis of the more important risks and uncertainties faced by the Group is set out on pages 32 to 35.
The Groups objectives and policies with regard to the management of financial risks are set out in note 4.5 to the financial statements.
Approval The Audit Committee Report was approved by the Board on 1 March 2012 and signed on its behalf by Nigel Hall.
52 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
