Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Other governance and statutory disclosures Principal activities The principal activities of the Group during the year were the development and management of student residential accommodation in the United Kingdom.
Details of the Company and its principal subsidiaries are set out on pages 89 and 90.
Substantial shareholdings As at 1 March 2012 the Company had received notifications from the following companies and institutions of the voting interests of themselves and their clients in 3% or more of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company.
Percentage of Shareholder share capital FMR LLL 9.74 Fortis Investment Management SA 5.18 APG European Pensioen Groep NV 5.17 J P Morgan Asset Management Holdings Inc 4.92 Morgan Stanley Investment Management Ltd 4.80 Perennial Investment Partners Australia Limited 4.75 Royal London Asset Management Limited 4.11 BNP Paribas Investment Partners SA 3.97 Legal & General Group plc 3.95 FIL Limited 3.66 Orange European Property Fund NV 3.62 Allianz SE 3.22 Share capital At the date of this report, there are 160,271,460 ordinary shares of 25p each in issue, all of which are fully paid-up and quoted on the London Stock Exchange.
During the year, 3,117 ordinary shares of 25p each were allotted and issued pursuant to the exercise of options under The UNITE Group plc Savings Related Share Option Scheme at a price of 188p per share.
The rights attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, as well as the powers of the Companys Directors, are set out in the Companys articles of association.
There are no restrictions on the transfer or voting rights of ordinary shares in the capital of the Company other than those which may be imposed by law from time to time or as set out in the Companys articles of association.
In accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules, certain employees are required to seek approval to deal in the Companys shares.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between shareholders that may result in restrictions on the transfers of securities and or voting rights.
No person holds securities in the Company carrying special rights with regard to control of the Company.
Unless expressly specified to the contrary, the Companys articles of association may be amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
Change of control All of the Companys share schemes contain provisions relating to a change of control.
Outstanding rewards and options would normally vest and become exercisable on a change of control, subject to the satisfaction of any performance conditions.
Other than certain of the Groups banking facilities, there are no other significant agreements to which the Company is a party that affect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
Nor are there any agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
Purchase of own shares The Directors have no authority to buy-back the Companys shares.
Details of proposals to be put to the AGM in relation to the power of Directors to issue shares in the Company are set out under the heading Annual General Meeting.
Creditor payment policy During the year, the Company maintained its policy of agreeing and abiding by supplier payment terms.
The Group has not followed any recognised code for payment practice.
As at 31 December 2011, the Groups trade creditors were equivalent to 31 days purchases 2010: 30 days.
The Company does not have any trade creditors 2010: Nil.
Going concern After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and the Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 61 Other governance and statutory disclosures continued Disclosure of information to auditors The Directors who held office at the date of approval of the Directors Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
As recommended by the Audit Committee, a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor to the Company will be proposed at the AGM.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at The Core, 40 St Thomas Street, Bristol BS1 6JX at 9.30am on 17 May 2012.
Formal notice of the meeting is given on pages 103 to 105.
In addition to the ordinary business of the meeting, Resolution 14 will be proposed as an Ordinary Resolution to grant the Directors authority to allot shares in the Company, and grant rights to subscribe for or to convert any security into shares of the Company, up to an aggregate of nominal value of 13,355,955 representing approximately one third of the issued share capital of the Company as at 1 March 2012.
In accordance with guidelines issued by the Association of British Insurers, this resolution also grants the Directors authority to allot further equity securities up to an aggregate nominal value of 13,355,955, again representing approximately one third of the nominal value of the issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at 1 March 2012.
This additional authority may only be applied to fully pre-emptive rights issues.
Resolution 15 will be proposed as a Special Resolution to authorise the Directors to allot equity securities for cash other than in accordance with statutory pre-emption rights which require a company to offer all allotments for cash first to existing shareholders in proportion to their holdings, in respect of the allotment of shares in connection with any rights issue or other issue by way of rights and otherwise up to an aggregate nominal amount of 2,003,393 representing approximately 5% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 1 March 2012.
The Board has no current intention of exercising either of the authorities conferred by the above resolutions.
Unless revoked, varied or extended, those authorities will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or the date following 15 months from the passing of the resolutions, whichever is the earlier.
The Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations 2009 the Shareholders Rights Regulations, increased the notice period for general meetings of the Company to 21 days unless shareholders approve a shorter notice period, which cannot be less than 14 clear days.
At the AGM of the Company held in 2011, shareholders authorised the calling of general meetings, other than an AGM, on not less than 14 clear days notice.
Resolution 16 seeks the approval of shareholders to renew the authority to be able to call general meetings other than an AGM, on 14 clear days notice.
The flexibility offered by Resolution 16 will be used where, taking into account the circumstances, the Directors consider this appropriate in relation to the business of the meeting and in the interests of the Company and shareholders as a whole.
The Company undertakes to meet the requirements for electronic voting under the Shareholders Rights Regulations before calling a general meeting on 14 clear days notice.
If given, the approval will be effective until the Companys next AGM, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
By order of the Board A D Reid Secretary 1 March 2012 62 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
