Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Corporate governance Dear shareholder UNITE takes corporate governance very seriously and, during the course of 2011, the Board complied with the principles of best practice set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code.
On the following pages we set out UNITEs Corporate Governance Report, which comprises the following sections: Leadership How the Board operates Effectiveness Investor relations Audit Committee Report Remuneration Report In 2011, a formal and independent evaluation of the Boards and its Committees effectiveness was carried out and I am pleased to report that the results of such evaluation were largely positive.
However, we are not complacent and we have acted on the recommendations that were made.
Our aim now is to give shareholders the information they require in order to decide whether management and the Board are being effective.
We will continue to comply with the requirements of the Code during 2012.
Phil White Chairman of the Board 1 March 2011 Leadership Composition and appointments The composition of the Board during 2011 is set out in the table on page 49.
The Board currently consists of the Chairman, four Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
Manjit Wolstenholme was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 1 December 2011.
Manjit will become Chair of the Audit Committee following the annual general meeting the AGM of the Company, which has been convened for 17 May 2012, when Nigel Hall currently chair of the Audit Committee, will step down from the Board having, by then, served nine years in office.
John Tonkiss resigned from the Board with effect from 31 December 2011 following his role as Chief Operating Officer having been made redundant.
With effect from the beginning of January 2012 Richard Simpson and Richard Smith were appointed as Executive Directors with the roles of Managing Director Property and Managing Director Operations respectively.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, each of the current Directors, other than Nigel Hall, offers himself herself for re-election at the AGM.
Brief biographies of all the Directors are set out on pages 42 and 43.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 Corporate governance continued Board structure Set out below is an outline of the governance structure of UNITE.
UNITE Board Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee UNITE Executive Team Risk Committee UNITE Operations Board UNITE Property Board Roles The Groups terms of reference for the Chairman and the Chief Executive are such as to clearly establish the division of responsibility between the two roles.
Summaries of those roles, and that of the Senior Independent Director, are set out in the table below.
Role Description Chairman Phil Whites principal responsibilities are: to establish, in conjunction with the Chief Executive, the strategic objectives of the Group for approval by the Board to organise the business of the Board to enhance the standing of the Company by communicating with shareholders, the financial community and the Groups stakeholders generally Chief Executive Mark Allan has responsibility for: establishing, in conjunction with the Chairman, the strategic objectives of the Group, for approval by the Board implementing the Groups business plan and annual budget the overall operational and financial performance of the Group Senior Independent Director Stuart Beevor was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 1 June 2011 in succession to Nigel Hall.
His principal responsibilities are to: act as Chairman of the Board if the Chairman is conflicted act as a conduit to the Board for the communication of shareholder concerns if other channels of communication are inappropriate ensure that the Chairman is provided with effective feedback on his performance 46 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information How the Board operates Meetings Details of the number of meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the year and attendance of Directors at those meetings are set out in the table on page 49.
The Board approves annually a schedule of matters to be considered at each meeting and at each meeting of its Committees.
Meetings are normally held in Bristol or London and, when appropriate, at different regional locations.
Board meetings are structured around the following areas: operational, property and functional updates financial updates strategy and risk other reporting Senior executives are regularly invited to attend meetings for specific items.
Some of the matters scheduled for consideration in 2012 include: a people plan review approach to brand the Operations Business Units service improvement plan University engagement the Groups five year strategic plan Responsibility and delegation A schedule of specific matters is reserved for the Board.
Those include: approving the strategic objectives of the Group and the business plan to achieve those objectives approving major investments, acquisitions, mergers and divestments approving appointments to and dismissals from the Board reviewing systems of internal control and risk management approving policies relating to Directors remuneration Board Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to its Committees, as detailed on the following pages.
The terms of reference for each Committee are reviewed annually and the current versions are available on the Companys website at www.
The current membership of each Committee of the Board is set out below and full details of attendance at Committee meetings can be found in the table on page 49.
Audit Remuneration Nomination Phil White Stuart Beevor Nigel Hall Sir Tim Wilson Richard Walker Manjit Wolstenholme Denotes Chairman.
Will become Chair of the Audit Committee following the AGM.
Set out below are sections describing the work of the Committees in discharging their respective functions: Audit Committee: see the Audit Committee Report on page 50 Remuneration Committee: see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 53 Nomination Committee: Sir Tim Wilson became Chairman of the Committee on 1 January 2012.
The other members of the Committee are Phil White, Chairman of the Board and each of the other Non-Executive Directors.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to: ensure that appropriate procedures are adopted and followed in the nomination, selection, training, evaluation and re-election of Directors and for succession planning, with due regard in all cases to the benefits of diversity on the Board regularly review the structure, size, composition, skills and experience of the Board and to make recommendations with regard to any adjustments considered necessary when it is agreed that an appointment to the Board should be made, to lead a selection process that is formal, rigorous and transparent be responsible for identifying, reviewing and recommending candidates for appointment to the Board The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Corporate governance continued Internal control The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal control.
However, such a system is designed to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement.
The provisions of the Code in respect of internal controls require that Directors review all controls including operational, compliance and risk management, as well as financial control.
Through reports from the Groups Risk Committee and Business Units, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls for the period covered by the Annual Report and Accounts and has concluded that such controls were effective throughout such period.
Further information on the Companys internal control framework is set out in the Audit Committee Report.
Board tenure Each of the Executive Directors has a rolling contract of employment with a 12 month notice period, whilst Non-Executive Directors are, subject to re-election by shareholders, appointed to the Board for a term of approximately three years.
In accordance with the recommendations of the Code, the Directors have resolved, as they did in 2011, that they will all retire at the AGM and other than Nigel Hall who, after serving for nine years, will step down from Board at the AGM, will submit themselves for re-election by shareholders.
The graph below shows the current balance of tenure of the Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman.
0-3 years 3-6 years 6-9 years Chairman and Non-Executive Directors The Board considers each of its five Non-Executive Directors to be independent.
Accordingly, the Company meets the requirement of the Code in relation to members of the FTSE 350 that at least half of the Board excluding the Chairman is made-up of independent Non-Executive Directors.
In addition, Phil White Chairman of the Board was considered independent on his appointment to that role.
The Chairman and the Non-Executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop proposals on strategy and bring strong, independent judgement, knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
Non-Executive Directors are expected to commit approximately 20 days per annum to the business of the Group.
Professional advice and Board support Directors are given access to independent professional advice at the Companys expense when the Directors deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their responsibilities.
The Directors also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who acts as secretary to the Board and who ensures that Board processes and corporate governance practices are followed.
Insurance The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance, which is renewed on an annual basis.
Effectiveness Induction On appointment each Director takes part in a comprehensive induction programme where they: receive information concerning all aspects of the Group meet representatives of the Companys key advisors receive information about the role of the Board and matters reserved for its decisions: the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees: and powers delegated to those Committees receive information about the Companys corporate governance practices and procedures and the latest financial information about the Group are advised of their legal and other duties and obligations as a Director of a listed company This is supplemented by visits to key locations and meetings with key senior executives.
48 The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Highlights Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Performance evaluation During 2011, a formal independent Board evaluation exercise was undertaken.
The results of that evaluation indicated that the Board, generally, operates effectively.
However, certain recommendations were made and set out below is a summary of the main recommendations made and actions taken: Recommendations Actions To regularise the membership of the Nominations Committee, Sir Tim Wilson has been appointed Chairman of the with a greater focus on succession planning.
New terms of reference for the Committee have been adopted.
To enhance the risk management processes of the Group.
An external review of the Groups risk management procedures was undertaken, following which relevant processes and procedures have been enhanced.
To diversify the Boards profile and to increase its breadth Three new appointments to the Board have been made and experience.
Board and Committee membership and attendance at meetings in 2011 Date of appointment Audit Remuneration Current Directors Status to the Board Board Committee Committee Phil White Chairman 21.01.09 11 6 Stuart Beevor Senior Independent Director 01.03.04 11 4 6 Nigel Hall Independent 06.03.03 11 4 6 Sir Tim Wilson Independent 01.12.10 10 4 6 Richard Walker Independent 03.11.05 10 4 6 Manjit Wolstenholme Independent 01.12.11 1 Mark Allan Executive 17.11.03 11 Joe Lister Executive 02.01.08 10 John Tonkiss Executive 25.01.07 11 resigned 31.12.11 Unable to attend one meeting due to overseas travel.
Attended all meetings since appointment.
Unable to attend one meeting due to family bereavement.
Investor relations The Board attaches a high priority to effective communication with shareholders.
In addition to the final and interim presentations, a series of meetings between institutional shareholders and senior management was held throughout 2011.
That process will continue throughout 2012.
The Company maintains a corporate website containing a wide range of information of interest to institutional and private investors.
The Company has frequent discussions with shareholders on a range of issues affecting its performance, both following the Companys announcements and in response to specific requests.
The Company regularly seeks feedback on perception of the Company amongst its shareholders, the investor community more broadly and its stakeholders.
Save in exceptional circumstances, all members of the Board attend the Companys AGMs and shareholders are invited to ask questions during the meeting and to meet with Directors prior to and after the formal proceedings.
At the meeting, the Chairman reviews the Groups current trading.
The results of the votes at the AGMs, together with details of the level of proxy votes lodged for each resolution is made available on a regulatory information service and on the Companys website at www.
Notice of the AGM is set out on page 103.
The UNITE Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49
