64 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information This section of the Directors report contains statutory the range of 0%30% for the immediate future.
It should and corporate governance information for the year to be noted that subject always to the formal gearing limit 31 March 2011 the year.
in the Companys investment policy statement set out above the actual gearing level at any point in time will fluctuate since it is a function of, among other things, Principal activity asset valuations and the timing of investment and 3i is an international investor focused on private equity, realisation cash flows.
The Board anticipates that the infrastructure and debt management, investing Company may be in a net cash position during certain responsibly in Europe, Asia and the Americas.
The principal periods for example during periods of high valuations activity of the Company and its subsidiaries the Group where realisations might be expected to exceed is investment.
investment but may have net debt in other periods for example where valuations are relatively low or Group investment policy after periods of low return flows.
3is investment policy, which as a closed-ended investment fund it is required to publish, is as follows: Tax and investment company status 3i is an investment company which aims to provide The Company is an investment company as defined by its shareholders with quoted access to private equity section 833 of the Companies Act 2006.
Currently, its main focus is on making quoted Customs has approved the Company as an investment and unquoted equity and or debt investments in trust under section 842 of the Income and Corporation businesses and funds across Europe, Asia and the Taxes Act 1988 for the year to 31 March 2010.
The geographies, economic sectors, funds that date the Company has directed its affairs to enable and asset classes in which 3i invests continue to evolve it to continue to be so approved.
Proposed investments are assessed individually and all significant investments Regulation require approval from the Groups Investment 3i Investments plc, 3i Debt Management Investments Committee.
Overall investment targets are subject to Limited, 3i Europe plc and 3i Nordic plc, subsidiaries periodic reviews and the investment portfolio is also of the Company, are authorised and regulated by the reviewed to monitor exposure to specific geographies, FSA under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000. economic sectors and asset classes.
Where applicable, certain Group subsidiaries businesses 3i seeks to diversify risk through significant dispersion outside the United Kingdom are regulated locally by of investments by geography, economic sector, asset relevant authorities.
class and size as well as through the maturity profile of its investment portfolio.
In addition, although 3i does Management arrangements not set maximum exposure limits for asset allocations, 3i Investments plc acts as investment manager to the no more than 15% by value of 3is portfolio can be held Company and certain of its subsidiaries.
Contracts for in a single investment.
these investment management and other services, Investments are generally funded with a mixture of for which regulatory authorisation is required, provide debt and shareholders funds with a view to maximising for fees based on the work done and costs incurred returns to shareholders, whilst maintaining a strong in providing such services.
These contracts may capital base.
3is gearing depends not only on its level be terminated by either party on reasonable notice.
of debt, but also on the impact of market movements 3i plc provides the Group with certain corporate and other factors on the value of its investments.
The and administrative services, for which no regulatory Board takes this into account when, as required, it sets authorisation is required, under contracts which provide a precise maximum level of gearing.
The Board has for fees based on the work done and costs incurred in therefore set the maximum level of gearing at 150% providing such services together with a performance and has set no minimum level of gearing.
If the gearing fee based on realised profits on the sale of assets.
ratio should exceed the 150% maximum limit, the Board will take steps to reduce the gearing ratio to Results and dividends below that limit as soon as practicable thereafter.
Total recognised income and expense for the year was 3i is committed to achieving balance sheet efficiency.
An interim dividend During the year, the Company has continued its approach of 1.2p per ordinary share in respect of the year to of conservative balance sheet management.
The Board 31 March 2011 was paid on 12 January 2011.
The recognises the current need to manage liquidity and gross Directors recommend a final dividend of 2.4p per ordinary and net debt levels on a conservative basis such that the share be paid in respect of the year to 31 March 2011 Company should be well-placed to deal with external to shareholders on the Register at the close of business events, take advantage of opportunities and manage its on 17 June 2011. investment and divestment activities in a flexible manner.
The trustee of The 3i Group Employee Trust the The Board has decided that net debt should not currently Employee Trust has waived subject to certain minor exceed 1 billion and may at times be significantly below exceptions dividends declared by the Company after this limit.
As a consequence, gearing, which is a function 26 May 1994 on shares held by the Employee Trust.
of both net debt and asset values, is expected to be in O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 65 in the year to 31 March 2011.
At the AGM on 7 July Business review 2010, the Directors were authorised to repurchase up to The Groups development during the year to 31 March 4,635,018 B shares in the Company until the Companys 2011, its position at that date and the Groups likely AGM in 2011 or 6 October 2011, if earlier.
This authority future development are detailed in the Chairmans was not exercised in the year.
statement, the Chief Executives review and the Business review.
Directors interests In accordance with FSA Listing Rule 9.8.
6 R 1, Directors Share capital interests in the shares of the Company in respect of The issued share capital of the Company as at which transactions are notifiable to the Company under 31 March 2011 comprised 970,650,620 ordinary FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rule 3.1.
2 R as at 19 shares of 73 p each and 4,635,018 B shares 22 31 March 2011 are shown below: cumulative preference shares of 1p each, which represented 99.99% and 0.01% respectively of the Ordinary Shares B Shares nominal value of the Companys issued share capital.
During the year, the issued share capital of the Sir Adrian Montague 21,990 0 Company altered as set out below.
M J Queen 1,597,856 6,227 J S Wilson 47,459 1,038 Ordinary shares The issued ordinary share capital of the Company as at J P Asquith 0 0 1 April 2010 was 970,381,476 ordinary shares.
During A R Cox 12,400 0 the year to 31 March 2011 this increased by 269,144 R H Meddings 15,960 0 ordinary shares as a result of the issue of shares to the trustee of the 3i Group Share Incentive Plan.
W Mesdag 118,301 0 At the Annual General Meeting AGM on 7 July 2010, C J M Morin-Postel 21,451 0 the Directors were authorised to repurchase up to 97,000,000 ordinary shares in the Company The share interests shown for Mr M J Queen and representing approximately 10% of the Companys Mrs J S Wilson include shares held in the 3i Group Share issued ordinary share capital as at 12 May 2010 until Incentive Plan and share bonus awards under the 3i the Companys AGM in 2011 or 6 October 2011, if Group Deferred Bonus Plan.
The share interests shown earlier.
This authority was not exercised in the year.
exclude share option and performance share awards detailed in the Directors remuneration report.
From B shares 1 April 2011 to 11 May 2011, Mr M J Queen and Mrs J S Wilson became interested in an additional The issued B share capital of the Company as at 1 April 138 ordinary shares each and there were no other 2010 was 4,635,018 B shares.
No B shares were issued changes to Directors share interests.
Major interests in ordinary shares Notifications of the following voting interests in the Companys ordinary share capital had been received by the Company in accordance with Chapter 5 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules and section 793 Companies Act 2006 as at 31 March 2011 and 11 May 2011: As at As at 31 March % of issued 11 May % of issued 2011 share capital 2011 share capital Nature of holding BlackRock, Inc 125,860,652 12.968 125,860,652 12.968 Indirect Legal & General Group Plc and or its subsidiaries 38,620,595 3.980 38,620,595 3.980 Direct Deutsche Bank AG 49,065,391 5.055 49,065,391 5.055 Direct and indirect Schroders Plc 47,870,160 4.933 47,870,160 4.933 Indirect Ameriprise Financial, Inc. and its group 66,041,715 6.805 66,041,715 6.805 Direct and indirect Standard Life Investments plc 48,482,387 4.996 48,482,387 4.996 Direct and indirect Government of Singapore Investment Corporation Pte Ltd 29,029,897 2.991 29,029,897 2.991 Direct 66 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information There are no restrictions on the transfer of fully paid Rights and restrictions attaching to shares shares in the Company, save as follows.
The Board may A summary of the rights and restrictions attaching decline to register a transfer of uncertificated shares in to shares as at 31 March 2011 is set out below.
the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities The amendment of the Companys Articles of Association Regulations 2001 or where a transfer is to more than is governed by relevant statutes.
The Articles may be four joint holders.
The Board may decline to register any amended by special resolution of the shareholders in transfer of certificated shares which is not in respect of general meeting.
only one class of share, which is to more than four joint holders, which is not accompanied by the certificate for Holders of ordinary shares and B shares enjoy the rights the shares to which it relates, which is not duly stamped accorded to them under the Articles of Association of in circumstances where a duly stamped instrument is the Company and under the laws of England and Wales.
required, or where in accordance with section 794 of the Any share may be issued with or have attached to it Companies Act 2006 a notice under section 793 of that such rights and restrictions as the Company by ordinary Act has been served by the Company on a shareholder resolution or failing such resolution the Board may decide.
who has then failed to give the information required Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to attend, within the specified time.
In the latter circumstances speak and vote at general meetings of the Company the Company may make the relevant shares subject and to appoint proxies and, in the case of corporations, to certain restrictions including in respect of the ability corporate representatives to attend, speak and vote to exercise voting rights, to transfer the shares validly at such meetings on their behalf.
On a poll, holders of and, except in the case of a liquidation, to receive the ordinary shares are entitled to one vote for each share payment of sums due from the Company.
Holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the 2009 the Company has been entitled to appoint a person Companys Annual Report and accounts, to receive such to execute a transfer on behalf of all holders of B shares dividends and other distributions as may lawfully be paid in acceptance of an offer, paying the holders such amount or declared on such shares and, on any liquidation of the as they would have been entitled to on a winding-up of Company, to share in the surplus assets of the Company the Company.
after satisfaction of the entitlements of the holders of There are no shares carrying special rights with regard the B shares or such other shares with preferred rights to control of the Company.
There are no restrictions as may then be in issue.
placed on voting rights of fully paid shares, save where Holders of B shares are entitled, out of the profits in accordance with Article 12 of the Companys Articles available for distribution in any year and in priority to any of Association a restriction notice has been served by the payment of dividend or other distribution to holders of Company in respect of shares for failure to comply with ordinary shares, to a cumulative preferential dividend of statutory notices or where a transfer notice as described 3.75% per annum calculated on the amount of 127p per below has been served in respect of shares and has not B share the Return Amount.
On a return of capital yet been complied with.
other than a solvent intra group re-organisation holders In the circumstances specified in Article 38 of the of B shares are entitled to receive in priority to any Companys Articles of Association the Company may payment to holders of ordinary shares payment of the serve a transfer notice on holders of shares.
The relevant Return Amount together with any accrued but unpaid circumstances relate to: a potential tax disadvantage dividends but are not entitled to any further right of to the Company, b the number of United States participation in the profits or assets of the Company.
Residents who own or hold shares becoming 75 or more, Holders of B shares are not entitled to receive notice or c the Company being required to be registered as of or attend, speak or vote at general meetings of the an investment company under relevant US legislation.
Company save where the B share dividend has remained The notice would require the transfer of relevant shares unpaid for six months or more or where the business of and pending such transfer the rights and privileges the meeting includes consideration of a resolution for the attaching to those shares would be suspended.
winding-up of the Company other than a solvent intra To attend and vote at a Company general meeting a group reorganisation in which case holders of B shares shareholder must be entered on the register of members shall be entitled to attend, speak and vote only in relation at such time not being earlier than 48 hours before the to such resolution and in either case shall, on a poll, be meeting as stated in the notice of general meeting.
entitled to one vote per B share held.
The Company is not aware of any agreements between holders of its securities that may restrict the transfer of shares or exercise of voting rights.
O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 67 Debentures Directors conflicts of interests As detailed in notes 21 and 22 to the Accounts, as at Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts 31 March 2011 the Company had in issue 3.625 per cent of interest with the Company.
The Companys Articles convertible bonds due 2011 and Notes issued under the of Association enable Directors to approve conflicts of 3i Group plc 2,000 million Note Issuance Programme.
interest and include other conflict of interest provisions.
There were no Notes in issue under the 3i Group plc The Company has implemented processes to identify 1,000 million Euro-Commercial Paper Programme.
potential and actual conflicts of interest.
Such conflicts are then considered for approval by the Board, subject, if necessary, to appropriate conditions.
Appointment and re-election of Directors Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, Directors indemnities the Companies Acts and satisfactory performance evaluation, non-executive Directors are appointed for As permitted by the Companys Articles of Association, an initial period of three years.
Before the third and the Company has maintained Qualifying Third-Party sixth anniversaries of a non-executive Directors first Indemnity Provisions as defined under relevant appointment, the Director discusses with the Board legislation for the benefit of the Companys Directors whether it is appropriate for a further three year term throughout the year.
Employment The Companys Articles of Association provide for: The policy of the Group is one of equal opportunity in the a the minimum number of Directors to be two and selection, training, career development and promotion of the maximum to be 20, unless otherwise determined employees, regardless of age, gender, sexual orientation, by the Company by ordinary resolution: ethnic origin, religion and whether disabled or otherwise.
b Directors to be appointed by ordinary resolution 3i treats applicants and employees with disabilities equally of the Companys shareholders in general meeting and fairly and provides facilities, equipment and training or by the Board: to assist disabled employees to do their jobs.
Arrangements are made as necessary to ensure access c Directors to retire by rotation at an AGM if: and support to job applicants who happen to be disabled i they have been appointed by the Board since and who respond to our request to inform the Company the preceding AGM: of any requirements.
Should an employee become disabled during their employment, efforts would be made ii they held office during the two preceding AGMs to retain them in their current employment or to explore but did not retire at either of them: the opportunities for their retraining or redeployment iii not being Chairman of the Board, they held within 3i.
Financial support is also provided by 3i to non-executive office for a continuous period of support disabled employees who are unable to work, nine years or more at the date of that AGM: or as appropriate to local market conditions.
iv they choose to retire from office.
3is principal means of keeping in touch with the views of its employees are through employee appraisals, informal d shareholders to have the power to remove any consultations, team briefings, and staff conferences and Director by special resolution.
Managers throughout 3i have a continuing Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, retiring responsibility to keep their staff fully informed of Directors are eligible for reappointment.
The office of developments and to communicate financial results and Director shall be vacated if the Director resigns, becomes other matters of interest.
This is achieved by structured bankrupt or is prohibited by law from being a Director communication including regular meetings of employees.
or where the Board so resolves following the Director 3i is an equal opportunities employer and has clear suffering from mental ill-health or being absent from grievance and disciplinary procedures in place.
3i also Board meetings for 12 months without the Boards has an employee assistance programme which provides permission.
a confidential, free and independent counselling service In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and is available to all staff and their families in the UK.
all Directors submit to reappointment every year.
3is employment policies are designed to provide a Accordingly at the AGM to be held on 6 July 2011 all competitive reward package which will attract and retain the Directors will retire from office.
All these Directors high quality staff, whilst ensuring that the relevant costs are eligible for, and, save for Mme C J M Morin-Postel remain at an appropriate level.
who is stepping down from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM, seek, reappointment.
Remuneration policy is reviewed by the 3i Group plc Remuneration Committee, comprising 3i Group plc The Boards recommendation for the reappointment non-executive Directors.
of Directors is set out in the 2011 Notice of AGM.
68 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information 3is remuneration policy is influenced by 3is financial and b 100 million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement other performance conditions and market practices in dated 17 September 2009, between the Company, the countries in which it operates.
All employees receive 3i Holdings plc and Nordea Bank AB publ in relation a base salary and are eligible for a performance-related to the provision of a multi-currency revolving credit bonus.
Where appropriate, employees are eligible to facility to the Company and 3i Holdings plc.
Under this participate in 3i share schemes to encourage employees agreement, the Company would be required to notify involvement in 3is performance.
Investment executives Nordea Bank AB publ within five days of any change may also participate in co-investment plans and carried of control of the Company.
Such notification would interest schemes, which allow executives to share directly open a negotiation period of 20 days from the date in any future profits on investments.
Employees of the change of control to determine whether participate in local state or company pension schemes Nordea Bank AB publ would be willing to continue as appropriate to local market conditions.
to make available the facility and, if so, on what terms.
Failing agreement and if so required by Nordea Bank AB publ, amounts outstanding would be required Charitable and political donations to be repaid and the facility cancelled: Charitable donations made by the Group in the year to 31 March 2011 amounted to 408,566.
Detail on these c 200 million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement donations is provided in the CR section of our Investor dated 4 November 2009, between the Company, relations website, www.
3i Holdings plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc in relation to the provision of a multi-currency term and revolving In line with Group policy, during the year to 31 March credit facility to the Company and 3i Holdings plc.
2011 no donations were made to political parties or Under this agreement, the Company would be organisations, or independent election candidates, required to notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc within five and no political expenditure was incurred.
days of any change of control of the Company.
Such notification would open a negotiation period Policy for paying creditors of 20 days from the date of the change of control The Groups policy is to pay suppliers in accordance with to determine whether Lloyds TSB Bank plc would be the terms and conditions of the relevant markets in which willing to continue to make available the facility and, it operates.
Expenses are paid on a timely basis in the if so, on what terms.
Failing agreement and if so ordinary course of business.
The Company had no trade required by Lloyds TSB Bank plc, amounts outstanding creditors outstanding at the year end.
3i plc had trade would be required to be repaid and the facility creditors outstanding at the year end representing on cancelled: average 10.7 days purchases.
d Limited Partnership Agreements dated 12 July 2006, between 3i EFV GP Limited, 3i Europartners V Significant agreements Verwaltungs GmbH & Co. KG, the Company and As at 31 March 2011 the Company was party to the other investors from time to time in relation to the following agreements that take effect, alter or terminate formation of partnerships to carry on the business on a change of control of the Company following a of investing as the fund known as 3i Eurofund V. takeover bid: Under these agreements, the manager, 3i Investments plc, would be required to notify the a 300 million Revolving Credit Facility Agreement investors of any change of control of the Company.
dated 15 July 2009, between the Company, If such a change of control occurs before the end 3i Holdings plc and Lloyds TSB Bank plc, The Royal of the relevant investment period, the managers Bank of Scotland plc, Socit Gnrale, Commerzbank powers to make new investments on behalf of the AG, London Branch, Standard Chartered Bank, UBS partnerships would be suspended unless the investors Limited, Bank of Ireland and JPMorgan Chase Bank had given consent before the change of control N. A. London Branch in relation to the provision of occurred.
Where suspension occurs, the investors may a multi-currency revolving credit facility to the consent at any time before the end of the investment Company and 3i Holdings plc.
Under this agreement, period to the resumption of the managers powers: the Company would be required to notify Lloyds TSB Bank plc in its capacity as agent for the banks, within five days of any change of control of the Company.
Such notification would open a negotiation period of 20 days from the date of the change of control to determine whether the Majority Lenders as defined in the agreement would be willing to continue to make available the facility and, if so, on what terms.
Failing agreement and if so required by the Majority Lenders, amounts outstanding would be required to be repaid and the facility cancelled: O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 69 e Limited Partnership Agreements dated 24 March Statement of Directors responsibilities 2010, between 3i GC GP Limited, the Company, The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual other 3i entities and other investors from time to Report and the Group financial statements in accordance time in relation to the formation of partnerships to with applicable United Kingdom law and those carry on the business of investing as the fund known International Financial Reporting Standards which have as 3i Growth Capital Fund.
Under these agreements, been adopted by the European Union.
the manager, 3i Investments plc, would be required Under Company Law the Directors must not approve to notify the investors of any change of control the Group financial statements unless they are satisfied of the Company.
If such a change of control occurs that they present fairly the financial position, financial before the end of the relevant investment period, performance and cash flows of the Group for that period.
the managers powers to make new investments In preparing the Group financial statements the Directors: on behalf of the partnerships would be suspended unless the investors had given consent before the a select suitable accounting policies in accordance change of control occurred.
Where suspension occurs, with IAS 8: Accounting Policies, Changes in the investors may consent at any time before the Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply end of the investment period to the resumption them consistently: of the managers powers: and b present information, including accounting policies, f 3i Group plc 430,000,000 3.625 per cent in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, convertible bonds due 2011 the bonds.
Condition comparable and understandable information: 6 of the terms and conditions of the bonds sets out c provide additional disclosures when compliance with the conversion rights of the holders of the bonds the specific requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to and the calculation of the conversion price payable.
enable users to understand the impact of particular The conversion price will decrease if a Relevant transactions, other events and conditions on the Event occurs.
Condition 6 b x sets out the definition Groups financial position and financial performance: of Relevant Event and the consequential adjustment to the conversion price.
In summary, a Relevant d state that the Group has complied with IFRSs, Event occurs if an offer is made to all or as nearly subject to any material departures disclosed and as may be practicable all shareholders to acquire explained in the financial statements: and all or a majority of the issued shares of the Company e make judgements and estimates that are reasonable or if any person proposes a scheme with regard and prudent.
to such acquisition other than a Newco Scheme as defined and such offer or scheme having The Directors have a responsibility for ensuring that become unconditional in all respects the right proper accounting records are kept which are sufficient to cast more than 50% of the votes which may to show and explain the Groups transactions and disclose ordinarily be cast on a poll at a general meeting with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial of the Company has or will become unconditionally position of the Group and enable them to ensure that the vested in the offeror and or an associate as defined Group financial statements comply with the Companies of the offeror.
Condition 7 d of the terms and Act 2006. conditions of the bonds gives bondholders an early They have a general responsibility for taking such redemption option early repayment at face value plus steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the accrued interest upon a Relevant Event occurring.
assets of the Group and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
70 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information In accordance with the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Audit information Rules, the Directors confirm to the best of their Pursuant to section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006, knowledge that: each of the Directors confirms that: a so far as they are aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the a the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Companys auditors are unaware: and b they have taken applicable accounting standards, give a true and fair all steps they ought to have taken to make themselves view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and aware of any relevant audit information and to establish profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings that the Companys auditors are aware of such included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and information.
b the Directors report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and Appointment of auditors the position of the Company and the undertakings In accordance with section 489 of the Companies included in the consolidation taken as a whole Act 2006, a resolution proposing the reappointment together with a description of the principal risks of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditors and uncertainties that they face.
will be put to members at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors of the Company and their functions By order of the Board are listed in the Board of Directors and Leadership Team section.
K J Dunn Company Secretary Going concern 11 May 2011 The Directors have acknowledged their responsibilities Registered Office: in relation to the financial statements for the year to 16 Palace Street, London, SW1E 5JD 31 March 2011.
The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business review section.
The financial position of the Group, its capital structure, gearing and liquidity positions are described in the Financial review section.
The Groups policies on risk management, including treasury and funding risks, are contained in the Risk section.
Further details are contained in the financial statements and notes including, in particular, details on financial risk management and derivative financial instruments.
The Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook.
The Directors have considered the uncertainties inherent in current and expected future market conditions and their possible impact upon the financial performance of the Group.
After consideration, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has and will maintain sufficient financial resources to enable it to continue operating in the foreseeable future and therefore continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and accounts.
