O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 71 shareholders.
The Articles of Association empower the Corporate governance statement Board to offer, allot, grant options over or otherwise deal with or dispose of the Companys shares as the Board Corporate governance may decide.
The Companies Act 2006 authorises the Throughout the year, the Company complied with Company to make market purchases of its own shares the provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code if the purchase has first been authorised by a resolution on corporate governance published by the Financial of the Company.
Reporting Council in June 2008 save that none of the Directors was formally nominated as Senior At the AGM in July 2010, shareholders renewed Independent Director between 1 October 2010 when the Boards authority to allot ordinary shares and to Mr R W A Swannell stepped down from the Board and repurchase ordinary shares on behalf of the Company 7 October 2010 when Mr R H Meddings was named subject to certain limits.
At the AGM in July 2010, as his successor as Senior Independent Director.
For shareholders authorised the Board to repurchase B shares the year to 31 March 2012, the Company will report on behalf of the Company subject to certain limits.
compliance against the UK Corporate Governance Details of the authorities which the Board will be seeking Code, which has replaced the Combined Code.
at the 2011 AGM are set out in the 2011 Notice of AGM.
The Articles of Association also specifically empower The Companys approach to the Board to exercise the Companys powers to borrow corporate governance money and to mortgage or charge the Companys assets and any uncalled capital and to issue debentures and The Company has a policy of seeking to comply with other securities.
established best practice in the field of corporate governance.
The Board has adopted core values and The Board determines matters including financial strategy global policies which set out the behaviour expected and planning and takes major business decisions.
The of staff in their dealings with shareholders, customers, Board has put in place an organisational structure.
This colleagues, suppliers and others who engage with the is further described under the heading internal control.
One of the core values communicated within the Group is a belief that the highest standard of integrity Attendance at Board and is essential in business.
Committee Meetings The table below shows the number of scheduled The Boards responsibilities and processes meetings attended by Directors during the year to The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall 31 March 2011 and, in brackets, the number of such management of the Group and may exercise all the meetings they were eligible to attend.
In addition to powers of the Company subject to the provisions of these meetings a small number of ad hoc meetings relevant statutes, the Companys Articles of Association were held to deal with specific items as they arose.
and any directions given by special resolution of the Audit and Compliance Nomination Remuneration Valuations Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Total meetings held 7 4 5 6 3 Number attended: 1 Sir Adrian Montague 6 6 4 4 2 2 2 Baroness Hogg 1 1 1 1 2 2 1 1 M J Queen 7 7 5 5 3 3 J S Wilson 7 7 3 3 3 J M Allan 6 7 3 4 5 5 6 6 4 J P Asquith 1 1 1 1 1 1 A R Cox 6 7 4 4 4 5 R H Meddings 7 7 4 4 5 5 W Mesdag 7 7 5 5 6 6 3 3 C J M Morin-Postel 7 7 3 4 5 5 5 6 5 R W A Swannell 3 3 2 2 2 2 1 1 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 June 2010 and to Valuations Committee and Nominations Committee on 7 July 2010.
4 Appointed to the Board on 7 March 2011 and to Remuneration Committee, Nominations Committee and Audit and Compliance Committee on 31 March 2011.
72 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information Matters reserved for the Board Meetings of the Board The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters The principal matters considered by the Board during reserved to it and its duly authorised Committees for the year in addition to matters formally reserved to decision.
These include: the Board included: approval of the Groups overall strategy, strategic plan the strategic plan, budget and financial resources: and annual operating budget: regular reports from the Chief Executive: approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual regular reports from the Boards committees: financial statements and changes in the Groups accounting policies or practices: the recommendations of the Valuations Committee on valuations of investments: changes relating to the capital structure of the Company or its regulated status: the Boards risk appetite and risk tolerance: major capital projects: the business model and its application by different business lines: major changes in the nature of business operations: independence of non-executive Directors: investments and divestments in the ordinary course of business above certain limits set by the Board from the acquisition of Mizuho Investment Management time to time: UK Limited: adequacy of internal control systems: the portfolio company management process: and appointments to the Board and the Leadership Team: the impact of the new UK Bribery Act.
principal terms and conditions of employment of Information members of the Leadership Team: and Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a changes in employee share schemes and other timely manner in preparation for Board and committee long-term incentive schemes.
These papers are supplemented by information specifically requested by the Directors from time to time.
Matters delegated by the Board to management include implementation of the Board approved strategy, day-to-day operation of the business, the appointment Performance evaluation and remuneration of all executives below the Leadership During the year, the Board conducted its annual Team and the formulation and execution of risk evaluation of its own performance and that of its management policies and practices.
The evaluation process in the year to 31 March 2010 had been A succession and contingency plan for executive externally facilitated by The Zygos Partnership and the leadership is prepared by management and reviewed evaluation in the year to 31 March 2011 was conducted periodically by the Board.
The purpose of this plan is internally by the Chairman with the assistance of the to identify suitable candidates for succession to key Company Secretary.
The results of this years evaluation senior management positions, agree their training process were reported to and discussed by the Board.
and development needs, and ensure the necessary human resources are in place for the Company to The Board performance evaluation included consideration meet its objectives.
of the overall functioning of the Board.
Particular topics considered included: length and frequency of Meetings: the information provided to the Board: the correct balance of attendance at Meeting by managers below Board level: the appropriate emphasis within Meetings placed on different aspects of its role and issues which would deserve fuller Board consideration: the way in which information on the Groups investment portfolio could most usefully be presented to the Board and the allocation of work between the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation was valuable in enabling Directors to identify a number of areas where its working practices could usefully be developed.
In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr R H Meddings led a review by the Directors of the performance of the Chairman and subsequently reported back to the Board.
O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 73 The roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive Directors and Senior Independent Director The Board comprises the Chairman, five independent non-executive Directors and two executive Directors.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman Biographical details for each of the Directors are set of the Board and the Chief Executive is clearly defined out in the Board of Directors and Leadership Team and has been approved by the Board.
Mr A R Cox, Mr R H Meddings, Mr W Mesdag, The Chairman Mme C J M Morin-Postel, Mr M J Queen, and The Chairman leads the Board in the determination Mrs J S Wilson served throughout the year under of its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
Mr J M Allan served throughout the year The Chairman is responsible for organising the business under review, stepping down as a Director on 30 April of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting 2011.
Sir Adrian Montague served as a Director from its agenda.
The Chairman has no involvement in the 1 June 2010 and Chairman from 7 July 2010 and day-to-day business of the Group.
The Chairman Mr J P Asquith served as a Director from 7 March 2011. facilitates the effective contribution of non-executive Baroness Hogg served as Chairman and a Director until Directors and constructive relations between executive 7 July 2010.
Mr R W A Swannell served as a Director and non-executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures until 1 October 2010. that regular reports from the Companys brokers are In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as circulated to the non-executive Directors to enable Directors, non-executive Directors are expected to bring non-executive Directors to remain aware of shareholders an independent judgement to bear on issues of strategy, views.
The Chairman ensures effective communication performance, resources and standards of conduct, and with the Companys shareholders.
to help the Board provide the Company with effective leadership.
They are also expected to ensure high The Chief Executive standards of financial probity on the part of the Company The Chief Executive has direct charge of the Group and to monitor the effectiveness of the executive on a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board Directors.
Directors are expected to make available for the financial and operational performance of the sufficient time to meet the requirements of the Group.
The Chief Executive has formed a committee appointment.
The average time commitment for a called the Leadership Team formerly Management non-executive Director is expected to be around 15 days Committee to enable him to carry out the responsibilities a year together with additional time for serving on the delegated to him by the Board.
comprises Mr M J Queen, Mrs J S Wilson, Mr M A Antal, Mr K J Dunn, Mr A C B Giddins, Mr J R Ghose, The Boards discussions, and its approval of the Groups Ms C M Hogg, Mr I M Nolan, Mr R Stefanowski, strategic plan and annual budget, provide the Mr P Waller and Mr G A R Zarzavatdjian.
The Committee non-executive Directors with the opportunity to meets on a regular basis to consider operational matters contribute to and validate managements plans and assist and the implementation of the Groups strategy.
in the development of strategy.
The non-executive Directors receive regular management accounts, reports Senior Independent Director and information which enable them to scrutinise the Mr R W A Swannell served as Senior Independent Companys and managements performance against Director until 1 October 2010, and Mr R H Meddings agreed objectives.
from 7 October 2010, to whom, in accordance with the Combined Code, concerns were able to be conveyed.
Directors independence All the non-executive Directors other than the Chairman, who was independent on appointment were considered by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Combined Code in the year to 31 March 2011.
The Board assesses and reviews the independence of each of the non-executive Directors at least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and materiality of a Directors interests and relationships rather than applying rigid criteria in a mechanistic manner.
No Director was materially interested in any contract or arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the financial period that was significant in relation to the business of the Company.
74 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information Directors employment contracts Audit and Compliance Committee Details of executive Directors employment contracts The Audit and Compliance Committee comprises are set out in the Directors remuneration report.
Mr R H Meddings Chairman, Mr J P Asquith, Mr A R Cox and Mme C J M Morin-Postel, all of whom served Training and development throughout the year, save for Mr J P Asquith who served The Company has developed a training policy which from 31 March 2011.
Mr R W A Swannell served as provides a framework within which training for Directors Chairman of the Committee until 1 October 2010. is planned with the objective of ensuring Directors Mr J M Allan served as a member of the Committee understand the duties and responsibilities of being a throughout the year, stepping down from the Committee director of a listed company.
All Directors are required on 30 April 2011.
All the members of the Committee to update their skills and maintain their familiarity with are independent non-executive Directors.
The Board is the Company and its business continually.
Presentations satisfied that the Committee Chairman, Mr R H Meddings, on different aspects of the Companys business are made has recent and relevant financial experience.
On appointment, all non-executive During the year, the Committee: Directors have discussions with the Chairman and the Chief Executive following which appropriate briefings reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control on the responsibilities of Directors, the Companys environment of the Group and the Groups compliance business and the Companys procedures are arranged.
with its regulatory requirements and received reports The Company provides opportunities for non-executive on bank covenants, third-party liabilities and off balance Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the sheet liabilities: Companys business by meeting members of the senior reviewed and recommended to the Board the management team who in turn arrange, as required, visits accounting disclosures comprised in the half-yearly to investment or support teams.
and annual financial statements of the Company and The Company has procedures for Directors to take reviewed the scope of the annual external audit plan independent legal or other professional advice about and the external audit findings: the performance of their duties.
received the reports of the Valuations Committee on the valuation of the Groups investment assets: The Boards committees received regular reports from the Groups internal audit The Board is assisted by various standing committees function, monitored its activities and effectiveness, of the Board which report regularly to the Board.
and agreed the annual internal audit plan: The membership of these committees is regularly reviewed by the Board.
When considering committee received regular reports from the Groups regulatory membership and chairmanship, the Board aims to ensure compliance function and Group Risk Committee, that undue reliance is not placed on particular Directors.
and monitored their activities and effectiveness: These committees all have clearly defined terms of oversaw the Companys relations with its external reference which are available at www.
auditors including assessing auditor performance, The terms of reference of the Audit and Compliance independence and objectivity, recommending Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the the auditors reappointment and approving the Nominations Committee provide that no one other auditors fees: than the particular committee chairman and members met with the external auditors in the absence may attend a meeting unless invited to attend by the of management: relevant committee.
reviewed the portfolio management processes: received reports on litigation: and considered the impact of the new UK Bribery Act.
O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 75 Remuneration Committee Valuations Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises Mr J P Asquith The Valuations Committee comprises Mr W Mesdag Chairman from 9 May 2011, Mr W Mesdag and Chairman, Sir Adrian Montague, Mr M J Queen, and Mme C J M Morin-Postel, all of whom served throughout Mrs J S Wilson, all of whom served throughout the year the year, save for Mr J P Asquith who served from save for Sir Adrian Montague who served from 7 July 31 March 2011.
Mr J M Allan served as Chairman of 2010, and who was Chairman of the Committee from the Committee throughout the year, stepping down then until 1 October 2010 when he was succeeded by from the Committee on 30 April 2011.
Baroness Hogg served as Chairman of the served as a member of the Committee until 7 July 2010.
Mr R W A Swannell served All the current members of the Committee are as a member of the Committee until 1 October 2010. independent non-executive Directors.
During the year, the Valuations Committee considered The work of the Remuneration Committee is described and made recommendations to the Audit and Compliance in the Directors remuneration report.
Committee and the Board on valuations of the Groups investments to be included in the half-yearly and annual financial statements of the Group and reviewed Nominations Committee valuations policy and methodology.
The Nominations Committee comprises Sir Adrian Montague Chairman, Mr M J Queen, Mr J P Asquith, The Company Secretary Mr A R Cox, Mr R H Meddings, Mr W Mesdag and Mme C J M Morin-Postel, all of whom served throughout All Directors have access to the advice and services the year, save for Sir Adrian Montague and Mr J P Asquith of the General Counsel and Company Secretary, who is who served from 7 July 2010 and 31 March 2011, responsible for advising the Board, through the Chairman, respectively.
Baroness Hogg served as Chairman of the on governance matters.
The Companys Articles of Committee until 7 July 2010.
Mr J M Allan served Association and the schedule of matters reserved to throughout the year, stepping down from the Committee the Board or its duly authorised committees for decision on 30 April 2011.
Mr R W A Swannell served as a provide that the appointment and removal of the member of the Committee until 1 October 2010.
Company Secretary is a matter for the full Board.
During the year, the Nominations Committee: Relations with shareholders considered the recommendation from a subThe Board recognises the importance of maintaining a committee that Sir Adrian Montague succeed purposeful relationship with the Companys shareholders.
Baroness Hogg as Chairman and agreed to The Chief Executive and the Finance Director, together recommend this to the Board: with the Group Communications Director, meet with the Companys principal institutional shareholders to discuss considered and recommended Mr J P Asquith relevant issues as they arise.
The Chairman maintains for appointment as a non-executive Director a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, corporate of the Company: governance and Directors remuneration as required.
considered potential candidates for further The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers non-executive Director appointments: and on shareholder issues and non-executive Directors are considered the size, balance and composition invited to attend the Companys presentations to analysts of the Board.
and are offered the opportunity to meet shareholders.
A formal, rigorous and transparent process for the The Companys major shareholders are offered the appointment of Directors has been established with opportunity to meet newly-appointed non-executive the objective of identifying the skills and experience Directors.
profile required of new Directors and identifying suitable The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity candidates.
The procedure includes the appraisal and to communicate with its shareholders.
At the Meeting, selection of potential candidates, including in the case business presentations are generally made by the of non-executive Directors whether they have sufficient Chief Executive and the Finance Director.
The Chairmen time to fulfil their roles.
Specialist recruitment consultants of the Remuneration, Audit and Compliance, and assist the Committee to identify suitable candidates Nominations Committees are generally available for appointment.
The Committees recommendations to answer shareholders questions.
for appointment are put to the full Board for approval.
76 3i Group plc Report and accounts 2011 Governance Statutory and corporate governance information During the year, at the invitation of the Chairman, the The overall internal control process is regularly Companys major shareholders met with the Chairman, reviewed by the Board and the Audit and Compliance the Chairman of the Audit and Compliance Committee Committee and complies with the internal control and the Company Secretary to discuss matters of guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued corporate governance and corporate responsibility by the Turnbull Committee.
The process established relevant to the Company and its shareholders.
for the Group includes: The 2010 Notice of AGM was dispatched to shareholders Policies not less than 20 working days before the Meeting.
core values and global policies together comprising At that Meeting, voting on each resolution was taken the Groups high level principles and controls, with on a poll and the poll results were made available on which all staff are expected to comply: the Companys website.
manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to all business units, with procedures for reporting Portfolio management and voting policy weaknesses and for monitoring corrective action: In relation to unquoted investments, the Groups a code of business conduct, with procedures for approach is to seek to add value to the businesses in reporting compliance therewith.
which the Group invests through the Groups extensive experience, resources and contacts.
In relation to quoted Processes investments, the Groups policy is to exercise voting appointment of experienced and professional staff, rights on matters affecting its interests.
both by recruitment and promotion, of the necessary calibre to fulfil their allotted responsibilities: Internal control a planning framework which incorporates a Board The Board is responsible for the Groups system of approved strategic plan, with objectives for each internal control and reviews its effectiveness at least business unit: annually.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business formal business risk reviews performed by objectives and can provide only reasonable and not management which evaluate the potential financial absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
impact and likelihood of identified risks and possible new risk areas: Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule of matters reserved to the Board or its duly the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring authorised committees for decision, the Board aims procedures and the review of actual occurrences, to maintain full and effective control over appropriate identifying lessons to be learnt: strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
a comprehensive system of financial reporting to The Board has put in place an organisational structure the Board, based on an annual budget with monthly with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation reporting of actual results, analysis of variances, of authority.
The Board considers and approves a scrutiny of key performance measures including strategic plan regularly and approves a budget on an gearing and net debt levels, and regular re-forecasting: annual basis.
In addition, there are established procedures and processes for planning and controlling expenditure regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse and the making of investments.
There are also the funding requirements of each class of assets, track information and reporting systems for monitoring the the generation and use of capital and the volume Groups businesses and their performance.
of liquidity, measure the Groups exposure to interest and exchange rate movements and record the level The Group Risk Committee is a management committee of compliance with the Groups funding objectives: formed by the Chief Executive and its purpose is to review the business of the Group in order to ensure that a Group Compliance function whose role is to integrate business risk is considered, assessed and managed as an regulatory compliance procedures and best practices integral part of the business.
There is an ongoing process into the Groups systems: for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups well defined procedures governing the appraisal and significant risks.
This process was in place for the year approval of investments, including detailed investment to 31 March 2011 and up to the date of this report.
and divestment approval procedures, incorporating The Group Risk Committees activities are supported appropriate levels of authority and regular postby the activities of Treasury Management Committee investment reviews.
as well as the Portfolio Committee and Operating Committee.
Details of the risk management framework can be found in the Risk section.
For more information on risk please go to p50 k O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 77 Verification Auditors independence and objectivity an Internal Audit function which undertakes Subject to annual appointment by shareholders, auditor periodic examination of business units and performance is monitored on an ongoing basis and processes and recommends improvements formally reviewed every five years, the last review being in controls to management: held during the year to 31 March 2009.
Following this review the Audit and Compliance Committee concluded the external auditors who are engaged to express that Ernst & Young LLPs appointment as the Companys an opinion on the annual financial statements: and auditors should be continued.
an Audit and Compliance Committee which considers The Audit and Compliance Committee recognises the significant control matters and receives reports from importance of ensuring the independence and objectivity Internal Audit, the external auditors and Group of the Companys auditors.
It reviews the nature and Compliance on a regular basis.
extent of the services provided by them, the level of The internal control system is monitored and supported their fees and the element comprising non-audit fees.
by Internal Audit and Compliance, which operates on The Audit and Compliance Committee Chairman is an international basis and reports to management and notified of all assignments allocated to Ernst & Young the Audit and Compliance Committee on the Groups over a set threshold, other than those related to due operations.
The work of Internal Audit is focused on diligence within the Groups investment process where the areas of greatest risk to the Group determined the team engaged would be independent of the audit on the basis of the Groups risk management process.
Safeguards have been put in place to reduce The external auditors independently and objectively the likelihood of compromising auditor independence, review the approach of management to reporting including the following principles which are applied in operating results and financial condition.
In co-ordination respect of services provided by the auditors and other with Internal Audit, they also review and test the system accounting firms and monitored by the Audit and of internal financial control and the information contained Compliance Committee: in the annual financial statements to the extent necessary services required to be undertaken by the auditors, for expressing their opinion.
which include regulatory returns, formalities relating to borrowings, shareholder and other circulars.
This work Financial reporting is normally allocated directly to the auditors: In the context of the above internal control framework, services which it is most efficient for the auditors to there are specific processes in place in relation to Financial provide.
In this case, information relating to the service Reporting, including: is largely derived from the Companys audited financial comprehensive system of key control and oversight records: for example, corporate tax services.
This work processes, including regular reconciliations, line is normally allocated to the auditors subject to manager reviews and systems access controls: consideration of any impact on their independence: and updates for consideration by the Audit and Compliance services that could be provided by a number of firms Committee of accounting developments, including including general consultancy work.
All significant draft and new accounting standards and legislation: consultancy projects are normally put out to tender and work would be allocated to the auditors only if it a separate Valuations Committee which considers did not present a potential threat to the independence the Groups investment valuation policies, application of the audit team.
Included in this category is due and outcome: diligence work relating to the investment process.
approval of the Groups budget by the Board and If this service were to be provided by the auditors, regular updates on actual and forecast financial the specific team engaged would be independent performance against budget: of the audit team.
reports from Internal Audit on matters relevant to the Details of the fees paid to the auditors are disclosed financial reporting process, including periodic assessments in note 6 to the financial statements.
of internal controls, processes and fraud risk: independent updates and reports from the external auditors on accounting developments, application of accounting standards, key accounting judgements and observations on systems and controls: and regular risk reviews, including an assessment of risks to reliable financial reporting covering people, processes and systems, and updates on the management of identified risks or actual incidents.
