O verview S trategy and B usiness review R isk C orporate G overnance F inancial statements P ortfolio and b usiness model r esponsibility o ther information Report and accounts 2011 3i Group plc 53 Operation during the year Risk governance framework The formation of a new Leadership Team and Committee 3is risk governance framework provides a structured structure required some changes to 3is overall risk process to oversee the identification, assessment and governance framework to ensure proper alignment approach to mitigation in respect of those risks which and effectiveness.
The remit of the former Portfolio could materially impact the Groups strategic objectives Risk Committee was subsumed by the new Portfolio or execution.
Committee, reporting into the Leadership Team.
Similarly, Risk management operates at all levels throughout the the remit of the Operational Risk Committee was Group, across business lines, geographies and professional assumed by the Operating Committee supported functions.
The Board is ultimately responsible for risk by an operational risk forum of 3i senior managers.
management, which includes the Groups risk governance Risk reviews are generally carried out on a quarterly or oversight structure and maintaining an appropriate basis and aligned with the Group Risk Committee internal control framework.
Managements responsibility meetings, which are held at the start of the Leadership is to manage risk on behalf of the Board.
By reporting regularly to Audit and Compliance Committee, the Groups Risk Committee provides Related committees support to the Board in maintaining oversight of the The Corporate Responsibility Committee considers and effectiveness of risk management across the Group.
reviews corporate responsibility issues relevant to 3is The risk governance framework and the responsibilities business, reporting to the Board.
This includes identifying of the main committees involved are shown below.
and assessing the significant risks and opportunities for 3i Details can also be found in the Governance section arising from corporate responsibility issues.
Any reported Pillar 3 disclosures at www.
com risks are also considered by the Operating Committee or Group Risk Committee as appropriate.
As noted earlier, the area of responsible investing is undergoing a review, which will include consideration of these oversight arrangements.
Group Risk Committee Chairman: Chief Executive Oversight of the Groups overall risk management processes Monitors changes in the Groups external and strategic risk profile Reviews risk update reports from each of the Treasury Management, Portfolio and Operating Committees Assesses the adequacy of risk mitigation steps put in place in respect of higher level risks Reports to the Audit and Compliance Committee Treasury Management Operating Committee Portfolio Committee Committee Chairman: Chairman: Chairman: Group Finance Director Chief Investment Officer Chief Executive Oversees management of funding, Oversees the key operational risks Oversees risks arising from gearing, liquidity, interest rate facing the Group, including changes investment portfolio concentration and foreign exchange exposures to the operational risk profile and by vintage, geography, sector in relation to policies agreed by new and emerging risks.
For more information on internal control, please go to p76 k
