Corporate governance statement The Board has approved a formal schedule of matters reserved to it The Companys approach to and the Audit Committee for decision.
These include: corporate governance approval of the Companys overall strategy, plans and annual The Company is committed to upholding the highest standards operating budget: of corporate governance.
It observes the requirements of the approval of the Companys half-yearly and annual financial Combined Code on Corporate Governance published by the UK statements and changes in the Companys accounting policies Financial Reporting Council in June 2008 the Combined Code, or practices: a copy of which is available from the Financial Reporting Council website www.
uk, as modified by Listing Rule 15.6.
6 2 approval of changes relating to the capital structure of the and to the extent applicable to the Company, given that it has no Company or its regulated status: Executive Directors.
approval of the appointment and removal of the Investment During the year, the Financial Reporting Council has updated the Adviser and annual review and continued approval of key Combined Code on Corporate Governance now called the UK agreements with service providers, including the Investment Corporate Governance Code, which will apply to all companies with Advisory Agreement with 3i Investments: a premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, irrespective of approval of major changes in the nature of business operations or their country of incorporation, for all financial years beginning on or investment policy: after 29 June 2010. approval of investments and divestments: Following the publication of the new Code in late June 2010, the approval of portfolio company valuations and review of the Board conducted a thorough appraisal of its provisions, and has performance and plans for each portfolio company: implemented a number of changes to its procedures to ensure that it is fully compliant to all rules and provisions applicable to a review of the adequacy of internal control systems including company of its type with no executive management and no those operated by independent service providers: and employees.
Such changes include the provision for the annual appointments to the Board and determination of terms of re-election of all Directors, as well as the creation of a Remuneration appointment of Directors.
The Company will comply with all the applicable provisions of the new Code for the financial year ending 31 March 2012.
Meetings of the Board For the financial year under review, the Company observed the The Board is required to meet a minimum of four times a year.
applicable provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code, and set A calendar of eight scheduled main Board meetings was agreed up a Remuneration Committee on 28 September 2010.
Before a at the start of the year.
Due to the nature of the Boards close Remuneration Committee was set up, the Board as a whole involvement in the operation of the Company and in making reviewed the scale and structure of the Directors remuneration, investment related decisions, a number of further meetings are taking into account the interests of shareholders and the arranged at shorter notice.
During the year, there were eight main performance of the Company.
These responsibilities were delegated meetings of the Board of Directors.
In addition to these meetings, to the Remuneration Committee upon its establishment, and a there was one full Board meeting arranged at short notice and four report from the Remuneration Committee is included on page 45. meetings of specifically formed committees constituted from the Channel Islands based Directors to execute decisions from full The Board has adopted a code of Directors dealings in ordinary Board meetings.
The Directors attendance at main Board meetings shares, which is based on the Model Code for Directors dealings is set out in the table below: contained in the Listing Rules the Model Code.
The Board is responsible for taking all proper and reasonable steps to ensure Number of compliance with the Model Code by the Directors.
meetings while Directors attendance a Director Attendance The Boards responsibilities Peter Sedgwick 8 8 Philip Austin 8 8 and processes Sir John Collins 8 8 1 The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management Florence Pierre 5 5 of the Company.
It determines matters including financial strategy Charlotte Valeur 8 8 and planning and takes all investment decisions, taking into account Paul Waller 8 6 the advice it receives from the Investment Adviser.
The Board has Steven Wilderspin 8 8 put in place an organisational structure to ensure the efficient performance of its responsibilities.
This is further described under 1 Appointed with effect from 1 September 2010. the heading internal control.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 43 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance statement continued The principal matters considered by the Board during the year The results of the processes were formally reported to the Board included: and Audit Committee respectively.
All Board members gave personal views to the Chairman and the Chairman gave feedback to the Companys strategy, including market positioning and the Board.
investment strategy: All three elements of this review were externally facilitated by approval of the Companys budget and review of financial Dr Tracy Long from Boardroom Review, a specialist consultancy, resources, including the renewal of the Companys revolving which is fully independent from the Board, the Company and any credit facility and review of its terms: other related party.
the Companys capital structure, balance sheet efficiency and Following the completion of the above process, the Board noted taxation arrangements: that the results of the exercise showed a high overall degree of the re-negotiation of the Investment Advisory Agreement, satisfaction with the operation of the Board and interaction with including the extension of the investment exclusivity the Investment Adviser.
The following recommendations were arrangements: also made: approval of investment and divestment decisions: to increase the availability of general Infrastructure market trend information for Directors: and review of portfolio asset performance: to promote the willingness of the Chairman and Senior review of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Independent Director to engage directly with shareholders.
requirements for the Company: review of Boards committee structure and decision to establish a Investment Adviser Remuneration Committee: All independent non-executive Directors eg all Directors with review of counterparty exposure and limits: the exception of Paul Waller conduct an annual review of the performance of the Investment Adviser, thereby conducting review of the Companys foreign exchange hedging strategy: the business that would be the responsibility of a Management review of regular reports from the Investment Adviser relating to Engagement Committee.
The Directors believe that the continued the infrastructure market and early stage work-in-progress: appointment of the Investment Adviser on the terms set out on review of the recommendations of the Investment Adviser on the page 74 is in the interest of shareholders, based on the performance valuation of investments: of the Investment Adviser in the past year.
review of the Companys share price performance and shareholder perceptions following the release of financial information: The Chairman review of the risk management arrangements, internal controls The Chairman, Peter Sedgwick, leads the Board in the determination and the investment approval process: of its strategy and in the achievement of its objectives.
The Chairman is responsible for organising the business of the review of the performance of the Investment Adviser and of key Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The service providers to the Company: Chairman also acts as a manager the equivalent of a director of review of the independence of Directors: and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg Holdings S. r. l. and 3i Infrastructure Luxembourg S. r. l. which are subsidiaries of the Company, and is updates to UK and Jersey law and their impact on the Company.
the Companys appointed member to the Advisory Board for the 3i India Infrastructure Fund.
He receives no additional remuneration Information for these roles.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of all the Directors and constructive relations between the Companys Reports and papers are circulated to the Directors in a timely advisers, including the Investment Adviser, and the Directors.
manner in preparation for Board and committee meetings.
These The Chairman ensures that regular reports from the Companys papers are supplemented by information specifically requested by advisers are circulated to the Directors to enable Directors to remain the Directors from time to time.
The Chairman ensures, with the cooperation of the Investment Adviser, that a programme of Performance evaluation effective communications is available for shareholders, including with the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, when Board shareholders so wish.
During the year, the Board conducted a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees: Senior Independent Director The Chairman led a review of the performance of the Board and Philip Austin is the Senior Independent Director.
In accordance with its committees, as well as of individual Directors: the Combined Code, any concerns can be conveyed to the Senior Independent Director.
The contact details of the Senior Independent The Senior Independent Director led a review of the Chairman: Director are freely available on the Companys website, or through The chairman of the Audit Committee led a review of the Audit the Company Secretary.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 44 Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors Amount paid Amount paid in the year ending in the year ending Directors fees 31 March 2011 31 March 2010 The Board comprises the Chairman and six non-executive Directors.
Biographical details for each of the Directors are set out on page 39.
Peter Sedgwick 130,000 130,000 Peter Sedgwick, Philip Austin, Sir John Collins, Charlotte Valeur, Philip Austin 50,000 50,000 Paul Waller and Steven Wilderspin served throughout the year Sir John Collins 45,000 45,000 under review.
Florence Pierre served as a Director from 1 Florence Pierre 30,274 1 September 2010.
2 Charlotte Valeur 45,000 22,745 No Director has a service contract with the Company, nor are 3 Peter Wagner 61,950 any such contracts proposed.
The Directors were appointed as 4 Paul Waller 42,000 42,000 non-executive Directors by the subscribers to the Memorandum Steven Wilderspin 49,500 46,500 of Association of the Company or at subsequent Board meetings.
Their appointment was confirmed by letters dated 29 January 1 Appointed on 1 September 2010.
2007 in the case of Peter Sedgwick and Philip Austin, 27 March 2 Appointed on 29 September 2009.
2007 in the case of Paul Waller, 20 September 2007 in the case 4 Paul Wallers remuneration was paid directly to 3i Group plc for making of Steven Wilderspin, 27 November 2008 in the case of Sir John available his services.
Collins, 28 September 2009 in the case of Charlotte Valeur and Directors fees are calculated on the following basis: 15 July 2010 in the case of Florence Pierre.
Charlotte Valeur, Paul Waller and Steven Wilderspin, were elected or re-elected at Annual fee Annual fee year ending 31 year ending 31 the 2010 AGM.
March 2011 March 2010 It is anticipated that appointment letters for Directors will be Chairmans fee 130,000 130,000 refreshed following the Companys Annual General Meeting in July Non-executive director base fee 42,000 42,000 2011 in order to bring them into line with the requirements of the Additional fee for the Senior UK Corporate Governance Code which envisages annual re-election Independent Director 5,000 5,000 of Directors, a fixed term appointment of three years and a Additional fee for the Audit three-month notice period.
Following the formal appraisal process Committee chairman 10,000 5,000 of Directors, and in accordance with Section B.
7.2 of the new Additional fee for Audit Committee Code, the Chairman will propose their re-election at the 3,000 3,000 members forthcoming AGM.
Appointment letters are available from the Company Secretary Note: The Company pays an additional 10,000 to its non-UK and non-Channel upon request.
Islands Director to reflect the additional time spent travelling to Board meetings.
The Directors appointment can be terminated, without During the year, the Remuneration Committee considered the compensation for loss of office, in accordance with the Articles of remuneration of Directors.
There have been no increases in Association.
Under the Articles, their appointments can inter alia Directors remuneration since 1 October 2008 except for the be terminated on notice from the other members of the Board, and addition of a fee for the chairmanship of the Audit Committee from also on ceasing to be a Director if they fail to be re-elected at the 1 July 2009, which was further increased with effect from Annual General Meeting.
All Directors will retire and seek re-election 1 October 2010.
In March 2011 the Remuneration Committee at the AGM taking place on 5 July 2011. appointed Kepler Associates Partnership LLP, an independent board remuneration specialist, to review the fees of the Chairman and In addition to fulfilling their legal responsibilities as Directors, non-executive Directors for a fee of 7,500.
Following this review the Directors are expected to bring an independent judgment to the Remuneration Committee has proposed that, from October bear on issues of strategy, performance, investment appraisal 2011, an additional fee of 10,000 be paid to the Chairman, and standards of conduct.
They are also expected to ensure high reflecting increased time dedicated to the fulfilment of his duties.
standards of financial probity on the part of the Company.
The In addition, the Remuneration Committee has also proposed that, Directors receive monthly management accounts, reports and from October 2011, the Directors resident in Jersey receive an information which enable them to scrutinise the Companys additional fee of 3,000, in relation to their requirement to attend performance against agreed objectives.
additional meetings in respect of investment implementation, emergency and standing committees.
Changes to the fee Remuneration Committee report on arrangements will be subject to the approval of shareholders at the AGM to be held on 5 July 2011. the Directors remuneration The remuneration of each of the Directors is subject to fixed fee arrangements, and none of the Directors received any additional remuneration or incentives in respect of his or her services as a Director of the Company.
During the financial year to 31 March 2011, the Directors were due the following: Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 45 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance statement continued The Directors, and specifically members of the Audit Committee, Directors independence attended a number of seminars, meetings and conferences on the All the Directors, with the exception of Paul Waller, who has been review of the Code and other governance issues, and also received a 3i Group nominee to the Board since the Companys IPO in presentations on specific aspects of the Companys business.
The March 2007, are considered by the Board to be independent for Company has procedures for Directors to take independent legal or the purposes of the Code.
The Board assesses and reviews the other professional advice about the performance of their duties.
independence of each of the Directors at least annually, having regard to the potential relevance and materiality of a Directors The Boards committees interests and relationships, rather than applying rigid criteria in a mechanistic manner.
No Director was materially interested in any The Board is assisted by various standing committees which report contract or arrangement subsisting during or at the end of the regularly to the Board.
The membership of these committees is financial year that was significant in relation to the business of reviewed regularly by the Board.
These committees all have clearly defined terms of reference which As a non-independent Director, Paul Waller did not participate in the are available at www.
The terms of reference Boards evaluation of the performance of the Investment Adviser, of the Audit Committee, of the Nominations Committee and of the nor in the approval of the extension to the Investment Advisory Remuneration Committee provide that no one other than the Agreement.
particular committee chairman and members may attend meetings, unless invited to attend by the relevant committee.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code identifies Director cross-directorships as a matter to consider when determining Remuneration Committee independence.
During the year, Steven Wilderspin and Charlotte Valeur held a cross-directorship until Charlotte Valeur resigned from Due to the structure of the Company, having no employees or that companys board on 18 March 2011.
The Board does not executive management, the Company did not have a Remuneration consider that the existence of this cross-directorship influenced the Committee until one was set up on 28 September 2010, in independence of either Director.
The Company has put in place a conformity with the provisions of the new Code.
The Remuneration policy to prevent cross-directorships in the future.
Committee, chaired by Philip Austin, is charged with reviewing the scale and structure of the non-executive Directors remuneration, and is constituted by all the independent non-executive Directors Training and development Peter Sedgwick, Philip Austin, Steven Wilderspin, Sir John Collins, The Company has developed a framework within which training Charlotte Valeur and Florence Pierre.
The Remuneration Committee for Directors is planned, with the objective of ensuring Directors has had two meetings in the year to 31 March 2011, both attended understand the duties and responsibilities of being a director of a by all members.
All Directors are required to continually update their skills and maintain their familiarity with the Company and its Nominations Committee business.
Presentations on different aspects of the Companys business are made regularly to the Board, usually by the The Nominations Committee, chaired by Peter Sedgwick, also Investment Adviser.
comprises Philip Austin and Sir John Collins.
All members served throughout the year.
The Committee has held three meetings in On appointment, all Directors have discussions with the Chairman, the year to 31 March 2011, all attended by all members, and following which appropriate briefings on the responsibilities of considered and recommended the appointment of Florence Pierre Directors, the Companys business and the Companys procedures to the Board.
The services of Inzito, an external search agency, were and, where appropriate, briefings on the infrastructure market are used in the recruitment of Florence Pierre.
The Company provides opportunities for Directors to obtain a thorough understanding of the Companys business and The Committee has been charged with interviewing potential the industry it operates in by meeting senior members of the candidates, but final decisions on nominations will be taken by the investment advisory team who in turn can arrange, as required, entire Board.
The Nominations Committee normally avails itself of visits to portfolio investments or support teams.
the services of external search consultancies, as was the case for the appointment of Florence Pierre, where an external agency with During the year, Florence Pierre received induction training a broad network which covered Europe was engaged.
did not include open advertisement as the search was conducted in The Directors received training, briefing and advice on the following: a number of European countries, and as such the use of an external search agency was preferred.
infrastructure market review from an external adviser independent of the Investment Adviser: As well as seeking an appropriate balance of expertise and experience, especially in finance and infrastructure, the nominations review of the London investor community from an independent process has to take account of the residence of Directors, as the market specialist: majority of Directors have to be non-resident in the UK and for changes to the UK corporate governance framework and the new practical reasons relating to the conduct of the Companys affairs UK Corporate Governance Code: most are resident in the Channel Islands.
legal updates in relation to changes to laws and regulations in The Committee also reviews succession planning to ensure that Jersey and the UK.
processes and plans are in place with regards to Board appointments dealing with succession.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 46 Annual report and accounts 2011 During the year the auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, provided non-audit Audit Committee services for fees totalling 14,500 for the year to March 2011 The Audit Committee, chaired by Steven Wilderspin, also comprises 2010: 14,500.
In addition, and in line with the Companys policy, Philip Austin, Sir John Collins and Charlotte Valeur.
All members Ernst & Young LLP provided non-audit services to support the served throughout the year.
The qualifications of the members of transaction activity conducted by the Group during the year in the Audit Committee are set out in the biographical details of the relation to certain investee companies.
The fees for these services Directors on page 39.
All the members of the Audit Committee are were borne by the underlying investee companies, and therefore are independent non-executive Directors.
The Board is satisfied that not included in the expenses of the Group.
the Audit Committee chairman, Steven Wilderspin, has recent and relevant financial experience.
Investment Committee During the year, there were five meetings of the Audit Committee, As outlined on page 43, the Board as a whole acts as the all attended by all members.
During the year, the Audit Committee: reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment of The Company Secretary the Company and the Companys compliance with its regulatory The Company has appointed State Street Secretaries Jersey requirements: Limited formerly Mourant & Co.
Secretaries Limited as Company reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting Secretary.
On 1 April 2010, State Street Corporation acquired, disclosures comprised in the half yearly and annual financial from Mourant Limited, the companies that conduct Mourant statements of the Company: International Finance Administrations business including Mourant & Co. Limited and Mourant & Co.
Secretaries Limited: the entities reviewed the scope of the annual external audit plan and the which were engaged by the Company to provide administrative and external audit findings: secretarial services.
State Street Corporation is headquartered in received relevant reports from internal audit, control and Boston, Massachusetts, USA and trades on the New York Stock compliance functions of key service providers: Exchange under the symbol STT.
As a result of this acquisition, the names of certain of the companies were changed on 1 June 2010 oversaw the Companys relations with its external auditors, to reflect the fact that the companies no longer formed part of the including assessing independence and objectivity, recommending Mourant group.
the auditors reappointment and approving the auditors fees: All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company reviewed the calculation of the advisory and performance fees of Secretary and legal advisers to the Company, who advise the Board, the Investment Adviser with advice from the auditors, in line with through the Chairman, on governance matters.
The Companys the policy of the Audit Committee concerning conflicts of interest Articles of Association and the schedule of matters reserved for the and the payment of fees for non-audit services: Board or its duly authorised committees for decision provide that reviewed the Companys compliance with its regulatory the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary would be a obligations in Jersey: and matter for the full Board.
met with the external auditors in the absence of the In December 2010, the Board approved, subject to approval from Investment Adviser.
the Jersey Financial Services Commission, an amended Corporate Administration agreement with State Street Jersey Limited The Audit Committee has reviewed auditor performance during the incorporating State Streets terms and conditions.
Approval from the year, considering performance, objectivity, independence and Jersey Financial Services Commission is pending.
There have been relevant experience, and concluded that Ernst & Young LLPs no material changes to the services provided as a result of the appointment as the Companys auditors should be continued.
Ernst & Young LLP have been the Companys auditors since inception in 2007 and, given the time period, the audit has not been re-tendered.
The Audit Committee monitors the Companys policy for non-audit services to ensure that the provision of such services by the external auditor does not impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
In order to safeguard auditor objectivity and independence, the chairman of the Audit Committee is required to approve all non-audit work undertaken, for the Company and its subsidiaries, by the auditors in advance and as a general rule the auditor will not be engaged on investment related work.
However, exceptions to this may be permitted if i the Company is acting in a consortium, ii the audit firm is considered a specialist in the sector, or iii the auditor is best placed to undertake the work through its knowledge of the Companys financial systems, procedures and internal controls.
Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 47 Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance statement continued the Investment Advisers procedures for evaluating investments Relations with shareholders include detailed appraisals and due diligence: The Board recognises the importance of maintaining a purposeful the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare relationship with the Companys shareholders.
The Chairman valuations and management accounts which allow the Board to maintains a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, corporate assess the Companys activities and review its performance: governance and Directors remuneration as required.
Shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet with the Chairman and with the the Investment Advisory and UK Support Services agreements Senior Independent Director.
specifically define the roles and responsibilities of the Investment Adviser and the service providers.
These agreements set out Senior members of the investment advisory team also meet with information and reporting systems for monitoring the Companys the Companys principal institutional shareholders to discuss relevant investments and their performance: issues as they arise.
the Investment Advisers compliance and internal audit departments The Board receives reports from the Companys brokers and other continually review the Investment Advisers operations: advisers on shareholder issues.
the Investment Adviser and the service providers prepare the The Company also uses its AGM as an opportunity to communicate half-yearly and annual accounts and monitor all associated with its shareholders.
At the AGM, business presentations are made financial reporting processes: and by the Chairman and senior members of the investment advisory team.
The chairman of the Audit Committee is also available to the Investment Adviser and the service providers notify the answer shareholders questions.
The Notice of AGM for 2010 was Board of any changes in accounting standards which may impact dispatched to shareholders not less than 20 working days before the Companys significant accounting policies or any other the meeting.
At that meeting, voting on each resolution was statutory requirements which may subsequently impact the taken on a poll and the results were made available on the financial statements.
The Company does not have a separate internal audit function as it is not deemed appropriate given the structure of the Company, Portfolio management and although this is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee.
voting policy Principles and processes In relation to unquoted investments, the Companys approach is to The Company adopts a set of core values and controls, which include: seek to add value to the businesses in which it invests through the a planning framework which incorporates a Board approved extensive experience, resources and contacts of the investment medium-term strategy: advisory team.
In relation to quoted equity investments, the formal business and operating risk reviews which evaluate the Companys policy is to exercise voting rights on matters affecting potential financial impact and likelihood of identified risks and the interests of the Company.
possible new risk areas: the setting of control, mitigation and monitoring procedures and Internal control the review of actual occurrences, identifying lessons to be learnt: The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups own system a comprehensive system of financial reporting to the Board, based of internal control.
The Audit Committee reviewed the systems on an annual budget with monthly reporting of actual results, effectiveness this year and reported its conclusions to the Board.
analysis of variances, scrutiny of key performance measures and The internal control system is designed to manage rather than regular reforecasting: eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material regular treasury reports to the Board, which analyse the funding misstatement or loss.
requirements, track the generation and use of capital and the volume of liquidity and record the level of compliance with the The Board has contractually delegated investment advisory and Companys funding objectives: support services to its key service providers and their contractual obligations encompass the implementation of systems of internal well defined procedures governing the appraisal and approval control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and of investments, including detailed investment and divestment risk management.
The Audit Committee of the Company receives approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority reports on the control systems and their operation from its main and regular post-investment reviews: and service providers, and is responsible for reviewing these reports for an Audit Committee which considers significant control matters determining the effectiveness of internal controls.
and receives relevant reports from key service providers Key procedures designed to provide effective internal control for the compliance, control or internal audit functions.
year under review and up to the date of this Report include: the Board considers and approves Company strategy and approves a budget on an annual basis: reports on the planning, forecasting and controlling of expenditure and the making of investments are regularly submitted to the Board and reviewed in detail: Governance 3i Infrastructure plc 48 Annual report and accounts 2011 Financials and other information Financials and other information 3i Infrastructure plc 49 Annual report and accounts 2011
