Corporate governance report The Company has complied throughout the year with the provisions set out in section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance personal reasons, the Company has not been in compliance This report describes Aberdeens corporate governance arrangements, explaining how the Group has applied the principles of the Code.
at appropriate intervals so that an appropriate balance is maintained between independent, executive and representative board members.
The Board executive directors and five executive directors.
Partha Dasgupta, Anne Richards and Hugh Young were appointed on and further details are provided later in this report.
Donald Waters retired on 20 January 2011 and Partha conicts or potential conicts of interest in accordance with the Company's existing procedures and has also implemented specic guidelines to address any potential conicts that and chief executive are separate, clearly dened and have the other appointments held by directors, details of which are contained in their biographies on pages 26 to 28 and has shareholder relations, while the chief executive, Martin Gilbert, confirmed that it believes that each is able to devote sufficient is responsible for the day to day management of the Group.
time to full the duties required of them under the terms of Anita Frew continues as the senior independent director having their contracts or letters of appointment.
performance and strategy and to follow a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decision, which includes the setting executive directors, two have been appointed by shareholders of Company goals, objectives, budgets and other plans.
Comprehensive board papers, comprising an agenda and formal having given thorough consideration to the matter, considers reports and brieng papers, are sent to directors in advance of each meeting.
Throughout their period in ofce, directors are notwithstanding the fact that two will have served on the continually updated, by means of written and oral reports from senior executives and external advisers, on the Groups business Annual General Meeting.
and the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, environmental, social, governance to its structure and its balance and is continuing to refresh and other relevant matters.
of briengs and presentations from senior executives, local remuneration committee following the conclusion of the management and external advisers covering a wide range of 2011 Annual General Meeting and was succeeded by the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Sir ofces in order to meet local management and clients and to obtain an understanding of the local business environment.
The high degree of independence of character and judgement during the year.
Directors also continue to visit other overseas ofces on an individual basis during the year in order to meet with local management and staff.
All directors have access to independent professional advice, if required, at the Companys expense, as well as to the advice and services of the company secretary.
New directors induction, which includes meetings with relevant members of senior management, in order to help them gain a detailed Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 understanding of the Group and its activities.
During the year Performance evaluation A formal process has been established, led by the chairman, The training plan provided the new directors with a wide range of data, including copies of previous meeting papers and other appointed committees and each director, to ensure that they governance information, such as the current strategy and continue to act effectively and efficiently and to full their details of the companies' processes and procedures.
The training respective duties, and to identify any training requirements.
plan also offered the opportunity to meet with members of their roles.
The company secretary, under the direction of the chairman, is responsible for facilitating this induction programme, ensuring and management and assisting with directors continuing chairmen to discuss the results and thereafter, presented their professional development needs.
Directors are also advised, at the time of their appointment, of the legal and other duties been analysed and were discussed at subsequent meetings of and obligations arising from the role of director of a listed company and are reminded of these duties and obligations on discussions between the chairman and each director.
present to discuss the results of the evaluation of the chairmans General Meeting following their appointment and all directors the executive directors, and the results of this meeting were shareholders at annual intervals, in line with the guidance subsequently discussed between the senior independent contained within the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Details directors held a meeting without the executive directors present shown in the table below: at which executive directors performance was discussed.
Maximum possible Meetings and we are supportive of the Financial Reporting Councils aims attendance attended to encourage diversity in the boardroom.
We are also supportive of Lord Davies aim to raise the proportion of women on UK 88 Anita Frew 8 8 88 Giles Weaver 8 8 Martin Gilbert 8 8 expertise.
We will continue to insist that long lists and short lists 88 reect that position.
Andrew Laing 8 8 Board committees Simon Troughton 8 8 Gerhard Fusenig 8 8 the execution of its duties.
All committees operate on written Kenichi Miyanaga 8 8 terms of reference, which are reviewed annually and which are available on the Companys website, and the chairman of Jim Pettigrew 8 8 Anne Richards 4 4 of the committees is authorised to obtain, at the Companys expense, external legal or other professional advice to assist Hugh Young 4 4 33 committee are entitled to attend its meetings but others, such Donald Waters 3 3 as senior management and external advisers, may be invited to attend, as appropriate.
Partha Dasgupta 1 Current membership of the committees is shown in the directors biographies on pages 26 to 28.
The composition consideration the recommendations of the nominations Groups 2011 financial statements, receiving and reviewing committee.
conrmations of auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement and proposed fees for the Audit committee Composition of the committee The audit committee is chaired by Jim Pettigrew.
He is served on the committee throughout the year and Julie joined in system of internal control and its effectiveness, reporting satisfied that all of the committees members have recent and to satisfy the provisions of the Code, by virtue of their having management and business management.
Additionally, Jim Pettigrew and Giles Weaver are chartered accountants.
Responsibilities of the committee duties and responsibilities for financial reporting, internal an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the satisfactory operation of the committee.
remuneration of independent external auditors.
The committee The committee receives regular reports from the Groups is also responsible for reviewing the scope and results of audit external and internal auditors and can, and does, request supplementary reports from management to enable it to full objectivity of the auditors.
In order to ensure the objectivity its duties under its terms of reference.
and independence of the auditors, the committee has approved The committee carried out a review of the effectiveness of the services by the Groups external auditors.
The policy provides external audit process in the year under review and considered details of the types of service which are and are not permitted and those which require the explicit prior approval of the aspects of the global audit service including, amongst other factors, the quality of the staff, the expertise, the resources and into consideration the levels of fees paid for the global services provided by the auditors.
Consideration was also given to the involved.
The provision of tax advisory services, due diligence transaction services and litigation services may be permitted it was noted that there were no contractual obligations which with the committees prior approval.
The provision of internal would restrict the choice of alternative auditor.
The committee that KPMG Audit Plc be reappointed as auditors for a further under any circumstance.
The committee also has responsibility year and, accordingly a resolution will be put to shareholders for reviewing the Companys arrangements on whistle blowing, at the 2012 Annual General Meeting recommending their ensuring that appropriate arrangements are in place for reappointment.
employees to be able to raise, in confidence, matters of possible Meetings and attendance The committee operates under formal terms of reference and Report on the committee's activities during the year held four meetings during the year, with representatives of During the year, the committee discharged its responsibilities, senior management and KPMG Audit Plc in attendance at each under its terms of reference, by: four meetings per annum, three of which are to be held on the 2011 interim results statement prior to discussion and same days as the meetings of the audit committee, in order to facilitate appropriate interaction between the two committees.
To assist in this interaction, a standing agenda item for the Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 meetings of the audit committee is to receive an oral report Meetings and attendance The committee operates under formal terms of reference on matters relevant to the audit committee of those issues and held three meetings during the year and there was full attendance at all meetings by the members, as shown in the all meetings by members, as shown in the table below: table below: Maximum Maximum possible Meetings possible Meetings attendance attended attendance attended Jim Pettigrew 4 4 33 Anita Frew 4 4 Anita Frew 3 3 Giles Weaver 4 4 Simon Troughton 3 3 11 Donald Waters 2 2 Remuneration committee Composition of the committee The remuneration committee is chaired by Simon Troughton Nominations committee Composition of the committee 2011 Annual General Meeting, and he is supported by three Frew and Giles Weaver.
All members of the committee served Anita Frew and Simon Troughton.
All members served on the throughout the year.
Responsibilities of the committee Responsibilities of the committee has responsibility for the appointment of new directors and of the executive directors and other senior employees of the for nominating them for election by shareholders at the first Group.
The committee is also responsible for approving the opportunity following their appointment.
The committee is design of all share incentive plans and for recommending their Responsibilities of the committee senior executives.
The report on the committee's activities is contained in the Report on the committee's activities during the year remuneration report, as set out on pages 33 to 43.
During the year, the committee reviewed the proposals for Meetings and attendance The committee operates under formal terms of reference and held four meetings during the year.
In addition, and in accordance with the requirements of its terms of reference, the members of the committee were also consulted on a range discussed the results of the annual performance evaluation of issues during the year, including specic matters related to both recruitment and redundancy.
The committee also received the satisfactory operations of the committee and reviewed its updates from the executive and from the external advisors, terms of reference.
committee appointed an external search consultant and the FSA Remuneration Code.
There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown in the table below: appointee.
In addition, Julie was interviewed by the members of approved by the FSA prior to being appointed.
Meetings and attendance Maximum The committee operates under formal terms of reference and possible Meetings held four meetings during the year, three of which were held attendance attended on the same day as the meetings of the audit committee, in Simon Troughton 4 4 order to facilitate appropriate interaction between the two 44 committees.
There was full attendance at all meetings by members, as shown in the table below: Anita Frew 4 4 Maximum Giles Weaver 4 4 possible Meetings attendance attended Risk Committee Giles Weaver 4 4 Composition of the committee Anita Frew 4 4 Jim Pettigrew 4 4 Simon Troughton 1 1 throughout the year, apart from Simon Troughton who joined the committee in May 2011.
Group management board Responsibilities of the committee The operational management of the Group is delegated by management, governance and compliance activity within management board met three times each month, has specic appetite and related tolerances.
In addition, the committee has a responsibility to review the implementation of appropriate procedures to identify and control all fundamental operational, Relationships with shareholders The committee has appointed  The Company places great importance on communication with to provide independent technical support and advice to of regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts and the financial press throughout the year.
Annual and interim reports and interim management statements are Report on the committee's activities during the year widely distributed to other parties who may have an interest During the year the Committee discharged its responsibilities, in the Groups performance and these documents, together under its terms of reference and, in particular: with copies of investor presentations, are also made available on the Companys website.
The chief executive and finance and on specic discussions with major shareholders and the Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and mechanisms to identify and control all fundamental The Annual General Meeting is normally attended by all prudential operational, financial, reputational, and are available to answer questions.
The senior independent director is always available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or finance director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
The Company continues to offer major shareholders the opportunity to meet any or all of the chairman, the senior independent director an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the and any new directors.
The Group will continue its policy of satisfactory operation of the committee.
announcing the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General Meeting and any other general meetings.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Membership of the committee comprises executive directors Internal control and senior management from all business functions.
The committee meetings are also attended by the heads of the management solution to safeguard company and client assets, primary control oversight functions comprising the following: meet its responsibilities as a UK listed and regulated fund management group.
controls that ensure compliance with regulatory requirements in each jurisdiction in which the Group operates.
Group complies with statutory requirements globally.
management and capital adequacy and have responsibility for ensuring the Group strategy is informed by and aligned with the associated with the counterparties with whom Aberdeen assessment process, a document required by the UK regulator, conducts it business.
regulatory capital requirements of the UK regulated entities.
all controls, either by reviewing the methods and findings of the other independent monitoring functions, or by internal controls that is designed to: directly auditing the controls operated by management.
The heads of these functions, with the exception of internal Groups objectives including all business, operational, to the chief executive and also attends and reports at meetings The head of internal audit reports to the chief executive as well as having unrestricted access to the chairman of the audit committee.
internal controls and the ongoing management of significant within the business processes and form part of the Groups matters.
Furthermore, the audit committee is responsible culture which emphasises clear management responsibility for ensuring appropriate internal controls are in place for the group financial consolidation and reporting processes.
These together with the details of corrective action.
The integrity of the Companys external reporting is further supported by a number of processes and steps to provide the assurance over the completeness and accuracy board of directors.
the Group and maintaining a strong control culture which emphasises clear management accountabilities.
The committee by the Groups monitoring functions and provides assurance and managed.
Various reports addressing the effectiveness and embedding In our CSR report for 2011, we report on specic developments within each area which affect our global business.
Highlights include the development of the Aberdeen Asset Management Charitable Foundation and the expansion of our environmental management system.
Identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant and has been in place throughout the year to 30 September our business operations as well as our goals for corporate 2011 and up to the date of approval of these financial responsibility.
Stewardship Corporate responsibility The Group invests for its clients portfolios in companies sound corporate governance practices.
The Group is committed to both the short and long term value of the Group.
Primary to exercising responsible ownership with a conviction that responsibility for these matters rests with Andrew Laing, the companies adopting best practices in corporate governance will deputy chief executive and chairman of the corporate social be more successful in their core activities and deliver enhanced returns to shareholders.
The Group complies with the principles of the UK Stewardship Code and full details on how it discharges its stewardship responsibilities are set out on the Group website.
The Group's corporate governance principles provide a voting for investee companies worldwide and are set out on the Group's website.
The Group recognises its obligation to monitor its investee companies and to participate actively in the corporate governance process.
In the Group's active equity business, corporate governance and engagement are received specified reports from the executive on each of these corporate governance practices of a potential investee company is part of the initial screening process and an investment will only be made after meeting with the management team.
recognises that Aberdeens operations have an impact on After investing in a company, regular meetings are held with the environment and, as a result, have enhanced the management to discuss strategic, operational and governance environmental management system in place throughout the world wide ofces.
by the Group's investment managers.
The Group endeavours expanding its capabilities, can be found in the Group's CSR to exercise proxy votes at all shareholder meetings where report, which is available on the Group and CSR website, at authorised to so by clients and periodically reports on its proxy www.
voting decisions, engagement activities and findings to clients who request that information.
Details of the proxy voting Managing CSR at Aberdeen are posted on the Group website.
our CSR programme across our global business.
The CSR The Group also provides socially responsible investment steering committee, led by Andrew Laing, continues to services to meet the demand from clients who want their coordinate and orchestrate the developments across the investments to reect an ethical bias.
During the year under review, the Group engaged in dialogue with over 150 companies of employees from across the business and they implement specic projects for the seven pillar areas: corporate governance, responsible investing, the environment, people and human rights, health and safety, supplier issues, and community charitable activities.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Our People our philanthropic efforts across the Group, continuing to concentrate on smaller charities focussed on children, health the growth and continual success of the Aberdeen Group.
We have rolled out a volunteering programme globally and in 2012, we plan to launch the 23 countries we operate in globally.
We believe that robust Aberdeen Asset Management Charitable Foundation, the employment practices contribute to strong long term business aim of which is to create more streamlined processes and development and we strive to be an employer of choice in all efficient, impactful giving across the Group.
the countries where we operate.
We understand that different We continue to support charities through the giving of money their potential.
Global policies, including those on employment volunteer leave programme provides employees with the and equal opportunities are detailed on the Group's website at www.
In the UK, Aberdeen was awarded the Gold Payroll Giving Diversity Through this scheme, Aberdeen offers to match all regular contributions made by employees up to a maximum of our diversity as an advantage, as we believe that a diverse 1,000 per month.
Where possible, we monitor the composition of our employees Environment and applicants and aim to provide an environment in which The Group's environmental activities are coordinated by the everyone is treated equally.
We do not tolerate harassment global environmental committee, which is chaired by the or bullying.
Details of the Groups equal opportunities policy global head of infrastructure, who reports directly to Andrew is available on the Companys website and this policy is Laing, the deputy chief executive.
Regional committees are in supplemented by specic policies that reect local employment legislation and expectations.
Health and safety Through the committee structure and in line with the Aberdeen The Group believe that their employees are one of its most Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, the Group has continued valuable assets and therefore are committed to providing each understanding of the actual and potential impacts of its staff with the relevant external training and all other staff with operations, as well as an awareness of the environmental legal requirements with which it must comply such as the Carbon statutory health and safety requirements.
The health and safety committee are currently improving and During the reporting year, the Groups regional environmental committees have continued to facilitate the implementation employees to ensure our focus is maintained.
Details of all incidents no matter how small are held on the HR database.
development, improved communications and improved resources have allowed staff more accessibility to this valuable information.
ofces to encourage the sharing of best practice.
Community and charity areas, the Group set targets for the 2010 11 reporting year Since our beginning, Aberdeen has been an active supporter of against the previous year.
A detailed overview of these targets, the communities in which we operate, both in the UK and and the Groups progress towards them, is provided in the around the world.
Aberdeen Asset Management Corporate Social Responsibility Report, published separately.
Energy consumption Carbon management Waste Reducing the energy intensity of the Groups operations is a has continued to increase the provision of waste segregation 2 emissions has been expanded from the UK during the managers where necessary.
The Groups regional environmental Data is submitted both to the Carbon Disclosure Project and to where possible.
Water consumption The Group recognises the importance of water conservation, identify opportunities for reducing energy consumption and 2 been established to encourage this, including the use of sensors in taps and reduced ow mechanisms.
The Groups regional into consideration during the refurbishment of the Groups Singapore ofce.
In Australia, the Group purchases electricity all ofces have proactive measures in place to reduce water from renewable sources.
consumption on an ongoing basis.
The Group does not have access to data on water consumption across all its ofces due, primarily, to shared occupancy.
Travel Key performance indicators business, represents an area of significant environmental In the UK, the Group has been monitoring environmental impact.
In addition to the continued monitoring of staff business travel during the year under review, the Group has now been aligned with Aberdeens reporting year in the table below, and will continue to be the basis for the monitoring of progress towards targets going forward.
impact of the Groups travel remains a priority and in the forthcoming year the Group environmental committees will Staff in the UK also remain eligible for the Groups cycle to Absolute gure Relative gure Variable 2009 10 2010 11 Units 2009 10 2010 11 Units 2 2 Carbon footprint ofce energy 2 2 Carbon footprint business travel 2302 2668 3.13 3.40 General waste 47.1 Tonnes 66.8 Recycled waste 71.0 85.6 Tonnes Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011
