2011 overview Corporate Governance Statement Governance Financial statements The Board recognises the importance of good corporate governance in creating a sustainable, successful and pro table business.
Edward Wray Non-executive Chairman At the time of the Companys listing the composition of the Audit Corporate Governance Statement Committee did not comply with the requirements of the Combined Code C. 3.1 which recommend that, subject to certain exceptions, the The Board is committed to the principles of corporate governance in the Audit Committee consist of at least three members and that all such Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
In the first part-year of being a members be Non-executive Directors, independent in character and fully listed independent company, the Board has embraced the standards judgement and free from any relationship or circumstance which expected of a UK listed company.
may, could or would be likely to, or appear to, affect their judgement.
Upon listing in October 2010 the Companys Audit Committee had Details are set out below of the Companys corporate governance only two members but considered that its two members had suf cient procedures and application of the principles of the Combined Code on expertise and previous experience to carry out the work of the Audit Corporate Governance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June Committee until the Board was able to search, select and appoint 2008 the Combined Code which is available online at www.
uk another Non-executive Director, which it did so on 1 February 2011 with the appointment of Baroness Denise Kingsmill.
The Company In May 2010 the Financial Reporting Council issued a new edition of the then fully complied with the Combined Code regarding this provision.
Combined Code called the UK Corporate Governance Code which applies to financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Board composition The Board has reviewed the content of the Combined Code and will report A table listing all members of the Board of Directors during the year is on on compliance with this code.
The Board has noted provision B.
During the year various changes were made to the composition Combined Code in respect of Directors being subject to annual election of the Board.
by shareholders and in line with the Companys Articles of Association all Directors are subject to annual election by shareholders.
As at 30 April 2011 the Board comprised the Chairman, two Executive Directors and four Independent Non-Executive Directors and one The Board considers that the Company has complied throughout the year non-independent Non-Executive Director.
At the time of the listing ended 30 April 2011 with all the provisions of the Combined Code except the Board comprised of three Independent Non-Executive Directors, for the following: on admission to The London Stock Exchange, as outlined and one non-independent Non-Executive Director Josh Hannah, however in Part 14 of the Prospectus, the Company did not comply with the the Board embarked on its search to strengthen the composition of its Combined Code in that: Board following the listing and appointed Baroness Denise Kingsmill on 1 February 2011.
Edward Wray is the Non-executive Chairman of the Company and is not considered to be independent in character and judgement and Board and Committee structure free from relationships or circumstances which may affect, or could To support the principles of good corporate governance, the Board and appear to affect his judgement, for the purposes of the Combined Committee structure operates as set out below: Code A.
3.1 because he was the co-founder of the Betfair Group, its Chief Executive until 2003, taking over as Chairman in 2006.
However The Board the Directors believe that Edward Wrays knowledge and understanding The Board is responsible to shareholders for the strategic direction, of Betfairs business, which is based on his involvement as one of its development and control of the Group.
It therefore approves strategic founders and in its development over the past decade, will continue to plans and annual capital and revenue budgets.
It reviews signi cant be an asset to Betfair in the future.
The Directors believe that Betfairs investment proposals and the performance of past investments and executive management team, in conjunction with the Non-executive maintains an overview and control of the Groups operating and financial Directors, are the appropriate team to enable Betfair to take performance.
It monitors the Groups overall system of internal controls, advantage of the multiple growth opportunities available to it governance and compliance and ensures that the necessary financial and and to continue to position the business for the long-term for the human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives.
bene t of Shareholders as a whole.
The Directors recognise that The Board has established a schedule of matters which are reserved for the appointment of a non-independent Chairman does not comply its attention which is published on the Companys corporate website at: with the recommendations of the Combined Code, but believe the http: corporate.
com continuity that Edward Wray provides to be in the best interests of Betfair and its Shareholders as a whole: and Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 Corporate Governance Statement continued The Board has adopted a schedule of matters and included in its Directors responsibilities are: The following were Directors of the Company during the year: Determining the overall business and commercial strategy Identifying long term objectives Date appointed Reviewing the annual operating plan and budget Determining the basis of allocation of capital Edward Wray 20 August 1999 Considering all matters relating to major Group policy and Non-executive Chairman regulatory policy.
David Yu 3 April 2006 Chief Executive Of cer The Board has adopted objective written criteria for the appointment Stephen Morana 25 September 2006 of Directors and the roles of the Chairman, Chief Executive and Chief Financial Of cer Non-executive Directors have been fide ned in writing.
Mike McTighe 17 October 2008 Senior Independent Non-executive Director The Executive Directors may be permitted to accept one external Ian Dyson 1 February 2010 Non-executive Director appointment with the Companys prior approval Independent Non-executive Director and as long as this is not likely to lead to con icts of interest.
Josh Hannah 21 February 2002 Non-executive Director The Company Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good Fru Hazlitt 25 March 2005 information ows to the Board and its committees and between senior Independent Non-executive Director management and the Non-executive Directors.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board.
Baroness Denise Kingsmill 1 February 2011 The Company Secretary is responsible through the Chairman, for advising Independent Non-executive Director the Board on all corporate governance matters and for assisting the Chris Batterham 25 January 2001 Directors with their professional development.
This includes regular Non-executive Director corporate governance and business issues updates, as well as the use Andrew Black 20 August 1999 of operational site visits and the provision of external courses where Non-executive Director required.
During the year, the Company Secretary has initiated a comprehensive induction for the newly appointed Directors, tailored In certain cases the appointment date re ects the Directors appointment to the to individual requirements and including guidance on requirements of, Betfair Group prior to this Companys admission to The London Stock Exchange.
and Directors duties in connection with, the Combined Code and the Director retired from the Board of Betfair Group on 6 October 2010.
Companies Act 2006 as well as other relevant legislation.
The biographical details of all Board Directors as at 28 June 2011 are During FY11 there were 7 scheduled Board meetings including a two day set out on pages 32 and 33 and these include their main commitments off-site meeting which considered the Groups strategy.
The table below outside the Company.
shows attendance levels at the scheduled Board and Committee meetings held during the year: the numbers in brackets con rm how In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association the Company many Board meetings each Director was eligible to attend during the year.
7.1 of the new UK Corporate Governance Code which states that all Directors of FTSE 350 companies should stand for annual Board Audit Remuneration Nomination election by shareholders all Directors will submit themselves for scheduled Committee Committee Committee re-election on an annual basis at the Companys AGM.
Current Directors who served during the year Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out in the Edward Wray 7 7 3 6 1 Directors Remuneration Report on page 50.
The Chairman and the David Yu 7 7 3 6 Non-executive Directors have letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the registered of ce of the Company during normal Stephen Morana 7 7 3 business hours and at the place of the Annual General Meeting from Mike McTighe 6 7 2 6 1 at least 15 minutes before and until the end of the meeting.
Ian Dyson 6 7 3 5 Josh Hannah 6 7 More information about the Directors standing for election and Fru Hazlitt 5 7 4 1 reappointment is set out in the AGM Notice and in the following paragraphs.
Baroness Denise Kingsmill 1 2 Chairman Former Directors who Edward Wray is the Chairman of the Board.
He ensures that appropriate served during the year communication is maintained with shareholders.
He has responsibility Chris Batterham 1 2 1 for the smooth running of the Board and for ensuring that all Directors are fully informed of matters relevant to their roles.
He also chairs the Andrew Black 2 2 Nomination Committee.
Where a Director was unable to attend a meeting, they were provided Chief Executive Of cer with all the papers and information relating to that meeting and were David Yu is the Chief Executive Of cer and has responsibility for able to discuss issues arising directly with the Chairman and Chief implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for the executive Executive Of cer.
There are 8 Board meetings currently planned for FY12.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 46 2011 overview Governance Financial statements Senior Independent Director Role of the Audit Committee Mike McTighe is the Senior Independent Director.
His biography can The Committees principal responsibilities are to: be found on page 32. review the Companys public statements on internal control and corporate governance compliance prior to their consideration by Non-executive Directors the Board: The Company has experienced Non-executive Directors on its Board.
review the Companys processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and In addition to the Chairman, who was the founder of the Company and control weaknesses and to consider the Companys response to any therefore is not deemed to be independent, the Board considers Mike such occurrence: McTighe, Ian Dyson, Fru Hazlitt and Baroness Denise Kingsmill to be review managements evaluation of any change in internal controls independent as they are free from any business or other relationship over financial reporting: which could materially in uence their judgement and they represent review with management and the external auditors any financial a strong source of advice and independent challenge.
Josh Hannah is statements required under UK legislation before submission to not deemed to be independent as he is a co-founder of Betfair.
the Board: establish, review and maintain the role and effectiveness of the Of the former Directors who served during the year, Chris Batterham and Internal Audit function: Andrew Black both retired on 6 October 2010. assume direct responsibility for the appointment, compensation, resignation, dismissal and the overseeing of the external auditors, Other than their fees which are disclosed on page 53, the Non-executive including review of the external audit, its cost and effectiveness: Directors received no remuneration from the Company during the year.
pr e-approve non-audit work to be carried out by the external auditors When Non-executive Directors are considered for appointment, the and the fees to be paid for that work together with the monitoring of Nomination Committee will take into account their other responsibilities the external auditors independence: in assessing whether they can commit suf cient time to their prospective oversee the process for dealing with complaints received by the Group directorship.
regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and the con dential, anonymous submission by employees of All Directors are briefed by the use of comprehensive papers circulated concerns regarding questionable accounting or auditing matters: and in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at the meetings in adopt and oversee a speci c Code of Ethics for all corporate addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings.
Their understanding employees which is consistent with the Companys overall of the Groups business is enhanced by business speci c presentations statement of business ethics: and operational visits to the Companys businesses.
Separate strategy monitor the integrity of the financial statements, and formal meetings and meetings with senior executives are also held throughout announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, the year.
The training needs of Directors and of members of the Boards reviewing signi cant judgements contained therein.
Committees are formally considered on an annual basis.
Audit Committee process The Committee discharges its responsibilities, as fide ned in its terms of Committees reference, through a series of Audit Committee meetings throughout the year at which detailed reports are presented for review.
The Committee Each Board Committee has written terms of reference approved by the commissions reports, from external advisers, Internal Audit, or Company Board, which are available on the Companys website: management, either after consideration of the Companys major risks or http: corporate.
com investor-relations corporate-governance in response to developing issues.
The Committee meets privately with the external auditors and the Head of Internal Audit.
The external Auditors Audit Committee meet the Head of Internal Audit in private throughout the year and liaise The Audit Committees principal responsibilities include: with Company management in considering areas for review.
Reviewing the processes for detecting fraud, misconduct and internal During the year, the Committee considered the following matters: control weaknesses interim and full year financial results: Reviewing the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function the scope and cost of the external audit: Overseeing the relationship with the external auditors non-audit work carried out by the external auditors and trends in the non-audit fees in accordance with the Committees policy to ensure Ian Dyson is chairman of the Audit Committee and has chaired the Audit the safeguard of audit independence: Committee throughout the financial year.
the scope of the annual internal audit plan, internal audits of reference, its resourcing and external support: Before the listing the Audit Committee consisted of The Chairman and the external auditors interim and full year reports: two independent Non-executive Directors, Ian Dyson and Chris Batterham.
periodic internal control and assurance reports from Internal Audit: Ian Dyson became Chairman of the Committee on 1 May 2010.
At the the effectiveness of the external auditors and consideration of their time of the listing changes were made and the Committee consisted of reappointment: two independent Non-executives Ian Dyson as Chair and Mike McTighe.
reports on allegations made via the Groups whistleblowing The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Of cer and the procedures and the effectiveness of these procedures: Chief Financial Of cer attend such meetings at the invitation of the the effectiveness of Internal Audit: Committees Chairman.
During FY11 the Committee met three times.
management r epresentations granted to the external auditors and the At the time of the listing, the Audit Committee did not comply with the Companys procedures to ensure all relevant audit information has Combined Code in relation to establishing an Audit Committee of at least been disclosed: three members, all of whom should be independent Non-executive major changes in the Groups internal controls: Directors.
However, since the appointment of Baroness Denise Kingsmill the co-ordination of the internal and external audit functions: on 1 February 2011 the Company is fully compliant with the Combined Code.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Corporate Governance Statement continued the Groups framework for the identi cation and control of major risks, Edward Wray, Chairman, chairs the Nomination Committee and has its risk and assurance mitigation plan and the annual assessment of done so since August 2009.
Since listing the Nomination Committee has control effectiveness: consisted of the Chairman and two of the independent Non-executive compliance with the code of ethics: Directors, Mike McTighe and Fru Hazlitt.
The Company Secretary is corporate governance developments: secretary to the Nomination Committee.
review of the suitability of the Groups accounting policies and practices: The Nomination Committee met once during the year to consider the status of material litigation involving the Group: and succession planning.
It recommended the appointment of Baroness the Committees own terms of reference, membership and its Denise Kingsmill as an Independent Director.
Nomination Committee meetings are provided in the table on page 46.
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting and the meeting did not An evaluation of the effectiveness of the external audit process is carried relate to their own appointment, they are provided with all the papers and out by the Committee and the conclusion for FY11 was that the process information relating to that meeting and are able to discuss issues arising was effective.
The Committee maintains an ongoing oversight of the directly with the chair of the Committee and the Company Secretary.
Market Disclosure Committee The Companys public financial statements are reviewed by the The Disclosure Committee considers and decides upon matters brought Committee in advance of their consideration by the Board.
to its attention, which would be likely to give rise to an obligation to make a market announcement under the FSA Listing Rules.
It comprises the External auditors independence Chief Financial Of cer Committee chairman, Chief Executive Of cer The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditors and the Chief Legal and Regulatory Of cer.
for non-audit work which is in compliance with the Combined Code.
The external auditors may carry out certain speci ed non-audit work, in areas Executive Committee that have been pre-approved by the Committee.
Any other work for which The Executive Committee, which is chaired by the Chief Executive Of cer, management wishes to utilise the external auditors must be approved.
consists of the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives The pre-approved services include the following: as shown on pages 32 and 33. audit related services, including work related to the annual Group The Executive Committee meets formally approximately every four financial statements audit, subsidiary audits and local statutory weeks.
The Committee assists the CEO who has day-to-day responsibility accounts: for the running of the Groups business.
It develops the Groups strategy certain speci ed tax services, including tax compliance, tax planning and annual revenue and capital budgets for Board approval.
It reviews and and tax advice: and recommends to the Board any signi cant investment proposals.
certain services in connection with the preparation for the Companys listing on the London Stock Exchange.
This Committee monitors the financial and operational performance of the Group and allocates resources within the budgets agreed by The fees for audit and non-audit services are disclosed in Note 3 to the the Board.
It considers employment issues, ensures the Group has an Accounts on page 74. appropriate pool of talent and develops senior management manpower planning and succession plans.
In addition it also ensures that the Groups Remuneration Committee policy on regulation is ful lled.
Mike McTighe has been chairman of the Remuneration Committee since June 2009.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Committee, which is chaired by the Fru Hazlitt, an independent Ian Dyson and Fru Hazlitt were members of the Committee throughout Non-executive Director, consists of the CEO and the Company Secretary the year.
The Remuneration Committee met six times during FY11.
Chief Legal and Regulatory Of cer and certain other senior executives as shown on pages 32 and 33.
Further details about the Remuneration Committee are included in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 50 to 56.
The Committee meets at least four times per year and was established to fide ne, support and monitor the execution of Betfairs corporate Nomination Committee responsibility strategy.
Further details of the work of this committee The Nomination Committee is responsible for nominating, for the can be found on pages 34 and 35. approval of the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board.
It is also responsible for succession planning and reviewing the output of the Board effectiveness review.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 48 2011 overview Governance Financial statements With regard to insurance against risk, it is not practicable to insure Independent advice against every risk to the fullest extent.
The Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external insurance that it buys with Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the guidance from an external independent body, bearing in mind the furtherance of their duties and they have access to the advice and services availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and magnitude of the Company Secretary, the Head of Legal and the Companys legal of the risks involved.
Shareholder relations Internal control The Board recognises that it is accountable to shareholders for the The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and performance and activities of the Company.
The Company formally risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to discharge updates the market on its financial performance at least four times a year, that responsibility, the Board has established the procedures necessary to at the half year and full year results in December and June respectively, apply the Combined Code, including clear operating procedures, lines of the interim management statements in March and September.
The responsibility and delegated authority.
These procedures, which are in content of these updates is posted and webcast on the Companys accordance with Turnbull Guidance, have been in place since before the website, together with general information about the Company so as to Group was listed, have continued since the listing and are regularly be available to all shareholders.
The Company has a regular programme reviewed by the Board.
of meetings with its major institutional shareholders which provides an opportunity to discuss, on the back of publicly available information, The Group has in place internal control and risk management systems in the progress of the business.
On a more informal basis, the Chairman, relation to financial reporting processes and for the preparation of the Chief Executive Of cer and the Chief Financial Of cer regularly report consolidated accounts.
These systems include policies and procedures to to the Board the views of major shareholders about the Company, and the facilitate the maintenance of records that accurately and fairly re ect Senior Independent Director and other Non-executive Directors are transactions, provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded available and do meet shareholders on request and are offered the as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders.
accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS or UK Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, as appropriate, and that The AGM provides a useful interface with private shareholders, many require reported data to be reviewed and reconciled, with appropriate of whom are also customers.
All proxy votes received in respect of monitoring internally and by the Audit Committee.
each resolution at the AGM are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes withheld, are indicated.
The chairmen of the Audit, Business performance is managed closely and the Board and the Remuneration and Nomination Committees attend to answer questions.
Executive Committee have established processes, as part of the normal good management of the business, to monitor: Board effectiveness evaluation strategic plan achievement: In the previous financial year the Board carried out a formal Board financial performance within a comprehensive financial planning, Governance Assessment with an external assessor including a review of accounting and reporting framework: issues relating to the Board as a whole, the performance of the Chairman capital investment and asset management performance, with and the priority of tasks.
detailed appraisal, authorisation and post investment reviews: consumer insight data and actions to evolve brands and formats to The process included the completion of a detailed questionnaire by the ensure that they continue to be appealing and relevant: and Board Directors and included an opportunity for each Director to make risk management, through an ongoing process, through reports from comments.
The areas covered in the questionnaire were the Boards role the Internal Audit Team, that the signi cant risks faced by the Group and its organisation, the Board dynamic and relationships, quality of are being identi ed, evaluated and appropriately managed, having information ows and decision-making, Board committees, performance regard to the balance of risk, cost and opportunity.
monitoring and the Boards priority tasks.
The report was subsequently discussed between the Chairman and the rest of the Board.
In addition, the Audit Committee receives: In FY11, during a year of change in preparation for the listing the Board has reports from the Corporate Risk Committee: not carried out a formal assessment, however in its preparations for reports from the Groups internal audit on the work carried out listing it has reviewed and changed the Board composition, its schedule of under the annual internal audit plan: and matters and all Board Committee Terms of Reference have been adopted reports from the external auditors.
by the Board and each respective Board Committee.
The Board intends to carry out a formal assessment of its performance in FY12.
Through the monitoring processes set out above, the Board has conducted a review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended 30 April 2011.
The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, it can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In that context, the review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that Edward Wray the system was ineffective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware Chairman of any change to this status up to the approval of this Annual Report.
Betfair Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49
