85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 25 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The Board is committed to maintaining and demonstrating high standards of corporate governance.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in The UK Corporate Governance Code The Code, issued by the Financial Reporting Council, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The AIC Code, issued in October 2010, can be obtained from the AICs website at www.
The Board has consequently decided to base this report on the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, including reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates The Code.
The Board considers that this provides more relevant information to shareholders, whilst meeting the Boards obligations under The Code.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of The Code, except as set out below.
The Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in The Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
This report, which forms part of the Directors Report, outlines how the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code were applied, unless otherwise stated, throughout the financial year.
The Directors are also aware that there are many other published guidelines relating to corporate governance and, whilst these receive due consideration, the Board does not consider it appropriate to address them individually in this report.
The Board The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
Strategic issues and all operational matters of a material nature are determined by the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for decision of the Board has been adopted.
The Board of Directors comprises five non-executive Directors of which Professor Marsh acts as Chairman.
The Company has no executive Directors nor any employees.
However, the Board has engaged external firms to provide investment management, secretarial, registrar, and custodial services to the Company.
Documented contractual arrangements are in place between the Company and these firms, which clearly set out the areas where the Board has delegated authority to them.
The Board, being comprised entirely of independent non-executive Directors, has not appointed a Remuneration nor a Nomination Committee.
Directors fees and the appointment of new Directors are considered by the Board as a whole.
The Board has also decided not to nominate a Deputy Chairman nor a senior independent director although the Chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee, fulfils this role when necessary, for example, taking the lead in the annual evaluation of the Chairman.
The Board carefully considers the various guidelines for determining the independence of non-executive Directors, placing particular weight on the view that independence is evidenced by an individual being independent of mind, character and judgement.
An individual can therefore be considered to be independent even though their length of service exceeds nine years.
No limit on the overall length of service of any of the Directors, including the Chairman, has therefore been imposed.
All Directors are considered to be independent notwithstanding that Mr Cran has sat on the Board for more than nine years.
As in previous years, all Directors retire at each AGM and, if appropriate, seek re-election.
Each Director has signed a letter of appointment to formalise the terms of his engagement as a non-executive Director, copies of which are available on request and at the Companys AGM.
Meetings The Board meets at least quarterly to review the overall business of the Company and to consider the matters specifically reserved for it.
Detailed information is provided by the Managers and Secretaries for these meetings and additionally at regular intervals to enable the Directors to monitor compliance with the investment objective and the Companys investment performance compared with its benchmark index.
The Directors also review several key areas including: the Companys investment activity over the quarter relative to its investment policy: the stockmarket environment: the revenue and balance sheet position: Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 25 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 26 Corporate Governance Report gearing: performance in relation to comparable investment trusts: share price discount both absolute levels and volatility : Regulatory matters: and relevant industry issues.
The Board receives regular reports from the Managers analysing and commenting on the composition of the Companys share register and monitors significant changes.
The Board also holds an annual strategy session to consider, amongst other matters, the Companys objective and investment focus and style.
The following highlights various additional matters considered by the Board during the past year: Jan Feb March Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec Consider Approval Consider Approval Annual Internal Corporate st nd 1 of Half 2 of the General Control Governance Interim Yearly Interim Annual Meeting Review Review Dividend Report Dividend Report Review Renewal of Annual Board & Managers the Strategy Committee continued Registrar Review Evaluation appointment Agreement Review Management Review of Debt facility: Fee allocation Custody Considered between Capital and Arrangements and Renewed Revenue The following table sets out the number of Board and Committee meetings held during the financial year and the number of meetings attended by each Director whilst a Director or Committee member.
All Directors also attended the AGM in March 2011.
Audit and Management Other The Board Engagement Committee Committees Director Held Attended Held Attended Held Attended Prof P R Marsh, Chairman 44 66 H N Buchan 44 3 3 11 M L A Chiappelli 11 1 1 J E G Cran 43 3 2 11 D J Jeffcoat 44 3 3 11 Prof W S Nimmo 44 6 6 Conflicts of Interest A company director has a statutory obligation to avoid a situation in which they and connected persons have, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the company.
The Board has in place procedures for authorising any conflicts, or potential conflicts, of interest though no such conflicts arose during the year under review.
Training and advice All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate training when required and changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, may seek independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No Director took such advice during the financial year under review.
26 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 27 Corporate Governance Report All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Companys Secretaries, Aberforth Partners LLP, who are responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Furthermore, appropriate induction training is arranged by the Secretaries for newly appointed directors.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against its Directors.
Following changes to the law relating to a companys ability to indemnify its directors, the Company has also entered into a deed of indemnity with each Director to cover any liabilities that may arise to a third party, other than the Company, for negligence, default or breach of trust or duty.
The Directors are not indemnified in respect of liabilities to the Company or costs incurred in connection with criminal proceedings in which the Director is convicted or required to pay any regulatory or criminal fines.
Appointments to the Board The Board conducts an annual review of its composition having regard to the present and future needs of the Company and the Boards structure, including the balance of expertise and skills brought by individual Directors and their length of service, where continuity and experience can add significantly to the strength of the Board.
As mentioned in the Chairmans statement, Mr Cran will retire at the conclusion of this years AGM and, in order that the Board should continue to have a balance of skills and experience, the Board decided that an additional Director should be appointed.
The Board therefore appointed a Committee for this purpose, chaired by Professor Paul Marsh.
This Committee, of which Professor Walter Nimmo was also a member, was requested to identify and nominate, for approval by the Board, candidates to fill the forthcoming board vacancy.
The Committee was instructed to complete this process taking into consideration the Boards agreed requirements.
The Committee consulted widely and identified twenty strong candidates, consisting of 13 males and 7 females.
It therefore decided on this occasion not to appoint an external search company.
Following several meetings and conference calls, the Committee then agreed a short list of candidates, comprising 4 males and 4 females, who were approached.
Four wished to be considered, and were interviewed by the Committee.
Finally, the remaining Directors met the preferred candidate put forward by the Committee.
After due consideration, the Board appointed Richard Rae as a Director of the Company with effect from 26 January 2012.
Richard will stand for formal election by Shareholders at the AGM and his biography can be found on page 17.
Richard brings to the Board a deep knowledge of the smaller companies sector having previously headed up the top-rated SmallCap research team at ABN AMRO until 2009.
Board performance and re-appointment of Directors The Board undertakes a formal annual self-assessment of its collective performance on a range of issues including the Boards role including Committees, processes and interaction with the Managers.
The Directors also evaluate the performance of the Board and the Audit and Management Engagement Committee by way of an evaluation questionnaire.
The Board then considers the results of this exercise, together with other relevant discussion areas.
The appraisal of the Chairman is led by the Chairman of the Audit and Management Engagement Committee.
In line with the Boards policy, each Director retires at the AGM to be held on 7 March 2012.
Messrs Buchan, Jeffcoat, Prof Marsh and Prof Nimmo, whose biographical details are shown on page 17, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
As stated above Mr Rae will stand for election.
The Board believes that each Director continues to be effective, bringing a wealth of knowledge and experience to the Board and recommends the reelection of each Director to Shareholders.
The Board, currently, does not consider that the use of external consultants to conduct this evaluation is likely to provide any meaningful benefit to the evaluation process, though the option to do so is kept under review.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 27 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 28 Corporate Governance Report Relations with Shareholders The Board believes that regular contact with Shareholders is essential and receives regular reports from the Managers on views and attitudes of Shareholders.
The Managers endeavour to meet all of the larger Shareholders twice a year and provide them with a detailed report on the progress of the Company.
Directors of the Company are always available to meet with any Shareholder.
The Directors may be contacted through the Secretaries whose details are shown on the inside back cover or through the Chairmans email address which is paul.
In addition to the annual and half yearly reports the Companys performance, weekly Net Assets Values, monthly factsheet and other relevant information is published on the Managers website at www.
All Shareholders have the opportunity to attend and vote at the AGM during which the Directors and Managers are available to discuss key issues affecting the Company.
Proxy voting figures are announced at the AGM and are available via the Managers website shortly thereafter.
Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company applies the revised guidance published in October 2005 by The Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales in respect of The Codes sections on Internal Control commonly known as the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Internal control systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the business objective and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
These controls aim to ensure that the assets of the Company are safeguarded, that proper accounting records are maintained and that the financial information of the Company is reliable.
The Directors have an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company and these are recorded in a risk matrix.
This was in operation during the year and continues in place up to the date of this report.
The Directors regularly formally review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control.
This process principally comprises the Audit Committee receiving and examining reports from Aberforth Partners LLP, The Northern Trust Company, the Companys custodian and Capita Registrars, the Companys registrar.
The reports detail the internal control objectives and procedures adopted by each firm and each report has been independently reviewed by  LLP, KPMG LLP and HLB Vantis Audit plc respectively.
The Audit Committee then submits a detailed report on its findings to the Board.
The Directors have not identified any significant failures or weaknesses in respect of the Companys system of internal control.
Audit and Management Engagement Committee The Directors have appointed an Audit and Management Engagement Committee Committee, chaired by Mr Jeffcoat, a qualified accountant.
This Committee, of which Messrs Buchan and Cran are also members, specifically considers the Companys financial statements and the accounting policies adopted, the Companys key risks, the internal control principles adopted and the relationship with the Companys auditor including making recommendations to the Board on the appointment, reappointment or removal, and the terms of appointment, including remuneration, of the auditor.
In addition, it reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditor, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Such fees amounted to 2,000 2010 2,000 and related to the completion and submission of the corporation tax returns.
The Committee considers that the provisions of these services is cost effective and does not impair the independence of the auditor.
Furthermore, non-audit work requires the prior approval of the Committee.
The Committee has direct access to the Companys auditor, representatives of whom attend the Committee meeting at which the results of the audit and the Annual Report and Accounts are considered.
The appointment of the auditor is reviewed by the Committee annually, with advice sought from the Secretaries.
On the basis of the auditors performance, audit fees and confirmation of the auditors independence, the Committee recommended to the Board the continuing appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys auditor.
28 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 85015 ASCOT TxtPRINT 85015 ASCOT TxtV9 25 01 2012 14:16 Page 29 Corporate Governance Report This Committee also formally reviews the terms of the agreements with the Managers and the Secretaries annually, including the level of service, the basis of fees payable and the length of the notice period.
Details of the arrangements are set out in the Directors Report.
The Committee also considers annually whether there is a need for an internal audit function.
However, as the Company has no employees and subcontracts all its business to third parties, it believes that an internal audit function is not necessary and the Board places reliance on the Managers and its other contractors to ensure that they operate effective internal controls.
The Committee operates within terms of reference that have been agreed with the Board.
The Committees findings and recommendations are submitted to the Board for consideration.
These terms of reference are reviewed annually and are available for inspection on request.
Social, Environmental and Ethical Issues The Company is normally a shareholder in over 80 small UK quoted companies.
Day to day management of the Companys investment portfolio is carried out by its Managers, Aberforth Partners LLP.
The Managers have a consistent and well-defined investment process based on fundamental analysis of the constituents of their investment universe.
The Managers Corporate Governance Policy and Stewardship Code Statement are available from their website.
The Managers primary objective is to deliver investment returns greater than the return on the Companys benchmark index, the RBS HGSC XIC, over the long term.
The Directors, through the Companys Managers, also encourage investee companies to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible Investment SRI.
The Board and the Managers support the Statement of Principles of the Institutional Shareholders Committee which set out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and agents.
Effective management of risks and opportunities posed by social, environmental and ethical SEE issues is an important component of good corporate governance.
Companies that ignore significant corporate responsibilities risk serious damage to their reputation, brand and shareholder value, as well as litigation and operational risks.
The Managers believe that sound SEE policies make good business sense and take these issues into account when investment decisions are taken.
However, the Managers do not exclude companies from their investment universe purely on grounds of SEE concerns.
Instead, the Managers adopt a positive approach whereby such matters are discussed with management with the aim of improving procedures and attitudes.
Voting Policy The Board has also given discretionary voting powers to the Managers.
Aberforth Partners LLP exercises these voting rights on every resolution that is put to shareholders of the companies in which the Company is invested.
The Managers vote against resolutions that they believe may damage shareholders rights or economic interests and under normal circumstances these concerns would have been raised with directors of the company concerned.
The Board receives from the Managers quarterly reports on governance issues including voting arising from investee companies and reviews, from time to time, the Managers voting guidelines and its stance towards SRI and SEE matters.
Aberforth Smaller Companies Trust plc 29
