Corporate Governance continued Board Effectiveness Further increasing depth of management The performance and effectiveness of the Board by recruiting talented individuals to assist and its Committees is fundamental to the success of existing management and develop as leaders the Group and there is a rigorous evaluation each of tomorrow year to assess how well the Board, its Committees, Ensure that the balance of management time the Directors and the Chairman are performing.
It is between the Groups core UK business and its the Groups policy that every three years an external overseas operations remains appropriate and consultant, who has no connection with the aligned with the Groups agreed long term Company, carries out a formal review of the Boards strategy objectives performance and such an evaluation process took The effectiveness of Board visits to the Groups place in 2010.
The evaluation process in 2011 was overseas operations was reviewed.
Rather than led by the Chairman with support from the annual formal visits to the Groups foreign Company Secretary.
The process consisted of the businesses it was proposed that in future completion, by all Directors, of a comprehensive individual Non-Executive Directors should questionnaire evaluating the performance of the accompany the Chairman and Chief Executive Board and its Committees.
The questionnaire on at least one of their overseas visits made considered board processes and their effectiveness, throughout the year board composition, board objectives, board Whilst progress had been made in shifting the support, and content of discussion and focus at balance of Board consideration towards the Board meetings, and invited Directors to indicate strategic and away from the operational it was where specific improvements could be made.
acknowledged that more time could be made Completion of the questionnaire by each Director available for in depth discussions on strategic was followed by one-to-one discussions between issues and developments each Director and the Chairman where the Boards role and structure, process, relationships, and any The Chief Executive, to whom they report, appraises emerging issues were discussed.
annually the performance of the individual Executive Directors.
The Chairman, taking into account the The overall results of the evaluation were considered views of the other Directors, reviews the by the Chairman and the principal recommendations performance of the Chief Executive.
The presented by him for review and discussion by the performance of the Chairman is reviewed by the Board in February 2012.
The evaluation concluded Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior that good progress had been achieved in most Independent Director SID, taking into account of the areas identified for action in the last Board the views of the Executive Directors.
Following the evaluation and that the Board and its Committees latest review, the SID considered and discussed with has continued to work very effectively in relation the Chairman the comments and feedback relating to most dimensions.
Improvements have been to the Chairmans performance that had been seen in many of the areas of focus identified in the received from the Directors as part of the Chairmans evaluation undertaken in 2010.
Following these the recruitment of two new Non-Executive Directors discussions with the Chairman, the SID was able to in response to forthcoming Non-Executive Director confirm that the performance of the Chairman rotation as Directors reach their maximum term: continues to be effective, and that the Chairman and increased Board focus on the importance continues to demonstrate appropriate commitment of effective succession planning and identifying to his role.
talented individuals across the Group who have senior management potential.
Directors are expected to attend all meetings of the Board and the Committees on which they serve and In addition, the Chairman has concluded that to devote sufficient time to the Group to perform each Director contributes effectively and their duties.
The number of scheduled Board demonstrates full commitment to his her duties.
meetings and Committee meetings of which they As a result of the evaluation undertaken in 2011, are a member attended by each Director during the following emerged as areas of particular focus: 2011 is provided in the table below.
Scheduled Board Audit Committee Nomination Remuneration meetings meetings Committee meetings Committee meetings Total meetings held 6 5 3 6 Alastair Lyons Chairman 6 3 Henry Engelhardt Chief Executive 6 David Stevens Chief Operating Officer 6 Kevin Chidwick Chief Financial Officer 6 Manfred Aldag 6 Martin Jackson 6 5 6 Keith James 6 5 3 Margaret Johnson 6 4 5 Lucy Kellaway 6 3 John Sussens 6 6 Colin Holmes 6 5 5 Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 38
