Corporate Governance The UK Corporate Governance Code The Groups capital structure This report sets out the governance framework in Results and financial reporting which the Group operates and the approach that it The maintenance and review of the system has taken in 2011 to achieve the standards of good of internal control and risk management corporate governance for which it is accountable The Groups overall risk appetite to the Groups shareholders.
It describes how the Changes to the structure, size and composition principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance of the Board, including new appointments Code the Code have been applied, and details Succession plans for the Board and senior the extent to which the Group has complied with management the principles and provisions of the Code during the Annual review of its own performance and that year under review.
of its Board Committees Key business policies in relation to health and The Board complied with the Code in all respects safety and environmental matters during 2011 except for Code E. 1.1, which requires Dividend policy and proposals for dividend that the Senior Independent Director John Sussens payments should attend meetings with a range of shareholders.
Major acquisitions, disposals, and other The Company has a comprehensive programme of transactions outside delegated limits meetings and dialogue with institutional investors, Review of the Groups overall corporate and the Chairman makes himself available for governance arrangements meetings with the largest 10 such investors.
The views of investors expressed through this dialogue The Board met on eight occasions in 2011 with five are communicated to the Board as a whole on a of these meetings being held over two days.
Two of regular basis through the Investor Relations report.
the meetings were unscheduled Board meetings All Directors can, therefore, develop an that were called at short notice.
The Board also held understanding of issues or concerns of major a strategy day and visited its operations in Spain and shareholders should any be raised.
Feedback from the United States.
The Chairman visits each of the shareholders suggests that these arrangements Groups overseas operations every year and for communication between the Company and Non-Executive Directors are invited to join either its shareholders continue to be viewed by them him or the Chief Executive on one or more of their as effective.
The Senior Independent Director is overseas visits each year.
In addition, the Nonalways available to meet with individual shareholders Executive Directors and the Chairman met during on request to ensure the Board is aware of any the year without the Executive Directors being shareholder concerns that cannot be resolved present.
In order to increase their understanding of through the routine mechanisms for investor the operation of the Group below Board level, the communications.
Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman also attended a dinner with members of the Groups The Admiral Group Board senior management team without the Executive The Board is the principal decision-making forum Directors being present.
for the Group providing entrepreneurial leadership, both directly and through its Committees, and by Agendas and papers are circulated to the delegating authority to the Executive team.
The Board in a timely manner in preparation for Board Board is accountable to shareholders for setting and and Committee meetings.
These papers are achieving the Groups strategic objectives, for the supplemented by information specifically requested creation and delivery of strong sustainable financial by the Directors from time to time.
All Board and and operational performance, for ensuring that in Committee meetings during the year were held in carrying out its duties the Groups legal and an open atmosphere with Chairmen encouraging regulatory obligations are being met, and for ensuring robust and constructive challenge and debate.
All that it operates within appropriately established risk Directors are, therefore, able to bring independent parameters.
The Groups UK regulated entities are judgement to bear on issues such as strategy, responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA risk management, performance, and resources.
for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK Additional meetings are called when required regulatory obligations and that dealings with the FSA and there is frequent contact between meetings, are handled in a constructive, cooperative and where necessary, to progress the Groups business.
Similar provisions apply in respect of the Groups international businesses with regard to The Company Secretary the relevant regulatory authorities in those overseas All the Directors have access to the advice and jurisdictions in which the Group also operates.
services of the Company Secretary.
He has responsibility for ensuring that Board procedures The Board has adopted a formal schedule of are followed and for advising the Board, through reserved matters, which is reviewed on an annual the Chairman, on governance matters.
The basis this was last carried out in December 2011.
Company Secretary provides updates to the Board Matters reserved to the Board include the approval of: on regulatory and corporate governance issues, new legislation, and Directors duties and obligations.
The Groups long term objectives and corporate The appointment and removal of the Company strategy Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
Operating and capital budgets, financial results, and any significant changes to accounting practices or policies Admiral Group plc Annual Report 2011 37
