Corporate governance 66 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance code The UK Listing Rules stipulate that listed TheChairman, SirRobert Wilson, isresponsible the Governance Code.
There are 11 Non-Executive companies must include in their annual report for the workings and leadership ofthe Board and Directors andfour Executive Directors on astatement of whether the company has for thebalance of its membership including theBoard.
complied with all the relevant provisions of the theBoards Committees.
The Chief Executive, UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance SirFrank Chapman, isresponsible for leading By the date of the 2012 AGM, Peter Backhouse Code.
The Directors believe that the Company and managing the business within the authorities will have served on the Board for almost 12years.
has complied with all provisions set out in the delegated bythe Board.
Inaccordance with the Governance Code, Governance Code throughout the year ended itisfortheBoard todetermine whether, in its 31 December 2011.
The UK Listing Rules also A.
3 The Chairman view, adirector isindependent in character stipulate that listed companies must include The Chairman sets the Boards agenda and judgement and whether there are in their annual report a statement of how the andensures that there is adequate time for relationships or circumstances that are likely to company has applied the Main Principles set discussion of all items.
The Board Planning affect, orcouldappear to affect, the directors out in the Governance Code.
Thenotes below Conference in June of each year is dedicated judgement.
Serving on the Board for more are intended to assist with the evaluation of tothe consideration of strategic issues.
than nine years is one of the circumstances the Groups compliance during 2011 although that is taken into account when making they should be read in conjunction with the The current Chairman, Sir Robert Wilson, thatdetermination.
1 of the Corporate governance report as a whole.
willretire at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM Governance Code also states that the board and he will be succeeded by Andrew Gould.
andits committees should have the appropriate Section A: Leadership The biographies of Sir Robert Wilson and balance of skills, experience, independence A.
1 The role of the Board Andrew Gould are setout on page54.
At the andknowledge ofthe company to enable The Board is responsible to BG Groups time ofhisappointment in January 2004, them to discharge their respective duties shareholders for creating and delivering theChairman was considered independent andresponsibilities effectively.
sustainable shareholder value through the bytheBoard.
However, in accordance with management of the Groups businesses theGovernance Code, the ongoing test of Notwithstanding his length of service, the within the Governance Framework, details independence for theChairman is not Board has determined that Peter Backhouse of which can be found on page 61. appropriate.
has retained independence of character and judgement and has not formed associations The Board oversees the Groups strategy, and A.
4 Non-Executive Directors with the Company that might compromise ensuresthat necessary resources are available, Baroness Hogg is the Senior Independent hisability to exercise independent judgement.
and that appropriate controls, values and Director.
Her responsibilities include meeting The Board believes that Peter Backhouses standards are in place, to deliver it.
As well major shareholders as an alternative point skills, experience and knowledge of the asoversight responsibility for financial ofcontact to the Chairman, Chief Executive or Company and the oil and gas sector provide performance, internal controls and risk Chief Financial Officer.
The role of the Senior avaluable contribution tothe overall management of the Group, the Board has Independent Director is clearly established, effectiveness and composition ofthe Board.
aformal schedule of matters specifically setout in writing and agreed by the Board.
reserved to it for decision.
These include: Thedescription of the role is also available at B.
2 Appointments to the Board approving material capital projects, investments www.
Baroness Hogg is During the year, Andrew Gould was appointed and disposals: the Groups long-term finance expected to commit at least three to four days asa Non-Executive Director and, subsequently, planand annual capital andrevenue budget: per year to the role, and significantly more in itwas announced he would become Chairman anyinterim dividends, and recommending the exceptional circumstances.
This is in addition with effect from the end of theAGM in May final dividend: and any changes in the capital to the expected time commitment in her 2012.
His appointment was overseen by the structure of the Group.
A full list of the capacity as a Non-Executive Director.
Nominations Committee anddiscussions matters reserved to the Board is published onthe matter of Chairman succession at atwww.
com governance During 2011, Baroness Hogg led the internal theCommittee were led by Baroness Hogg, evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board.
PriortoAndrew The Board has regular scheduled meetings As a part of this review, the Non-Executive Goulds appointment as a Non-Executive throughout the year and holds additional Directors met without the Chairman present to Director, theBoard considered the fact that meetings as and when required.
The Board met consider his performance.
The Chairman also hewas, until1 August 2011, chief executive formally on 10 occasions during 2011.
Directors met withtheNon-Executive Directors without officer ofSchlumberger, where heiscurrently are expected, wherever possible, toattend all theExecutive Directors being present and non-executive chairman.
Schlumberger Board meetings, relevant Committee meetings individually with each Non-Executive Director.
supplies a wide range of services to the and the AGM.
Details of attendance at each of Groupincluding: drilling services, well testing, the Board and principal Committee meetings During the year, there were no unresolved cementing, stimulation, completions and during 2011 are set out on page 60. concerns about the running of the Company subsurface software.
Having considered the ora proposed action.
nature and extent ofthe relationship between All Directors are covered by the Groups BG Group andSchlumberger and the absence Directors and Officers Insurance policy.
Section B: Effectiveness of any materialinvolvement by Andrew Gould B.
1 The composition of the Board in thatrelationship, the Board was and remains A.
2 Division of responsibilities The Board considers all of its Non-Executive satisfied that Andrew Gould is independent The posts of Chairman and Chief Executive are Directors to be independent and free of any and that the supply of services by Schlumberger separate, with responsibilities clearly delineated, business relationship or other circumstance to BG Group does not affect hisindependence set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
that could compromise the exercise of in carrying out his role as aDirector.
The Board Descriptions of the roles and responsibilities independent and objective judgement.
and Nominations Committee also reviewed ofthe Chairman and Chief Executive are TheBoard undertakes an annual review of the the succession planning process putin place alsoavailable at www.
com independence of its Non-Executive Directors for the role of Chief Executive.
 inaccordance with the criteria set out within www.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 67 B.
3 Commitment The performance of the Chief Executive was tothe long-term performance of the Group When the appointment of Andrew Gould evaluated by the Chairman and Non-Executive andthe interests of shareholders.
For further asChairman was considered by the Nominations Directors.
The performance of the Chief information, see the Remuneration report on Committee, particular attention was given Financial Officer was evaluated by the Chief pages 68 to81 fordetails of how remuneration tothe time commitment expected and the Executive in consultation with the Chairman is clearly structured against corporate and candidates external commitments.
The Board and other Non-Executive Directors.
individual performance over the long term.
has also taken into consideration the external commitments of its other Non-Executive The Directors have concluded that, following D. 2 Procedure Directors and is satisfied that these do not these evaluations, the Board and its Committees The principal responsibilities of the conflict withtheir duties and time commitments operate effectively and also consider that Remuneration Committee are set out on asDirectors of the Company.
Further details are available in demonstrates commitment to the role.
theterms ofreference for the Committee B.
4 Development which are available at www.
com All Directors appointed to the Board receive It is intended that the 2012 Board evaluation .
During 2011, afull induction programme tailored to be externally facilitated.
noindividual was present whentheir own theirindividual needs, taking into account remuneration was beingdiscussed.
7 Re-election oftheinduction programme received by All Directors are subject to election at the first Section E: Relations with shareholders CaioKoch-Weser and Patrick Thomas, who AGM following their appointment.
Accordingly, E. 1 Dialogue with shareholders both joined in late 2010, and Fabio Barbosa, Vivienne Cox, Chris Finlayson and Andrew Effective communication and engagement Andrew Gould and Chris Finlayson, who Gould will stand for election at the 2012 AGM.
with investors is of paramount importance joinedin March, June and November 2011 Allother Directors other than the Chairman tothe continued success of the Company.
respectively, can be found onpage 60. who will retire at the conclusion of the AGM TheChief Executive and Chief Financial Officer The Directors also receive a number of remain subject to annual re-election and the givepresentations on the quarterly results teach-ins each year.
Details of teach-ins Board unanimously recommends their re-election.
inmeetings with institutional investors, during2011 are set out on page 60.
Full biographical details for all Directors can analysts and the media which are also befound on pages 54 to 55 and the full accessible bywebcast and teleconference.
5 Information and support Noticeof AGM is set out on pages 154 to 159.
These presentations are also available at The Directors have full access to the advice www.
com investorrelations andservices of the Company Secretary, who is Section C: Accountability also responsible to the Board for ensuring that C. 1 Financial and business reporting Throughout the year, there is regular dialogue correct Board procedures are followed: advising A statement of the Directors responsibilities with shareholders through meetings, on all governance matters: ensuring effective regarding the Financial statements, including presentations and roadshows.
Throughout communication flows within the Board and its the status of the Company as a going concern, 2011, Executive Directors and members Committees, and between senior management is set out on page 85.
To support a balanced oftheGroup Executive Committee met and Non-Executive Directors: and facilitating and understandable assessment of the Group, withshareholders in the UK, USA, France induction and assisting with the ongoing an explanation of the Groups strategy and andIreland.
The business model, together with relevant risks appointment or removal of the Company and performance metrics, is set out on pages The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors, Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
12 to 13. including the Senior Independent Director, areavailable to meet with institutional Guidelines are in place concerning the content, C. 2 Risk management and internal control shareholders to discuss any matters relating timeliness and presentation of Board and The Board has established processes designed tothe Groups governance and strategy.
Committee papers from management to allow it to assess the effectiveness of the toensure that the Board is properly briefed.
internal control environment within the Group.
BG Groups website contains information Further details can be found on page 61. ofinterest to both institutional and private Directors may obtain independent professional shareholders including specific information advice at the Companys expense if they BG Groups internal controls provide forprivate shareholders relating to the believe it may be required in furtherance reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance management of their shareholdings.
against material loss or misstatement and are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Further details about engagement with B.
6 Evaluation risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
shareholders can be found in the Chairmans In 2011, the Board and Committee evaluations overview on page 58. were facilitated by the Senior Independent C. 3 Audit Committee and auditors Director, Baroness Hogg.
Further details Full details of the composition of the Audit E. 2 Constructive use of the AGM oftheevaluation can be found on page 60.
Committee, including the background of The AGM will be held on 16 May 2012 and members are set out on page62.
isanopportunity for shareholders to vote on The performance of individual Non-Executive certain aspects of Group business.
It is also Directors was evaluated by the Chairman, Section D: Remuneration anopportunity for those shareholders who withinput from the Committee Chairmen D. 1 The level and components of remuneration areable to attend to ask questions of the andthe Executive Directors.
The evaluation The Board believes that the Groups Board of Directors, including the Chairmen oftheChairman was led by Baroness Hogg, remuneration policy continues to enable ofthe Audit, Remuneration, Sustainability theSenior Independent Director, and involved theGroup to attract, retain and motivate andNominations Committees, and the individual meetings with each of the theexecutive talent required for the delivery Company Secretary.
ofitsbusiness strategy, while linking closely issetout on pages 154 to159.
