Corporate governance 58 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance OVERVIEW Heis due toretire in April 2012 as chairman Internal control and risk management ofSchlumberger.
With his deep industry The turbulent global economic, financial knowledge, Andrew is wellqualified to guide andpolitical situation in 2011 has engendered BGGroup at a time when the Group is regular discussion at the Board and developing its growth portfolio and, itsCommittees of risk issues and their in particular, its major projects in Brazil management within BG Group.
Further biographical details hascontinually assessed the potential impact of Andrew are contained onpage 54. on the Groups businesses of the rapidly evolving events during the year, as well as prospective Sir Robert Wilson Chairman Chief Executives succession changes in the regulatory landscape of the Effective corporate governance lies at In November, we announced that Sir Frank Groups countries ofoperation.
the coreofBG Groups ability to operate Chapman had indicated his intention to retire successfully in the global business as Chief Executive during 2013.
I am grateful The Audit Committee, on behalf of the environment.
toSir Frank for signalling his plans which has Board, reviewed the effectiveness of the risk allowed us to put in place a structured process management and internal control systems to identify his successor.
Aspart of this process, which form part of the Groups Internal Control three internal candidates have been identified: Framework and the conclusion ofthat review Fabio Barbosa, Chris Finlayson and Martin is set out on page 61.
Each of their roles hasbeen expanded principal risks and uncertainties and the The report on corporate governance to provide development opportunities as part Groups approach to risk management are inthefollowing pages is intended to give ofthe succession process, but also to ensure setout onpages 46 to 51. shareholders a clear and comprehensive thatBGGroup continues todeliver its picture of the Groups governance growthplans.
Details of the expanded roles Board development arrangements and how they operated areincluded in the Chairmans statement At BG Group, we recognise the need for our during the year.
Directors to receive appropriate training and details of the areas of our focusduring the development to ensure they have sufficient year, while descriptions ofhow we complied Diversity understanding of the business and remain witheach Principle and Provision of the UK In February 2011, Lord Davies published well-informed.
We have put in place tailored Corporate Governance Code the Governance a report, Women on Boards, containing induction programmes for Vivienne Cox, Code areset out on pages 66 to 67. recommendations to address the balance of Andrew Gould, Caio Koch-Weser and Patrick women on boards, including recommendations Thomas, designed to ensure they have the The Board for listed companies to announce their goals necessary knowledge about the Group, and 2011 was an important year for the evolution in this regard.
where appropriate the oil and gas industry, ofthe BG Group Board.
As well as announcing toallow them to maximise their contributions the plans for my own retirement and succession, BG Group recognises the need for, and toBoard and Committee discussions and we announced plans to identify asuccessor desirability of, diversity on boards.
Additionally, the Board visited to Sir Frank Chapman, Chief Executive.
inthe profile of board members provides Rio fide Janeiro to experience first-hand the Wehave also focused on Board diversity thenecessary range of perspectives which, Groups activities related to thedevelopment anddevelopment, as well as continuing to undoubtedly, has a positive effect on corporate of itsSantos Basin interests, offshore Brazil, evaluate, measure and mitigate the principal performance.
The BG Group Boards continued and had the benefit in its scheduled meetings risks and uncertainties facing the business focus on its own optimal balance and composition of a series of teach-ins onkey issues affecting inwhat has been a challenging global economic, is particularly important given the increased thebusiness.
Several Non-Executive Directors financial and political environment in 2011. size, complexity and international reach of made independent visits to other overseas theGroups global operations today.
Chairmans succession In May 2011, we announced the appointment In view of the complex and technical nature Shareholder engagement of Andrew Gould as a Non-Executive Director of our business, oneofthe principal challenges The Board supports the objectives of the with effect from 1 June and, in October, that we have faced in recruiting new members Financial Reporting Councils UK Stewardship confirmed that Andrew will succeed me as to theBoard has been securing relevant Code and recognises theimportance of Chairman of BG Group when Iretire after geographic and sector experience.
At the same maintaining an ongoingand purposeful theAGM inMay 2012.
Andrew has acquired time, gender is an important aspect of the dialogue with the Groups shareholders, an exceptional knowledge ofthe oil and gas overall diversity to which chairmen of boards particularly around strategy, performance, industry during his career, which includes and nomination committees should pay due riskmanagement, remuneration and asuccession of financial and operational regard when assessing the most effective governance generally.
management positions within Schlumberger balance within the boardroom.
Ibelieve that we Limited, the worlds largest oil and gas industry are making goodprogress in getting the balance In support of the aims of the UK Stewardship service provider.
Andrew was appointed right and the appointment ofVivienne Cox Code, Baroness Hogg, the Groups Senior Schlumberger chairman andchief executive to the Board in February 2012 helps to reduce Independent Director, engaged with officer in 2003 and held those posts until 2011, our gender imbalance, aswell as adding to institutional investorsin relation to when he retired as chief executive officer.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 59 Board focus during 2011 During 2011, the Board met on 10 occasions.
Board Planning Conference Among other matters, the Board focused on: Each year, BG Group holds a two-day Board The Board also regularly monitors the Planning Conference to discuss the Groups viewsof shareholders and considers the safety of employees and contractors across growth plans and a number of strategic issues.
reportsfrom its investor relations advisers the Groups businesses and the sustainable Senior members of management present concerning institutional shareholder continuity of operations, in particular assessing tothe Conference on risks and opportunities feedback.
In 2011, the Group commissioned the impact on operations of political upheaval relevant to the development and delivery aninvestor audit inwhich a qualitative inEgypt and Tunisia: ofthe Groups strategy.
assessment of the business was made based succession planning for the Chairman on interviews with 25 leading institutional In June 2011, the Board considered the evolution andChief Executive: investors based in the UK, North America ofthe European gas market, developments in and continental Europe.
monitoring the delivery of the Groups growth theglobalpolicy debate on carbon, the overall strategy, with a particular focus on Australia, balance ofBG Groups portfolio and the Engagement with certain investors around Brazil and the USA, including the impact opportunities and challenges in delivering performance, strategy, risk management, ofcommunity and land access issues on the theGroups majorgrowth plans.
In particular, remuneration andsuccession has been development of the Queensland Curtis LNG the Board considered the strategy for the andcontinues tobetimely, purposeful QCLNG project and commercial options delivery of the Groups development programme andconstructive.
However, the quality and regarding the new North American LNG inthe pre-salt Santos Basin, offshore Brazil frequency of engagement around corporate exportmarket: seepage 20 and the continued development governance matters varies greatly.
BG Group ofthe QCLNG project see page 21.
Delivery the evolving risk profile of BG Group in view of welcomes investor engagement on corporate ofthese projects will continue tobe akey the global economic and political environment, governance issues, and I would therefore focus for the Board during 2012. and its potential impact on the Groups encourage investors to raise matters in growthstrategy: atimely and constructive way, in line with Asset visits thespirit of the UK Stewardship Code.
the global macroeconomic outlook and how Typically, the Board undertakes a formal visit this may affect global gas markets, including toone of BG Groups overseas businesses each I believe that recent Board appointments, assessing the impact of the Japanese year.
The Directors receive presentations from andthe steps that we have taken in relation nuclearincident: management and offsite visits are arranged tosuccession planning, will ensure that toallow the Directors to experience, first-hand, reviewing the Groups capital structure BGGroup continues to be led by a strong key aspects of the Groups operations.
This andfunding options: andeffective Board, with the appropriate year, the Directors visited theGroups interests balance of skills, experience, independence reviewing project performance, including inBrazil.
Further details are set out below.
and knowledge ofthe Group and the process safety and design: and industry.
These steps, combined with the Individual members of the Board are also overseeing the implementation of effective Boards ongoing focus on risk management encouraged to visit Group businesses as part arrangements in relation to the UK Bribery Act.
and development, will help not only to oftheir continued development.
ensurethe continued delivery of our growth strategy but also to promote the sustainable Board visit to Brazil success of the Group over thelong term.
In September 2011, the Board of Directors Other highlights of the visit included site visited BG Brasils offices in Rio fide Janeiro.
visitsto: Thevisit provided an opportunity for Sir Robert Wilson theBoard to meet the local management the Estaleiro Rio Grande shipyard where Chairman teamand to gain greater insight into the eighthulls for BG Groups FPSOs are being Groups operations and plans in Brazil.
constructed for use in the full field development of the discoveries in the The Directors received presentations from SantosBasin: and localmanagement providing an overview ofthe the Technology Park of the Federal University Groups Brazilian upstream operations, the oil ofRio fide Janeiro which will be the site of and gas infrastructure and Floating Production BGGroups new Global Technology Centre Storage and Offloading FPSO vessels.
While in Brazil, meetings of the Board, Audit BG Groups Global Technology Centre Committee and Sustainability Committee were As part of its sustainability strategy, held with all Directors who travelled to Brazil andinaccordance with its commitments present.
The meetings focused principally on under theresearch and development levy issues specific to Brazil.
Inparticular, the Audit inBrazil, theGroup is establishing a Global Committee reviewed the governance and Technology Centre which will be the centre assurance processes around the joint venture ofitstechnology strategy.
It will focus with Petrobras and inrelation to Companhia onresearch, development and application fide Gs fide So Paulo Comgs.
The Sustainability trials, whichwillbe conducted in partnership Committee received a presentation on the four with Brazilianacademia and third-party pillars ofBG Brasils sustainability strategy, technologyproviders.
namely: research anddevelopment: education: local content: andenvironment and safety.
com Corporate governance 60 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance continued BOARD EFFECTIVENESS ANDLEADERSHIP Board evaluation froma different perspective: expanding the arrangements.
DrHood also spent time with In 2011, the evaluation of the effectiveness of practice of allowing senior executives below external remuneration advisors to gain a the Board and its Committees was facilitated Board andGroup Executive Committee level deeper understanding ofthe current market internally by the Senior Independent Director, exposure to the Board: regular discussions on contextand remuneration trends.
Baroness Hogg, and the Committee Chairmen, risks in light of global economic and political with the support of an external facilitator.
The issues: andadditional feedback throughout As part of his induction as Chairman of evaluation comprised a written questionnaire the year frominvestor meetings.
theSustainability Committee, Sir David and, where appropriate, a series of one-to-one Manning met with the outgoing Committee interviews with Board and Committee members.
Development Chairman, the Executive Vice President, Induction programmes for new PolicyandCorporate Affairs, and other The evaluation covered a number of key areas Non-Executive Directors keymembers of managementto consider including: strategy: internal control and risk: Individual induction programmes were run thechallenges facing the Committee and performance management: shareholder foreach of the three new Non-Executive itsforward agenda.
communication: Board culture and dynamics: Directors Caio Koch-Weser and Patrick Thomas, Board composition, including consideration of who both joined in late 2010, and Andrew Gould Induction programmes for new the balance of skills, experience, independence who joined in June 2011.
Whileeach programme ExecutiveDirectors and knowledge of the Group on the Board, and was tailored to the individual needs of each Following their appointments as Executive its diversity including gender : and the Board Director, all the programmes included detailed Directors of BG Group, Fabio Barbosa and and Committee calendar, agendas and support.
information about BG Groups structure, ChrisFinlayson have attended induction activities and operations and included meetings programmes tailored to meet their The results of the evaluation were discussed with seniorexecutives and key advisors.
specificneeds and focused on their duties bythe Board as a whole and at the relevant asdirectors ofa UK-listed company and Committees.
The Directors concluded that the Induction programmes for new otherobligations under the Listing Rules Board operates effectively as a unit and that CommitteeChairmen andthe Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
the diverse membership provides a broad During 2011, Dr John Hood was appointed range of skills and perspectives.
Meetings are asChairman of the Remuneration Committee Teach-in programme open and members of the Board are able to and Sir David Manning as Chairman of the As part of the ongoing development of engage fully and constructively.
Directors, a formal teach-in programme was matters raised during the evaluation exercise undertaken during the year to ensure the will form part of the agenda of the Board Ahead of Dr Hoods appointment as Board remained up to date with key business andits Committees in 2012 and these include: Remuneration Committee Chairman, he developments.
Topics considered during acontinued focus on Chief Executive succession received a tailored induction from the Executive theyear included hydraulic fracturing planning: the integration of action items from Vice President, Human Resources.
This covered operations, and reserves estimation and theBoard Planning Conference into subsequent a broad range of remuneration issues, but booking, with a particular focus on Brazil.
Board agendas including a deeper understanding centred on the Groups remuneration policy, Theprogramme will continue in 2012, of the competitive landscape : further use performance-based incentives, remuneration inconjunction with further site and ofexternal presenters to enhance debate for international assignments and pension businessvisitsand training.
Board Committees Board and Committee attendance in 2011 During the year, the Board reviewed the overall Board Audit Sustainability Nominations Chairmans Finance Remuneration balance of skills, experience, independence Sir Robert Wilson 10 10 6 6 6 6 8 8 5 5 4 4 andknowledge of Board members across Sir Frank Chapman 10 10 6 6 8 8 5 5 theBoard Committees and made a number 1 Ashley Almanza 2 2 1 1 2 2 ofchanges to ensure that Committee 2 Fabio Barbosa 8 8 7 7 3 3 membership was appropriately refreshed.
Martin Houston 10 10 6 6 3 Chris Finlayson 1 1 Dr John Hood succeeded Baroness Hogg as 4 Peter Backhouse 10 10 3 3 6 6 Chairman of the Remuneration Committee 5 Andrew Gould 6 6 2 4 2 3 1 1 and joined the Nominations Committee.
Baroness Hogg 10 10 7 7 6 6 4 4 Baroness Hogg retired from the Remuneration 6 Dr John Hood 10 10 7 7 6 6 2 2 4 4 Committee in January 2012.
SirDavid Manning Caio Koch-Weser 9 10 5 6 succeeded Dr John HoodasChairman of the Sir David Manning 10 10 6 6 6 6 Sustainability Committee.
Dr Hood remains 7 Mark Seligman 10 10 7 7 3 3 amember ofthat Committee.
8 Lord Sharman 3 3 2 2 3 3 9 Patrick Thomas 10 10 6 6 1 1 In February, Patrick Thomas joined the Audit Philippe Varin 8 10 5 7 4 4 Committee.
In September, Andrew Gould joined the Audit, Remuneration and Sustainability 1 6 Ashley Almanza stood down from the Board on 31 March 2011.
Dr John Hood joined the Nominations Committee Committees, Patrick Thomas joined the 2 Fabio Barbosa joined the Board, Chairmans and Finance on5September 2011.
7 Remuneration Committee, PeterBackhouse Committees on 31 March 2011.
Mark Seligman retired from the Sustainability Committee 3 Chris Finlayson joined the Board on 15 November 2011. on5September 2011. retired from the Audit Committee 4 8 Peter Backhouse retired from the Audit Committee on Lord Sharman retired from the Board on 12 May 2011. andMarkSeligman retired from the 9 5 September 2011.
Patrick Thomas joined the Audit Committee on 4 February 2011 Sustainability Committee.
5 Andrew Gould joined the Board on 1 June 2011 and joined theAudit, and the Remuneration Committee on5September 2011.
Remuneration and Sustainability Committees on5September 2011. www.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 61 Board and Executive Committee structure INTERNAL CONTROL Board and Executive Committee structure BG Group has a well established Governance BG GROUP PLC BOARD OF DIRECTORS Framework which comprises three elements: internal control, including risk management: SUSTAINABILITY AUDIT REMUNERATION NOMINATIONS CHAIRMANS FINANCE organisation and structure: and COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE independentassurance.
RESERVES GROUP EXECUTIVE Internal control and risk management COMMITTEE COMMITTEE BG Groups Internal Control Framework definesthe way in which the Group operates.
It comprises the Groups Business Principles GOVERNANCE EXPLORATION INVESTMENT ENERGY TRADING GROUP and mandatory Policies and Standards.
Within COMMITTEE & APPRAISAL COMMITTEE & CREDIT RISK PERFORMANCE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE COMMITTEE these, a series of core controls has been identified that contribute to the identification and mitigation of one or more Group risks.
Board Committee Executive Committee The Board is ultimately responsible for Assurance LoA tothe Chief Executive out above.
The Board has delegated authority BGGroups risk management and internal inrelation to the control environment in toits Committees on specific matters control systems and oversees the review, theirareas of responsibility.
These LoAs are whichare set out in written terms of reference compliance and assurance processes that supported by the results of theGovernance and which will be refreshed in 2012 in line with havebeen designed to ensure there is Self-Assessment GSA process, which requires evolving best practice and the highest standards aneffective controlenvironment.
management-level reporting tothe GEC and of corporate governance.
The membership Company Secretary to assess the effectiveness ofeach of the Board Committees is detailed In addition, BG Group has in place a series of the core controls within their areas of onpages 54 to 57.
Theterms of reference ofpolicies, practices and controls in relation responsibilities and to report any significant oftheAudit, Nominations and Remuneration tothe financial reporting and consolidation deficiencies or material weaknesses.
Committees are published on BG Groups processes which are designed to ensure the website, together with the terms of reference identification and communication of changes The Governance Committee reviews the LoAs forthe other BoardCommittees.
Copies in accounting standards and the reconciliation and the results of the GSA process, and assesses ofthese terms of reference are also available ofcore financial systems and internal the effectiveness of the Standards established fromthe Company Secretary upon request.
These processes are supported by toensure the timely and accurate release assurance reviews, including self certification ofinformation required to be disclosed to the Independent assurance by management and ongoing independent market.
The Governance Committee reports the A key element of BG Groups Governance evaluation by Group Audit.
results of its review to the Audit Committee.
Framework is independent assurance, which is The Boards internal control statement can provided primarily by Group Audit, independent The Boards monitoring role is undertaken befound on page 62. external auditors and other external assurance inaccordance with the guidance set out providers.
Group Audit provides assurance intheGovernance Code and as set out in the During 2010, a review was undertaken of the totheBoard, Audit Committee, GEC and Committee ofSponsoring Organizations of design and operation of the Internal Control management that effective and efficient theTreadway Commission COSO framework.
Framework which identified scope to improve internal control processes are inplace the distinction between BG Groups Policies toidentify andmanage business risk across BG Groups internal controls provide and its mandatory Standards, and to streamline theGroup.
Inparticular, Group Audit: reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance other mandatory controls.
against material loss or misstatement and are provides an independent assessment designed to manage, rather than eliminate, The work to rationalise the number of BGGroup ofBGGroups system of risk management therisk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Standards continued through 2011 and good andinternal control: progress has been made.
It is expected that assists management by carrying out The Board has established processes designed the rationalisation of Group Standards will independent appraisals of the effectiveness of to allow it to assess the effectiveness of the becompleted in early 2012.
Maintaining the internal control environment and making internal control environment within the Group.
theintegrity of the Policies and Standards ispart recommendations for improvement: and Each year, every member of the GEC and the of an established review and approval process and Company Secretary provide Letters of the Governance Committee has accountability for supports development of the Groups governance the oversight of thatprocess.
The Group willalso and business risk managementpolicies.
continue to review in 2012 its risk management framework and assess how any changes should The independent external auditors report Business best be integrated into the Groups other toshareholders and their audit opinion on the Principles governance processes and systems.
For further applicable section of the Financial statements information, see Financial review on page 43. are set out on page 88.
Policies Organisation and structure The external reserves consultant, DeGolyer BG Groups organisation and structure are &MacNaughton, provides independent assurance Standards established and overseen by the Board and are on BG Groups estimates of its gas and oil reserves designed to allow for effective and efficient and resources, using its own estimation decision-making and to meet corporate methodology, through a rolling programme of Guidelines governance standards.
A diagram illustrating the reviews which covers a proportion of the reserves BG Group Board Committee structure is set and resources portfolio each year.
com Corporate governance 62 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance continued AUDIT COMMITTEE During 2011, there continued to be a high level inplace for managing those risks.
More of uncertainty in the global economy.
Despite details ofthe Boards visit to Brazil are set the challenges posed by these conditions, out onpage59.
BGGroup continued to deliver on its growth strategy, particularly in Brazil and Australia, More generally, the Committee has overseen and is entering the heaviest investment the further development of the Groups phasein its history.
During the year, the Group internal control and risk management systems.
successfully raised some $5.6 billion by way of The difficult economic conditions look set bond issues, despite challenging debt market tocontinue in 2012 and possibly beyond.
Mark Seligman conditions, to fund its growth plans.
Given TheCommittee will therefore continue its Chairman of the Audit Committee themarket uncertainty, the Committee has focus on the Groups funding plans and spent considerable time focusing on the Groups liquidity and the effectiveness of its internal Committee members: funding plans and liquidity for the Groups control and risk management systems in capital expenditure programme.
The recent appointment of Andrew Gould of theGroups Principal risks and uncertainties aChief Risk Officer for the Group has created Baroness Hogg areset out on pages 46 to 51. afocal point for risk management within Dr John Hood theGroup which will further support the Patrick Thomas In September, the Board visited Brazil which Committee in its oversight role.
Philippe Varin provided the Audit Committee with an opportunity to discuss, first-hand, with local management, the risks associated with the Mark Seligman Groups interests there and the frameworks Chairman of the Audit Committee Role of the Committee Meetings of the Committee are normally the effectiveness of the disclosure controls The Audit Committee assists the Board attended by the Chairman, the Chief Financial andprocedures designed to ensure the Annual infulfilling its responsibilities in respect of: Officer, the Group Financial Controller, the Report and Accounts comply with all relevant overseeing BG Groups financial reporting Head of Group Audit and representatives legal and regulatory requirements and that processes: the way in which management ofthe external auditors.
thedisclosed information provided afair ensures and monitors the adequacy of viewof the Groups business: and financial, operational and compliance controls Key activities during 2011 the process designed to ensure the external and business risk management processes: Integrity of financial statements and disclosures auditors are aware of all relevant audit theappointment, remuneration, independence The Audit Committee assisted the Board information, as required by Sections 418 and performance of the Groups external inensuring the integrity of the financial and419 of the Companies Act 2006. auditors: and the independence and statements and related disclosures.
It reviewed performance of Group Audit.
the quarterly financial results announcements, Risk management and internal controls reported the outcome of its reviews and made The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness Details of the work carried out by the recommendations to the Board based on of the Groups risk management and internal Committee in accordance with its terms thesereviews.
The Committee also reviewed control systems and also reviewed reports from ofreference are described in this report.
The the processes toassure the integrity of the management in relation tointernal control terms of reference for the Committee can be Annual Report and Accounts.
and assurance, fraud risk management, and found at www.
com auditcommittee whistleblowing and, based on its review, has In addition to its review of the effectiveness reported to the Board that itissatisfied that Committee membership ofthe risk management and internal control the risk management and internal control In February, Patrick Thomas was appointed systems described below, theCommittee systems that the Group had inplace for the as a member of the Committee.
In September, alsoreviewed: period 1 January 2011 to the date of this report Andrew Gould was appointed, and Peter are effective.
Backhouse retired, as a member of the the effectiveness and application of the Committee.
Mark Seligman, as a chartered reserves and resources booking process for In November, the Company appointed a new accountant, has been determined bythe 2011.
In particular, the Committee reviewed Chief Risk Officer who has begun a review Board as the member of the Committee having theprocess to identify the fields which became ofthe Groups risk systems and processes.
recent and relevant financial experience, subject to full review during the year and TheCommittee will oversee the ongoing asrequired bythe Governance Code.
The reviewed the results of a benchmarking review, and any recommended changes to the other Committee members bring a range of studyon BG Groups reserves and resources overall risk management framework, and will experience and skills, including international estimation processes.
Information about the report to shareholders onthese in thefuture.
business management and leadership, Reserves Committee is set out on page 65: corporate governance and public policy.
the work undertaken to support the going Review of Brazil Allmembers of the Committee are deemed concern statement: During the Boards visit to Brazil in September to beindependent andthe Committee has 2011, the Audit Committee reviewed operations, concluded that its membership meets the the management representation letter governance structures, internal controls and requirements of the Governance Code.
totheexternal auditors: key business risks, as well as the risk management www.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 63 and assurance processes of BG Brasil around the Committee concluded that the auditors manager or employee: or put the auditors in the the joint venture with Petrobras and in relation demonstrated appropriate qualifications and role of advocate for BG Group.
Authority has been to Comgs.
Further details of the visit can be expertise and remained independent of BG Group delegated to the Audit Committee Chairman or, in found on page 59. and that the audit process was effective.
his absence, any other member of the Committee Therefore, theCommittee recommended to the to approve any work that does not fall into the Funding and liquidity Board that PwC be re-appointed as the Groups pre-approved framework and is not specifically As a consequence of BG Groups global growth auditors for a further year.
The Board accepted prohibited in accordance with the Standard.
strategy, the Group is entering its heaviest this recommendation and has proposed period of investment.
During 2011, the Group aresolution set out on page 154 to shareholders The Committee regularly reviews the nature took the opportunity to access debt capital for the re-appointment of PwC.
The Committee, ofnon-audit work performed by the auditors markets to lock in attractive long-term funding however, also recognises that PwC has been and the volume of that work.
TheCommittee reviewed reports from theGroups external auditor since 2000 and receives a quarterly report setting out the management throughout the year in relation considers it an appropriate time to undertake non-audit services provided by PwC and the tofunding andliquidity.
afull tender process for external audit services.
An analysis of fees paid in respect The Committee has therefore approved a tender of audit and non-audit services provided by Other areas of focus during the year process which willbe carried out during PwC for the past two years is disclosed in note2, During the year, the Committee focused 2012.
Inthe event that PwC isunsuccessful, page 103.
In 2011, such non-audit services onanumber of other key areas: theBoard will appoint asuccessor with included financial due diligence, attestation effectfrom the conclusion of the 2012 audit, services, Generally accepted accounting accounting and reporting judgements and shareholders will be invited to confirm principles GAAP consultations, tax compliance onreceivables, impairments, going concern thisappointment at the AGM in 2013.
If PwC is and advisory services specifically approved andtax positions in relation to the financial successful, shareholders will have the opportunity bythe Committee and regulatory support.
statements on a quarterly basis, and significant to re-appoint the firm at the AGM in 2013. accounting policies and estimates of the Group Having undertaken a review of the non-audit under International Financial Reporting The Committee also reviewed the auditors services provided during the year, the Committee Standards IFRSs on an annual basis: engagement letter and determined the is satisfied that these services were provided remuneration of the auditors in accordance efficiently by the external auditors as a result of the Groups policies and plans in relation with the authority given to it by shareholders.
their existing knowledge of the business and did toinsurable risk retention and transfer: The Committee considered the auditors not prejudice their independence or objectivity.
the Groups contracts and procurement remuneration to be appropriate.
processes and the new Standard for Contracts Group Audit and Procurement which became effective on The audit engagement partner rotates at least The Committee is responsible for overseeing, 1January 2012: every five years and all other partners and monitoring and reviewing the operation and senior management are required to rotate effectiveness of Group Audit, including its reports from management and the external atleast every seven years in accordance with strategic focus, activities and plans, staff auditor in relation to the Groups IT security the BG Group Standard on the Engagement numbers and qualifications, and budget.
The arrangements: ofExternal Auditors the Standard.
appointment and removal of the Head of Group EU developments around the provision Audit is a matter for the Audit Committee.
ofauditservices: and Non-audit fees The Audit Committee believes that non-audit The Committee approved Group Audits plan an independent review of the effectiveness work may only beundertaken by the external for 2011 and reviewed the staffing levels and and independence of Group Audit in accordance auditors in limited circumstances.
qualifications to ensure these were appropriate with the guidelines of the Institute of Internal and adequate for the delivery of the plan.
Further details are set out in Group The allocation of non-audit work is considered Audit below.
in accordance with the Groups Standard.
The Group Audits plan was designed to cover Standard sets out a pre-approved framework areasof higher risk or specific focus across External auditors ofservices to which the auditors can apply their theGroup.
During the year, the Committee The Audit Committee manages the relationship existing business knowledge and skill to provide received regular reports from the Head of with  LLP PwC, the both quality and efficiency benefits for the Group.
Group Audit summarising the findings from Groups external auditors, on behalf of the Board.
Group Audits work and the responses from, Such pre-approved work is strictly limited and and action plans established by, management.
During the year, the Committee carried out its restricted by a list of work that is specifically The Committee monitored the progress of annualassessment of the auditors.
To support prohibited from being undertaken by auditors.
themost significant action plans to ensure thisassessment, the Committee members Additionally, during the year, the Committee these were completed satisfactorily.
andrelevant members of management were agreed that tax advisory services should not invited to complete a questionnaire in order to beincluded as a pre-approved category of work.
In accordance with the International Standards gather views about the auditors performance Such services may only be provided by PwC in forthe Professional Practice of Internal Auditing during the year.
The feedback from the exceptional circumstances and must be approved published by the Institute of Internal Auditors, an processwas reviewed by management with by the Committee in advance onacase-by-case independent review of the performance of Group the Committee Chairman and reported to the basis.
The Committee also determined that, Audit was carried out during the year by an external Audit Committee.
In addition, the Committee infuture, non-audit fees shouldnot exceed facilitator.
Theresults of the review were discussed reviewed the Audit Inspection Units public report 15% ofthe total audit fee in any year.
It was on the 2010 11 inspection of PwC.
concluded that Group Audit was considered Focus is given to ensuring that engagement for effective in relation to itscurrent responsibilities.
After taking these reports into consideration, non-audit services does not: create a mutuality Some additions in relation to the remit and together with the auditors report on their of interest: place the auditors in a position toaudit workings of Group Audit were recommended and approach to audit quality and transparency, their own work: result in the auditors acting as a these are being implemented by the Committee.
com Corporate governance 64 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance continued SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE In2011, the political upheaval inNorth Africa responsible investors, and they summarise andthe wider Middle East contributed to howwe manage operational risks in key areas, difficult operating conditions for the Group.
including well and site design, monitoring, Thecontinuing political uncertainty in Egypt and testing and water management, and also Tunisia caused theGroup to review its social how we communicate with stakeholders.
performance plansin those countries to ensure they remain appropriate in the changing In addition, BG Group was an early political and socio-economic environment.
proponent of the need for transparency TheCommittee will continue to monitor political about the chemicals used in hydraulic Sir David Manning developments and what these might mean fracturing.
BG Group, through its joint Chairman of the forthe Groupsoperations.
venture with EXCO Resources, Inc. already  discloses thechemicals used in its Separately, BG Group is developing new sources USoperations through the website Committee members: ofunconventional gas from shale and coal www.
These new resources offer considerable Peter Backhouse potential.
However, the speed of expansion BG Group believes that all accidents Sir Frank Chapman and the significant onshore presence of the arepreventable and a main focus for Andrew Gould unconventional gas industry incountries suchas theCommittee is to oversee the safety Dr John Hood Australia and the USA, andthe use of hydraulic performance of the Group.
In early 2011, Martin Houston fracturing in particular, have raised concerns therewas an unscheduled shutdown in Caio Koch-Weser aboutthe industrys potential environmental theGroups UK North Sea operations to Sir Robert Wilson impact.
In response to these concerns, allowforelective maintenance to be carried BGGrouppublished Operating Principles for out, notwithstanding the adverse impact Unconventional Gas that set outBG Groups onproduction volumes.
The application In September 2011, I succeeded Dr John responsible operating procedures which we oftheBusiness Principles ensured that Hood as Chairman of the Sustainability believe will contribute toa responsible industry.
thesafety ofour people took priority.
Committee, having served as a member of the Committee since November 2008.
Our Operating Principles were developed Iwould like to thank John for his excellent inconsultation with external stakeholders, Sir David Manning chairmanship and his continued contribution including government agencies and socially Chairman of the  and support as a member of the Committee.
Role of the Committee Meetings of the Committee are normally resultofwater consumption associated The Committee provides oversight of the attended by the Executive Director & Managing withshale gas hydraulic fracturing processes implementation of BG Groups Business Director, BG Advance, the Executive Vice andthe extraction ofwater from coal seam Principles and the Groups statement of core President, Policy and Corporate Affairs, the gas CSG activities.
TheCommittee reviewed values and behaviours.
The Committees Executive VicePresident, Human Resources and theapproaches towater management in main areas of focus are safety and asset the Senior Vice President, HSSE, AssetIntegrity QGCandmonitored developments in water integrity, social performance including & Group Well Risk Management.
management more widely in the shale community relations and social investment, andCSG industries.
the environment and ethical conduct.
Key activities during 2011 TheCommittee also maintains an overview HSSE and asset integrity Social performance ofpolicies relating to occupational health During the year, the Committee received reports As reported in 2010, the Committee and physical security.
The Committee will from management in relation to the Groups establisheda programme of presentations continue to focus on evolving political, performance on HSSE, and asset integrity.
fromAsset General Managers on their regulatory and environmental issues and risks.
During the year, The Committee monitored the Groups safety theCommittee received presentations on Detailed terms of reference for the Committee performance and received regular reports on theplansin place in Bolivia, Egypt, India can be found at www.
com Total Recordable Case Frequency, the Groups andTrinidad and Tobago.
 safety key performance indicator see page 34 for further information.
In particular, the During the year, BG Group carried out Committee membership Committee focused on the safety performance SocialImpact Assessments SIAs in the In September, Sir David Manning succeeded in QGC Pty Limited QGC asconstruction of areasof Pennsylvania and Louisiana, USA to DrJohn Hood as Committee Chairman.
TheCommittee understand theimpact of shale gas operations DrHood remains a member of the Committee.
received a presentation from Bechtel Corporation, on localcommunities and to inform social The Committee comprises bothExecutive and the leadcontractor, on its safety systems performance plans.
The Committee received Non-Executive Directors who bring a broad andperformance.
reports from management on the result range of skills, experience and knowledge in oftheSIAs which are believed to be the first relation to international finance and business The Committee continued to focus on the carried out in the shale gas industry.
leadership, geo-political and socio-economic increasing importance of water management matters and the oil and gas industry.
to BG Group and its stakeholders as a www.
com Business review Corporate governance Financial statements Shareholder information 65 Review of Brazil The Committee has continued to evaluate 1 CHAIRMANS COMMITTEE During the Boards visit to Brazil in September thebalance of skills, knowledge and experienceof 2011, the Sustainability Committee met the local the Board, and its diversity including gender, and management team responsible for establishing is committed toits progressive renewal through Sir Robert Wilson Committee Chairman and implementing BG Brasils sustainability orderly succession.
Succession plans for the Fabio Barbosa strategy and received a presentation describing Non-Executive Directors and Executive Directors Sir Frank Chapman the four pillars withinthe strategy, namely: were kept underreview during theyear.
research and development: social investment: local content: and environment and safety.
When recruiting Non-Executive Directors, The role of the Chairmans Committee Further details ofthe Boards visit to Brazil theCommittee evaluates the particular skills, istoadvise and assist the Chairman in areset out on page 59. knowledge, independence, diversity including thepreparation for Board meetings.
The gender and experience that would enhance Committee also acts on behalf of the Board QGC the overall balance and composition of the between scheduled meetings, within clearly The Committee also continued to monitor Board most significantly and, in light of this defined delegated authority.
theapproach being taken in QCLNG in evaluation, prepares selection criteria for Australia with regard to its engagement with aparticular appointment.
government, local communities and other 1 stakeholders, inparticular around water During 2011, particular focus continued tobe REMUNERATION COMMITTEE management, landaccess and native placed upon recruiting a successor toSirRobert titleissues.
Wilson who had indicated hisintention to retire as Chairman of the Boardduring2012.
Dr John Hood Committee Chairman Andrew Gould In relation to the appointments of Andrew Patrick Thomas 1 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE Gould and Vivienne Cox as Non-Executive Philippe Varin Directors, an external search firm specialising Sir Robert Wilson insenior appointments was retained and Sir Robert Wilson Committee Chairman worked closely with the Committee.
Following The Committees principal responsibility Baroness Hogg anextensive assessment and interview isforsetting, reviewing and recommending Dr John Hood processin each case, Andrew Gould and tothe Board for approval BGGroups overall Sir David Manning VivienneCox wereselected.
remuneration policy and strategy, and for setting the remuneration arrangements for Key activities during 2011 Executive Directors and members of the GEC.
reviewed the size, balance and composition Full details of the Committees responsibilities, 1 FINANCE COMMITTEE ofthe Board, recommending the appointment and a report of its activities during the year, of additional Directors as appropriate : are set outinthe Remuneration report on pages68to81.
made recommendations to the Board with Sir Robert Wilson Committee Chairman regard to the Chairmanship and membership Fabio Barbosa of Board Committees, in conjunction with Sir Frank Chapman theChairman of each relevant Committee: established, on behalf of the Board, succession The Committee is responsible for finance plans for the Chairman and Chief Executive: andtreasury policy decisions.
made recommendations to the Board During the year, the Committee received Reserves Committee regarding the election or as the case may be regular reports in relation to tax and The Reserves Committee was established by re-election of Directors by shareholders: and treasuryactivities, forward gas sales and the Audit Committee.
It is chaired by Chris reviewed notifications from Directors hedging arrangements.
Finlayson, Executive Director &Managing ofsituations, such as proposed external Director, BG Advance, and includes technical, appointments, in which a potential conflict of In particular, the Committee reviewed financial and legal specialists.
The Committee interest may arise, and made recommendations thefunding plans for BG Group and, having reviews the reserves and resources process to the Board for authorisation of any such taken into account international debt market and approves any amendments to the reserves situational conflicts, where appropriate.
conditions and attractive long-term funding and resources policy, processor guidelines.
It costs, approved bond issues totalling some regularly reviews and challenges the Groups The Nominations Committee is aware $5.6billion, comprising issues of $3 billion, reserves and resources estimates and, on an ofthenew requirements to be introduced 750 million and 1 billion.
These bond issues annual basis, reports to the Audit Committee bytheGovernance Code which fall within combined with the existing committed onthe reserves and resources process.
This includes facilities of $4.5 billion provide further Reserves Committee is supported by the therequirement for the Board todescribe capacityfor the Groups global growth plans.
CorporateReserves Group which providesan itspolicy on diversity, including gender.
TheCommittee will continue to monitor independent review of all proposed reserves Forfurther information, see the Chairmans theGroups funding requirements and debt and resources bookings and revisions.
overview on page 58. market conditions during 2012.
Changes to the Committees: 1 For changes to the Committees during the year, see page 60. www.
