Audit Committee report Monitoring and challenge The Audit Committee provides independent monitoring, guidance and challenge to executive management.
Its aim is to ensure high standards of reporting, controls and compliance, in the belief that excellence in these areas enhances the effectiveness of the business.
Nigel Buchanan, Committee Chairman insurance experience provides an appropriate the Principal risks and uncertainties identified Terms of reference group of experienced professionals to fulfil for the business.
The first of such meetings The terms of reference of the Audit was held in early 2012.
In order to assist the Committee the Committee are designed to the duties of the Committee.
Mr Buchanan, enable it to take an independent view of the Sir Alan Collins and Mr Davey as its chairman, Committee in its role, additional briefing sessions appropriateness of the Groups accounting also serve on the Risk & Solvency Committee, have been arranged covering Solvency II updates.
policies, practices and reporting: compliance retaining a strong link between the risk and Financial reporting and external audit and internal control processes and internal audit review processes.
The prime financial reporting focus of the audit process and effectiveness.
The terms Mr Buchanan is also a member of the Committee during the year was, as ever, on of reference also place responsibility on the Remuneration Committee and ensures that the the integrity of the Companys interim results Committee to consider the appointment and Audit Committee has input on the assessment statements and its Annual Report and accounts.
fees both audit and non-audit of the external of Remuneration Risks and the controls put in The Committee was satisfied that the significant auditors, who have unrestricted access to it.
place to mitigate any risks identified.
assumptions underlying the reported figures, The terms of reference were reviewed during including in particular those relevant to reserving, the year, such review including a gap analysis The Chairman of the Company, the Group Chief were justified and that there was appropriate and to ensure their Solvency II compliance.
The Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Chief meaningful disclosure of the critical judgements opportunity was also taken then to standardise Risk Officer and the Head of Internal Audit usually and key estimates made, which took account wordings between Group Committees.
of significant loss events during the year.
The Committees new terms of reference, which The Committee received and reviewed detailed To assist the Committee in reaching this view continue to take full account of the Smith Report papers and information sufficiently in advance reports were considered on the reserving process on the role of audit committees, are available in of its meetings for its members to consider and benchmarking exercises were reviewed.
the Corporate Governance section of Investor them appropriately, making suggestions for The Committee has considered the Annual Relations on the Companys website.
improvements to these papers when required.
Report in its entirety and is satisfied that, viewed At least once a year the Committee meets, as a whole, the Report is fair and balanced.
While the Committee has authority to engage both on its own and with the external auditors, In addition, each Interim Management Statement its own independent external advice at the without any executive management present.
of the Company was reviewed by the Committee.
Companys expense should it deem it The Committee also meets privately with the necessary: it did not find it necessary to seek The Committee reviewed the external Head of Internal Audit, who has a private line external advice during the year, other than auditors engagement and service plans, their of communication with the Committee Chairman.
independence and the extent and reasons for His executive reporting line is to the Group Chief them providing non-audit services a breakdown Executive and he is appointed, and may only Membership, meetings and attendance of the fees for which is set out in note 13 be dismissed, by the Committee.
During the The Committees membership, number of to the Accounts.
In accordance with the policy year the Committee also met with the Group meetings and attendance during the year are set adopted in 2010 which covers the level and Finance Director without any other executive out in the Board and Committee membership type of non-audit services permissible management present.
and attendance section of the Board Corporate and the approval processes for using such Governance statement.
Both the Nomination services, the Committee has considered Activities Committee, in making its recommendations the provision of non-audit services provided The Committees activities may be divided into to the Board, and the Committee in its own by  LLP PwC, in three interlinked areas: financial reporting and self-evaluation, reviews the Committees particular where these relate to aspects of the external audit: internal control: and internal audit.
Sir Alan Collins was appointed to internal audit function, and remains satisfied Whilst consideration of risk is now within the the Committee on his appointment to the Board, that this has not compromised their on the recommendation of the Nomination remit of the Risk & Solvency Committee, the independence as auditors.
Further details of the qualifications Audit Committee also received reports on risk to enable it to consider these three main areas.
Reports were received from the external auditors and experience of Committee members may be The Committee also meets jointly with the Risk in respect of each set of financial statements, found earlier in this report pp60.
In the view highlighting the material judgemental areas, of the Board, the combination of audit, wider & Solvency Committee on an annual basis to financial services, international trade and consider the Statement on Internal Controls and which were then discussed by the Committee 74 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 with the auditors alongside reports from Committee evaluation management.
The Committee assesses the During the year the Committee conducted its effectiveness of the external auditors at least annual self-evaluation of its terms of reference, annually and, following the review undertaken composition, procedures, contribution and during the year, considers that this continues effectiveness.
The Committee concluded that to be demonstrated, based on reports from during 2011 it had received sufficient, reliable, management and from its own observations.
and timely information from management to A more detailed review of Amlins selection enable it to fulfil its responsibilities and that it had of external auditors was last undertaken fulfilled the duties placed upon it by its terms of in 2009 when PwC were appointed following reference.
The conclusions of its evaluation were a comprehensive, competitive tender process.
agreed and reported to the Board in early 2012.
By Order of the Board, on the recommendation Internal control of the Audit Committee Details of the Committees role regarding internal control issues are set out in the Board internal M P D Stevens control statement pp66 within the Board Secretary Corporate Governance statement.
2 March 2012 Internal audit The Committee reviewed the plans and work undertaken during the year by the Groups Internal Audit department, including reports relating to overseas subsidiaries, and the consequent actions agreed with management.
Reporting to the Committee includes summaries of the findings of all internal audit reports, enabling members of the Committee to question the Head of Internal Audit on any report.
The Committee closely scrutinised managements progress in addressing the issues raised, and it continues to challenge management to move more quickly when it considers it appropriate.
The Internal Audit department has paid particular attention to the improvements made in ACI to strengthen key controls and has reported progress to the Audit Committee.
Further details may be found on page pp66.
The Committee also monitored the Groups compliance with Lloyds and other regulatory requirements and recommendations, and reviewed the main whistle blowing procedures operated by the Group.
