Nomination Committee report Leadership and Succession The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure t hat the Board, its committees, and those filling other leadership positions, have the right balance of experience and qualities to deliver the strategic leadership, values, management and framework of controls required for the Groups success.
Roger Taylor, Chairman out in the Board and Committee meetings and of experience that these non-executives have, Terms of reference attendance section of the Boards Corporate it would be highly beneficial to the Company to The Nomination Committee the Committee Governance statement pp62.
is responsible for assisting the Board in its extend their tenure and to allow them to continue oversight of succession planning both at Director in their roles as non-executive directors.
The Committee received and considered detailed level and for key executives throughout the papers and information sufficiently in advance In reviewing the executive membership of the Group.
This includes the identification and of its meetings for its members to consider them Board the Committee concluded that the skills nomination, for the approval of the Board, appropriately, making suggestions for and experience executive directors bring to the of all candidates for Board appointment and for improvements when required.
Board are complementary to each other.
proposed election or re-election to the Board.
Following a recommendation from the Committee Activities When reviewing succession planning the earlier in 2011 Mr Simon Beale, the Underwriting The main activities of the Committee may Committees terms of reference require Director of Amlin London, was appointed as an be split into three key areas: the review and additional executive director at the 2011 AGM.
it to give full consideration to the challenges composition of the board: the recruitment and opportunities facing the Group and what There is also regular, formal and direct reporting of an additional independent non-executive skills and expertise are needed in the future.
to the Board by other senior Group executives, director: and the succession planning of key Following the publication of the Davies Report most frequently in 2011 from the Chief Risk executives and for the Chairman.
the Committee, with Board approval, reviewed Officer Mr Illingworth and the Chief Investment and amended its terms of reference to state Officer Mrs Styles.
The review and composition of the explicitly the current practice of considering Board diversity, including diversity of experience and The recruitment of an additional After the annual internal review of the general gender, when reviewing succession planning.
independent non-executive director size, structure and composition of the Board The Board has also agreed a statement on During 2010 the Committee concluded that an conducted in 2010, the Committee concluded diversity which can be found in the Corporate additional independent non-executive director that, although this was still appropriate, the Governance section of Investor Relations should be recruited in 2011 to share in the Board would benefit from the recruitment on the Companys website.
increasing Committee work following the of an additional independent non-executive The Committees terms of reference also require constitution of the Risk & Solvency Committee.
Following the the Committee to keep under review the recruitment of Sir Alan Collins in 2011, a further Accordingly, in late 2010, the Committee leadership needs of the organisation, both review was undertaken which has concluded approved an appropriate specification, based executive and non-executive, with a view to that the Board balance and the composition upon its review of the general structure, size, ensuring the continued ability of the organisation of each main Board Committee, now increased composition and diversity of experience of the to compete effectively in the marketplace.
in number by the Risk & Solvency Committee, Board and appointed external search consultants remains appropriate.
to assist in the recruitment process.
This process The re-nomination of directors to the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM is considered culminated in the recruitment of Sir Alan Collins In reviewing the non-executive membership of on a case by case basis before recommendations in September 2011.
The Board believes that the Board illustrated pp62, the Committee are made.
The Committee also recommends SirAlanCollins brings valuable experience and noted that the seven non-executive members skills to the Board which will add to its diversity.
to the Board the appointment of, and changes of the Board demonstrate an appropriate to, membership of the Boards main Committees.
Given Sir Alans public sector background and mix of insurance and other financial sector No director may participate in any decision experience in international trade, the Board knowledge to enable the non-executives regarding his or her own position.
The believes he will assist in developing the Groups collectively to fulfil their role of challenge and Committees terms of reference are available in international profile.
All the non-executive directors, save for may be found earlier in this report pp60.
the Corporate Governance section of Investor Messrs Buchanan, Davey and Sir Mark Wrightson, Relations on the Companys website.
have served as non-executives for six or fewer Succession Planning years.
The Nominations Committee and the Membership, meetings and attendance During the year the Chairman indicated that Board, following rigorous review, decided that, The Committees membership, number of in view of the specialist and complex nature he may wish to retire at the AGM in 2012. meetings and attendance during the year are set of insurance written by Amlin and the years Succession plans to cover this eventuality, 72 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 led by the senior independent director, were the nomination of all directors wishing to stand discussed and reviewed by members of the for re-election.
The nomination of Sir Alan Collins Committee in the absence of the Chairman was also recommended to the Board.
Further and with all other Board members as appropriate.
details of the directors proposed for election The directors, after reviewing all aspects of the or re-election at the next AGM to be held in May 2012 may be found earlier in this report Chairmans role and the mix of skills required to pp60.
The Committee has also recently fulfil this, concluded that there were sufficiently conducted its own annual self-evaluation and qualified candidates already on the Board and concluded that it had during 2011 fulfilled that there was no need to seek further external its duties effectively.
The conclusions of the candidates.
Following further consultation with Committee evaluation were reported to the the other directors the Committee concluded, Board in early 2012.
The Committee has, in 2012, that Mr Richard Davey should be following approval by the Board, appointed appointed as Chairman following the AGM an external advisor, Independent Board to be held in 2012.
Evaluation, to assist in the performance Non-executive director succession plans, evaluation of the Board in 2012. including in respect of the Chairman or for By Order of the Board, on the recommendation his successor, led by the senior independent of the Nomination Committee director, were also reviewed by members of the Committee during the year.
Neither the M P D Stevens Chairman, nor any other non-executive director, Secretary took part in any discussions concerning their 2 March 2012 own positions.
In September 2011 the Committee concluded its regular review of the succession plan regarding senior executive roles including directors in the Group.
With a few exceptions, the plan continues to identify short term contingencies for fulfilling each role at short notice as well as one or more potential internal candidates as permanent successors.
The Committee was satisfied that the overall plan is well conceived and effectively managed.
The Committee paid particular attention to the few roles in respect of which the plan is less well developed, recognising the need to widen diversification at a senior level but remaining cogniscent of recruiting individuals on merit and their suitability for the role.
Board and Committee evaluation The Committee took account of the conclusions of the annual Board evaluation and of the evaluations undertaken for each individual director, when considering the nomination of directors for re-election at the 2012 AGM, and was able to recommend to the Board 73
