Board corporate governance statement Intrinsic to our culture and values The Board believes that high standards of corporate governance are intrinsic to Amlins culture and values.
Roger Taylor, Chairman Board composition and independence of Association, the Board has authorised a Board activities in 2011 At the date of this report the Board of Amlin plc number of potential conflicts of interest regarding the independent directors.
the Board or plc Board comprised: the Highlights Chairman, who is non-executive, six independent Appointment of a new independent Mr Buchanan, the senior independent non-executives, and four executive directors.
non-executive director, who retired as a partner Their biographical details are set out in this report of  LLP PwC in 2001, Succession planning for the Chairman.
During the year Mr Anthony Holt receives a pension annuity from that firm that Establishing a Risk & Solvency retired as a director with effect from 12 May can vary if PwCs financial results do not meet Committee to complement the Audit 2011 and Mr Simon Beale and Sir Alan Collins a certain threshold.
The Board believes that Committee.
were appointed on 12 May and 14 November Amlin is not a material enough client to a firm 2011, respectively.
of PwCs size for this to affect whether such All of the directors will be offering themselves Review of Board diversity and threshold is met.
Therefore, following PwCs for re-election, save for Sir Allan Collins who will establishing a Diversity statement.
appointment in 2009 as auditors, the Board be offering himself for election and Mr Taylor who authorised the potential conflict involved in will be retiring at the end of the AGM.
Mr Buchanan continuing to serve as Audit Committee chairman, allowing him to be involved The Chairman was independent on his in all aspects of the Committees work, save that appointment in 1998 but, as Chairman, he would step aside from involvement in any is not classified as independent.
Six of the financial dispute or litigation between the Group other non-executive directors, who have tenure and PwC were it ever to arise.
of between a few months and eight years, have been determined by the Board as being Within the last three years Mrs Bosse independent in character and judgement with until 31 January 2011 and Mr Feinstein to date no relationships or circumstances which are were directors of overseas insurance companies likely to affect, or could appear to affect, the which, like many insurers around the world, directors judgement.
purchase reinsurance from the Amlin Group on In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, normal commercial terms.
These transactions are and as permitted by the Companys Articles not material either to Amlin or, the Directors Balance of the Board Chairman and executive director tenure NED tenure 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 6 4 1 2 1 1 Chairman Independent NEDs 12 years 14 years 1 year or less 4 years Executives 13 years 1 year or less 5 years 6 years 7 years 8 years 62 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 believe, to the other company and in both the other subsidiary containing two business Finance Director.
The latter perform internal cases the reinsurance relationship is independent platforms, is run by a unitary board but with non-executive roles within AUL, which is of, and pre-dates, their Amlin directorships.
underwriting and other management decisions managed by its own Managing Director, Finance The Board remains robustly of the view that such delegated to the local teams in each location.
Director and the Underwriting Directors of Amlin inter-company transactions are an inevitable London and Amlin UK.
Mr Illingworth, a director In parallel with the corporate structure, there consequence of engaging non-executive directors of AUL and other subsidiaries, is Chief Risk are management accountabilities of particular with relevant current insurance industry Officer at both Group and AUL levels.
functions, for example finance, operations and experience which, in view of the specialist and risk management, which help embed Group The AAG board has four executive directors complex nature of insurance written by Amlin, standards and seek to ensure that there is good from its own businesses two from Amlin Zurich is highly beneficial to the Company and that they two way communication between functional and two from Amlin Bermuda and, at the year did not, and do not, affect, and should not be management at the centre and each local end, its non-executives were two members of the regarded by an objective observer as affecting, entity.
The relationship between the corporate Amlin plc Board, Messrs Hextall and Philipps, as the independence of the directors concerned and management structures is illustrated well as one independent non-executive director in fulfilling their roles as non-executive directors in the Corporate and management structure and one Group executive director.
tier board structure comprising a Supervisory Board made up of two independent directors Regulated subsidiaries within a Group Separate entity management with a and three Group executives and a Management management framework strong Group governance input Board whose members usually attend During the year the organisational and Each regulated subsidiary has its own executive Supervisory Board meetings presently of eight governance arrangements of the Group have management separate from that of the Group, ACI executives.
AFs board comprises two Group continued to evolve.
with Group executives including the Chief executives, one executive from each of the Group Executive Mr Philipps, Finance Director entities to which it provides business AUL for the Each of the Groups business platforms Mr Hextall, Chief Risk Officer Mr Illingworth comes under its own regulated board: Amlin Lloyds syndicate and ACI and three Amlin and or International Development Director Underwriting Limited AUL for the Groups France executives.
Mr Harris sitting as non-executives on subsidiary Lloyds operations for Amlin London and Amlin In terms of plc Board reporting, key indicator boards along with the relevant businesss UK : Amlin AG AAG, domiciled in Zurich, reports on each business unit are made to the plc executive management either on the board Switzerland for Amlin Re Europe and Amlin Board in addition to consolidated reports at a or on a management board.
Bermuda : Amlin Corporate Insurance NV ACI, Group level, enabling the Board to concentrate operating in the Netherlands and Belgium: and One of the main ways in which the Company on its key strategic and control roles.
Amlin France Holdings SAS AF for the Groups ensures that there is sufficient Group influence Presentations are also made to the Board French business.
AF sources business for both and control within this delegated structure periodically by each business unit.
the Lloyds syndicate and ACI.
is through overlapping board memberships the year end position is illustrated in the AULs executive governance is split between an Board Committee structures Board memberships chart overleaf.
Amlin London management committee and an As the plc Board has overall responsibility Amlin UK management committee.
They each In the UK the Chairman and, at present, two to shareholders and other stakeholders for the hold quarterly review meetings with Group and other non-executive directors of the Company Groups operations, it is necessary not only for AUL executives, in addition to AUL executive also serve as non-executives on the AUL Board in the plc Board to direct the overall strategy, directors reporting to the AUL Board.
AAG, addition to the Group Chief Executive and Group values and standards for the Group but for its Corporate and management structure Corporate entity Supervisory boards Amlin plc Management boards Executive Committee Group Management Committee Management Boards Amlin Corporate Insurance Amlin AG Amlin Underwriting Ltd Amlin France Holdings SAS N. V. Supervisory Board Amlin Corporate Insurance Syndicate 2001 Amlin France SAS N. V. Management Board Quota Business flows shares Business provider Business provider Business divisions Amlin Amlin Amlin Executive management Amlin UK Amlin France ACI Re Europe Bermuda London 63 Board corporate governance statement continued Board Committees to be able effectively This committee structure is illustrated in the The business functions themselves are all to oversee the aspects of the whole Group chart pp65.
described in more detail in the Review section of relevant to their responsibilities.
As with board the Annual Report.
Summaries of the governance Each Committee is supported by the Company governance, the distinction between Group arrangements for some key functions now follow.
Secretary Mark Stevens, who succeeded Charles and subsidiary responsibilities is reflected Pender, now Group Director of Corporate Affairs, Reserving in committee structures.
with effect from 1 January 2012 or a member Responsibility for reserving is that of the The plc Audit Committee leads the process of his team.
regulated boards and, at Group consolidated of review and makes recommendations to the level, the plc Board but it is important that the Board regarding: external auditors, financial Executive, as well as Board, corporate process through which executive management reporting, internal control and internal audit, governance reach their reserving decisions is objective and and regulatory and compliance matters.
The Amlin regards Board level corporate governance robust.
This role is performed by their respective process is designed to ensure that significant as only the most visible aspect of a review quarterly review or board meetings, which review risks in these areas are identified, evaluated, and decision-making structure that goes much and finalise the preliminary reserving conclusions managed and controlled.
It remains the philosophy of the Group for their businesses.
Reserving is reported have their own Audit Committees, which make that key decisions and processes, including purely at subsidiary board level each quarter and, reports to the plc Audit Committee as well executive ones, take place within an objective twice-yearly, to the plc Audit Committee.
as to their respective boards.
governance framework, whether they be at Quarterly review meetings receive actuarial Group, subsidiary or divisional level.
assessments from the Group Risk Assessment & In January 2011 a separate Board level Monitoring department reviewing the consistency Risk & Solvency Committee was established, The Executive Committee Exco, presently and prudence of the key reserving judgements.
taking over some of the Audit Committees consisting of the Group Chief Executive, Group responsibilities.
It led the process of reviewing Finance Director, Group HR Director, Chief Group Management Committee risk and made recommendations to the Board Operations Officer, Chief Risk Officer, Group Charles Philipps, Chief Executive on risk management, risk appetite, solvency, Head of Underwriting and International Richard Hextall, Group Finance Director economic and regulatory capital matters.
Both Development Director is responsible, through Group and major subsidiaries have executive risk the Chief Executive and directly, to the plc Board.
Andrew Grant, Chief Operations Officer committees which provide reports to the plc Risk Its members also join the Board for its annual James Illingworth, Chief Risk Officer & Solvency Committee.
planning and strategy session where the Group Simon Beale, Underwriting Director, strategy is determined or refined.
The heads of Amlin London The Nomination Committee reviews succession each business area and each areas chief financial, Brian Carpenter, Underwriting Director, Amlin UK planning for key roles within the whole Group, operations and risk officers report both to David Harris, International Development reporting the conclusions of its reviews to the the relevant member of the Exco and to their Director Board and, when appropriate, to relevant operational boards and management committees.
Kim Hvirgel, CEO, ACI In addition to the Exco, a Group Management Andreas Luberichs, Group Head of Underwriting The Remuneration Committee reports to the Committee GMC, including representatives from Franois Martinache, Chairman of A F Board the conclusions of its reviews and makes each of the main business divisions, meets ten Philippe Reggazoni, CEO, AAG recommendations on matters within the control to twelve times a year, assisting the Group Chief of regulated subsidiaries to such subsidiaries Executive and acting as a forum for resolving Rob Wyatt, Underwriting Director, management and strategic issues.
Amlin Bermuda boards and or remuneration committees.
Board memberships Amlin plc 7 plc NEDs 4 plc Execs Amlin Corporate Amlin AG AAG Amlin Underwriting Ltd AUL Amlin France Holdings SAS AF Insurance N. V. ACI 1 independent NED 3 plc NEDs 1 AUL Exec Supervisory Board 2 plc Execs 4 plc Execs 1 ACI Exec 2 Independent 2 Amlin Re Europe Execs 4 local Execs 2 Group Exec 2 plc execs 2 Bermuda Execs 1 Group AUL Exec Amlin UK Amlin London Amlin Corporate Review Committee Review Committee Amlin France SAS Insurance N. V. 3 plc Execs 2 plc Execs 3 local Execs Management Board 3 AUL Execs 4 AUL Execs 8 local Execs 5 local Execs 8 local Execs Boards Review Committees Management Board inc Brian Carpenter, Underwriting Director 64 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Risk management allocation SAA and tactical asset allocation Board and Committee meetings In 2011 the plc Risk & Solvency Committee took TAA ranges.
Group Investments is responsible and attendance over specific responsibilities for risk from the plc for TAA, which is implemented on a multi-asset, The plc Board held six regular Board meetings Audit Committee.
A dedicated Group Risk multi-manager basis.
The IME is assisted in 2011 2010: six and one two-day planning Assessment and Monitoring Department RAM in its decision making and recommendations and strategy session 2010: one.
No additional oversees the management of risk to ensure to the boards by an Investment Advisory special Board meetings were necessary in 2011 that each operating entity manages its risk in Panel consisting of the members of the 2010: nil.
The subsidiary operating boards met accordance with Group policies and allocated IME plus three external investment experts.
The attendance of each director at plc risk tolerances, as well as the Chief Risk Officer Investment management itself is outsourced Board meetings out of seven possible meetings, reporting to the Board and its relevant to external managers.
including the planning and strategy session are committee.
Reports from RAM are reviewed shown below.
and appropriate executive actions considered by a Group Executive Risk Committee.
In addition, Attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and Committees in 2011 each regulated entitys board is responsible Number of meetings attended for the entitys risk, supported by executive Risk & Solvency Board Audit Nomination Remuneration Committee risk committees or other executive reporting 7 meetings 4 meetings 3 meetings 8 meetings 4 Meetings arrangements.
Further details of the Groups risk 1 S C W Beale appointed May 11 5 N A N A N A N A management, and its development during the 2 C Bosse 7 N A N A 7 N A year, are set out earlier in this report pp44.
N J C Buchanan 7 4 3 8 4 3 B D Carpenter 6 N A N A N A N A Investments 4 Sir Alan Collins appointed Nov 11 1 1 N A N A 1 The setting and execution of the Groups investment strategy has its own hierarchy R H Davey 7 4 3 N A 4 of responsibilities.
The relevant boards are M D Feinstein 7 4 N A N A N A responsible for setting their Investment R A Hextall 7 N A N A N A N A 5 Frameworks that control the practices and A W Holt retired May 11 2 N A N A N A N A procedures governing: the setting of investment C E L Philipps 7 N A 3 N A N A policy, the management of investment risk and R J Taylor 7 N A 3 N A 4 the management of the investment operations.
Sir Mark Wrightson Bt 7 N A 3 8 N A Within this framework the boards set their own Average % attendance 98% 100% 100% 96% 100% investment risk appetites within the overall Note 1 The maximum number of meetings Mr Beale could attend since appointment was five Group investment appetite.
Note 2 Mrs Bosse was unable to attend one Remuneration Committee meeting due to a prior commitment The day-to-day responsibility for investment Note 3 Mr Carpenter was unable to attend one meeting through illness management is delegated to Group Investments, Note 4 The maximum number of each of the Board and his Committee meetings that Sir Alan Collins could attend since appointment was one headed by Jayne Styles, the Chief Investment Note 5 The maximum number of meetings Mr Holt could attend prior to his retirement was two Officer CIO.
The CIO is a member of the Investment Management Executive IME, together with the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
The IME sets the strategic asset Board and Board committee structure Amlin plc Board Principal plc Committees Audit Remuneration Nomination Risk & Solvency Committee Committee Committee Committee Key subsidiary Boards Amlin Corporate Amlin Underwriting Ltd Amlin AG Amlin France Holdings See Risk Management Insurance N. V Board Board SAS Board Framework on page 44 Supervisory Board Subsidiary Committees AUL Audit ACI Audit ACI Remuneration AAG Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee plc process Committees Allotment Committee Disclosure Committee plc Board and Committees Subsidiary boards and committees Not all subsidiary companies committees are shown 65 Board corporate governance statement continued The committee attendances of those directors The Board is responsible for reviewing the level.
The Groups financial performance who were members of any of the principal board effectiveness of established systems of internal monitoring includes detailed reporting against committees for all, or any part of, the year are control.
Directors are aware that any such system budgets and the preparation of longer-term shown in the same table.
is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the projections.
risk of failure to achieve business objectives and The UK Corporate Governance Code can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, Risk assessment The Board is committed to the highest standards assurance against material misstatement Amlins Risk Assessment process includes of good corporate governance.
It follows an or financial loss.
output from a system for reporting on all the approach that complies with principles of the UK significant identified risks to the achievement The effectiveness of the Groups system of risk Corporate Governance Code the Code.
of Group objectives and on the nature and management and internal control is reviewed effectiveness of the controls and other The Board has considered the extent to which regularly on behalf of the Board by the Risk management processes to manage these risks.
the Company satisfies the Code and the actions & Solvency Committee on risk management Risk appetites are set for key risk categories that may be taken to comply fully: matters and by the Audit Committee on for example catastrophe, reserving, investment financial, regulatory and compliance matters The Board is satisfied as to the balance and operational risk.
The system encompasses Monitoring covers all controls, including those of skills, experience, independence and self assessment of controls by risk owners in operation for financial, operational and knowledge of the Company possessed by the throughout the business coupled with compliance controls and for risk management directors, and of their diversity, to satisfy the independent challenge of these assertions processes.
Where significant control failings or Code.
More details can be found later in this by the Group Risk team.
Significant risks, weaknesses have been identified, we can confirm report pp68 and in the Nomination their potential impact on the Groups financial that necessary actions have been or are being Committee Report pp72.
position, any variations from the agreed risk taken to remedy these.
The Risk & Solvency and, appetites, and the actions taken to manage Director appointments are made on merit, where appropriate, the Audit Committee have those risks, are reviewed regularly by the against objective criteria and with due regard received regular reports from management to Group Executive Risk Committee and by to diversity on the Board, to ensure a assist with this process.
satisfactory balance amongst directors: The Board is mindful of the Codes Amlin has developed a Group Internal Model Control framework requirement for the annual evaluation to be which captures the key economic and risk factors The Group has put in place a management externally facilitated at least every three years that could impact the performance of the Group.
structure with defined lines of responsibility and is in the process of conducting such The process to collate and report information and clear delegation of authority.
A framework evaluation during 2012: from the internal model and consolidate this into of Group policies and standards has been In accordance with the Codes requirement for an Own Risk and Solvency Assessment ORSA established with which each business is expected the annual re-election of FTSE 350 companies is developing well.
Both the Risk & Solvency to comply.
Each business or functional unit has directors, all of the Companys directors Committee and the Board review the ORSA on a clear responsibilities for ensuring that appropriate nominated and wishing to continue will offer quarterly basis and use it to assist with business controls are in place at an operational level, themselves for re-election each year.
including those in respect of financial reporting it is not proposed to change the Companys processes.
Key elements of the overall control Articles, non-executive directors appointment Internal audit and compliance environment are the various executive letters were re-issued in 2011 to take account Internal audit and compliance monitoring work governance bodies discussed earlier in this Board of the new Code including annual re-election.
is carried out by the Groups Internal Audit and Corporate Governance statement.
These bodies Risk Assessment & Monitoring departments.
receive oral and written reports from Amlins This report, the following Committee reports The latter also provides compliance advice.
The businesses and support departments.
Additional pp72-75, the Directors Remuneration report heads of both departments report to the Group key control elements are the subsidiary boards pp80, and Annex 1 to this report pp67 Chief Executive, and to the Audit and Risk & including where applicable their Audit and or together describe how the Company applied the Solvency Committees.
The Group has established Risk Committees and review committees.
These Principles of the Code during the year.
Annex 2 risk based audit and compliance programmes for boards and review committees are responsible to this report pp71 summarises certain reviewing and evaluating the internal controls and for the day-to-day operations of Amlins individual governance-related aspects of the Companys compliance procedures used in the management subsidiaries or business units, including relevant Articles of Association Articles of risk.
Board internal control statement Assessment Business planning The Board recognises its responsibility for the The plc Board receives regular reports from both Groups risk management and internal control The Group has developed a formal structured the Audit Committee and the Risk & Solvency systems and has complied with Principle C. 2 business planning process which operates for Committee, which review the main processes of the Code by establishing a continuous process all business elements.
This operates on an annual established by the Group, including the matters for identifying, evaluating and managing the cycle with proposed plans being presented to and agreed by relevant subsidiary boards prior which are the regulatory responsibility of the significant risks the Group faces.
This process to being consolidated and approved by the plc boards of AUL, ACI, AF and AAG and the risk has been in place from the start of 2011 to the date management framework within which these of approval of this report and includes risks arising Board.
Board reporting operates on a quarterly from social, environmental and ethical matters.
basis, with monthly monitoring at management operate.
These processes are designed to ensure 66 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 that significant risks are identified, evaluated, from the Groups major subsidiaries.
At ACI, to raise concerns about possible improprieties managed and controlled.
They also permit the in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
the programme of finance and risk management The Committee is satisfied with such relevant Committee to determine whether any process changes is on track, however arrangements for the longer standing parts significant weaknesses are promptly remedied information technology changes have not of the business and is assured that appropriate or indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
advanced as well as was anticipated.
Following arrangements are being made in certain of the on from the control improvements made in The Audit Committee and the Risk & Solvency Continental European jurisdictions where such 2010, further good progress has been made Committee met jointly to perform a specific arrangements are not yet fully in place.
in 2011 to strengthen ACIs Key Controls.
This assessment for the purpose of this Annual work is ongoing but to date, the internal control By Order of the Board Report.
This assessment considers all significant environment at ACI is not yet considered to meet aspects of internal control arising during the M P D Stevens the high standards to which the Group aspires.
period covered by the report, including the Secretary The Audit Committee has additionally reviewed work of internal audit, and the findings are used 2 March 2012 and is satisfied with the Group policy whereby to assist the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
The Board has received regular arrangements are made for staff, in confidence reports during the year on operational issues and if they wish via an external reporting line, Annex 1 to Board Corporate Governance statement: Summary of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
Principles of the Code Commentary A.
1 The Role of the Board The schedule of matters reserved to the Board for its own and its committees decisions provides that the Boards primary obligation is to lead and control the Company and its business, with exclusive decision making an effective boardcollectively powers over such matters as: overall strategy and resources: risk appetite: investment strategy: remuneration responsible for the success policies: accounting policies: capital expenditure, acquisitions and debt facilities over certain thresholds: and of the company certain key Group policies, appointments and categories of public announcements.
The detailed implementation of all these matters, and day-to-day business, are left to management, which reports formally to the Board at least quarterly on underwriting, financial, risk and other operational matters and objectives.
The current schedule of matters reserved to the Board is available in the Corporate Governance section of Investor Relations on the Companys website.
The Board meets regularly as demonstrated in the Board and Committee meetings and attendance section and table pp65.
The non-executive directors met during the year without executive directors or other executive management present, including at least once without the Chairman.
The Chairman chairs full non-executive directors meetings and the senior independent director chairs meetings when the Chairman is not present.
The data sheet at the back of the annual report identifies the Companys Chairman, Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director, and the Chairman and members of the Board Committees.
Amlin arranges appropriate directors and officers insurance in respect of legal action against any of its directors.
2 Division of Responsibilities There is a division of responsibilities on the Board between the Chairman, who is responsible for leading and running the Board and related matters such as Board induction and evaluation, and the Group Chief Executive, clear division of responsibilities who has executive responsibility for running the Groups business.
A statement detailing this division of responsibilities has been approved by the Board, which includes provisions for the Chairmans role in ensuring accountability of the Chief Executive to him and to the Board, in shareholder relations and in ensuring constructive relations between executive and non-executive directors.
3 The Chairman The Chairman actively promotes a culture of openness and debate within the Boardroom and helps to build relationships between executive and non-executive directors.
responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring All agendas for Board or Committee meetings are approved by the relevant Chairman before circulation.
its effectiveness 67 Board corporate governance statement continued Annex 1 to Board Corporate Governance statement: Summary of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
4 Non-Executive Directors Mr Buchanan is the Senior Independent Director designated as an appropriate director to whom shareholders should constructively challenge concerns may be conveyed if contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance and help develop proposals Director has failed to resolve them or is inappropriate.
The Chairman holds regular meetings with the other independent non-executive directors without the executive directors present.
There is usually an annual meeting where the Chairman is not present, chaired by Mr Buchanan, to assess the Chairmans performance.
As the Chairman had given an indication that he wished to retire at the AGM in 2012 this meeting did not take place in respect of 2011.
All meetings are recorded in the Companys minute book.
Minutes are sent for review by the Board ahead of the next meeting where executives and independent non-executives can ensure that their concerns regarding the running of the Company or a proposed action that they discussed within the meeting have been minuted appropriately.
If the non-executive resigns and an issue has still not been resolved, the non-executive is required to submit a written statement to the Chairman, for circulation to the Board.
As detailed in here and by the table in the section Board and Committee meetings and attendance, there is a Remuneration Committee comprising two non-executives and the Senior Independent Director, which meets to determine the appropriate levels of remuneration for executive directors.
There is also a Nomination Committee, comprising the Chairman, Senior Independent Director, two non-executives and the Chief Executive, which meets to discuss succession planning, appointments, and if necessary, removing executives.
1 The Composition of the As detailed in here, the Board has identified which non-executive directors it considers to be independent.
Board should have the None of the non-executive directors as at 31 December 2011 have been an employee of the Company or Group appropriate balance of skills, within the last 5 years.
Neither have they had a material relationship with the Company or received additional experience, independence and remuneration from the Company.
No non-executives have close family ties with Companys advisers, directors knowledge of the company or senior employees, they do not hold cross directorships or have significant links with other directors through involvement in other companies, and they do not represent a significant shareholder.
Save for the Chairman, no non-executive has served on the Board for more nine years from the date of their first election.
More than half of the Board of the Company is comprised of independent non-executive directors.
This ensures strong independent representation and the sharing of committee work.
The Nomination, Audit, Risk & Solvency and Remuneration Committees are regularly attended by executive directors and senior management at the invitation of the respective Committee Chairmen.
Non-executive directors who are not Committee members may also attend these Committee meetings if they so desire or at the request of the Chairman.
Appointments to the The process for nomination to the Board and for considering succession planning is decided by the Nomination Board formal, rigorous and Committee to ensure that the appropriate balance of skills and experience is maintained: and to promote transparent procedure for the progressive refreshing of the Board.
Its role and authority is set out in the terms of reference for the Committee appointment of new directors and in the Nomination Committee Report pp72.
When preparing a description of the role and capabilities required for a particular appointment, the Committee evaluates the current balance of the skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Board.
The search for Board candidates is then conducted, against objective criteria and appointments made, on merit, with due regard to the benefits of board diversity.
All directors are subject to annual re-election and all non-executives save the Chairman, Messrs Buchanan, Davey and Sir Mark Wrightson have been appointed for less than six years.
Following rigorous review, it was decided that, in view of the specialist and complex nature of insurance conducted by Amlin and the years of experience that these non-executives have, it would be viewed as being highly beneficial to the Company to extend their tenure and to allow them to continue in their roles as non-executive directors and in the case of Mr Davey as Chairman following the AGM.
3 Commitment should be The Board continues to satisfy itself that the Chairman had sufficient time available to devote to his duties able to allocate sufficient time as non-executive Chairman of the Company and of AUL.
to the company to discharge The letters of appointment of the Chairman and the other non-executive directors, which are available their responsibilities effectively.
for inspection at the Companys registered office, set out the following expected minimum annual time commitments to the Company and AUL: Chairman of the Company also of AUL : 75 days Senior Independent Director, including chairing Audit Committee Mr Buchanan : 30 days Chairmen of Remuneration Committee and Risk & Solvency Committee Sir Mark Wrightson and Mr Davey respectively : 25 days Member of both Audit and Risk & Solvency Committees Sir Allan Collins : 25 days Member of Remuneration Committee Mrs Bosse : 20 days.
The Board has determined that no executive should take on more than one non-executive directorship of a FTSE100 company nor be elected as chairman of such company.
68 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Annex 1 to Board Corporate Governance statement: Summary of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
Principles of the Code Commentary B.
4 Development All directors The Company maintains a model director induction programme which was operated during the year for both should receive induction on MrBeale and Sir Alan Collins.
Non-executives are given the opportunity to attend meetings with the major joining the Board and should shareholders at shareholders request: and all directors are given the advantage of meeting shareholders regularly update and refresh at the Companys AGM.
their skills and knowledge The Company encourages and facilitates other professional development for both executive and non-executive directors as is required for their particular roles.
Annual reviews take place between the Chairman and non-executive directors to assess their individual development needs.
Regular Board update sessions are held to provide directors with industry specific briefings and developments within the business and in legal and regulatory matters.
5 Information and Procedures are in place for directors and Board Committees collectively to take independent professional Support Board should be advice, when necessary, at the Companys expense.
supplied in a timely manner The Board and its committees are supported by the Company Secretary and his team who, under the direction with information in a form of the Chairman, advise the Board on governance matters and help to ensure good communication and and of quality appropriate to information flows within the Board, including between executive and non-executive directors and between the enable it to discharge its duties Board and its Committees.
The Secretary also facilitates the Board updating and induction work outlined above.
Subsidiary Boards and executive level committees are also serviced, attended and minuted by the Secretary or another member of his team.
The Board is supplied in a timely manner with the appropriate information to enable it to discharge its duties, including providing constructive challenge to, and scrutiny of, management.
Further information is obtained by the Board from the executive directors and other senior executives as appropriate.
All directors are provided with written materials on their responsibilities as directors of a public company and on other relevant regulatory, legal, accounting and insurance industry matters.
Updating information on technical and or industry matters is provided to the Board with opportunities for discussion.
Amlin has a policy to deliver Board papers to each director at least five working days prior to the meeting, where possible.
This ensures that each director is given adequate time to digest the information prior to the Board meeting.
6 Evaluation formal and The Board has completed an annual evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and each rigorous annual evaluation director.
The annual evaluations were initiated by a questionnaire completed by each director giving his of its own performance assessment of both collective and individual performances.
The results of the latest internal Board evaluation and of its committees and were summarised by the Chairman at its meeting in early 2012 and the Board agreed its conclusions.
individual directors Each Board Committee had its performance evaluated and the conclusions were also reported to the Board in early 2012.
The Chairman discussed issues arising from the evaluation of each individual director, including the performances of executive directors in respect of their boardroom as opposed to executive roles which was evaluated as part of the Groups regular Performance Development Review process, with the director concerned as required.
The Chief Executives total performance was reviewed by the Chairman.
The Chairmans own evaluation is usually conducted by the non-executive directors led by the senior independent director, taking into account the views of the executive directors.
The senior independent director normally discusses and agrees the conclusions with the Chairman.
7 Re-election All directors All directors of the Company will be subject to re-election at the Companys AGM on the 17 May 2012, should be submitted save for Sir Alan Collins who will be offering himself for election and the Chairman who will be retiring at the for re-election at regular conclusion of the meeting.
Details of the procedures whereby appointments and re-appointments to the Board intervals subject to continued are considered are set out in the Nomination Committee report pp72.
Board and individual directors satisfactory performance evaluations are taken into account by that committee when considering specifications for new non-executive directors, succession planning and nominations for re-election at AGMs.
Further details of the terms of appointment of both the non-executive and executive directors are also set out in the Directors Remuneration report.
Biographical details to that effect will be circulated to shareholders on the AGM notice.
C. Accountability C. 1 Financial and Business The Board is aware of its responsibility for preparing the annual report as detailed pp96 and the Reporting Board should present requirement to confirm the disclosure of information to the auditors in preparing this report.
The independent a balanced and understandable auditors report on page 97 comments on the respective responsibilities of directors and auditors.
assessment of the Companys The Board has given an explanation on how the Company generates value over the long term within the positions and prospects business model pp16 and strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company.
The Board has concluded that the business remains a going concern, as discussed further pp95.
69 Board corporate governance statement continued Annex 1 to Board Corporate Governance statement: Summary of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
Principles of the Code Commentary C. 2 Risk Management & Internal The Boards Risk & Solvency and Audit Committees meet on a quarterly basis to review, inter alia, risk Control Board is responsible management and internal controls.
Their findings are discussed in the Risk & Solvency Committee report for determining the nature pp76 and in the Audit Committee report pp74.
These Committees cover all material controls including and significant risks it is willing financial, operational and compliance controls.
to take in achieving its strategic objectivesmaintain sound risk management and internal control systems.
C. 3 Audit Committee and The Board has established an Audit Committee of three non-executives with Mr Buchanan, who has Auditors establish formal and considerable financial experience, acting as its Chairman.
The role and responsibilities of the Audit Committee as set out in its terms of reference are described apply corporate reporting and in the Audit Committee report pp74.
One of the main functions is to monitor and review the effectiveness risk management and internal of internal audit activities.
The Committee also has primary responsibility for making recommendations on the control principles and for appointment, reappointment and removal of the Companys external auditor.
maintaining an appropriate The Audit Committee has reviewed arrangements by which staff of the Company may, in confidence raise relationship with the concerns about financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee has nominated Mr Buchanan as an companys auditor appropriate director to whom concerns may be conveyed.
The Committee and Board have remained satisfied that the provision of non-audit services by Pricewaterhouse Coopers LLP PwC has not compromised PwCs independence, as is explained further in the Audit Committee report pp74.
D. Remuneration D. 1 The Level and Components The Remuneration Committee ensure that performance-related remuneration for executive directors is of Remuneration should be in accordance with principle A of the Code, which is discussed in detail in the Directors remuneration report sufficient to attract, retain pp80.
and motivate directors of the The levels of remuneration of non-executives are based on the minimum time commitments given by each quality required to run the director and are set by reference to fees paid by financial services companies and listed companies of a similar company successfully, but size.
Remuneration for non-executives does not include share options or performance related elements as a company should avoid paying stated in the Directors remuneration report pp80.
more than is necessary for Executive directors have a maximum of 12 months notice period.
In the event of early termination, the Group this purpose.
A significant will seek to reduce, where practicable, the compensation payable by taking account of the duty of the employee proportion of executive to mitigate his or her loss, as explained in the Directors remuneration report pp80.
directors remuneration should be structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance.
D. 2 Procedure formal and The Remuneration Committee is formed of three of the Companys independent non-executive directors.
transparent procedure for Its terms of reference, role and responsibilities are described in the Directors remuneration report pp80.
developing policy on executive The Committee is responsible for setting remuneration for all executive directors and the Chairman, inclusive remuneration and for fixing the of pension rights and any compensation payments.
It also makes recommendations and monitors the level and remuneration packages of structure of senior management remuneration.
The Board itself sets the remuneration of the non-executives.
No director If the Company wished to instigate a new long-term incentive scheme, shareholder approval would be sought should be involved in deciding before implementation.
his or her own remuneration.
E. Relations with Shareholders E. 1 Dialogue with Shareholders The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and non-executive directors attend meetings with major should be a dialogue with shareholders, at the shareholders request.
In these meetings the Chairman takes the opportunity to discuss shareholders based on the governance and strategy with shareholders and then ensures that any particular views that the shareholder mutual understanding of may have are communicated to the Board as a whole.
The board as a whole The Board is given the opportunity to understand the views of major shareholders of the Company, through has responsibility for ensuring analyst reports, broker briefings and surveys of shareholder opinion.
that a satisfactorily dialogue with shareholders takes place.
70 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Annex 1 to Board Corporate Governance statement: Summary of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Code.
Principles of the Code Commentary E. 2 Constructive Use of the The opportunity is taken at each AGM for the Chief Executive to make a presentation on the Groups progress.
AGM to communicate with Shareholders are encouraged to ask questions at this time.
investors and to encourage All items seeking shareholder approval are proposed under separate resolutions.
Voting on resolutions is their participation undertaken by a show of hands except in the event of a close result as indicated by the proxies held by the Chairman of the meeting.
In these circumstances the Chairman would call a poll.
The Board believes the immediacy of voting on a show of hands with the proxy votes immediately being announced to the meeting is appreciated by the shareholders attending the meeting.
For each resolution, proxy appointment forms will be provided to the shareholders with the option to direct their proxies to either vote for, against or to abstain from voting.
The Company has instructed its registrars, Computershare Investor Services Plc, to ensure that all valid proxy appointments are properly recorded and counted: and electronic proxy voting is made available.
Following the meeting the Company will make available on the Companys website, as soon as reasonably practical: the number of shares over which proxies have been validly appointed, the number of votes for each resolution, the number of votes against each resolution, and the number of shares which have been withheld from voting.
The proxy form and announcement of the results explicitly state that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation when deciding whether the resolution has passed.
It is anticipated that all directors will be attending the AGM and that the Audit, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk & Solvency Committee Chairmen will be available to answer questions.
The Notice for the AGM will be sent to shareholders in advance of the 20 working days stipulated in the Code.
Annex 2 to Board Corporate Governance statement: Summary of Director and shareholder governance provisions in the Articles of Association Area of section 1 of the Code Commentary Directors Appointments to the Board The Companys Articles set out clear powers of removal, appointment, election and re-election of directors.
A director may be removed either by a unanimous resolution of fellow directors or by an ordinary resolution of the Company in general meeting.
As regards appointments, the Board may appoint additional directors at any time but such appointees must, if they wish to continue, be elected by shareholders by an ordinary resolution at the AGM following their appointment.
Directors may also be appointed by election at the AGM.
The Articles also provide that no term of office may exceed the period between election or re-election by shareholders and the AGM in the third year following such election or re-election.
Although the Board complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code annual re-election provision for FTSE 350 companies, it is not intended to amend the Articles in this respect.
Re-election to the Board The Articles of Association of the Company provide that, following a directors election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting immediately following his or her initial appointment by the Board, each directors term of office before being required to submit himself or herself to shareholders for re-election is three years.
This term has historically been shortened to one year for any non-executive director who has served on the Board for nine years or more.
As referred to above, it is intended that all directors will generally submit themselves for re-election annually.
Relations with shareholders Procedure at Annual Voting at the Annual General Meeting is conducted on a show of hands unless a poll is called for which the General Meeting Chairman himself would do if the proxies he held indicated any sort of close result.
Advance voting on a poll is not offered.
However, shareholders proxy votes can be submitted electronically through the CREST settlement system and the Companys Registrars website and a proxy may cast his vote on a show of hands or on a poll in different ways in respect of different blocks of shares within the same holding.
