Risk & Solvency Committee report Maintaining a risk balance The Risk & Solvency Committee was set up in 2011 to lead t he review process for, and make recommendations regarding, risk management, risk appetite, solvency, economic and regulatory capital and associated regulatory reporting.
Richard Davey, Committee Chairman Terms of reference Membership, meetings and attendance Activities The terms of reference of the Risk & Solvency The Committees membership and number The Committees activities may be divided into Committee the Committee are designed to of meetings and attendance during the year are three main areas: risk management framework, enable it to lead the review of risk management, set out in the Board and Committee membership business risk and ORSA review and internal risk appetite, solvency and capital.
The and attendance section of the Board Corporate model governance.
The Committee receives Committee will also be responsible for reviewing Governance statement.
Both the Nomination regular reports on these areas from the Chief and making recommendations to the Board Committee in making its recommendations Risk Officer and from the Group Executive Risk regarding the Own Risk & Solvency Assessment to the Board, and the Committee in its own Committee.
The Committee also meets jointly ORSA prior to submission to the regulator, self-evaluation, reviews the Committees with the Audit Committee on an annual basis and to review the adequacy, effectiveness and membership.
Sir Alan Collins was appointed to to consider the Statement on Internal Controls governance of the Groups internal model.
The the Committee on his appointment to the Board and the Principal risks and uncertainties identified terms of reference also provide for review, jointly in November 2011, on the recommendation of for the business.
The first of such meetings was with the Audit Committee, of the effectiveness the Nomination Committee.
All the Committees held in early 2012.
Details of the Committees of internal controls and risk management systems members Messrs Davey, Buchanan, Taylor and role regarding internal control issues are set to enable recommendation to the Board for Sir Alan Collins, are considered to have adequate out in the Board internal control statement approval of the internal control statement.
experience to enable them to fulfil their duties.
pp66 within the Board Corporate Further details can be found on page pp60.
The terms of reference were agreed by the Board in advance of the Committees first Mr Buchanan is also a member of the Risk management framework meeting which was held in March 2011.
They Remuneration Committee and ensures The Groups risk management framework was were reviewed during the year, such review that the Risk & Solvency Committee has input formalised and adopted by the Board in 2008, including a gap analysis to ensure their on the assessment of Remuneration Risks but its review is now within the remit of this Solvency II compliance.
The opportunity and the controls put in place to mitigate any Committee.
During the year the Committee was also taken then to standardise wordings risks identified.
reviewed and agreed a revision of the framework between Group Committees.
The Group Chief Executive, the Group which was proposed to, and adopted by, the The Committees new terms of reference are Finance Director, the Chief Risk Officer and Board.
A diagram showing the framework may available in the Corporate Governance section the Head of Internal Audit usually attend the be found earlier in this report pp44.
The of Investor Relations on the Companys website.
Committee has received reports on development of the framework during the year and has noted The Committee received and considered that processes have been improved to enhance detailed papers and information sufficiently the quality of risk assessment output.
in advance of its meetings for its members to consider them appropriately, making suggestions for improvements when required.
76 Strategic overview Performance Governance Financial statements Amlin plc Annual Report 2011 Business risk and ORSA review Committee evaluation and reporting The Committee has reviewed the risk exposures The Committee has conducted its first selffacing the Group and considered whether these evaluation of its terms of reference, composition, are managed within agreed risk tolerances and, procedures, contribution and effectiveness.
if not, whether management actions and plans The Committee concluded that, during 2011, to mitigate this are adequate.
During the year it had received sufficient, reliable, and timely the Committee has reviewed the adequacy and information from management to enable it to appropriateness of stress and scenario tests, fulfil its responsibilities and that it had fulfilled the using reports from the Risk Assessment and duties placed upon it by its terms of reference.
Monitoring Department as well as its own The conclusions of its evaluation were agreed experience to challenge and recommend further and reported to the Board early in 2012. test scenarios.
In doing so it also considered the By Order of the Board, on the recommendation Groups Reinsurance programme, and the risk of the Risk & Solvency Committee diversification credit which is incorporated in the Groups internal capital model.
Additionally M P D Stevens the Committee has reviewed and approved Secretary the key Risk Indicators which form part of the 2 March 2011 Management Information reports used throughout the Group.
The Committee reviewed, amended and agreed the principal risk and uncertainties detailed on page 46 and identified some of the emerging risks which the Group will monitor in the longer term.
The ORSA Report was reviewed at each of the Committee meetings and challenge over the content and format offered.
Internal model governance The Committee has been able to review the adequacy of the Groups internal model, using both non-independent and independent validation reports as guidance.
In order to assist the Committee in this role, briefing sessions have been arranged covering Solvency II updates, and the areas of expert judgement used in the development, validation and control of the internal model.
