Business review Governance Financial statements Corporate governance report Biographical details of the Directors are given on page 30.
In May 2010 the FRC published a new edition of the The Board met six times during the year to review financial UK Corporate Governance Code the 2010 Code performance and strategy and to follow the formal schedule of which applies to financial years beginning on or matters reserved for its decision.
Comprehensive Board papers, after 29 June 2010. comprising an agenda and formal reports and briefing papers, are sent to Directors in advance of each meeting.
Throughout The Company has been in compliance with the their period in office, Directors are continually updated by means predecessor Combined Code since Admission to of written and verbal reports from senior executives and external listing on the London Stock Exchange on 17 October advisors on the Groups business, and the competitive and regulatory environments in which it operates, as well as on legal, 2006, except where the Directors consider that in corporate governance, corporate social responsibility and other particular limited circumstances, departure may be relevant matters.
In addition to its formal business, the Board received a number of No departures from the 2010 Code occurred during briefings and presentations from executive management during the the year under review.
year covering a wide range of topics across the range of the Groups business.
All Directors have access to independent professional This report describes the Companys corporate advice, if required, at the Companys expense as well as to the governance arrangements, explaining how it has advice and services of the Company Secretary.
New Directors applied the principles of the Combined Code.
appointed to the Board will receive advice as to the legal and other duties and obligations arising from the role of a director of a UK listed company within a full, formal and tailored induction Michael Benson programme.
The Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman Chairman, is responsible for maintaining an adequate continuing education programme, reminding the Directors of their duties and obligations on a regular basis, ensuring good information flows Directors between the Board, its committees and management and assisting The Board of Directors comprises two Executive Directors and four with Directors continuing professional development needs.
The two Executive Directors are Mark The Companys Nominations Committee considers the appointment Coombs, the Chief Executive Officer, and Graeme Dell, the Group and replacement of Directors subject to the rules set out in the Finance Director.
The Non-executive Directors are Michael Benson, Articles, a summary of which is set out below.
Chairman: Nick Land, Senior Independent Director: Jonathan Asquith and Melda Donnelly.
All Directors served throughout Under the Articles, the minimum number of Directors shall be two the year.
and the maximum shall be nine.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
A Director The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for appointed by the Board must offer himself for election at the next decision and approval, which include, but are not limited to: Annual General Meeting of the Company following his appointment the Groups long-term commercial objectives and strategy: but he is not taken into account in determining the Directors or the number of Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
major acquisitions, disposals and investments: The Directors to retire by rotation must be those who held office at the Groups annual and interim reports and financial statements: the time of the two preceding Annual General Meetings and did not retire at either of them or if they have held office with the Company interim dividend and recommendation of final dividend: for a continuous period of nine years or more at the date of the annual budgets and forecast updates: Annual General Meeting.
The office of Director shall be vacated in other circumstances, including where i that Director resigns or is significant capital expenditure: and asked to resign: ii they are or have been suffering from mental ill the effectiveness of internal controls.
health: iii they are absent without permission of the Board from meetings of the Board for six consecutive months: iv they become The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are separate, bankrupt or compound with their creditors generally: or v they clearly defined and have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman are prohibited by law from being a Director.
Notwithstanding these is responsible for the effective conduct of the Board, while the Chief provisions the Board has adopted provision B.
7.1 of the 2010 Code Executive Officer is responsible for execution of strategy and for the and the Directors will therefore all retire and seek re-election at the day-to-day management of the Group.
Annual General Meeting on 27 October 2011.
In considering Non-executive Director independence, the Board has taken into consideration the guidance provided by the Combined Powers of the Directors Code.
The Board considers Michael Benson, Nick Land, Jonathan Subject to the Companys Articles, the Companies Acts and any Asquith and Melda Donnelly to be independent.
Nick Land is the directions given by the Company by special resolution, the business Senior Independent Director.
of the Company is managed by the Board, who may exercise all powers of the Company, whether relating to the management of During the year under review the Group complied with the 2010 the business of the Company or not.
Code requirement that at least half of the Board consist of independent Directors excluding the Chairman.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 Corporate governance report continued Current membership of the committees is shown in the relevant Annual performance evaluation sections below.
The composition of these committees is reviewed The Board has established a formal process, led by the Chairman annually, taking into consideration the recommendations of the and assisted by the Company Secretary, for the annual evaluation Nominations Committee.
of the performance of the Board, its appointed committees and each Director, to ensure that they continue to act effectively and Audit Committee efficiently and to fulfil their respective duties, and to identify any During the year under review the Audit Committee comprised training requirements.
In doing so the Board has concluded that the following Non-executive Directors and was fully compliant both the Board and its committees are functioning effectively.
with the Combined Code: Meetings were held between the Chairman and each individual Nick Land Chairman Director in which issues and developments over the year were Melda Donnelly discussed and performance was considered by reference to the Jonathan Asquith objectives of the Board and its committees.
Each Director also The Board is satisfied that for the year under review and thereafter completed a formal questionnaire and responses were collated Nick Land, Jonathan Asquith and Melda Donnelly had and have by the Company Secretary.
The results and issues raised were recent and relevant commercial and financial knowledge and subsequently discussed by the Board together with progress against experience to satisfy the provisions of the Combined Code.
The Board also evaluated the Chairmans Nick Land and Melda Donnelly are Chartered Accountants and performance and this process was led by the Senior Jonathan Asquith has previously served as Chief Financial Officer IndependentDirector.
of Schroders plc and Deutsche Morgan Grenfell.
Board and committee attendance A report on the activities of the Audit Committee is set out below.
The table below sets out the number of pre-scheduled meetings The terms of reference for the committee take into account of the Board and its committees and individual attendance by the requirements of the Combined Code and are available for the Directors.
inspection at the registered office and at the Annual General Meeting and can also be found on the Company website at Board and committee attendance www.
Nominations Audit Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee The terms of reference for the Audit Committee include: Total number of monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the meetings between Company, any formal announcements relating to the Companys 1 July 2010 and financial performance and any significant financial issues and 30 June 2011 6234 judgements contained in them: Michael Benson 100% 100% 100% reviewing the Groups draft annual financial statements and Mark Coombs 100% interim results statement prior to discussion and approval Graeme Dell 100% by the Board and reviewing the external auditors detailed Nick Land 100% 100% 100% 100% reports thereon: Jonathan Asquith 100% 100% 100% 100% reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups Melda Donnelly 100% 100% financial statements, receiving and reviewing confirmations of auditor independence and approving the terms of engagement Any Directors who are not members of Board Committees are also and proposed fees for the audit: invited to attend meetings of such Committees as necessary.
making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to shareholders to approve the re-appointment of the Board committees external auditors: The Board has appointed Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees to assist in the execution of its duties.
reviewing the level and amount of external auditor non-audit services: All of these committees operate within written terms of reference, which are reviewed annually.
In order to strengthen and enhance the reviewing the Groups internal control and risk management Audit Committees oversight on risk matters the terms of reference systems, reporting to the Board on the results of this review and agenda for the committee were revised from September 2011, and receiving updates on key risks and controls: and the committee was changed to the Audit and Risk Committee in overseeing and challenging the day-to-day risk management order to reflect this role.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration and oversight arrangements of the executive and the design Committee have also been revised to give due regard to the and execution of stress and scenario testing: provisions and recommendations of the FSAs Remuneration Code.
The chairman of each committee reports regularly to the Board.
overseeing and challenging due diligence on risk issues relating to material transactions and strategic proposals that are subject Each of the committees is authorised, at the Companys expense, to to approval by the Board: obtain external legal or other professional advice to assist in carrying out its duties.
Only the members of each committee are entitled to providing advice to the Remuneration Committee on risk attend its meetings but others, such as senior management and weightings to be applied to performance objectives incorporated external advisors, may be invited to attend as appropriate.
in the incentive structure for the executive: and reviewing the Audit Committees terms of reference, carrying out an annual performance evaluation exercise and noting the satisfactory operation of the Audit Committee.
38 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Governance Financial statements The Audit Committee has requested and received reports from Details of the activities of the Remuneration Committee are set out management to enable it to fulfil its duties under its terms in the remuneration report on pages 43 to 48. of reference.
The number of Remuneration Committee meetings and their The Audit Committee also has responsibility for reviewing the attendance by the Directors are set out in the table on page 38.
Companys arrangements on whistle-blowing, ensuring that In addition, and in accordance with the terms of reference, the appropriate arrangements are in place for employees to be able to members of the Remuneration Committee were also consulted on raise, in confidence, matters of possible impropriety, with suitable a range of issues during the year, including specific matters related subsequent follow-up action.
The Audit Committee has the authority to seek any information it Nominations Committee requires to perform its duties from any employee of the Company The Nominations Committee comprises three Non-executive and to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice Directors, Michael Benson as Chairman, Nick Land and Jonathan asappropriate.
All Directors served on the Nominations Committee throughout the year.
The number of Audit Committee meetings and their attendance by the Directors are set out in the table on page 38.
Representatives The terms of reference for the Committee take into account the of KPMG Audit Plc, the Chief Executive Officer, the Group Finance requirements of the Code and are available for inspection at the Director and representatives of the internal auditors, Ernst & Young, registered office and at the Annual General Meeting and can also attend each meeting as a matter of practice and presentations are be found on the Company website at www.
made by the executive management as required.
The terms of reference for the Nominations Committee include: Remuneration Committee reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, The Group complied during the year with the Combined Code knowledge and experience of the Board and its committees: requirement that the Remuneration Committee should consist of at least three independent Non-executive Directors.
reviewing annually the time required from each Non-executive The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Jonathan Asquith Director, using performance evaluation to assess whether the with Michael Benson and Nick Land as members, all of whom Non-executive Director is giving sufficient commitment to the role: served on the Remuneration Committee throughout the year.
giving full consideration to succession planning in the course of its A report on the activities of the Remuneration Committee is work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing included in the remuneration report on pages 43 to 48.
The terms of the Company and what skills and expertise are needed on the reference for the Remuneration Committee take into account the Board in the future: and requirements of the Combined Code and are available for inspection ensuring that on appointment to the Board, Non-executive at the registered office, at the Annual General Meeting and can also Directors receive a formal letter of appointment setting out be found on the Company website at www.
clearly what is expected of them in terms of time commitment, The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee include: committee service and involvement outside Board meetings.
reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the During the year the activities of the Nominations Committee have remuneration policy: included reviewing the requirements for potential independent non-executive candidates for appointment to the Board, proposals reviewing the design of all share incentive plans for approval by for re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting, and the Board and shareholders: reviewing its terms of reference.
The number of Nominations ensuring that members of the executive management of the Committee meetings and their attendance by the Directors are Company are provided with appropriate incentives to encourage set out in the table on page 38. enhanced performance and that remuneration incentives are compatible with the Companys risk policies and systems: Relations with shareholders The Company places great importance on communication with its making recommendations to the Board as to the Companys investors and aims to keep shareholders informed by means of framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman, regular communication with institutional shareholders, analysts the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary and to and the financial press throughout the year.
determine their total individual remuneration packages including bonuses, incentive payments and share options or other Annual and interim reports and trading updates are widely shareawards: distributed to other parties who may have an interest in the Groups performance.
These documents are also made available on the ensuring that a significant proportion of Executive Directors Companys website where formal regulatory information service remuneration is structured so as to link rewards to corporate and announcements are also posted.
The Chief Executive Officer and individual performance and that performance conditions are Group Finance Director make regular reports to the Board on stretching and designed to promote the long-term success of investor relations and on specific discussions with major shareholders the Company: and and the Board receives copies of all research published on the Company.
ensuring that contractual terms on termination, and any payments The 2011 Annual General Meeting will be attended by all Directors, made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is fully recognised.
Committees will be available to answer questions.
Private investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting.
Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 Corporate governance report continued The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if There are established policies and procedures to enable the Board, they have concerns which contact through the normal channels through its regular meetings, to monitor the effectiveness of the risk of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer or Group Finance Director management and internal control systems, which cover all significant has failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
identified internal and external strategic, operational, financial, The Company continues to offer major shareholders the opportunity compliance and other risks, including the Groups ability to comply to meet any or all of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director with all applicable laws, regulations and clients requirements.
The Board has continued to receive regular financial and other management information related to the control of expenditure The Group will announce via a regulatory information service the against budget and the making of investments, and for monitoring number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the Annual General the Groups business and its performance, and regular compliance Meeting and any other general meetings.
Through the Audit Committee, the Board has conducted an annual Internal control and risk management review and assessment of the effectiveness of the risk management In accordance with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance and internal control systems, and has identified no significant Code 2010, the Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups failings or weaknesses during this review.
In conducting this review, risk management and internal control systems and for reviewing the Board has considered the periodic reports received throughout their effectiveness.
Such systems and their review are designed to the year on compliance and risk matters, including reports provided manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business by the internal audit function, and the annual report on risk objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute management and internal control processes from the Risk and assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board is satisfied that appropriate Within the Groups over-arching corporate governance framework, planned actions continue to be effective in improving controls as the through which the Board aims to maintain full and effective control Group develops, and its overall assessment of the control framework over appropriate strategic, financial, operational and compliance continues to be satisfactory.
issues, an internal control framework has been established, against The main features of the Groups risk management and internal which the Company is able to assess the effectiveness of its risk control systems are as follows: management and internal control systems.
The Groups system of internal control is embedded within its routine operations, Policies and a strong control culture is combined with clear management core values and policies together comprising the Groups high responsibility and accountabilities for individual control.
The internal level principles and controls, with which all staff are expected control framework provides an ongoing process for identifying, to comply: evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, and has been manuals of policies and procedures, applicable to all business in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of units, with procedures for reporting weaknesses and for the annual report and accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by monitoring corrective action: the Board, and accords with the guidance in the document Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, a code of business conduct, with procedures for reporting October 2005 Turnbull Guidance published by the Financial compliance therewith: and Reporting Council.
a defined operational framework and organisational structure The Executive Directors oversee the key risks and controls and the with appropriate delegation of authority with accountability that risk management process on a day-to-day basis, and have put in has regard to acceptable levels of risk.
place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of Processes responsibility and delegation of authority.
a planning framework is maintained, which incorporates a Board The Groups Risk and Compliance Committee RCC, which meets approved strategic plan, with objectives for each business unit: monthly, is responsible for maintaining a sound risk management regular business reviews of the Company and its subsidiaries are and internal control environment and for assessing the impact of performed by senior management, which consider the ongoing the Groups ongoing activities on its regulatory and operational effects of change and the short, medium and long-term exposures.
The RCC is chaired by the Head of Risk Management operational requirements: and Control the other members are the Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Head of Technology, Operations and quarterly senior management systems and controls reviews are Performance, the Head of Compliance, the Head of Information undertaken by the Group Finance Director with the Head of Technology, the Head of Legal and Transaction Management and Compliance, and the Head of Risk Management and Control in the Group Financial Controller.
Responsibility for risk identification which the Chief Executive Officer participates at least annually, is shared amongst these senior management personnel, with each which include evaluation of the potential impact and likelihood of such individual being responsible for day-to-day control of risk in identified risks and possible new risk areas: their business area.
40 Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business review Governance Financial statements a matrix of top risks identifies key business, operational, financial the Group compliance function, whose responsibility is to ensure and compliance risks, and considers the likelihood of those risks that the Group at all times meets its regulatory obligations, and crystallising and the resultant impact.
The inherent risk within to integrate regulatory compliance procedures and best practices each business activity has been identified, with the adequacy and within the Group, undertakes an ongoing compliance monitoring mitigating effect of existing processes being assessed to determine programme covering all the relevant areas of the Groups a current residual risk level for each such activity.
On the basis that operations, to seek to identify any breach of compliance with further mitigants may be employed over time, a target residual applicable financial services regulation, which includes real-time risk for each activity after one to two years has been defined: investment restrictions monitoring of client mandate requirements.
Results of the compliance monitoring programme key risk indicator KRI statistics are reported to and analysed by are reported to the RCC in support of the overall risk the RCC.
The KRIs indicate trends in the Groups risk profile, assist management framework: and in the reduction of errors and potential financial losses and seek to prevent exposure by proactively dealing with a potential risk the development of new products is an important part of the situation before an event actually occurs: Groups business in responding to clients needs and changes in the financial markets, and is the responsibility of the New Products there are well-defined procedures governing the appraisal and Committee which approves new product launches.
approval of corporate investments, including seeding of funds and purchase of own shares, with detailed investment and divestment Verification approval procedures, incorporating appropriate levels of authority the external auditors are engaged to express an opinion on the and regular post-investment reviews: annual financial statements, and also independently and objectively review the approach of management to reporting the Group has secure information and communication systems operating results and financial condition: capable of capturing relevant and up to date information by relevant personnel: the internal audit function undertakes a programme of reviews as determined by the Board, reporting the results together with strong financial controls are maintained to ensure accurate their advice and recommendations to the Audit Committee.
accounting for transactions, appropriate authorisation limits to The internal audit function is currently provided under an contain exposures, and reliability of data processing and integrity outsourcing arrangement by Ernst & Young this arrangement of information generated: will be subject to periodic review: an in-depth annual budget is reviewed and approved by the annual reports are reviewed independently by the Groups external Board and is regularly subject to update through a formal auditors pursuant to the Statement of Auditing Standards No.
70, re-forecasting process: type II SAS 70 : and oversight and management of the Groups foreign currency cash the Board, through the Audit Committee, receives half-yearly flows and balance sheet exposures are the responsibility of the FX updates from the Groups external auditors which include any Management Committee which determines the appropriate level control matters that have come to their attention.
of hedging required and appropriate accounting treatment: By order of the Board Board members receive monthly management accounts and other relevant reports, which highlight actual financial performance Michael Perman against budget forecast and prior year period: Company Secretary detailed investment reports are prepared and discussed at 12 September 2011 each of the sub-committee meetings of the Groups Investment Committee, which take place weekly or monthly depending on investment theme, with following actions agreed and implemented within a strict operational framework: oversight of the valuation methodologies used for clients fund investments that cannot be readily externally priced is the responsibility of the Groups Pricing Methodology Committee PMC which meets monthly to review the current valuation methodology for each of these investments and to propose an updated valuation methodology where appropriate: Ashmore Group plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41
