72 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate responsibility Our corporate responsibility CR strategy directs our worldwide We have developed a robust CR programme over the past 11 business to focus on success in the long term.
It is central to our years.
Although we acknowledge that we have differing levels overall business strategy, it helps our people to feel proud of the of CR maturity within our markets we are working to develop our organisation they work for and our customers place trust in us capability globally.
Our KPI section lists some areas where we are to bring them prosperity and peace of mind.
In this report we outperforming our targets and leading the CR agenda.
In other highlight how we are addressing the issues that are material areas we have a way to go to meet our ambitions.
In all areas for our business.
These issues include responding to the need we are committed to continuous improvement.
to improve trust and transparency in the financial services sector: Whilst still within the upper quartile for financial services, the attracting and retaining talent: developing communities: number of women in senior management has fallen by 2% over influencing the climate change agenda and promoting the past two years.
Having implemented a balanced leadership sustainable products and services.
programme in 2010, we recognise that we need to continue The report that follows contains a summary of the progress progressing our talent pipeline to reverse this trend.
After long-term and performance of our CR programme in 2011 aligned to these year on year reductions of carbon dioxide we are now facing material issues.
A more detailed review is available online at tougher challenges to reduce carbon.
We are looking to innovative www.
We will continue to build trust and pride in our organisation by our employees with a strong community Highlights from 2011 include: programme, valued development opportunities and transparent Increasing community investment by 9% to 12.4 million communications.
We believe a key part of a long-term, successful and helped 400,000 children to date through our Street business is to have sustainable products.
We have committed to to School campaign.
develop more sustainable products and services going forward.
Delivering our new Business Ethics Code to 89% of employees up from 32% in 2010.
Governance Expanded our carbon footprint boundaries to include Aviva is proud to have a well-established governance structure waste and water emissions.
providing strong leadership and direction.
Our Corporate Participated in the Lord Davies review to highlight the Responsibility Committee was chaired by non-executive director importance of improving gender balance of Women Carole Piwnica in 2011, and comprises our chairman, group CEO on Boards.
and two other non-executive directors, Scott Wheway and Euleen Increased employee engagement, 5.5% increase in Goh.
Carole Piwnica retired at the end of 2011, Gay Huey Evans volunteering hours and a 5% increase to 79% in employees takes over the chairmanship of the Committee going forward.
who think our commitment to CR is genuine.
The Committee reviews strategy and policy and receives regional and functional reports four times a year.
In 2011, it Our strategy received a report from all regional offices and paid close attention to the restructuring of the work that the Internal Audit team Our CR strategy is an integral part of the way Aviva does business cover to support embedding corporate responsibility throughout internally and externally.
Our CR strategy has evolved this year to the organisation.
The Committee also received reports from the align everything we do to the issues that are most material to our IT, procurement, sustainable and responsible investment SRI business.
We have set ourselves the challenge to develop a and customer teams.
As standing items it had business ethics sustainability plan that actively leads our environmental, social and the Street to School programme to discuss.
The Corporate and ethical agenda to secure the long-term success of Aviva.
Responsibility Committees report can be found on page 113.
We have worked together as a group to review our CR Our CR leadership team supports and advises on the strategy, to create a framework and tools that embed sustainability management and implementation of the global CR programme.
principles and ways of working across the business.
We are now The members comprise group CR specialists, regional CR leads implementing the revised strategy to embed sustainability and HR directors who work together to adopt and refine CR throughout Aviva.
We have worked to simplify our language and strategies, assess progress, identify actions that need to be taken to clearly state how our approach to corporate responsibility aids and embed our programmes in different parts of the business.
the long-term success of Aviva.
For example, one of our strategic In addition, the Aviva Board receives both annual and ad hoc areas is to support the business in the development of sustainable updates on CR strategy, activities and progress.
Our CR products and services.
The risk if we fail to do this is that we programme is regularly on the agenda at executive management lose a competitive edge in supplying products to the lowcommittees.
The group and regional CEOs have CR key carbon economy.
performance indicators included in their role profiles.
10% of Our mitigating actions support a sustainable business and in all senior managers bonuses are targeted on leadership and their nature they are interdependent.
The climate change strategy engagement Employee Promise Survey scores.
calls for us to develop sustainable products which requires talented people to join: to encourage talented people to stay we need them Stakeholder communications to be engaged and our community programmes help this.
These By being open and transparent about what we do and how we actions underpin the trust that our employees place in us, investors run our business we believe we have a high degree of integrity trust our governance and risk procedures and customers place their and therefore continue to build trust in Aviva for all of our trust in us to deliver on our promises.
By acting responsibly we stakeholders.
ensure that Aviva is here for the long term to provide prosperity Key to this is the way that we report our CR commitments and peace of mind.
We prepare standalone detailed annual reports for the Carbon Disclosure Project, UN Global Compact, Opportunities during 2012 ClimateWise and Principles for Responsible Investment.
As well In the development of our strategy, it is important that we as providing a narrative CR report we prepare an Accounting recognise the issues that affect our sustainability and manage the for Sustainability statement using the Connected Reporting associated risks.
By working to turn these issues into opportunities Framework to demonstrate the costs associated with our energy, for our business we help to shape the wider debate and action in natural resource use and waste management.
We also use this our societies.
