108 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Audit Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee meeting, a private session is held by Committee members to and the work it has undertaken during the year.
discuss issues to be raised with management in the meeting.
For part of that session, the Committee meets privately with senior Committee role and responsibilities management and separately with the chief audit officer to raise relevant issues.
The Committee members also meet privately with The purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board in the chief audit officer and the external auditor after the majority discharging its responsibilities for the integrity of the Group and of meetings to follow up on particular issues.
The chairman of Companys financial statements, the assessment of the the Committee reports to the subsequent meeting of the Board effectiveness of the system of internal control and monitoring the on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal and external auditors.
agenda and the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
The key responsibilities of the Committee are: In performing its duties, the Committee has access to the reviewing the significant issues and judgements of services of the chief audit officer, the group company secretary management, and the methodology and assumptions used, and external professional advisers.
Keith Nicholson, a former in relation to the Groups financial statements and formal partner at KPMG LLP, acted as an external adviser to the announcements on the Companys financial performance: Committee during the year.
reviewing the Groups going concern assumptions and the reserving position relating to the Groups life assurance and Committee expertise general insurance operations: assessing the effectiveness of the Groups system of The Committee members have significant financial experience internal control, including financial reporting and the and expertise.
Internal Audit function: Russell Walls, a Fellow Chartered Certified Accountant, is considering and making recommendations to the Board on a former group finance director of BAA plc, Wellcome plc and the appointment, reappointment, dismissal or resignation Coats Viyella plc.
Richard Goeltz is a former chief financial officer and remuneration of the external auditor: and of American Express Company and NatWest Group plc and a assessing the independence and objectivity of the external former member of the Accounting Standards Board.
Euleen Goh, auditor and approving and monitoring the application of a Chartered Accountant and member of the Chartered Institute the external auditor policy business standard.
of Taxation, is a former financial controller of Pontiac Land and chief executive of Standard Chartered Bank, Singapore.
Michael The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on Hawker, a Senior Fellow of the Financial Services Institute of the Companys website, www.
com terms-of-reference, and Australasia, is a former chief executive and managing director are also available from the group company secretary.
The Board is satisfied that these directors have recent and Committee membership and attendance relevant financial experience as recommended by the Code and the Board has also determined that they are audit committee The following independent non-executive directors served on the financial experts for the purposes of section 407 of the SarbanesCommittee during the year: Oxley Act 2002.
Period Committee activities during 2011 Member From To Russell Walls Chairman 1 July 2004 To date The work of the Committee follows an agreed annual work plan Mary Francis 1 January 2007 To date and principally falls under three main areas: financial statements Richard Karl Goeltz 1 July 2004 To date and accounting policies: internal control: and the oversight of Euleen Goh 1 January 2009 To date Michael Hawker 1 September 2011 To date internal and external audit.
The chart below shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2011.
Attendance Percentage Number of meetings Audit Committee allocation of agenda time % Committee member attended attendance Russell Walls Chairman 11 100% Mary Francis 11 100% Richard Karl Goeltz 11 100% Financial reporting 22 Euleen Goh 11 100% External audit, auditor Michael Hawker 4 100% engagement and policy 23 Internal audit and controls 18 Michael Hawker attended all Committee meetings following his appointment.
This shows the percentage of meetings which the Committee member attended during the year while a member Financial reporting control of the Committee.
framework and financial reporting developments 22 Others including governance, The Committee met on 11 occasions in 2011, of which eight tax, treasury and dividends 15 were scheduled Committee meetings and three were additional Committee meetings called at short notice.
The members attendance record is set out above.
In addition, the Committee held separate meetings with members of senior management and Financial statements and accounting policies the external auditors to discuss issues relevant to the Committee In conjunction with members of management and the internal and for the purpose of training.
The group company secretary and external auditors, the Committee reviewed the Companys acts as the secretary to the Committee.
financial announcements, including the Annual Report and The group chief executive, chief financial officer, chief audit Accounts to shareholders and associated documentation, the officer, chief risk officer and the external auditor normally attend, half-year results and the interim management statements.
The by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
Other members of Committee placed particular emphasis on their fair presentation senior management are also invited to attend as appropriate to and the reasonableness of the judgemental factors and present reports.
At the beginning of each scheduled Committee Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 109 Aviva plc Audit Committee report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 appropriateness of significant accounting policies used in their Solvency II and the regulatory framework.
of reference for local audit committees were also discussed During the year, the Committee considered the treatment of and implemented.
the sale of RAC, and the deconsolidation of Delta Lloyd following Internal audit the partial disposal of the Groups holding in Delta Lloyd, in the Companys accounts and the accounting assumptions applied to The Committee reviewed, approved and monitored the annual the results.
It also considered the fair value of holdings of Group Internal Audit plan and the effectiveness of the Internal Audit investments.
In November, the Committee considered in detail function.
The level of resources, budget and functional plan for the revised financial statements which were filed in the US in Internal Audit and the remuneration of the chief audit officer connection with the Companys issue of $400m hybrid debt in were also reviewed and approved by the Committee.
the US retail market and the disclosures made by the directors in the prospectus and prospectus supplement.
The Committee was External auditor satisfied with the due diligence, control processes and verification Ernst & Young has been the external auditor of the Company exercise which had been undertaken by management, and with since 2001, having previously been the auditor of Norwich Union accounting policies and judgements used in preparing the plc.
Ernst & Young also currently audits all significant subsidiaries revised accounts.
Internal control Effectiveness During the year, the Committee performed its annual review of Each quarter, the Committee received a report from the chief the independence, effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit officer concerning the Companys system of internal auditor, assessing the audit firm, the audit partner and audit control, including any significant new issues and actions taken teams.
The process was conducted by means of a questionnaire, on previously reported issues.
During 2011, Internal Audit carried completed Group-wide by members of senior management and out assurance reviews over inherent risks throughout the Group.
members of the Groups finance community and the Committee.
Reviews were focused on, but not limited to, areas such as The questionnaire sought opinions on the importance of certain financial risk management, governance and oversight of the criteria and the performance of the external auditor against those Group, the Group compliance framework and major projects criteria.
Based on this review, the Committee concluded that the including Solvency II and the Aviva Ireland Transformation audit service of Ernst & Young was fit for purpose and provided Programme.
a robust overall examination of the Groups business and the Twice during the year, the Committee received reports on the risks involved.
adequacy of the Groups life assurance and general insurance reserves.
The Committee also considered in detail the adequacy Audit tender of controls over a number of Group programmes and projects, In order to ensure good corporate governance and that the including the implementation of the Solvency II programme services of the external auditor remained of the highest quality, and associated internal legal entity restructurings and the the Audit Committee recommended that the provision of external rationalisation of the 12 UK general insurance underwriting audit services be put to tender in 2011.
Following a transparent entities into one main UK underwriter One GI project.
and competitive tender, including presentations from all The Committee reported to the Board regarding the candidate firms and discussions with management, the Audit effectiveness of the Groups overall risk management and internal Committee recommended to the Board of directors that control systems including the risk management system in relation  LLP be appointed to replace Ernst & to the financial reporting process.
The Committee worked closely Young as the external auditor of the Aviva Group commencing with the Risk Committee in its overall review of the Companys with the 2012 financial year.
systems of risk management and internal control.
The system of internal control also extends to the Groups Independence major business units, each of which has an audit committee that The Committee reviewed a formal letter provided by the external provides an oversight role for its business.
Membership of these auditor confirming its independence and objectivity within the local audit committees is mostly comprised of non-executive context of applicable regulatory requirements and professional directors.
The chief audit officer attended regional and business standards.
In line with the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors, the unit audit committee meetings throughout the year and reported Committee considered and agreed the rotation of the external back on their effectiveness to the Committee.
During 2011 the audit partner within Ernst & Young LLP in 2012.
However, given members of the Committee attended several regional and the subsequent decision to appoint  LLP business unit audit committee meetings, including those in as the Groups external auditor commencing with the 2012 Aviva Investors, France, Italy, the UK, the US, Hong Kong financial year, the rotation of the Ernst & Young LLP audit and Singapore.
In addition, the chairs of the Aviva US and Aviva UK audit In line with the Companys adoption of the revised risk committees, and senior management from Aviva Investors, management framework, the existing external auditor policy presented to the Committee during the year, giving the was superseded by the external auditor business standard, Committee a deeper understanding of relevant local issues and which became effective on 1 January 2012.
The principles of the ability to assess the effectiveness of the system of internal the standard are the same as those of the external auditor policy control and the effectiveness and objectivity of the internal audit and are aimed at safeguarding and supporting the independence functions in those businesses.
The programme of attendance and objectivity of the external auditor.
The standard is in full at regional and business unit audit committee meetings and compliance with all UK, US and International Federation of presentations by regional and business unit audit committee Accountants IFAC rules.
The chairs of the regional The external auditor business standard also regulates the and business unit audit and risk committees met in early December appointment of former audit employees to senior finance in a forum which was initiated to align the committees on positions in the Group and sets out the approach to be taken 110 Aviva plc Audit Committee report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 by the Group when using the non-audit services of the principal external auditor.
It distinguishes between those services where an independent view is required and that should be performed by the external auditor such as statutory and non-statutory audit and assurance work, prohibited services where the independence of the external auditor could be threatened and it must not be used, and other non-audit services where the external auditor may be used.
Non-audit services where the external auditor may be used include: non-recurring internal controls and risk management reviews i. e. excluding outsourcing of internal audit work, advice on financial reporting and regulatory matters, due diligence on acquisitions and disposals, project assurance and advice, tax compliance services and employee tax services.
The Committee received a quarterly report of compliance against the external auditor policy which applied during 2011 and will receive a quarterly report against the external auditor business standard in the future.
Audit fees The Group paid 20.0 million to Ernst & Young LLP for audit services in 2011, relating to the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries and associates pursuant to legislation 2010: 18.6 million.
The fees for other services, which included MCEV supplementary reporting, advice on accounting and regulatory matters, reporting on internal controls, reporting on the Groups Individual Capital Assessment, and work on capital transactions, were 8.5 million 2010: 7.0 million, giving a total fee to Ernst & Young LLP of 28.5 million 2010: 25.6 million.
The Group paid 2.4 million to Ernst & Young LLP in relation to other non-audit services.
This included 0.9 million in relation to two risk management effectiveness reviews.
In line with the External Auditor Policy, the Audit Committee satisfied itself that for these engagements, robust controls including appropriate levels of review were in place to ensure that Ernst & Young LLPs objectivity and independence was safeguarded, and concluded that it was in the interests of the Company to purchase these services from Ernst & Young LLP due to its specific expertise.
Further details are provided in note 12 to the consolidated IFRS financial statements.
In addition, the Group engaged Ernst & Young LLP to provide assurance on the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report.
Committee performance and effectiveness The Committee undertook an annual review of its performance and effectiveness.
The review concluded that overall the Committee was effective in carrying out its duties.
Audit Committee Report This Audit Committee Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 7 March 2012.
Russell Walls Chairman, Audit Committee Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 111 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Risk Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Risk Committee and also met privately with the chief risk officer after the majority of the work it has undertaken during the year.
meetings to follow up on particular issues raised at the meetings.
The chairman of the Committee reported to subsequent Committee role and responsibilities meetings of the Board on the Committees work and the Board received a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each meeting of The Committee assists the Board in providing leadership, direction the Committee.
The chairman of the Committee sits on the Audit and oversight of the Groups management of risk.
The key and Remuneration Committees to ensure that risk considerations responsibilities of the Committee are: are fully reflected in the decisions of those Committees.
reviewing the Groups risk appetite and future risk strategy In performing its duties, the Committee had access to the and making recommendations on risk appetite to the Board: services of the chief risk officer, chief audit officer, the group reviewing the Groups risk profile against its risk appetite company secretary and external professional advisers.
Keith and strategy and reviewing the drivers of changes, if any, Nicholson, a former partner at KPMG LLP, acted as an external in the Groups risk profile: adviser to the Committee during the year.
reviewing the design, completeness and effectiveness of the risk management framework relative to the External background Groups activities: assessing the adequacy and quality of the risk management 2011 was a year of two halves.
The first six months of 2011 saw function and the effectiveness of risk reporting within the economic indicators improving internationally, with asset values Group: and generally increasing.
The second half was characterised by a rapid working with the Remuneration Committee to ensure that deterioration of investor confidence in the Eurozone economic risk is considered in setting the overall remuneration policy fundamentals, leading to significant falls in European asset prices, for the Group.
and in particular, European government bonds.
These external market forces, coupled with significantly increased regulation as The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Financial Services Authority sought to introduce and transition the Companys website, www.
com terms-of-reference and towards new operating principles for the Prudential Regulatory are also available from the group company secretary.
Authority, and the continued development of the Solvency II Directive resulted in challenging conditions for the financial Committee membership and attendance services industry as a whole.
Against this backdrop, the Committee particularly focused on the management actions The following independent non-executive directors served on the necessary to strengthen the Companys capital base, its Committee during the year: capital generation, its liquidity management and its risk management culture.
Period Member From To Michael Hawker Chairman from Committee activities during 2011 1 September 2011 1 January 2010 To date The Committees principal functions are: to assist the Board in Mary Francis Chairman from making decisions on the Groups risk appetite: to oversee the 1 January 2007 to 31 August 2011 and Committee member monitoring and control of risks so that they remain aligned with thereafter 14 January 2006 To date appetite: to ensure that management is reviewing emerging risks Leslie Van fide Walle 24 September 2009 To date and testing the Groups resilience through scenario planning Russell Walls 14 January 2006 To date and stress testing: to give clear direction to the way the Group assesses its capital requirements and the quality of its assets and Attendance to assist the Board in ensuring a balance between risk and reward Percentage Number of meetings in relation to executive remuneration.
The Committee oversees Committee member attended attendance 1 all aspects of risk management in the Group, including market, Michael Hawker Chairman 10 91% 2 Mary Francis 10 91% credit, liquidity, insurance and operational risk including franchise Leslie Van fide Walle 11 100% risk, and their impact on both financial and non-financial goals.
Russell Walls 11 100% The chart below shows how the Committee allocated its time This shows the percentage of meetings which the Committee member attended during the year while a member of the Committee.
1 Michael Hawker was unable to attend the Committee meeting held on 23 March 2011 due to prior commitments.
2 Mary Francis was unable to attend the Committee meeting held on 12 October 2011 due to prior commitments and this meeting being called at short notice.
Risk Committee allocation of agenda time % The Committee met on 11 occasions in 2011, of which nine were scheduled Committee meetings and two were additional Risk appetite, risk management Committee meetings called at short notice.
The members and risk reporting 32 attendance record is set out above.
In addition the Committee Group capital, liquidity management and stress testing 24 held separate meetings with members of senior management and Preparation for Solvency II 12the external auditor to discuss issues relevant to the Committee Regulatory and governance 11 and for the purposes of induction and training.
The group Business protection and IT security 5 Others including internal audit, company secretary acts as the secretary to the Committee.
2010 Report and Accounts, The group chief executive, chief risk officer, chief financial Corporate & Speciality Risks 16 officer and the chief audit officer normally attended, by invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
Other members of senior management were also invited to attend as appropriate to present reports.
It was the Committees practice at each meeting to meet separately with the chief executive officer, without any members of management being present.
Committee members 112 Aviva plc Risk Committee report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Fraud and financial crime During the year the Committee focused on the following areas: The Committee maintained regular oversight of compliance with Strengthening risk management across the Group controls against financial malpractice including fraud, and of the At the beginning of 2011, the Committee considered in detail arrangements for employees to report in confidence any concerns and approved an enhanced comprehensive Risk Plan the Plan about lack of probity whistleblowing.
The Committee also to provide a step change in the pace of implementation of the discussed the implications of the Bribery Act which came into Groups risk management framework.
The Plan built on the force during the year.
It paid particular attention to the update of existing risk operating model to ensure that leading standards of the Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Standard and the roll-out risk management were embedded at all levels of the business and of an anti-bribery global communications programme and the Committee received regular updates on the implementation training for the Groups businesses and employees.
of the Plan and the enhancement of the risk awareness culture Internal controls throughout the business.
The Plan placed strong emphasis on the risk function to ensure the embedding of risk-based decision The Groups internal audit function continued to provide the Committee with independent and objective reports on the making on economic capital, the setting of clear statements of risk appetite, especially for economic capital and liquidity, and appropriateness, effectiveness and sustainability of the Companys system of internal controls.
Key control issues the rigorous management of risk exposures within limits.
reported by Internal Audit to management and to the Committee Risk appetite monitoring members were monitored on a quarterly basis until the related As the macro-economic climate deteriorated in the latter half risk exposures had been properly mitigated.
of the year, the Committee received regular detailed reports on More detail on the management of risk is contained in the key risk exposures, the drivers of risk in the Group and emerging Risk and capital management section of the Performance Review and potential risks, including the risk of a sustained low interest on pages 61 to 68. rate environment.
The Committee gave particular focus to the monitoring of the Groups capital and liquidity positions against Committee performance and effectiveness risk appetite, the results of stress and scenario testing and the The Committee undertook an annual review of its performance drivers of financial and insurance risks.
The Committee critically and effectiveness.
The review concluded that overall the assessed and challenged the appropriateness of the Groups risk Committee was effective in carrying out its duties.
appetite, rigorously monitored the Groups exposure against appetite particularly in relation to European sovereign debt Risk Committee Report holdings, counterparty and credit exposure, and assessed the This Risk Committee Report was reviewed and approved by the actions taken to mitigate any risks that had become out of Board on 7 March 2012. appetite.
Working with the Audit Committee, the Committee also monitored the adequacy of the Group control framework.
Capital and liquidity management Throughout the year, the Committee closely monitored the Michael Hawker Groups economic capital and liquidity positions, particularly in Chairman, Risk Committee light of the evolving Eurozone uncertainty, and considered in detail the management actions being taken to address the impact of the economic environment.
Preparing for Solvency II Against a changing and evolving regulatory landscape and with an increasing emphasis on economic capital, the Committee continued to have oversight of all aspects of the programme to implement the Solvency II Directive.
Throughout the year, the Committee received regular progress reports on the development of the models that are used to calculate economic capital requirements and the stress and scenario testing techniques used to validate the results.
The Committee also had oversight of the detailed contingency planning in relation to the Groups internal model.
Group risk management During the year, the Committee approved the new suite of policies and underlying standards which underpin the revised risk management framework and which would be effective from January 2012.
The Committee continued to receive regular reports on compliance with the existing Group policies.
The Committee also received regular reports on the development and roll-out of the Better Business Decisions programme, which was designed to equip senior management with the skills needed to embed enhanced risk-based decision making in the core business functions across the Group.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 113 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Responsibility Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Corporate Corporate Responsibility Committee Responsibility Committee and the work it has undertaken allocation of agenda time % during the year.
CR strategy, reporting and Committee role and responsibilities governance 35 Region review 14 The purpose of the Committee is to set guidance and direction Stakeholder recognition and and to oversee the policies and progress of the Groups corporate business ethics 20 responsibility CR activities.
The key responsibilities of the Street to School programme 14 Customers and employees 10 Committee are: Climate change and environment 7 assisting the Board in the development of the Groups strategy on CR related issues including social, environmental and ethical matters: reviewing the Groups CR and environment policies to CR strategy and performance ensure they continue to meet the Groups CR strategy and The Committee reviewed the Group CR strategy and functional objectives: plan for 20112013.
It also monitored the progress made during reviewing and monitoring the Groups CR risks and working the year by the Groups businesses against each of the CR key with the Risk Committee to ensure that the Groups CR risks performance indicators and continued to receive updates on key are properly considered: and CR programme activities such as the Street to School programme, reviewing and approving the CR Report in the Companys business ethics and stakeholder recognition.
There was continued Annual Report and Accounts and providing for an emphasis on strengthening CR performance through employee appropriate form of assurance.
engagement, by influencing key stakeholders and by embedding balanced leadership throughout the organisation.
The full terms of reference for the Committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
com terms-of-reference, and Risk management are also available from the group company secretary.
The Committee continued to monitor the risks relating to the Groups CR activities together with associated risk mitigation Committee membership and attendance initiatives.
The following directors served on the Committee during the year: Assurance Period During 2011, independent assurance on the Groups CR and Member From To related activities and reporting was provided to the Committee Gay Huey Evans Chairman from by Ernst & Young.
Members of the Committee were interviewed 1 December 2011 20 October 2011 To date as part of the external assurance process and the subsequent Euleen Goh 1 January 2009 To date Andrew Moss 12 July 2007 To date management report, including Avivas action plan, was reviewed Carole Piwnica Chairman from by the Committee to assist in the strengthening and future 25 March 2009 until direction of the programme.
Internal Audit reported to the 1 December 2011 14 January 2006 1 December 2011 Committee on any matters from the reviews in the Internal Audit Lord Sharman 14 January 2006 To date Scott Wheway 5 December 2007 To date Plan which were of relevance to the Committee and will provide support for the Committee going forward, with the sustainable objectives incorporated into the 2012 Internal Audit Plan.
Attendance Number of meetings Percentage Committee member attended attendance Corporate Responsibility Report Gay Huey Evans Chairman 1 100% During the year, the Committee reviewed and approved the Euleen Goh 4 100% scope and content of the Companys 2011 CR Report included 1 Andrew Moss 3 75% in this Annual Report and Accounts.
As was the case in 2010 Carole Piwnica 4 100% 1 and 2011, the Company will again put its CR Report included Lord Sharman 3 75% Scott Wheway 4 100% in the Annual Report and Accounts to an annual advisory vote Appointed chairman of the Committee on 1 December 2011. of shareholders at the 2012 AGM as a means of obtaining Retired as chairman of the Committee on 1 December 2011. feedback on the report and the Companys performance in this This shows the percentage of meetings which the Committee member attended during the year while a member of the Committee.
This years CR Report is set out on pages 72 to 88 and 1 Colin Sharman and Andrew Moss were unable to attend the Committee meeting held on 16 February 2011 due to prior commitments and this meeting being called at short notice.
further details of the relevant resolution are set out in the Notice of AGM.
The Committee met on four occasions in 2011 and the members attendance record is set out above.
The group company secretary Committee performance and effectiveness or her nominee acts as the secretary to the Committee.
The Committee undertook an annual review of its performance The group HR director and group CR director attended, by and effectiveness.
The review concluded that overall the invitation, all meetings of the Committee.
Other members of Committee was effective in carrying out its duties.
senior management were also invited to attend as appropriate to present reports.
The chairman of the Committee reports to Corporate Responsibility Committee Report meetings of the Board on the Committees work and the Board This Corporate Responsibility Committee Report was reviewed receives a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each meeting and approved by the Board on 7 March 2012. of the Committee.
Committee activities during 2011 Gay Huey Evans Chairman, Corporate Responsibility Committee The following chart shows how the Committee allocated its time during 2011, with key activities set out in more detail below: 114 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors remuneration report Highlights At the Companys 2011 Annual General Meeting AGM, our shareholders endorsed the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report, which proposed changes to the Groups executive remuneration structures and plans.
These were outlined in detail in the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report and are summarised below in Section 2.
As outlined in the Chairmans Statement, while the outlook for the wider economy has been pessimistic, particularly in the Eurozone, Aviva has performed strongly, and management and employees have remained focused on executing our strategy, and on delivering our goals, despite market volatility.
Aviva has performed well against the Groups Key Performance Indicators KPIs and the financial and non-financial targets set in respect of the 2011 Annual Bonus Plan were mostly exceeded during the year.
The combination of financial outcomes, along with performance against targets relating to employees, customers and personal objectives mean the group chief executive received a bonus of 80.27% of his maximum opportunity for 2011 2010: 74.3%.
In line with emerging practice, we are disclosing 2012 salary increases and LTIP awards for the first time.
These are presented alongside the historical information for the previous year, in table 7.
Andrea Moneta resigned from the Board of Aviva plc the Board on 19 January 2011 and left the Company on 28 February 2011.
Details of his leaving arrangements are disclosed in this report.
Mark Hodges resigned from the Board on 2 June 2011 and left the Company on 9 September 2011.
Igal Mayer was appointed as chief executive, Aviva Europe and joined the Board on 19 January 2011.
Details of his annual remuneration are shown in section 11 of this report.
Trevor Matthews joined Aviva and the Board on 2 December 2011, as chief executive, Aviva UK.
His annual remuneration is shown in section 11 of this report.
He received a share award to compensate him for certain awards which he forfeited on leaving his previous employer.
This award will vest in tranches over three years subject to Mr Matthews remaining in the employment of the Group.
See further details in section 10 of this report.
The Remuneration Committee the Committee is satisfied that the Company paid no more than necessary in approving that buy-out.
Introduction This report sets out the details of the remuneration policy for the Companys directors, describes its implementation and discloses the amounts paid in 2011.
In addition to meeting statutory requirements, particularly the regulations on directors remuneration reports pursuant to the Companies Act 2006, the Committee has complied with best practice guidelines, including guidance issued by the Association of British Insurers and the National Association of Pension Funds, in producing this report.
Relevant sections of this report have been audited in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
During 2011, executive remuneration has been under intense scrutiny.
The Committee has been conscious of the external environment and has given due consideration to market sentiment and potential future regulation.
At the time of writing this report, proposed additional regulation by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills BIS has not been issued, but the Committee believes that the approach taken over the last few years by Aviva will leave it well positioned against the likely final outcome of such regulation.
This report covers the following: The Committees objectives, membership and main activities in 2011: A review of Avivas remuneration policy and practice: Commentary on the alignment between remuneration, risk and Avivas business strategy and objectives: Details of the terms of executive directors EDs employment contracts: Avivas share ownership policy with respect to EDs: Avivas policy on external board appointments: Avivas UK all employee share plans and executive share plans: Avivas position against dilution limits: Remuneration of the non-executive directors NEDs : and Tables summarising the 2011 position on: Directors remuneration EDs pension arrangements Share award and option plans Directors interests in shares.
Strategic Reward Review implementation Throughout 2010, the Company conducted a comprehensive review of senior executive remuneration, the objectives of which were: to ensure remuneration is optimally designed to attract and retain senior executives, while avoiding paying more than is necessary: to ensure remuneration is aligned with, and incentivises the achievement of, our strategic business aims while ensuring appropriate risk management: to benchmark total compensation against suitable comparator groups to ensure remuneration is appropriately positioned against the market: and to ensure our reward plans appropriately reflect regulatory requirements and best practice guidelines.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 115 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Details of this Strategic Reward Review and the proposed changes in respect of executive remuneration resulting from the Review were outlined in the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report, which was endorsed by shareholders at the Companys 2011 AGM.
A summary of how these changes impacted the group chief executive and the other EDs in 2011 is shown below: Revised benchmarking group: The role of the Committee is to apply appropriate judgement in setting pay levels having considered a range of data, including primarily the 25 FTSE companies either side of Avivas market capitalisation.
The absolute peer group will be reviewed annually based on the most up-to-date market data available.
Simplified structure: Annual bonus: In order to help drive a reward and performance culture, the number of KPIs that comprise the financial bonus element will be ideally kept to a maximum of four.
These will be disclosed in the Annual Report and Accounts following the relevant year end and will endeavour to reflect all relevant outcomes, behaviours and risk management actions sought by the Board.
Competitive long-term incentive plans: New revised standard long-term incentive awards have been granted to ensure our packages remain competitive within the relevant market place, and represent value for the shareholder.
As disclosed in last years report, One Aviva, twice the value bonus plan OATTV Plan awards were not made and EDs received awards under the standard Long Term Incentive Plan LTIP only.
Share ownership requirements: The share ownership requirement of the group chief executive increased from 175% to 200% of basic salary.
In addition, members of the Executive Committee EC who are not EDs saw the introduction of a new share ownership requirement of 50% of basic salary: 50% of the EDs, including the group chief executive, executive share plan releases and 25% of the EC members executive share plan releases will be required to be held, net of withholding taxes, until such time as their share ownership requirement is met.
Table 1: Strategic Reward Reviews key changes to each element of remuneration for the EDs, as implemented in 2011 From 2011 as advised in the 2010 Directors Remuneration element 2010 Remuneration Report Basic salary total remuneration Lower quartile to median of the FTSE 30 and the By reference to the median of 25 FTSE companies benchmarking group median to upper quartile of the FTSE 50 either side of Avivas market capitalisation Annual Bonus Target 75% of basic salary Unchanged target and maximum opportunity Maximum 150% of basic salary Financial measures limited to four, where possible Multiple financial measures No change to deferral arrangements Two-thirds deferred into shares for three years OATTV Plan Group chief executive: Matches 100% of the Plan expired in 2010 deferred annual bonus ED: Matches 75% of the deferred annual bonus LTIP Group chief executive: 175% standard award Group chief executive: 275% standard award EDs: 150% standard award EDs: 225% standard award Performance measures: 50% total return MCEV Performance measures: 50% Operating IFRS Return on Capital Employed ROCE, 50% relative ROCE, 50% Relative TSR IFRS ROCE is considered Total Shareholder Return TSR a more stable balance sheet measure 30% vests for threshold performance 20% vests for threshold performance Share ownership requirement Group chief executive: 175% of basic salary Group chief executive: 200% of basic salary EDs: 150% of basic salary EDs: 150% of basic salary To be fulfilled five years from date of appointment EC members: 50% of basic salary EDs, including group chief executive, must retain 50% of net executive share plan releases EC members 25% until requirement is met No significant changes to the policies agreed and communicated to shareholders last year are proposed for 2012.
Committees role and responsibilities The purpose of the Committee is to: establish a competitive remuneration package to attract, retain and motivate high-quality leaders while avoiding paying more than is necessary: promote the achievement of both the Companys annual plans and its strategic objectives by providing a remuneration package that contains appropriately motivating targets that are within the Groups risk appetite: and align senior executives remuneration with the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders, including customers and employees.
The Committees key responsibilities are to: recommend to the Board the Groups remuneration policy for EDs and members of senior management, covering basic salary, bonus, long-term incentives, retirement provisions, long-term wealth creation and other benefits: work with the Risk Committee to ensure that risk is properly considered in setting the overall remuneration policy for the Group and the remuneration of EDs and members of senior management: strike an appropriate balance between i the fixed and variable components and ii the cash, equity and equity related components of the total remuneration package: ensure the remuneration package is congruent with, and provides the incentives to realise, shortand long-term goals and have regard to pay and conditions elsewhere within the Group: 116 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 review and determine the terms of employment and remuneration of the individual EDs, including any specific recruitment or severance terms: assess and, within the broad policy from time to time approved by the Board, determine the remuneration terms of the Chairman of the Company: recommend to the Board the establishment of any employee share plans and exercise all the Boards powers in relation to the operation of all share incentive plans, including the granting of awards, the setting and testing of performance conditions where appropriate, and any discretion on behalf of the Board regarding any material amendments to the plans rules not requiring the approval of shareholders: and select, appoint and determine terms of reference for independent remuneration consultants to advise the Committee on remuneration policy and levels of remuneration.
com terms-of-reference, and are also available from the group company secretary.
Committee membership Table 2 below shows the directors who served as members of the Committee during the year, all of whom are independent NEDs, and individuals who attended Committee meetings: Table 2: Members and attendees of the Committee during 2011 Member Position Comments Scott Wheway Chairman of the Committee Member since 5 December 2007, chairman since 1 January 2009 Mary Francis Member Member from 25 January 2006 until 1 June 2011 Michael Hawker Member Member since 1 June 2011 Carole Piwnica Member Member from 25 January 2006 until 1 December 2011 Leslie Van fide Walle Member Member since 24 September 2009 Lord Sharman Chairman of the Company Attended by invitation Andrew Moss Group chief executive Attended by invitation John McFarlane Non-executive director Attended by invitation John Ainley Group HR director Attended as an executive responsible for advising on the remuneration policy Kirstine Cooper Group company secretary Attended as secretary to the Committee Tracey ORourke Group reward and HR policy director Attended as an executive responsible for advising on the remuneration policy Martyn Fisher Group reward director Attended as an executive responsible for advising on the remuneration policy David Rogers Chief accounting officer Attended to advise on matters relating to the performance measures and targets for the Groups share incentive plans Amanda Mackenzie Chief marketing and communications officer Attended to advise on matters relating to customer target setting Alain Dromer Chief executive, Aviva Investors Attended to advise on matters relating to Aviva Investors remuneration policy in relation to the FSAs Remuneration Code Nigel Clemson Executive HR director, Aviva Investors Attended to advise on matters relating to Aviva Investors remuneration policy in relation to the FSAs Remuneration Code Representatives of AON Attended by invitation as the Committees independent adviser until Hewitt New Bridge Street August 2011.
AHNBS is part of AON, which provided insurance broking AHNBS services to the Company in 2011 Representatives of FIT Attended by invitation as the Committees independent adviser from Remuneration Consultants August 2011.
FIT Remuneration Consultants provided no other services to the Group in 2011 Both AHNBS and FIT Remuneration Consultants are members of the Remuneration Consultants Group the professional body established under the Walker review and adhere to its code of conduct.
No person was present during any discussion relating to their own remuneration.
In addition to the members and attendees listed in Table 2 above, the chief risk officer provided advice on the management of risk within the remuneration framework and Deloitte LLP advised the Committee on the calculation of TSR in respect of the LTIP vesting.
Deloitte LLP were not appointed by the Committee and they provided consultancy services to the Group in 2011.
The chairman of the Committee reports to meetings of the Board on the Committees work and the Board receives a copy of the agenda and the minutes of each meeting of the Committee.
The Committee undertook an annual review of its performance and effectiveness.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 117 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 5.
Committee attendance and activities during 2011 The Committee is required by its terms of reference to meet at least three times per year.
In 2011, the Committee met ten times and the number of meetings attended by each Committee member is shown in Table 3: Table 3: Committee attendance Number of meetings Percentage 1 Committee member attended attendance Scott Wheway Chairman 10 100% 2 Mary Francis 5 71% 3 Michael Hawker 3 100% 4 Carole Piwnica 8 89% 5 Leslie Van fide Walle 9 90% 1 This shows the percentage of meetings which the Committee member attended during the year while a member of the Committee.
2 Mary Francis was unable to attend meetings held on 19 January 2011 and 24 May 2011 due to prior commitments and these meetings being called at short notice.
Mrs Francis stepped down as a member of the Committee on 1 June 2011 and therefore was no longer a member of the Committee when the last three meetings of 2011 were held.
3 Michael Hawker attended all of the meetings held following his appointment to the Committee on 1 June 2011.
4 Carole Piwnica was unable to attend the meeting held on 30 November 2011 due to a prior commitment.
Mrs Piwnica stepped down as a member of the Committee on 1 December 2011 and therefore was no longer a member of the Committee when the last meeting of 2011 was held.
5 Leslie Van fide Walle was unable to attend the meeting held on 26 April 2011 due to a prior commitment and the meeting being called at short notice.
The Committee has a standing calendar of agenda items within Remuneration Committee its remit.
In addition to these items, the Committee discusses allocation of agenda time % matters relating to the operation of the Groups remuneration policy and emerging market practices.
The chart opposite Strategic reward review 6 summarises the time allocated to various agenda items during Remuneration terms for new 2011 and Table 4 below sets out the matters discussed by the EDs and EC members 10 FSAs remuneration code 4Committee.
EDs, EC members and senior managements salaries and bonuses 20 EDs and EC members objectives and Group targets including risk objectives 30 Pensions and long-term savings 5 Share plan awards and performance conditions 5 Discussions regarding Group Risk input into compensation arrangements 5 Other matters 15 Table 4: Matters discussed by the Committee during its 2011 meetings Meeting Standing agenda items Other agenda items 17 January None Approval of the departure terms for Andrea Moneta 18 January None Discussion of Igal Mayers appointment terms as an ED 19 January None Approval of Igal Mayers appointment terms as an ED 2 February None Discussion of communications to institutional investors regarding the Strategic Reward Review Agreement that bonus awards for senior management would take account of risk objectives Discussions of the FSAs Remuneration Code 28 February A review and approval of basic salaries and benefits in kind for Approval of the 2011 personal objectives for EDs and EC EDs and EC members members Consideration and approval of bonus awards for the 2010 Approval of amendments to the rules of the Aviva AESOP financial year and approval of share awards under the Annual Approval of amendments to the Committees Terms of Bonus Plan ABP for EDs and EC members Reference A review and approval of LTIP grants to the EDs and EC members and approval of the performance conditions for the 2011 LTIP grants A performance test of subsisting LTIP and OATTV Plan grants A review of dilution limits A review and approval of recommendations on contributions into the Aviva Capital Accumulation Plan ACAP Approval of the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report Approval of the award of Free Shares to UK employees under the Aviva All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP and awards to Irish employees under the Aviva Group Employee Share Ownership Scheme A review of EDs and EC members shareholding requirements A review and approval of the chairman of the Companys fees April None Discussion and approval of the proposed remuneration package for a newly appointed EC member 118 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Table 4: Matters discussed by the Committee during its 2011 meetings continued May None Discussion and approval of the proposed remuneration package and joining arrangements for Trevor Matthews August A review of dilution limits Discussion of the remuneration benchmarking and Approval of an invitation to UK employees to participate in proposed 2012 salary increase for the group chief the Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme and to Irish executive employees to participate in the Aviva Ireland Save As You Discussion regarding the remuneration benchmarking of Earn Scheme SAYE Schemes EDs and EC members in 2012 Approval of amendments to the remuneration package and joining arrangements for Trevor Matthews Approval of a localisation agreement for an EC member Approval of amendments to the Aviva Recruitment and Retention Share Award Plan Approval of the appointment of FIT Remuneration Consultants to provide remuneration services to the Committee in place of AHNBS November Approval of the group chief executives personal objectives Approval of the finalised remuneration package and for 2012 joining arrangements for Trevor Matthews Approval of the proposed 2012 financial, employee and Discussions of the FSAs and Solvency II remuneration customer targets for the operation of the ABP requirements A review of the proposed approach to the 2011 Directors Remuneration Report A review of the Committees 2012 work plan December None Discussion of EDs and EC members personal and risk objectives for 2012 Approval of a revised list of Code Staff for two Aviva UK subsidiaries with regard to the FSAs Remuneration Code 6.
FSAs Remuneration Code: Aviva Investors The FSAs Remuneration Code does not apply to Avivas businesses with the exception of Aviva Investors and two small subsidiaries within the UK business.
These businesses are in full compliance with the FSAs Remuneration Codes requirements and the Company expects the Solvency II Directive and other European-based legislation to further define requirements in this area in the near future.
Specifically, Aviva Investors policy on remuneration takes into account its status as a Tier 4 organisation as defined in the FSAs Remuneration Code 2010, and as such is fully compliant with this code.
Aviva Investors reward principles and arrangements are designed to accurately and appropriately incentivise and reward employees for achieving stated business goals in a manner that is consistent with the Companys approach to sound and effective risk management.
Effective risk management is central to how the Company and Aviva Investors perform and the risk profile of each business is also taken into account in compensation decisions.
The approach to performance and reward is designed to drive sustainable performance, ensuring that remuneration policies support the business strategy and long-term interests of the Company.
Changes to UK pension taxation Following announcements by the UK government during late 2010 and 2011, the Company reviewed its approach to pension provisions for those employees whose pension contributions exceed either the newly reduced annual allowance or, from April 2012, the newly reduced Lifetime Allowance.
The Company fully supports, where possible, the continued tax-efficient provision of retirement benefits.
In reviewing the ongoing retirement benefit plan changes, no arrangements were entered into which materially increased Company costs.
For those employees who are members of the UK Defined Contribution Plan, an option is provided to pay the excess over 50,000 per annum as either a lump sum or a contribution into an Employee Benefit Trust which generates a tax point in five years time and has a 12-month risk of forfeiture for those who either resign or are terminated for cause.
Alignment of Group strategy with executive remuneration The Committee considers alignment between Group strategy and the remuneration of its senior executives, including EDs, to be critical.
It believes that senior executives should be appropriately rewarded on a market competitive basis for the delivery of stretching goals but should receive reduced rewards when the business performs poorly.
The pay and employment conditions of employees of the Company and the Group were also taken into account when determining directors remuneration for the financial year, in addition to the Group Reward policies and framework.
To achieve this alignment Avivas remuneration package is leveraged, with a suitable percentage of pay at risk against the achievement of stretching goals, which is aligned with the Companys risk profile and employee behaviour.
Furthermore, two-thirds of any bonus for EDs and EC members and any LTIP grants are delivered in the form of Aviva shares.
The requirements to defer bonus and participation in the LTIP closely tie the long-term value of executive remuneration to the Companys share price performance.
Senior executives thus have high exposure to the same benefits and drawbacks of share price movement as all shareholders.
The belief that senior executives should be shareholders is reinforced through formal guidelines requiring EDs to build up and maintain a significant holding of shares in the Company.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 119 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Section 2 outlines the key changes in respect of executive remuneration that were implemented in 2011, following the Strategic Reward Review.
The Committees considerations shown below relate to reward decisions made in 2011.
The Groups strategic priorities and targets are set out elsewhere in the 2011 Annual Report and Accounts.
Those priorities are reflected closely in the remuneration package of executives.
The Committee also considers how, given changing economic circumstances, the Groups priorities, and consequently the targets underpinning its bonus structures, need to change from year to year.
Financial targets sit alongside targets on customer advocacy and employee engagement that the Committee believes are critical to long-term organisational health.
The personal objectives of the EDs and EC members are reviewed annually by the Committee to ensure they adequately reflect the strategic aims of the Group, good governance and best practice.
Basic salary: Internal and external equity in basic salary positioning is an important contributor to a motivational remuneration package.
A range of market data is used to inform decision making, taking into account the Companys benchmarking policy including regard to the 25 FTSE companies either side of Avivas market capitalisation.
Annual bonus plan: Bonus structures are effective only if they drive, through the targets, the maintenance of the Company on a sound financial footing and sustained profitable growth.
In addition, the targets must not provide an incentive to promote behaviours which could be detrimental to the Companys long-term interests.
Management must justify the targets it recommends.
The Committee is satisfied that the targets provide appropriate incentives, are sufficiently challenging, are aligned to shareholders interests and are within the Groups risk appetite.
LTIP: The LTIP encourages a longer-term management focus on ROCE and relative TSR.
These metrics measure how the Company is performing in both absolute and relative terms.
The Committee considers all these elements, plus retirement and other benefits, as a whole.
It looks to ensure that an appropriate balance is maintained between the elements to ensure that the need for both short-term success and long-term sustainable growth is recognised.
The Committee also ensures that the non-financial business measures and individual objectives reflect adequately the Companys environmental, social and governance responsibilities.
Constituent elements of reward as a percentage of total remuneration Table 5 below shows how the Groups remuneration policy translates in practice into the group chief executives remuneration package.
The table outlines the contribution each element makes to overall compensation at both Target and Stretch levels of performance for the group chief executive.
For the remainder of EDs, 43% 42% for Igal Mayer of total remuneration is paid in cash for on Target performance and 32% 30% for Igal Mayer for Stretch performance excluding ACAP which EDs participate in to varied degrees: see Table 7.
For all the EDs, more than half of total remuneration is performance-related.
Table 5: Breakdown of remuneration for group chief executive in 2011 Total remuneration elements Total remuneration elements Target Target Salary Bonus LTIP ACAP Cash VariShares 28% 21% 37% 14% 41% able 52% Cash 7% Stretch Stretch Salary Bonus LTIP ACAP Cash Variable Shares 17% 26% 48% 9% 26% Cash 65% 9% % 20 406080 100% 20 406080 100 For the purposes of the charts above, Cash includes basic salary and the discretionary ACAP payment.
Variable Cash is the onethird of bonus paid in cash annually.
The share element includes the two-thirds of the annual bonus deferred into shares and the LTIP.
2011 Target performance means a target ABP outcome 75% of basic salary and a 50% vesting of the LTIP 137.5% of basic salary.
2011 Stretch performance means a stretch ABP outcome 150% of basic salary and 100% vesting of the LTIP 275% of basic salary.
The breakdown does not include any share price growth, the dividend equivalents payable on the ABP deferred shares and 2011 LTIP award, or other benefits e. g. cash car allowance, value of private medical insurance PMI and all employee share ownership plans.
120 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 10.
Remuneration policy in practice for EDs Table 6, below, summarises Avivas remuneration policy as it is applied in practice to EDs.
Table 6: Remuneration policy in practice Policy How delivered Total remuneration Total remuneration package levels are informed by relevant pay data, in particular for 2011, the Basic salary median range of the 25 FTSE companies either side of Avivas market capitalisation.
ABP These reference points are chosen to reflect Avivas market capitalisation and comparability LTIP to other large, sophisticated multi-national companies and the positioning that is appropriate Long-term savings to Aviva in those different comparator groups.
Aviva Staff Pension Scheme ASPS Benefits All employee schemes Basic salary Benchmarked as for total remuneration but with positioning and progression taking account of Monthly in cash individual and business performance and the levels of increase provided for the broader UK Reviewed annually in February, with employee population basic salaries of the UK employees increased by 2% on average in 2011. changes taking effect from 1 April.
The Committee takes seriously institutional investors concerns on the upward ratchet of basic salaries and is rigorous in its review of salaries against market position.
ABP The ABP is intended to incentivise executives to achieve the annual business plan, based on a Annually, one-third is paid in cash and series of key financial, employee and customer performance indicators KPIs, which make up two-thirds in deferred shares.
70% of the bonus opportunity, and personal objectives which make up 30%.
75% of basic salary is payable for on target performance and up to 150% for stretch performance.
Two-thirds of bonus is deferred into shares and the deferred shares vest on the third anniversary of the date of grant.
The vesting of deferred shares is reduced on resignation or in certain other leaver circumstances for deferrals made prior to March 2011.
Vesting of deferred shares is forfeited on resignation or in certain other leaver circumstances for deferrals made from March 2011.
Additional shares are awarded at vesting in lieu of the dividends paid on the deferred shares during the deferral period.
The plan rules give the Committee the authority to cancel unvested awards in the event of misconduct by the participant or a member of their team, or in the event of a materially adverse misstatement of the Companys financial statements.
LTIP The LTIP is intended to motivate the achievement of the Companys longer-term objectives, to aid Annual awards in shares that vest, subject the retention of key personnel and to align executive interests to those of shareholders.
In 2011 to ROCE and relative TSR performance the group chief executive was eligible to receive an annual award of shares equal to 275% of conditions being met, at the end of a basic salary.
Other EDs were eligible to receive an annual award of shares equal to 225% and, in three-year performance period.
the case of Igal Mayer, 250% of basic salary this reflects the fact that Mr Mayer was previously Awards that do not vest lapse.
on US conditions of employment, under which he would have been eligible for a higher standard award, reflective of market practice.
The Company operates a phantom scheme in the US for its US-based employees.
The levels of award reflect US market practice.
For awards made prior to 2011, no additional shares are awarded for the dividends paid during the three-year performance period on those shares that vest.
From 2011 onwards, dividend equivalent awards will be paid in line with current market practice.
Long-term savings The Aviva Capital Accumulation Plan ACAP is a long-term savings vehicle which aids retention Discretionary payments into a trust where while recognising the need for flexibility in long-term wealth planning.
they are held for a minimum of five years.
Company contributions are discretionary and vary year on year, but would not normally exceed 50% of basic salary.
Contributions for the EDs are shown in the Table 7.
No ED who participates in the ACAP is currently accruing benefits in the ASPS.
A resignation or departure for breach of contract results in forfeiture of contribution for the relevant year.
ASPS The UK ASPS provides a competitive post-retirement package.
Deferred cash payable on retirement in Lump sum death in service benefit of four times basic salary is provided, as is a spouses the form of a lump sum monthly payment.
or partners pension equal to two-thirds of actual or, on death in service and in certain other circumstances, prospective pension.
Post-retirement increases are equivalent to the Retail Price Index up to a maximum of 7.5%.
Retirement benefits can be accessed from age 60.
Other benefits Other benefits are provided on a market competitive basis.
Cash car allowance PMI Accompanied Travel Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 121 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Table 6: Remuneration Policy in practice continued Policy How delivered Conditional Share Award to Trevor Matthews The Committee approved the granting of a one-off conditional share award to Trevor Matthews The conditional share award will vest in with a grant value of 2.02 million as part of the recruitment offer made to him.
Mr Matthews three equal tranches on the first dealing became entitled to the grant of the award on the date of the commencement of his employment, day of March 2012, March 2013 and 2 December 2011.
The conditional share award was made on an exceptional basis, pursuant to March 2014 subject to Mr Matthews rule 9.4.
2 2 of the Listing Rules, to compensate for the loss of long-term incentives at his remaining in the employment of the previous employer having taken due account of the conditions attached to those forfeited Group and no dealing restrictions being awards.
The award was necessary to secure Mr Matthews recruitment and is subject to clawback in place on the vesting date.
Additional shares will be awarded at vesting in lieu of the dividends paid on the vested If Mr Matthews employment is terminated shares between the award date and vesting date.
due to resignation or dismissal for gross misconduct or gross incompetence, any unvested shares subject to the award will lapse and the Company will reclaim any part of the award which vested during the 12 months prior to the termination date.
If Mr Matthews employment is terminated for any other reason than those outlined above, any unvested shares subject to the award will vest immediately following the termination date.
Similarly, in the event of a change of control of the Company by way of general offer or court order or similar corporate event, any unvested shares subject to the award will vest in full.
However, in certain circumstances, the Company may require Mr Matthews to exchange the award for an equivalent award over shares in the acquiring Company.
The conditional share award is not pensionable.
Any amendments to the terms of the award which are to the advantage of the participant other than certain minor amendments are subject to shareholder approval.
Overview of the effect of the remuneration policy on EDs remuneration during 2011 and 2012 The effect of the remuneration policy in 2011 on EDs is set out in Table 7 below.
It should be emphasised that the figures shown for the LTIP grant represent the face value of those awards on the date of grant.
The LTIP grant would only be fully realised if very stretching performance conditions were to be met.
Details on pension benefits are set out later in this report.
Alongside the historical information, for the first time, the table also shows the forward looking salary increases and LTIP awards for 2012, where applicable.
Table 7: Overview of EDs remuneration during 2011 and 2012 Andrew Moss, group chief executive Element Amount Commentary Basic salary 951,250 during the year Mr Moss received a 3.8% increase from 925,000 to 960,000, effective 1 April 2011 He will receive a further 4.8% increase from 960,000 to 1,006,000 effective 1 April 2012.
These increases reflect his performance, experience and contribution since his appointment.
Mr Mosss average annual salary increase since April 2008 is 2.1% ABP 1,155,888 120.4% of Bonus is a function of the degree of achievement of 2011 targets as follows: basic salary Financial 39.22% maximum 50% 385,296 delivered in cash Employee 9.38% maximum 10% and 770,592 deferred into Customer 5.67% maximum 10% shares for three years Personal 26.00% maximum 30% LTIP face value of grant 2,543,750 The face value of the 2011 grant represented 275% of basic salary on 28 February 2011 Mr Moss will receive an LTIP grant for 2012 with a face value of 2,640,000, representing the standard award of 275% of his basic salary as at 29 February 2012 ACAP 480,000 The Trustee of the Plan accepted Avivas recommendation and made an award into the Plan equivalent to 50% of Mr Moss basic salary as at 1 April 2011 A similar contribution is anticipated for 2012 Other benefits 2% basic salary cash Mr Moss continues to receive 2% of basic salary as a non-pensionable cash supplement supplement provided in consideration of his surrendering his Unapproved 19,000 cash car allowance Unfunded Retirement Benefit UURB promise at the point when accrual in the ASPS ceased PMI Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
122 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Table 7: Overview of EDs remuneration during 2011 and 2012 continued Patrick Regan, chief financial officer Element Amount Commentary Basic salary 626,250 during the year Mr Regan received a 5.8% increase from 600,000 to 635,000, effective 1 April 2011 He will receive a further 13.4% increase from 635,000 to 720,000 effective 1 April 2012.
Mr Regan has demonstrated outstanding performance in 2010 and 2011 to warrant these increases ABP 764,572 120.4% of Bonus is a function of the degree of achievement of 2011 targets basic salary.
as follows: 254,857 delivered in cash Financial 39.22% maximum 50% and 509,715 deferred into Employee 9.38 % maximum 10% shares for three years Customer 5.67% maximum 10% Personal 26.00% maximum 30% LTIP face value of grant 1,350,000 The face value of the 2011 grant represented 225% of Mr Regans basic salary on 28 February 2011 Mr Regan will receive an LTIP grant for 2012 with a face value of 1,428,750, representing the standard award of 225% of his basic salary as at 29 February 2012 Defined contribution pension See section 23 for details Other benefits 16,200 cash car allowance during the year PMI Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
Igal Mayer, chief executive, Aviva Europe Element Amount Commentary Basic salary 605,625 during the period Based on an annual salary of CAD 1,001,500 from joining the Board Mr Mayer will receive a salary increase of 2% from CAD 1,001,500 CAD 959,129 to CAD 1,021,530 effective April 2012 ABP 631,829 99.9% of Bonus is a function of the degree of achievement of 2011 targets basic salary as follows: 210,610 delivered in cash Financial 37.14% maximum 50% and 421,219 deferred into Employee 8.70% maximum 10% shares for three years Customer 3.10% maximum 10% Personal 17.67% maximum 30% LTIP face value of grant 1,580,950 The face value of the 2011 grant represented 250% of Mr Mayers basic salary on 28 February 2011.
Mr Mayer will receive an LTIP grant for 2012 with a face value of CAD 2,503,750, representing the standard award of 250% of his basic salary as at 29 February 2012 Pension See section 23 for details Other benefits 21,044 cash car allowance Annual car allowance of CAD 34,800 during the period from joining the Board 201,879 accommodation Based on a 5,000 per month accommodation allowance, grossed up for tax purposes.
2012 rental costs were largely paid in advance in 2011 Aviva also met rental costs for his apartment in the US for the short period from his appointment as an ED until he moved out 57,069 family travel Based on a maximum 40,000 per annum family travel allowance, grossed up for tax purposes 111,040 flights Flights between Toronto and London 35,699 relocation Paid against an allowance of up to 100,000 for costs incurred in connection with relocation 23,740 tax preparation PMI Igal Mayer joined the Board on 19 January 2011 and the information shown is for the period served as an ED in 2011 with the exception of ABP, where the full year award is shown.
Figures shown above have been converted from Canadian dollars to pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for 2011 of CAD 1.5837 : 1.00.
Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
Under the terms of his letter of appointment, Igal Mayer is entitled to first class return flights between Toronto and London, and a travel allowance of up to 40,000 per annum for his spouse and dependent children for travel to and from Toronto and London.
Aviva meets the cost of rental accommodation in London of up to 5,000 per month, plus utility costs in line with standard policy.
Mr Mayer also receives assistance in preparing his tax returns.
Aviva meets the cost of any taxes due on these benefits.
He is also entitled to be reimbursed up to a maximum of 100,000 for costs incurred in connection with relocation from the US.
A sum of 35,699 has been paid against this allowance.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 123 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Table 7: Overview of EDs remuneration during 2011 and 2012 continued Trevor Matthews, chief executive, Aviva UK Element Amount Commentary Basic salary 58,154 during the year Mr Matthews commenced employment on 2 December 2011 with an annual basic salary of 720,000 He will be eligible for a salary review in April 2013 ABP 45,000 75% of one months 2011 bonus based on an on target payment applied to one months basic salary basic salary 15,000 delivered in cash and 30,000 deferred into shares for three years LTIP face value of grant 1,620,000 The face value of the 2011 grant represented 225% of Mr Matthews basic salary on 2 December 2011 using the share price upon which other 2011 LTIP awards were based and was granted in the form of Phantom Units which will be cash settled on vesting Mr Matthews will receive an LTIP grant for 2012 with a face value of 1,620,000, representing the standard award of 225% of his basic salary as at 29 February 2012 Defined contribution pension nil See section 23 for details Other benefits 1,309 cash car allowance during the year 470,000 cash payment in first As compensation for forfeiture of unvested shares and 2011 bonus from month of employment and a previous employer.
The conditional share award will vest in three equal conditional share award, face tranches on the first dealing day of March 2012, March 2013 and value of 2,020,000 March 2014 subject to Mr Matthews remaining in employment and no dealing restrictions being in place on the vesting date.
See section 10 for more details 35,280 professional fees Mr Matthews received legal advice in connection with the terms of his employment Trevor Matthews joined the Board on 2 December 2011 and the information shown is for the period served as an ED in 2011.
Andrea Moneta, chief executive officer, Aviva Europe, Middle East and Africa Element Amount Commentary Basic salary 33,807 during the period Based on an annual salary of 780,000.
Mr Moneta did not receive an until leaving the Board increase to his basic salary in 2011 39,000 ABP nil Mr Moneta received no bonus in connection with 2011 performance ACAP nil Other benefits 932 cash car allowance during the period until leaving the Board 346,741 compensation for Mr Moneta received this payment in accordance with a contractual loss of earnings, options and entitlement performance shares from previous employer paid in March 2011 4,854 housing allowance Based on 112,000 annual housing allowance, grossed up for tax purposes 867 schooling allowance Based on 30,000 annual schooling allowance payable up to the end of secondary schooling, grossed up for tax purposes 43,342 for loss of employment Mr Moneta received a payment of 50,000 as compensation for loss of employment 35,000 legal fees Legal fees were paid directly to Mr Monetas solicitor for advising Mr Moneta on his departure terms PMI Andrea Moneta resigned from the Board on 19 January 2011 and the information shown is for the period served as an ED in 2011.
Figures shown above have been converted from euros to pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for 2011 of 1.1536 : 1.00.
These exceptional other benefits were provided to replicate pre-existing obligations.
These benefits were time-limited and ceased in 2011.
124 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Table 7: Overview of EDs remuneration during 2011 and 2012 continued Mark Hodges, chief executive, Aviva UK Element Amount Commentary Basic salary 260,718 during the period Mr Hodges received a 5.8% increase from 600,000 to 635,000, until leaving the Board effective 1 April 2011 ABP nil Mr Hodges received no bonus in connection with 2011 performance LTIP face value of grant 1,350,000 subsequently The face value of the 2011 grant represented 225% of Mr Hodges basic lapsed salary on 28 February 2011.
This award lapsed in full upon Mr Hodges resignation ACAP 317,500 subsequently The Trustee of the Plan accepted Avivas recommendation and made an forfeited award into the Plan equivalent to 50% of Mr Hodges basic salary as at 1 April 2011.
This award was forfeited upon Mr Hodges resignation Other benefits 6,872 cash car allowance during the period until leaving the Board PMI Mark Hodges resigned from the Board on 2 June 2011 and the information shown is for the period served as an ED in 2011.
Target setting ABP target setting The financial targets which underpinned the ABP accounting for up to 50% of annual bonus in 2011 were derived from Avivas return, growth and capital efficiency capital generation goals.
Employee and customer targets each accounting for up to 10% of annual bonus are set taking into account performance to date and aspirations for the future.
The employee targets on leadership and engagement are derived from the Groups Employee Promise Survey in which all business units participate and which over 34,000 staff completed in 2011.
This survey is delivered through an independent third party who is able to provide extensive external benchmark data.
The Companys aspiration is to reach upper quartile positions compared to the relevant global and national norms on leadership and employee engagement over time.
In 2011, all businesses measured customer advocacy using a consistent robust methodology undertaken by an independent global research agency.
The Companys aspiration is to reach the upper quartile in the relevant local market benchmark.
Internal assurance that the outcomes on employee and customer targets were accurately calculated and reported was provided to the Committee by the Groups Internal Audit function.
Personal targets are based on delivery of key strategic priorities, personal leadership and operating performance of the relevant portion of the business and account for up to 30% of annual bonus: 50% of the personal objectives of the EDs for 2011 was derived from a joint Executive Committee Risk objective.
The Groups performance against its financial, employee and customer KPIs in 2011, as they affected the bonus of the group chief executive, is shown in Table 8.
Table 8: Group performance in 2011 against its KPIs Weighting % of total bonus opportunity Actual On target Stretch payment Key performance indicators % % % Business measures 70% Volume total long-term savings 3.1 3.1 0.0 Volume net written premium 3.1 3.1 3.1 Operating profit 6.3 14.68.4 Operating capital generation 6.3 14.614.6 Internal rate of return IRR 6.3 14.6 13.1 Customer 5.0 10.0 5.7 Employee 5.0 10.0 9.4 Personal measures 30% Personal individual strategic 7.5 15.0 15.0 Personal common risk objective 7.5 15.0 11.0 Total 50.0 100.0 80.3 Percentages do not necessarily add up due to rounding.
The Committee remains sensitive to the external environment in relation to executive pay, and particularly relating to the payment of bonuses in circumstances where financial targets have not been met and share prices have fallen.
However, the combination of financial and non-financial measures is central to the structure of the ABP.
The Committee aims to ensure a balanced focus on both short-term financial performance and on the objective non-financial measures that are leading indicators of future financial success.
This balance is, in the Committees view, reflective of good practice in incentive design and is consistent with the FSAs guidance on creating incentive schemes that have a focus on long-term sustainable performance and are considerate of the risk environment.
Aviva appropriately incentivises and rewards employees for achieving stated business goals in a manner that is consistent with our approach to sound and effective risk management.
As described above, the Committee took the view that it was important to maintain the integrity of the financial targets for the EDs, and therefore these were not adjusted during the year.
In the same way, the Committee believes that it is appropriate to pay bonuses based on pre-agreed rigorous targets when these have been met.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 125 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 To align with the business priorities for 2012, the financial measures at Group level for 2012 are total capital generation, operating profit, internal rate of return, economic gain and total sales the latter two of which are not set a stretch target in line with relevant risk considerations.
LTIP target setting The LTIP vests subject to the degree of achievement of two equally weighted performance measures, absolute ROCE and relative TSR performance, which have been chosen to reflect shareholders long-term interests.
ROCE targets ROCE targets determine the vesting of 50% of any LTIP award and are set annually within the context of the Companys three-year business plan.
Vesting depends upon performance over the three-year period against a target return.
The Companys external auditor provides a formal opinion on the IFRS ROCE vesting calculation.
The 2011 LTIP award ROCE targets are set out in Table 9 below.
Table 9: 2011 LTIP ROCE targets ROCE targets over the three-year performance period Percentage of shares in award that vest based on achievement of ROCE targets Less than 33% 0% 33% 10% Between 33% and 40.5% Pro rata between 10% and 50% on a straight line basis 40.5% and above 50% The Committee has determined the performance targets for the 2012 LTIP awards.
The ROCE targets, originally calibrated at the end of 2010, have been recalibrated to reflect the impact of a significant improvement in the Aviva Staff Pension Scheme deficit, and the disposal and partial sell-down of RAC and Delta Lloyd respectively.
These events, which occurred after the ROCE metric for the 2011 LTIP awards was calibrated, have significantly impacted on Avivas ability to deliver on the original ROCE targets.
The impact of these events is that an additional 360 million post tax adjusted operating profit would be required from the underlying businesses to deliver the same level of ROCE as applied to previous LTIP awards.
The Committee therefore agreed to apply a minimum vesting threshold of 30% and a maximum vesting threshold of 37.5% to the 2012 LTIP awards over three years.
The Committee considers that the revised metric would be just as stretching as would have been the case had the events and the recalibration not occurred.
No adjustment has been made to the the ROCE target which applies to the 2011 LTIP awards.
TSR targets Relative TSR determines the vesting of the other 50% of any LTIP award.
The comparator group for the assessment of relative TSR performance at the time of the 2011 grant comprised Aegon, Ageas, Allianz, Axa, Generali, ING, Legal and General, Lloyds Banking Group, Prudential, Resolution Limited, Royal Bank of Scotland, Royal and Sun Alliance, Standard Life and Zurich.
These companies were chosen on the basis of product and geographic match to Aviva.
TSR vesting operates as set out in Table 10 below.
Table 10: TSR vesting schedule for the 2011 LTIP award TSR position over the three-year performance period Percentage of shares in award that vests based on achievement of TSR targets Below median 0% Median 10% Between median and upper quintile Pro rata between 10% and 50% on a straight line basis Upper quintile and above 50% Details of subsisting LTIP awards are provided in Table 15 of this report.
Table 11 below shows the vesting projections non-audited of those awards as at 31 December 2011.
Table 11: Projections of vesting of subsisting LTIP awards LTIP award 31 December 2011 vesting projection % of award Aviva LTIP 2011 50.00% Aviva LTIP 2010 73.33% Aviva LTIP 2009 81.67% Details of the assumptions used in valuing the LTIP for accounting purposes can be found in note 30 e to the Annual Report and Accounts.
The vesting assumption made in respect of the 2011 award for accounting purposes is 50%.
126 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Since the LTIP has performance conditions attached to it, one potential outcome is that neither performance condition is met and the whole of the LTIP lapses.
Table 12 below has been produced to illustrate the potential value of the LTIP awards made to EDs in 2011 should the performance conditions be met in part or in whole.
Table 12: Potential value of 2011 LTIP awards rounded to nearest 50 LTIP Andrew Moss Patrick Regan Trevor Matthews Igal Mayer Face value of grant 2,543,750 1,350,000 1,620,000 1,580,950 Threshold vesting 508,750 270,000 324,000 316,200 Expected value 1,472,350 781,400 937,700 915,050 Maximum vesting 3,385,750 1,796,850 2,156,200 2,104,250 Figures shown for Igal Mayer have been converted from Canadian dollars to pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for 2011 of CAD 1.5837 : 1.00.
Assumptions are as follows: Threshold vesting assumes TSR and ROCE elements vest at the minimum level, producing a 20% vesting of the total award.
No share price growth is assumed.
Expected value, based on the vesting assumption made for accounting purposes, assumes TSR and ROCE elements vest at a combined rate of 50% of the total award.
Share price growth of 5% per annum is assumed over the three-year performance period.
Maximum vesting assumes both TSR and ROCE elements vest in full, producing a 100% vesting.
Share price growth of 10% per annum is assumed over the three-year performance period.
LTIP awards vesting in 2011 At the end of the performance period for the 2008 LTIP grant, which vested in 2011: the Company was ranked seventh out of the 16 companies in the TSR comparator group 22.3% vesting of the whole award and ROCE was 44.3% 50% vesting of the whole award.
The total vesting was therefore 72.3%.
The 27.7% of the award which did not vest, lapsed.
The LTIP vesting history is set out in Table 13 below.
Prior to the 2005 award, vesting history is based on an earlier LTIP plan, and the last award made under this plan was in 2004.
Table 13: Vesting history of LTIP awards Percentage of award vesting Year of grant Performance period ROCE TSR Total 2002 January 2002 to December 2004 23.3 23.0 46.3 2003 January 2003 to December 2005 30.0 34.9 64.9 2004 January 2004 to December 2006 30.0 34.9 64.9 2005 January 2005 to December 2007 50.0 0.0 50.0 2006 January 2006 to December 2008 41.3 15.0 56.3 2007 January 2007 to December 2009 50.0 0.0 50.0 2008 January 2008 to December 2010 50.0 22.3 72.3 Aviva has not historically awarded additional cash or shares for the dividends that were paid during the three-year performance period on those shares that vest.
As outlined earlier in this report, the awards that will vest from the 2011 LTIP grants onwards will attract dividend equivalents, which is aligned to current market practice.
OATTV Plan awards were granted in 2008, 2009 and 2010 see Table 1 for more details.
Based on the performance conditions attached to these awards, as described in the Directors Remuneration Report for the year of grant, the 2008 awards resulted in none of the shares vesting, hence 100% of these awards lapsed, and none of the shares from 2009 awards will vest.
The same outcome is currently forecast for the 2010 awards.
20092011 LTIP and OATTV Plan: Performance outcome for group chief executive The 2009 Directors Remuneration Report disclosed the face value of the LTIP and OATTV Plan awards granted to all EDs at that time.
The face value of the LTIP and OATTV Plan awards granted to the group chief executive were 1,618,750 and 501,443 respectively.
The total actual value of the awards that will vest is 1,553,388, based on the performance condition outcome and assuming a share price of 300.8p which was the closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company on 30 December 2011.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 127 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance graph Table 14 below compares the TSR performance of the Company over the past five years with the TSR of the FTSE 100 Return Index.
This index has been chosen because it is a recognised equity market index, of which Aviva is a member.
The companies which comprise the current LTIP comparator group for TSR purposes are listed in the TSR Targets section above.
The TSR graph for the comparator group has been plotted using the 20 companies including Aviva in the comparator group for pre-2005 grants, the 15 companies including Aviva in the comparator group for 20052007 grants, the 16 companies including Aviva in the comparator group for the 2008 grant, the 15 companies including Aviva in the comparator group for the 2009 and 2010 grants, and the 14 companies excluding Aviva in the comparator group for the 2011 grant.
Table 14: Aviva plc five-year TSR performance against the FTSE 100 Return Index and the median of the comparator group Aviva FTSE 100 Comparator group median 200 150 100 50 0 Dec 07 Dec 08 Dec 09 Dec 10 Dec 11 TSR rebased to 100 128 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 13.
Share awards Table 15 below sets out the current position of those share-based awards made to the EDs who served during 2011 under current remuneration arrangements.
This section Share awards and those sections headed Share options, Directors remuneration in 2011 and EDs pension arrangements along with their associated footnotes have been subject to audit.
The threeday average closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company used to grant the 2008 OATTV Plan awards was 617p: in 2009 was 256p: and in 2010 was 386p.
The five day average closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company used to grant the Replacement Restricted Share Award RRSA in 2010 was 380.22p.
The three-day average closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company used to grant the Bonus Replacement Deferred Share Award BRDSA in 2010 was 386p.
The three-day average closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company used to grant the Conditional Share Award in 2011 was 309p.
2 The performance periods for these awards begin at the commencement of the financial year in which the award is granted.
3 The performance conditions for awards which were granted or which vested during 2011 are explained elsewhere in this report.
The performance periods for these awards begin at the commencement of the financial year in which the award is granted.
4 The award date for the awards granted in 2008 which vested in 2011 was 31 March 2008, the award date for the award granted in 2009 which vested in 2011 was 26 March 2009, and the award date for the award granted in 2010 which vested in 2011 was 11 March 2010.
The awards which vested in 2011 were released with the net amount being settled in shares and the balance settled in cash and used to pay the resulting tax liability.
The monetary value of awards will be calculated by multiplying the relevant number of shares by the closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company at the date of vesting.
5 Igal Mayers 2009 Aviva Annual Bonus Plan award vested in December 2011 due to Mr Mayer being subject to Canadian taxes.
This is in accordance with the rules of this plan.
6 The shares comprising these awards are restricted shares which are beneficially owned by the ED and held in trust on their behalf under the terms of a restricted share award agreement.
As outlined in the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report, income tax and National Insurance Contributions liabilities were paid on these awards on 30 March 2010.
7 These figures relate to shares issued in lieu of dividends accrued during the deferral period.
8 The awards under the CFO Recruitment Share Awards Plan were granted to Patrick Regan following his recruitment in 2010.
As disclosed in the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report, the RRSA will vest in tranches subject to Mr Regan meeting his personal performance targets, the OATTV is subject to the same performance conditions as the OATTV Plan awards granted to other EDs in 2010 and the BRDSA is not subject to performance conditions.
9 The performance target attached to the first tranche of the RRSA was met and this tranche vested on 14 March 2011 being the first dealing day following the normal vesting date where no dealing restrictions were in place.
10 The information shown in this column for Igal Mayer is on joining the Board on 19 January 2011.
11 Trevor Matthews joined the Board on 2 December 2011 and held no share awards on appointment.
12 These shares were awarded as phantom units which will be cash settled on vesting and no shares will be transferred or allotted.
13 The information shown in this column for Mark Hodges is as at his resignation from the Board on 2 June 2011 and for Andrea Moneta is as at his resignation from the Board on 19 January 2011.
14 25% of Mark Hodges 2009 ABP award, 50% of Mr Hodges 2010 ABP award and 100% of Mr Hodges LTIP awards, OATTV awards and 2011 ABP award subsequently lapsed on his leaving the Company on 9 September 2011.
The remaining shares will vest on the normal vesting date.
15 Andrea Monetas ABP awards vested on 3 March 2011, the first business day after leaving the Company on 28 February 2011.
Mr Monetas LTIP and OATTV awards were time prorated on his leaving and the remaining shares will vest on the normal vesting date to the extent that the performance conditions have been achieved.
16 The aggregate net value of share awards granted to the directors in the period was 12.1 million 2010: 9.5 million.
The net value has been calculated by reference to the closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company at the date of grant.
This excludes shares issued in lieu of dividends.
130 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 14.
Share options Details of the EDs who were in office for any part of the financial year, and hold or held options over ordinary shares of the Company, pursuant to the Companys share-based incentive plans, are set out in Table 16 below.
Savings-related share options in Table 16 refer to options granted under the HMRC-approved Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme or Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2007.
Options are normally exercisable during the six-month period following the end of the relevant three, five or seven-year savings contract.
Executive share options approved in Table 16 refer to options granted under the HMRC-approved schedule to the Aviva Executive Share Option Plan 2005.
Options will be exercisable on 30 March 2013 to the extent that the LTIP awards granted in 2010 have vested.
Any gain made on exercise of these options will be used to reduce the number of shares vesting under the LTIP.
Therefore, the vesting of the options will not increase the overall number of shares received by the EDs from their LTIP awards.
Table 16: EDs options over Aviva shares Options Options At 1 January Options granted exercised lapsing At 31 December 2 2011 during year during year during year 2011 Exercise price Number Number Number Number Number Pence Exercise period Andrew Moss Savings-related options 2005 3,279 3,279 491.0 December 2010 May 2011 Executive share options approved 2010 7,772 7,772 386.0 March 2013 Patrick Regan Savings-related options 2010 2,903 2,903 310.0 December 2013 May 2014 Executive share options approved 2010 7,772 7,772 386.0 March 2013 1 Igal Mayer Savings-related options 2011 5,923 5,923 268.0 December 2018 May 2019 Mark Hodges Savings-related options 2007 1,705 1,705 563.0 December 2010 May 2011 Executive share options approved 2010 7,772 7,772 386.0 March 2013 Notes 1 Igal Mayer joined the Board on 19 January 2011 and held no share options on appointment.
2 The information shown for Mark Hodges is as at his resignation from the Board on 2 June 2011.
Mr Hodges executive share options lapsed on leaving the Company on 9 September 2011.
The closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company on 30 December 2011, being the last business day of the year, was 300.8 pence, and the closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company during the year ranged from 275.3 pence to 477.9 pence.
During the year, no share options were exercised by directors 2010: nil options exercised.
EDs did not pay for the award of any share options and options are not subject to performance conditions the savings related options being granted under an all-employee share scheme and the executive share options being linked to awards under the LTIP which are subject to performance conditions.
EDs employment contracts The key terms and conditions of the EDs employment, as stipulated in their employment contracts, are set out in Table 17 below.
Table 17: EDs key terms and conditions of employment Provision Policy Notice period By the director 6 months By the Company 12 months, rolling.
No notice or payment in lieu to be paid where the Company terminates for cause.
Termination payment Pay in lieu of notice up to a maximum of 12 months basic salary.
This may be increased by a discretionary redundancy payment where appropriate but any such further termination payment is capped at 12 months basic salary.
Any amount is subject to phased payment and mitigation requirements.
Remuneration and benefits As described in this report the operation of the ABP and LTIP is at the Companys discretion and, in the case of the long-term savings plans, at the trustees discretion.
Expenses Reimbursement of expenses reasonably incurred in accordance with their duties.
Holiday entitlement 30 working days plus public holidays.
Sickness In line with senior management terms, i. e. 100% basic salary for 52 weeks, and 75% thereafter.
Non-compete During employment and for six months after leaving.
Contract dates Director: Date current contract commenced: Andrew Moss 1 January 2007 Patrick Regan 22 February 2010 Igal Mayer 19 January 2011 Trevor Matthews 2 December 2011 Mark Hodges 26 June 2008 Andrea Moneta 28 September 2009 Mark Hodges resigned from the Board on 2 June 2011 and left the Company on 9 September 2011.
Andrea Moneta resigned from the Board on 19 January 2011 and left the Company on 28 February 2011.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 131 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 16.
Share ownership requirements An internal shareholding requirement was introduced in 2005 that the group chief executive and any ED should build, over a five-year period, a shareholding in the Company equivalent to 175% of basic salary and 150% of basic salary respectively and no specific value per share was designated for the calculation.
As outlined in section 2, following the 2011 AGM, the shareholding requirement was increased to 200% for the group chief executive.
In addition, the EDs including the group chief executive are required to retain 50% of the net share releases from the deferred annual bonuses and LTIPs until the shareholding requirements have been reached, which will not have a target date.
Unvested share awards including shares held in connection to compulsory bonus deferrals are not taken into account in applying this test.
Table 18 shows the position at 30 December 2011, based on that days closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company of 300.8 pence.
Table 18: EDs share ownership requirements Value of shareholding based on a Shareholding excluding restricted Basic salary shares share price of 300.8 pence Percentage of basic salary Shareholding requirement Andrew Moss 960,000 352,149 1,059,264 110% 200% Patrick Regan 635,000 98,711 296,923 47% 150% Igal Mayer 632,380 226,150 680,259 108% 150% Trevor Matthews 720,000 0% 150% 300.8 pence was the closing middle market price of an ordinary share of the Company on 30 December 2011.
Due to exceptional personal circumstances, the Committee has exercised discretion to waive the share ownership requirement for Andrew Moss for 2011.
Igal Mayers basic salary has been converted from Canadian dollars to pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for 2011 of CAD 1.5837 : 1.00.
External board appointments Aviva recognises its EDs can benefit from serving in a personal capacity as a non-executive director NED of non-Aviva Group companies.
It is, at the same time, conscious of the corporate governance recommendations that EDs should take account of the time commitment required by a non-executive director position and ensure any such role does not impact their ability to carry out fully their executive duties.
The Company therefore has a policy of normally allowing senior executives to serve as a NED of one external company, subject to approval by the Board, and to retain any Board fees.
None of the EDs held external NED appointments during 2011.
All employee share plans EDs are eligible to participate in a number of HMRC-approved all employee share plans on the same basis as other eligible employees.
These plans include a free share element of the Aviva All Employee Share Ownership Plan AESOP.
Under this element of the plan, eligible employees can receive up to a maximum of 3,000 per annum in shares based upon the profits of the Companys UK businesses.
The shares are free of tax subject to a retention period.
Free shares were awarded in 2011.
In addition, the partnership element of the AESOP, which the Company also operates, allows participants to invest up to 125 per month out of their gross salary in the Companys shares.
There is currently no matching element to this investment by the Company.
Shares awarded to, or investments made by, EDs through the AESOP are included in Table 24 of this report.
The Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme and Aviva Savings Related Share Option Scheme 2007 allow eligible employees to acquire options over the Companys shares at a discount of up to 20% of their market value at the date of grant.
In order to exercise these options, participants must have saved through a three, five or seven-year HMRC-approved savings contract, subject to a maximum savings limit of 250 per month.
Details of options granted to EDs under these schemes can be found in Table 16 above.
Dilution Awards granted under the Aviva employee share plans are met by the funding of an employee trust administered by an external trustee that acquires shares in the market.
The current practice is that new issue shares will generally only be issued where it is not practicable to use the trust and the funding policy is kept under review by the Committee and the Board.
Details of the shares currently held in the employee trust are set out in note 31 to the Annual Report and Accounts.
During 2011, loans totalling 27.7 million were made to RBC Trustees CI Limited to ensure sufficient shares were available to meet its ongoing liabilities.
The Company monitors the number of shares issued under the Aviva employee share plans and their impact on dilution limits.
The Companys usage of shares compared to the relevant dilution limits set by the Association of British Insurers ABI in respect of all share plans 10% in any rolling ten-year period and executive share plans 5% in any rolling ten-year period was 4.22% and 2.23% respectively on 31 December 2011.
132 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 20.
Non-executive directors The NEDs, including the chairman of the Company, have letters of appointment which set out their duties and responsibilities.
The key terms of the appointments are set out in Table 19 below.
Table 19: NED key terms of appointment Provision Policy Period Following the introduction of the UK Corporate Governance Code, all NEDs are subject to annual re-election by shareholders at each AGM.
Termination By the director or the Company at their discretion without compensation upon giving one months written notice for NEDs and three months written notice for the chairman designate.
Expenses Reimbursement of travel and other expenses reasonably incurred in the performance of their duties.
Time commitment Each director must be able to devote sufficient time to the role in order to discharge his or her responsibilities effectively and spend a minimum of 25 days a year on Company business, with the chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees spending substantially more.
Non-compete During term of directorship and for six months after leaving Date of last appointment on letter Appointment end date on letter Appointment dates Director of appointment of appointment Mary Francis 4 May 2011 AGM 2012 Richard Karl Goeltz 4 May 2011 AGM 2012 Euleen Goh 4 May 2011 AGM 2012 Michael Hawker 4 May 2011 AGM 2012 Gay Huey Evans 20 October 2011 AGM 2012 John McFarlane 1 September 2011 AGM 2012 Carole Piwnica 4 May 2011 AGM 2012 Lord Sharman 4 May 2011 AGM 2012 Leslie Van fide Walle 4 May 2011 AGM 2012 Russell Walls 4 May 2011 AGM 2012 Scott Wheway 4 May 2011 AGM 2012 Carole Piwnica retired from the Board on 1 December 2011.
It is the Companys policy to set the fees paid to its chairman and NEDs taking account of the median market payments in international companies of similar size and complexity.
NEDs receive a basic annual fee in respect of their Board duties.
A further fee is paid to NEDs other than the chairman of the Company in respect of membership and, where appropriate, chairmanship of Board committees.
Fees are reviewed annually and are set by the Board to attract individuals with the required range of skills and experience.
In determining the level of fees paid to the NEDs the Board receives recommendations from the EDs, who consider the NEDs duties and responsibilities, together with the time commitment required in preparing for and attending meetings, and the amounts paid by competitors and similar-sized companies.
Following a review in February 2011 of the chairman of the Companys fee against market benchmarks for the 25 FTSE companies either side of Avivas market capitalisation and in light of the freeze in his fee level since 2008, it was agreed to increase the chairman of the Companys fee from 495,000 per annum to 550,000 per annum.
This increase was effective from 1 April 2011.
There were no other fee increases for NEDs during 2011.
The chairman of the Company and NEDs do not participate in any incentive or performance plans or pension arrangements and they also do not receive an expense allowance.
The Companys articles of association provide that the total aggregate remuneration paid to the chairman of the Company and NEDs will be determined by the Board within the limits set by shareholders.
The current aggregate limit of 1.5 million was approved by shareholders at the Companys 2005 AGM.
The Company proposes to increase this limit to 2 million as part of the amendments to the Companys articles of association, which are subject to approval by shareholders at the Companys 2012 AGM.
The amount paid in 2011 was 1.4 million.
EDs are remunerated under their employment contracts and receive no additional fee for serving as directors.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 133 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 NEDs fees which were payable from 1 April 2011 are set out in Table 20 below.
Table 20: NEDs fees from 1 April 2011 Chairman of the Company 550,000 Board membership fee 65,000 Additional fees are paid as follows: Senior independent director 25,000 Committee chairman Audit 35,000 inclusive of committee membership fee Corporate Responsibility 10,000 inclusive of committee membership fee Remuneration 30,000 inclusive of committee membership fee Risk 35,000 inclusive of committee membership fee Committee membership Audit 10,000 Corporate Responsibility 7,500 Nomination 7,500 Remuneration 10,000 Risk 10,000 EDs employment contracts and NEDs letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office during normal hours of business, and at the place of the Companys 2012 AGM from 10.45am on Thursday 3 May 2012 until the close of the meeting.
Directors remuneration in 2011 Table 21 below sets out the remuneration paid or payable to the directors in respect of the year to 31 December 2011.
2 All the EDs received life assurance benefits during the year that relate to the cost incurred by the Company of insuring the directors life benefits which, had the director died during the year, could not have been wholly paid by the pension scheme and would therefore have been met by the Company had the insurance not been in place.
The disclosure also includes the cost of private medical insurance and, where appropriate, accompanied travel, accommodation, relocation, security and car benefits.
All the numbers disclosed include the tax charged on the benefits, where applicable.
No directors received an expense allowance during the year.
3 Figures shown for Igal Mayer have been converted from Canadian dollars to pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for 2011 of CAD 1.5837 : 1.00.
As previously stated, Mr Mayer is entitled to first class return flights between Toronto and London and a travel allowance of up to 40,000 per annum for his spouse and dependent children for travel to and from Toronto and London.
Aviva meets the cost of rental accommodation in London of up to 5,000 per month plus utility costs in line with standard policy, and met the rental costs for his apartment in the US for the short period from his appointment as an ED until he moved out.
These figures are included in the table above.
4 Under the terms of his letter of appointment, Igal Mayer is entitled to be reimbursed up to a maximum of 100,000, for costs incurred in connection with relocation from the US.
A sum of 35,699 has been paid against this allowance, and is included in the figures above.
5 Figures shown for Andrea Moneta have been converted from euros to pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for 2011 of 1.1536 : 1.00.
As previously stated, legal fees of 35,000 were paid directly to Mr Monetas solicitor and are included in the table above.
6 The Chairman received travel-related benefits.
7 Although no costs were incurred in 2011, under the terms of his letter of appointment, John McFarlane is entitled to be reimbursed for any such costs reasonably incurred in connection with his relocation to the UK during the 12-month period from the date of his appointment, up to a maximum of 125,000 together with any VAT or equivalent tax payable thereon.
He is also entitled to the reimbursement of the costs incurred in respect of advice sought on the legal and tax implications of his appointment.
8 NEDs are reimbursed for expenses, and any tax arising on those expenses is settled directly by Aviva.
9 The amount shown for Andrea Moneta is the amount paid in 2011 up to Mr Moneta leaving the Board on 19 January 2011 and for Mark Hodges, it is the amount paid in 2011 up to Mr Hodges leaving the Board on 2 June 2011.
10 For the purposes of the disclosure required by Schedule 5 to the Large & Medium-sized Companies and Groups Accounts & Reports Regulations 2008, the total aggregate emoluments of the directors in respect of 2011 was 6.3 million 2010: 6.8 million.
134 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Fees earned in 2011 by the NEDs are set out in Table 22 below.
2 Mary Francis stepped down as Chairman of the Risk Committee on 1 September 2011 and as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2011.
3 Michael Hawker was appointed Chairman of the Risk Committee on 1 September 2011 and became a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2011, and the Audit Committee on 1 September 2011.
4 Gay Huey Evans joined the Board and became a member of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 20 October 2011, and Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee on 1 December 2011.
5 John McFarlane joined the Board and became a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 September 2011.
6 Carole Piwnica stepped down from the Board and as Chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 December 2011.
Senior executives remuneration The total compensation paid during the year to key management personnel, being those having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company, including the Companys EDs and NEDs as required to be disclosed by International Accounting Standard 24 was 65 million 2010: 66 million and is set out in note 59 to the Annual Report and Accounts.
EDs pension arrangements The positions of the EDs with respect to accumulated pension benefits under the defined benefits section of the ASPS is set out in Table 23 below.
Table 23: EDs pension benefits 8 9 Andrew Moss Mark Hodges Igal Mayer Patrick Regan 000 000 000 000 Defined Defined Defined Defined Benefit type benefit benefit benefit contribution 1 Accrued annual pension at 31 December 2010 21.8 83.6 388.5 1 Accrued annual pension at 31 December 2011 22.5 86.2 430.9 Gross increase in accrued pension over the year 0.7 2.6 42.4 Increase decrease in accrued pension net of inflation over the year 33.5 2 Employee contributions during the year Defined contribution employer contributions during the year 71.9 4 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2010 365.1 1,091.7 6,518.5 4 Transfer value of accrued pension at 31 December 2011 529.5 1,802.9 8,652.2 3, 7 Change in transfer value during the period less employee contributions 164.4 711.2 2,133.7 6 Transfer value of net increase decrease in accrued pension less employee contributions 0 1,686.0 Age at 31 December 2011 years 53 46 50 45 Notes 1 Accrued pensions shown are the amounts that would be paid annually on retirement based on service to the end of the year.
2 Benefits deriving from Additional Voluntary Contributions AVCs and employee contributions into the defined contribution scheme paid by directors are excluded from the amounts above.
3 The change in transfer value allows for fluctuations in the transfer value due to factors beyond the control of the Company and directors, such as changes in stock market conditions.
4 The transfer values have been calculated in line with the relevant legislation and using actuarial assumptions agreed by the trustee.
5 No former directors received any increase in retirement benefits in excess of the amount to which they were entitled, on the later of the date when the benefits first became payable, or 31 March 1997.
6 The transfer value of net increase decrease in accrued pension shows the value of the increase decrease in accrued pension net of inflation, over the year net of contributions.
7 The basis used to calculate transfer values for UK scheme members of the defined benefit section changed during 2011 and this contributes to the increase in transfer values over the year.
8 Igal Mayer is a member of the Aviva Canada Pension Plan, and the figures shown for him have been converted from Canadian dollars to pounds sterling at the average exchange rate for 2011 of CAD 1.5837 : 1.00.
9 In addition to his contributions quoted in the table above, Patrick Regan has a sum of 100,612 in lieu of pension contributions that exceed the 50,000 annual allowance held on account.
This balance, together with any further amounts accrued for the first quarter of 2012, will be applied for Mr Regans benefit in March April 2012.
10 Trevor Matthews did not receive any pension contributions for 2011.
Contributions will begin to accrue from 1 January 2012.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 135 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 24.
Directors interests in Aviva shares The interests held by each person who was a director at the end of the financial year and their connected persons in the ordinary shares of the Company are shown in Table 24 below.
All the disclosed interests are beneficial.
The table also summarises the interests in shares held through the Companys various share incentive plans.
Details of the options and long-term incentive awards are shown below.
In respect of Andrew Moss, it also includes the remaining restricted shares held in trust from his ABP awards, and for Patrick Regan it includes the remaining restricted shares held in trust from his RRSA and BRDSA awarded under the rules of the CFO Recruitment Share Awards Plan.
2 ABP relates to entitlements to shares arising through the Aviva Annual Bonus Plan 2005 and the Aviva Annual Bonus Plan 2011.
Under these plans some of the earned bonuses are paid in the form of restricted shares or conditional shares and deferred for three years.
The transfer of the shares to the director at the end of the period is not subject to the attainment of performance conditions but a proportion of the shares can be forfeited if the executive leaves service before the end of the period.
In respect of Andrew Moss, 220,067 of the shares held as at 31 December 2011 are restricted shares.
In respect of Patrick Regan, 213,624 of the shares held as at 31 December 2011 represent the RRSA and BRDSA awarded under the rules of the CFO Recruitment Share Awards Plan and are restricted shares.
In respect of Trevor Matthews, these shares represent the Conditional Share Award.
3 Awards granted under the LTIP which vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
4 OATTV Plan awards were granted as a match to the bonus plan awards under the ABP and vest only if the performance conditions are achieved.
5 Options are options over shares granted under the SAYE and the Aviva Executive Share Option Plan 2005 as detailed in section 14.
6 Gay Huey Evans was appointed as a director on 20 October 2011.
On appointment, she held no shares, awards or options.
7 Trevor Matthews was appointed as a director on 2 December 2011.
On appointment, he held no shares, awards or options.
8 Igal Mayer was appointed as a director on 19 January 2011 and the information shown in the columns labelled 1 January 2011 is as at his appointment as a director.
9 John McFarlane was appointed as a director on 1 September 2011.
10 These shares represent the Conditional Share Award.
11 These shares were awarded as phantom units which will be cash settled on vesting and no shares will be transferred or allotted.
12 433,296 of these shares were awarded as phantom units which will be cash settled on vesting and no shares will be transferred or allotted.
13 These shares include the restricted shares from RRSA and BRDSA awarded under the rules of the CFO Recruitment Share Awards Plan.
14 These shares represent the OATTV awarded under the rules of the CFO Recruitment Share Awards Plan.
15 The interests of connected persons to the directors are included in the directors interests above.
There were no changes to the directors interests in Aviva shares during the period 1 January 2012 to 1 March 2012.
136 Aviva plc Directors remuneration report continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 25.
Former directors Andrea Moneta Andrea Moneta resigned from the Board on 19 January 2011 and left the Company by mutual consent on 28 February 2011.
His earnings as an ED during 2011 are set out in table 7.
As disclosed in the 2010 Directors Remuneration Report, Mr Moneta received a payment of 400,000 in March 2011, which was a contractual entitlement as payment for loss of earnings, options and performance shares from a previous employer.
He also received a payment of 50,000 as compensation for loss of employment.
In accordance with his minimum contractual entitlement, he also received basic salary in lieu of his notice period for 12 months from his termination date, but no additional pay or benefits.
He received no bonus in connection with 2011 performance.
As outlined in table 7, a payment of 35,000 was made to Mr Monetas solicitor in respect of advising on Mr Monetas departure.
Deferred shares earned during his period of employment were released to him on the first dealing day following his departure date.
LTIP and OATTV Plan awards will vest on a pro rata basis on their normal vesting date and in accordance with the performance condition outcomes.
Mark Hodges Mark Hodges resigned from the Board on 2 June 2011 and left the Company on 9 September 2011.
His salary payments ceased on 9 September 2011.
In accordance with the ABP rules, 75% of the unvested deferred shares awarded in March 2009, and 50% of unvested deferred shares awarded in March 2010 will vest and be released at the end of the relevant three-year deferral period.
The remainder of these shares, plus 100% of the deferred shares awarded in March 2011, lapsed on the date Mr Hodges tendered his resignation.
Mr Hodges received no bonus in connection with 2011 performance.
All unvested LTIP and OATTV Plan awards lapsed, with no shares being released from these awards.
Developments in 2012 Glyn Barker was appointed to the Board as a NED on 27 February 2012 and will receive the standard Board membership fee.
Directors Remuneration Report This Directors Remuneration Report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 7 March 2012.
Scott Wheway Chairman, Remuneration Committee Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 137 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Shareholder information Page In this section Company address 138 Share capital 138 Related party disclosures 140 Dividend data 141 Guarantees, securitised assets and off-balance sheet arrangements 142 Liquidity and capital resources 143 Audit committee financial experts 148 Code of ethics 148 Regulation 148 Risks relating to our business 155 138 Aviva plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Shareholder information Company address The Companys registered office is St Helens, 1 Undershaft, London EC3P 3DQ.
The Companys telephone number is 44 0 20 7283 2000.
Share capital The Company has four share classes: Ordinary shares of 25 pence each which constitute our equity security and hold voting rights: Cumulative irredeemable preference shares of 1 each, which entitle holders to attend and vote at general meetings only when dividends on such shares are in arrears.
Cumulative irredeemable preference shareholders may also attend general meetings and vote on particular proposals when such proposals relate to an alteration of the rights attaching to such shares, a reduction of capital other than through a redemption or repurchase of shares or a winding up of business: Sterling new preference shares of 1 each, which have such rights and terms including terms related to the redemption of shares, ranking and entitlement to dividend and capital as the Board determines: and Euro new preference shares of 1 each, which have such rights and terms including terms related to the redemption of such shares, ranking and entitlement to dividend and capital as the Board determines.
Issued share capital The Company had aggregate issued and outstanding ordinary share capital of 726 million as of 31 December 2011.
The following table sets forth information about the issued and outstanding classes of equity as of 31 December 2011.
Shares issued and outstanding Shares covered by outstanding option 2011 2010 2009 2011 2010 2009 Share class million million million million million million Ordinary shares, nominal value 25p 2,905 2,820 2,766 30 27 26 8.375% Cumulative irredeemable preference shares, nominal value 1 100 100 100 8.75% Cumulative irredeemable preference shares, nominal value 1 100 100 100 New preference shares, nominal value 1 New preference shares, nominal value 1 The Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the articles of association adopted by the Company on 28 April 2010 reflect this.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot, as the allotment authority continues to be required under the Act, save in respect of employee share schemes.
Ordinary shares in issue in the Company rank pari passu.
All the ordinary shares in issue carry the same right to receive all dividends and other distributions declared, made or paid by the Company.
The Company is not permitted under English law to hold its own ordinary shares.
While the Company is presently authorised to repurchase up to 282 million ordinary shares, any shares that are repurchased must be cancelled.
Details of the Companys dividends, including the paying agents, are set out below under Articles of Association.
Share options and awards The Company maintains a number of active stock option and share award schemes.
Details of these schemes are set out in Financial statements IFRS Note 30 Equity compensation plans.
Share Investment Plan The Companys UK resident employees of participating companies can buy ordinary shares in the Company by making monthly contributions from their gross salary.
Contributions can be a minimum of 5 and up to a maximum of 125 per month or, if less, 10% of gross salary.
Contributions are held in a trust by an independent trustee and shares are allocated within 30 days of the employees monthly contribution date.
Employees can withdraw their shares from the trust at any time on payment of income tax and National Insurance Contributions NIC.
However, after five years shares can be withdrawn from the trust free of income tax and NIC.
Shares to satisfy options and awards Prior to March 2003, it was the practice to satisfy options and awards granted under the Groups share plans through shares purchased in the market and held by employee share trusts which were established for the purpose of satisfying awards under the various Group share plans and funded by the Company.
From March 2003 to July 2008, it was generally the Companys practice to satisfy the awards granted after March 2003 by the issue of new shares at the time of vesting.
However, since July 2008, it has been the Companys practice to satisfy all awards and options using shares purchased in the market and held by employee trusts except where local regulations make it necessary to issue new shares.
At 31 December 2011, 13,284,476 shares were held by the employee share trusts as compared to 8,415,487 at 31 December 2010, in both instances following the share purchases and distributions to individual employees throughout the year.
These shares have an aggregate nominal value of 3,321,119 and market value 39,959,704 as of 31 December 2011, compared to 2,103,871 and 33,072,864 at 31 December 2010, respectively.
Shares held by separate employee share trusts on behalf of specific individuals have not been included in these amounts.
Further details are given in Financial statements IFRS Note 31 Shares held by employee trusts.
Performance review Corporate responsibility Governance Shareholder information Financial statements IFRS Financial statements MCEV Other information 139 Aviva plc Shareholder information continued Annual Report and Accounts 2011 History of share capital The following table sets out information about the history of the Companys ordinary shares over the last three full calendar years.
Number of shares outstanding At 1 January 2009 2,657,701,624 1 Shares issued under the Groups Employee and Executive Share Option Schemes 951,455 2 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 107,958,295 At 31 December 2009 2,766,611,374 1 Shares issued under the Groups Employee and Executive Share Option Schemes 722,968 2 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 52,814,300 At 31 December 2010 2,820,148,642 1 Shares issued under the Groups Employee and Executive Share Option Schemes 1,574,706 2 Shares issued in lieu of dividends 83,989,590 At 31 December 2011 2,905,712,938 1 For more information on our various option schemes, see note 30 in the financial statements.
2 The issue of shares in lieu of cash dividends is considered a bonus issue under the terms of the Companies Act 2006 and the nominal value of the shares is charged to the share premium account.
The Company issued shares pursuant to special resolutions passed on 10 May 2006, increasing the authorised share capital from 1.45 billion and 700 million to 1.95 billion and 700 million by the creation of 500 million new preference shares of 1 each, and allowing the directors, subject to certain conditions, to issue equity securities up to the aggregate nominal value of 150 million.
This authority expired at the conclusion of the AGM in 2007.
A further ordinary resolution was passed on 26 April 2007 allowing the directors, subject to certain conditions, to allot equity securities up to the aggregate nominal value of 108 million.
This authority expired at the conclusion of the AGM in 2008.
An ordinary resolution was passed on 1 May 2008 allowing the directors, subject to certain conditions, to issue equity securities up to the aggregate nominal value of 94 million.
This authority expired at the conclusion of the AGM in 2009.
Ordinary resolutions were passed on 29 April 2009, increasing the authorised share capital from 1.95 billion and 700 million to 2.5 billion and 700 million by the creation of 2.2 billion ordinary shares of 25 pence each, and allowing the directors, subject to certain conditions, to issue equity securities up to the aggregate nominal value of 221 million and up to 443 million in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue.
This authority expired at the conclusion of the AGM on 28 April 2010.
The Companies Act 2006 abolished the requirement for a company to have an authorised share capital and the articles of association adopted by the Company on 28 April 2010 reflect this.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can at any time allot, as the allotment authority continues to be required in the Act save in respect of employee share schemes.
There were no changes to the voting rights of any class of shares during 2009, 2010 or 2011, other than issuances in connection with our various employee option schemes and under the Companys scrip dividend scheme.
The Company did not issue shares for consideration other than cash during 2009, 2010 or 2011.
In addition, at the Companys general meetings in 2009, 2010 and 2011, shareholders authorised the limited dis-application of Section 561 of the Companies Act 2006 to permit the Company to issue new equity securities for cash without applying shareholders statutory pre-emptive rights.
