32 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Corporate governance report Booth, provides oversight of and advice on both our risk appetite and management and our capital and liquidity strategies.
And it is essential that we reward our people appropriately, that their pay reects performance and that we do not incentivise them to take inappropriate levels of risk.
The Board Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alison Carnwath, provides direction and oversight of our remuneration policy.
Each of the Board Committee Chairmen reports personally later in this report.
We must also demonstrate our wider value to society.
To support the delivery of this objective, in August 2011 we created a Board Citizenship Committee, which I chair.
I am joined on the Committee by Sir John Sunderland and Dambisa Moyo, and we held its first meeting in late 2011.
Our remit is to have oversight of our conduct with regard to our corporate Dear Shareholder and societal obligations and our reputation as a responsible corporate citizen.
We will oversee matters such as our progress against our Treating The fundamental purpose of any company is the creation and delivery of Customers Fairly objectives and our conduct on matters relating to our long-term sustainable shareholder value in a manner consistent with its shareholders, clients, customers, employees, suppliers and the obligations as a responsible corporate citizen.
Corporate governance must communities in which we operate.
More information on this Committee be seen in this context it is not an objective in its own right but a vital can be found in its Terms of Reference on our website.
facilitator to the creation of long-term value for our owners.
However, the creation of shareholder value is inuenced by many factors, both internal Of course, in order to deliver our strategy, we need the right people.
and external and the Board and I are very conscious that the financial To this end, one of our priorities is to ensure that we have a Board and crisis has resulted in Barclays shareholders suffering a large erosion in the an executive management team with the appropriate skills, knowledge value of their holding.
We continue therefore to review our corporate and experience to operate effectively in an ever challenging environment.
governance processes and practices carefully to ensure they are t for One way of ensuring that we continue to have the right people is to have purpose and have again conducted a rigorous, externally facilitated Board a rigorous appointment and an effective succession planning process Effectiveness Review during 2011. in place for Board and key management roles.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee has a key role to play in So, how is the Barclays Board seeking to create and sustain value over the reviewing new appointments and succession plans and during the year long-term?
We aim to achieve this by understanding the external factors we specically debated both Board composition and succession planning that present risks and opportunities for our business, thereby ensuring for Executive Committee positions.
our strategy is appropriate: building strong and stable relationships with our customers, employees and suppliers: and ensuring that we manage Board composition is critical in ensuring effective and value-adding our risks and scarce resources, including capital, appropriately.
The debate about Board diversity and the strategy is focused on four key priorities: Capital: Returns: Income Growth: representation of women on company boards progressed at pace in 2011 and Citizenship and we ensure our Board discussions are focused on and we welcomed and supported the recommendations in Lord Davies' these issues.
report into Women on Boards.
However, diversity is much wider than the issue of gender: it is about ensuring that there is an appropriate range and External factors continue to have a significant impact on Barclays.
The balance of skills, experience and background on the Board.
Nevertheless, demands and expectations of governments, regulators and of society as a while ensuring that all Directors are appointed on merit, we have set whole as to the role of banks and other financial institutions have resulted ourselves the aspirational target of ensuring that at least 20% of our in a number of changes in the regulatory environment that will have a Board is made up of women by the end of 2013 and for that position to profound impact on our strategy and business model.
Furthermore, have exceeded 25% by the end of 2015.
We are also continuing to support ongoing global economic uncertainty, particularly surrounding the initiatives to ensure that the pipeline of credible women candidates for Eurozone, has led to continued weak market conditions.
It is important Board positions is strengthened, including my own personal participation in such an environment that the Board meets regularly and is kept fully in the FTSE 100 Cross-Company Mentoring Programme and our informed.
Consequently, in 2011, in addition to our eight scheduled sponsorship of the Craneld Female FTSE Board Report.
More details of meetings, two of which were held overseas, we held eight additional our approach to diversity and inclusion may be found on page 53 and Board meetings to discuss, amongst other things, the uncertainty in the I report in more detail on our Board appointment process and succession Eurozone: market conditions: the findings and recommendations of the planning initiatives in my report on the activities of the Board Corporate Independent Commission on Banking ICB, as published in both their Governance and Nominations Committee on page 38. interim and final reports: and our commitments under Project Merlin, the agreement between the UK Government and the four major UK banks on We continue to embrace the provisions and principles of the UK Corporate commitment to lending in the UK.
Governance Code the Code and the rest of my report explains how we applied those principles in 2011.
Good corporate governance is vital in supporting the delivery of our strategic priorities.
Our Board Committees play an important role in working with management to ensure our business is nancially strong, that it is well-governed and that any risks are identied and mitigated.
It is important that we generate income in a sustainable way and manage our risks and costs properly, without eroding the controls we have in place.
Marcus Agius The Board Audit Committee, chaired by Sir Michael Rake, has a key Group Chairman oversight role in ensuring that our financial statements are a true and fair 7 March 2012 representation of our financial position and strength and that our control environment is robust and maintained.
It is vital that our levels of capital, funding and liquidity are regarded as rock solid, particularly in times of economic dislocation, and the Board Risk Committee, chaired by David The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 33 Board Group Chairman, two executive Directors, nine non-executive Directors Board Committee oversight Board Corporate Board Audit Committee Board Risk Committee Board Remuneration Board Citizenship Governance and Five independent Five independent Committee Committee Nominations Committee non-executive Directors non-executive Directors Three independent Group Chairman and Group Chairman and non-executive Directors two independent four independent and the Group Chairman non-executive Directors non-executive Directors Management Chief Executive Executive Committee Business Unit Heads and the Heads of Key Group Control Functions Management Committees including Disclosure Committee, Group Governance and Control Committee, Financial Risk Committee, Operational Risk Committee, Treasury Committee Leadership As Chairman, my primary responsibility is to provide leadership to the What is the role of the Board?
Board to ensure that we satisfy our legal and regulatory responsibilities.
Our principal duty, collectively, is to promote the long-term success I set the Boards agenda in consultation with the Chief Executive and of Barclays by creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value.
Company Secretary, taking full account of the issues and concerns of We do this by setting the strategy and overseeing its implementation by Board members and giving consideration to the need to allow adequate management.
While our ultimate focus is long-term growth, we also and sufficient time for the discussion of the items on the agenda, in need to deliver on short-term objectives and we seek to ensure that particular, strategy.
You can nd my full role prole in our Charter of management strikes the right balance between the two.
We are mindful Expectations, which is available on our website.
In addition to the Board, of our wider obligations and consider the impact our decisions will have I also chair the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee on Barclays and on various stakeholders, such as our employees, our and the Board Citizenship Committee and I am a member of the Board shareholders, our suppliers, the environment and our community as a Remuneration Committee.
Although I am not a member of the Board whole.
In setting and monitoring the execution of our strategy, we aim to Audit and Board Risk Committees, I make a point of attending a number ensure that we maintain an effective system of internal control and that of their meetings each year: this allows me to gain a deeper management maintains an effective risk management and oversight understanding of the specic issues each of those committees is discussing and also allows me to observe the committees in action and process across the Group, so that growth is delivered in a controlled and sustainable way.
In 2011, I attended five meetings of the Board Audit Committee and three meetings of the Board Risk Committee.
In order to ensure that we meet our responsibilities, specic key decisions It is the responsibility of the executive Directors, Bob Diamond and Chris have been reserved for approval by the Board.
These include decisions on the Groups strategy, approval of risk appetite and capital and liquidity Lucas, to make and implement operational decisions and to run the business day-to-day within the strategy and risk appetite agreed by the matters, Board membership, financial results and governance issues.
A full formal schedule of matters specically reserved to the Board can Board.
They are supported by the Executive Committee, which Bob chairs.
Bob reports to each Board meeting on the significant matters debated at be found on our website, at www.
Executive Committee meetings and members of the Executive Committee regularly attend Board meetings to report on their business or area of To assist us in carrying out our functions and to ensure there is independent oversight of internal control and risk management, the Board responsibility.
has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees, which are comprised solely of independent non-executive Directors.
Each Board The non-executive Directors are independent of management.
Their role is to advise and constructively challenge management and monitor the Committee has agreed Terms of Reference, which are approved by the Board.
Copies can be found on our website.
success of management in delivering the agreed strategy within the risk appetite and control framework that is set by the Board.
The Chairman of each Board Committee reports to the Board on the Sir Richard Broadbent served as our Senior Independent Director until his matters discussed at Board Committee meetings.
You will nd later in this section reports from the Chairman of each Board Committee on their retirement from the Board on 30 September 2011 and I am grateful to him for the advice and support he afforded to me in managing the business of activities in 2011 and their priorities for 2012. the Board.
Sir Michael Rake succeeded to the role of Senior Independent Director with effect from 1 October 2011: his significant experience as a More information on the role of the Board and its Committees in general can be found in Corporate Governance in Barclays, which is available listed company chairman, as a board member and of business in general, gained from his long career at KPMG, will prove extremely valuable.
can nd the role prole for the Senior Independent Director in our Charter of Expectations.
Board composition The names of our Directors and their full biographical details, including the skills and experience they each bring to the Board, can be found on pages 50-52.
34 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Corporate governance report continued To facilitate the smooth running and effective management of our How does the Board operate?
meetings at all stages, Lawrence Dickinson, our Company Secretary, We normally meet eight times a year, which includes an annual two day supports me, the Chief Executive and the Board Committee Chairmen strategy meeting.
We meet more frequently when the need arises and, in setting the annual meeting agenda and ensuring that agreed actions in 2011, we arranged and held eight additional meetings at short notice to are completed.
Lawrence also works closely with senior management to discuss issues such as market conditions, the interim and final reports of ensure that there are timely and appropriate information ows within and the ICB and significant Group developments, such as the court ruling on to the Board, the Board Committees and between the Directors and senior Payment Protection Insurance.
In total, we met as a Board 16 times during management in general.
During the year, we introduced a new secure, the year.
All Directors make every effort to attend each meeting, whether electronic system for the delivery of Board and Committee papers to it is in person, by telephone or by video conference, unless circumstances Directors, which they can access using tablet computers, thus enabling prevent them from doing so, such as illness or prior commitments.
In such faster information ows.
More details on the role of the Company instances, they are able to give to me ahead of the meeting any views or Secretary and the support provided to the Board can be found in our comments they may have on the matters to be discussed.
I meet privately Charter of Expectations.
with the non-executive Directors as a group ahead of each Board meeting to take soundings on any particular matters they may wish to raise at the Corporate Governance in Barclays meeting.
I also meet with the Company Secretary after each meeting to agree the actions to be followed up and to discuss how effective the All of our corporate governance practices have been brought together meeting was.
in one document, Corporate Governance in Barclays.
This framework provides the basis for promoting the highest standards of corporate I can confirm that each Director committed an appropriate amount of governance in Barclays.
Corporate Governance in Barclays is available time to their Barclays duties in 2011 and the non-executive Directors on our website at www.
met the time commitment specified in their letters of appointment.
Details of Board meeting attendance in 2011 is as follows: Charter of Expectations The role proles, responsibilities, time commitments, key competencies and behaviours we expect of our Directors, together with the key indicators of high performance, are set out in our Charter of Expectations, which was reviewed and updated during 2011 to take account of the best practice recommendations set out in the FRCs Guidance on Board Effectiveness.
The Charter of Expectations is available on our website.
Scheduled Additional Board Attendance Meetings Scheduled Meetings Additional eligible to Meetings eligible to meetings Independent attend attended attend attended Group Chairman Marcus Agius OA8888 Executive Directors Bob Diamond ED8887 Chris Lucas ED8888 Non-executive Directors David Booth I8887 Sir Richard Broadbent to 30 September 2011 I6666 a Alison Carnwath I8788 Fulvio Conti I8887 Simon Fraser I8887 Reuben Jeffery I8887 Sir Andrew Likierman I8886 Dambisa Moyo I8888 b Sir Michael Rake I8785 Sir John Sunderland I8887 Secretary Lawrence Dickinson Key OA on appointment ED executive Director I independent non-executive Director Notes a Unable to attend a scheduled meeting owing to a prior commitment.
b Unable to attend a scheduled meeting owing to illness.
The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 35 How did we discharge our responsibilities in 2011?
The chart below illustrates how we allocated our time during 2011.
In 2011, ongoing difficult global economic conditions and the changing regulatory environment formed the backdrop to our decision-making What are our objectives for 2012?
process and highlighted the strategic challenges that we face.
Key We are yet to see any real signs of sustained growth in many developed activities for the Board during the year included: economies and ongoing difficult economic, political and market We undertook regular reviews of strategic options open to the Group conditions, coupled with the changing regulatory landscape, will form the given the developing regulatory environment in the UK and globally.
background to our deliberations in 2012.
I see the Boards focus continuing significant time was set aside for discussions on strategy, including to be on: discussion over dinner ahead of the formal Board meetings.
The identifying and developing our strategic options in light of regulatory evening sessions have provided an opportunity for more high-level change, macroeconomic uncertainty and market conditions: discussions and have enabled wide-ranging debate on critical issues, monitoring managements progress against our four execution priorities without the constraints of a formal meeting agenda.
of Capital, Returns, Income Growth and Citizenship: and We reviewed progress against our four execution priorities of Capital, ensuring we have stable and effective management in place by Income Growth, Returns and Citizenship, including reviewing the cost maintaining an appropriate succession plan.
reduction programme and the performance of each of our businesses against our return on equity target.
Effectiveness Following the publication of the ICB interim report in April 2011, How do we ensure the effectiveness of our Board?
and the final report published in September 2011, we met to Board Size, Composition and Qualication discuss the potential implications for our overall strategy.
We have determined that the optimum Board size for Barclays is 12-15 members.
We currently have 12 Directors on our Board: in addition to me We received regular updates on global economic conditions and as Chairman, we have two executive Directors and nine independent the outlook for the market.
We also discussed bank sector valuations, non-executive Directors.
The size, composition and qualications of the with input from our corporate brokers.
members of a board have a great impact on how effective that board is.
We held a separate meeting to discuss the Project Merlin agreement We regularly review the size, composition and balance of skills we have and received regular reports on the Groups compliance with its on the Board, both in terms of what we need now and what we might commitments under the agreement.
need to be successful in the future.
Our aim is to ensure that we have We held a special meeting to discuss the implications of the court ruling the right mix for constructive Group discussion and, ultimately, effective Board decisions.
on Payment Protection Insurance PPI policies and the Groups response.
We received updates from each of our principal businesses to discuss We recognise the benets of diversity on the Board and the current their progress against agreed strategy, plus updates on our brand and members of the Board have a wide range of skills and experience required marketing strategy and investor relations strategy.
to govern effectively a global banking business such as Barclays.
There are We considered the Groups liquidity including liquidity risk appetite, currently two women on the Board, representing 16% of the total Board the capital plan and also approved the Groups Risk Appetite for 2012. membership.
We aim to increase the number of women we have on our Board to ensure that we meet the aspirational targets we have set in light We reviewed senior management succession plans, which identify of the recommendations of the Davies Review.
talent in the Group at the level below the Executive Committee.
Given our significant North American operations, in 2011 we held two The balance of the Board is illustrated below.
board meetings in New York and there are plans to hold more overseas meetings in 2012.
2011 Board allocation of time % Balance of non-executive and executive Directors No.
1 Strategy Formulation and 2011 2010 1 Chairman 1 1 1 4 5 Implementation monitoring 39 51 2 2 Executive Directors 2 2 Finance 3 Independent non-executive Directors 9 including capital and liquidity 16 20 3 Governance and Risk 3 including regulatory issues 35 20 4 Corporate Finance 1 2 2 5 Other 3 including compensation 9 7 Length of tenure of non-executive Directors No.
Board gender balance % 1 0-3 years 4 1 Male 84 1 1 3 2 Female 16 2 3-6 years 4 2 3 6-9 years 1 2 36 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Corporate governance report continued Director Independence Directors external activities and conicts of interest We consider non-executive Director independence on an annual basis, Our Directors have a statutory duty to avoid situations in which they as part of each Directors performance evaluation.
I was considered to be have or may have interests that conict with those of Barclays, unless that independent on appointment as Chairman, as recommended by the Code.
conict is first authorised by the Directors.
This includes potential conicts The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee and the that may arise when a Director takes up a position with another company.
Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive Director and concluded that each of them continues to demonstrate those behaviours We recognise the importance of the experience, value and knowledge that the Board considers to be essential indicators of independence, which that can be brought to the Board by Directors undertaking other roles or are set out in our Charter of Expectations.
Our Directors are obliged to obtain authorisation prior to doing so and it is their responsibility to ensure that they will be able to meet the Director Re-election time commitment we expect of them and that the additional role will not The Code requires that all Directors submit themselves for re-election at impact their effectiveness as a Barclays Director.
the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM, which this year will be held on 27 April 2012.
Following a rigorous performance evaluation of Our executive Directors may take up only one FTSE 100 non-executive each Director and the Board as a whole, I can confirm that all the Directors directorship and they are allowed to retain any fees they receive.
No such submitting themselves for re-election are considered by the Board to be fees were received in 2011. fully effective.
Biographical details of each of the Directors may be found on pages 50-52 and you will nd full details of the performance evaluation Our articles of association allow the Board to authorise potential conicts, process and results in my report on Board evaluation on page 37. and we have a comprehensive procedure in place to deal with any actual or potential conict of interest.
The Board takes into consideration all the Succession Planning and Board Appointments circumstances and deals with each appointment on its individual merit.
Having a good succession plan in place mitigates against risks associated All potential conicts approved by the Board are recorded in an Interests with the departure or absence of well-qualied and experienced Register, which is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board Corporate individuals.
We recognise this and our aim is to ensure that the Board Governance and Nominations Committee to ensure that the procedure and management are always well resourced, with the right people in and process are working effectively.
Following a review of the Interests terms of skills and experience, to deliver our strategy.
When making Board Register, the Committee concluded that all the potential conicts as appointments, we seek to ensure that we have a diverse range of skills, registered have been considered thoroughly and appropriately.
During background and experience, including industry and geographical 2011, the Board authorised Sir Richard Broadbents appointment as a experience.
We also recognise that, even though new faces bring fresh non-executive Director of Tesco PLC, recognising that there would only be ideas and perspective to how things are done, continued tenure brings a short overlap given his impending retirement from the Board.
In view of a depth of company-specic knowledge that is important to retain.
the potential conict that might arise given Tescos retail banking activities, As a result, we consider length of tenure when making appointments following this appointment Sir Richard excused himself from any Board to the Board to ensure that we have the optimum balance and can discussions relating to our UK Retail Banking business.
The length of tenure of the current non-executive Directors and their geographical experience and Board Induction and Professional Development Although newly appointed non-executive Directors have a wealth of background is illustrated in the charts on page 35 and below.
experience and knowledge, there is still the need to ensure they are provided with a bespoke induction programme to deepen their The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is responsible for both executive and non-executive Director succession understanding of our business and their knowledge of Barclays, its operations and staff.
I work with the Company Secretary to ensure that a planning and recommends new appointments to the Board.
More detail on the role of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations comprehensive induction programme is in place, which includes sessions with each of the executive Directors, members of the Executive Committee is given in my report below.
Committee and meetings with the senior executives responsible for each of our businesses and central functions: these sessions focus on the Non-executive Director Terms of Appointment On appointment, our non-executive Directors are given a letter of challenges, opportunities and risks that are faced by each business.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee appointment that sets out the terms and conditions of their Directorship, including the fees payable and the expected time commitment.
Each undertakes an annual review of our Director induction and development programmes to ensure that they are appropriate and t for purpose.
non-executive Director is expected to commit a minimum of 20 days per annum to the role.
Additional time commitment is required to full their More information on our Board induction process can be found in Corporate Governance in Barclays.
roles as Board Committee members and or Board Committee chairmen, as applicable.
On average, the time commitment of non-executive Directors is in the range of 3036 days per annum, although the Board Committee Chairmen devote considerably more time.
a Geographical mix main experience of non-executive Directors No.
1 UK 6 1 Financial Services 5 1 1 8 2 Continental Europe 1 2 Accountancy financial background 4 7 3 Retail marketing 1 3 US 2 3 4 Government experience 2 6 5 Business school 1 2 6 Corporate Finance 2 2 5 7 International Europe 1 4 8 International US 2 3 Notes a Individual Directors may fall into one or more categories.
com annualreport 37 Ongoing professional development is equally important given the rapidly Evaluation of Board Performance In order to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees, changing environment in which we operate and my role includes ensuring that Directors have the opportunity to update and refresh their knowledge.
as well as the effectiveness of each individual Director, we undertake on an annual basis a formal and rigorous Board effectiveness review.
One of the During the year, non-executive Directors attended brieng sessions on balance sheet composition and capital allocation and on risk weighted advantages of undertaking an annual evaluation, which we have done since 2004, is that we can monitor trends in responses to questions and assets.
They also attended a demonstration of our contactless technology.
Personal development logs are maintained for each non-executive track progress made against action plans.
We annually benchmark our approach against the practices of other companies in the FTSE 20 to Director, which record external and internal briengs and other events that each attends, such as internal management conferences.
ensure that we remain at the forefront of best practice.
The Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee is responsible for overseeing the process and for monitoring any action plans on behalf of the Board.
Evaluation Statement I provide below a summary of the Boards progress against its 2011 action plan: Key Themes Actions Ensuring that Board dynamics remain effective following recent Effective working relationships have been developed and maintained membership changes, including the appointment of the new Chief between the non-executive Directors and the Executive Directors, Executive facilitated by opportunities offered by offsite Board meetings and less formal discussions at Board dinners ahead of meetings.
Continuing the focus on strategic decision making in light of the evolving The Board has continued to receive regular updates on the regulatory regulatory environment environment.
Strategy presentations to the Board have included additional information on the external environment and its impact.
External guest speakers have presented to the Board on significant issues, such as the valuation of banks.
Ensuring that a wide range of skills experience, background and diversity Succession planning is a major focus of the Board and the Board on the Board is maintained Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee considers diversity on the Board when discussing succession plans and potential new appointments.
Revising the format of Board meetings to allow the Board to devote more Board dinners are being held on evenings prior to Board meetings time to discussion of key strategic issues, including discussions the to enable Directors to discuss issues in more depth and build evening before Board meetings relationships.
The Board dinners have included presentations and time for discussion of key issues.
Routine Board items are being dealt with appropriately, including inverting the agenda, if appropriate, so that routine items are considered last.
As in each year since 2004, the 2011 evaluation process was The key themes arising from the 2011 evaluation and which will form independently facilitated.
We continue to monitor and review the the basis of the action plan for 2012 are: facilitators available in the market and Egon Zehnder International was Ensuring that the Board continues to have an appropriate range re-engaged following such review.
Egon Zehnder is an executive search and balance of skills, experience and diversity.
agent, but it did not undertake any Barclays Board searches during the year and the Board continues to believe that it provides an impartial Continuing to develop an appropriate process for succession planning and objective service.
for key Board and senior executive management positions.
Enabling the Board to have greater interaction with Executive The 2011 evaluation process again took the form of questionnaires Committee members to gain an enhanced understanding of the completed by Directors and key executives, followed by structured challenges and opportunities they face in their businesses.
interviews with representatives from Egon Zehnder.
In addition to the Board evaluation questionnaire completed by all the participants, Ensuring that the Board has visibility of talent amongst senior Board Committee members completed separate Board Committee executive management.
The areas covered by the questionnaire were unchanged Continuing to ensure that timely and high-quality information ows from previous years, although this year the questionnaire included to the Board and to Board Committees.
some new questions designed to draw out behavioural issues and group dynamics.
As part of the annual evaluation process, we seek views on the performance of individual Directors.
I have discussed this feedback In December 2011, Egon Zehnder presented a report on the evaluation with each of the non-executive Directors and agreed with them any process to the Board.
We discussed the results of the evaluation and areas for development.
My own performance was reviewed by the confirmed that we continue to operate at a very high level of Senior Independent Director, who sought the views of the other effectiveness.
The review identied that the Board is aligned in its non-executive Directors.
understanding of the strategic challenges it faces in a highly regulated and uncertain economic environment: that it continues to work hard and effectively as a team: and that it has demonstrated a high degree of resilience over a significant period of uncertainty for the financial services industry.
The review also concluded that the Board benchmarked well against other companies.
38 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Corporate governance report continued Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Report Chairmans Overview of 2011 Following the appointment of a new Chief Executive at the beginning of the year, the focus and attention of the Committee in 2011 was on the need to have a strengthened and effective succession planning process in place for the Board and other senior executive roles.
In addition, this year we have given particular thought to the issue of diversity, given the recommendations of the Davies Review on the gender diversity of Boards.
The Committee consists of me, as Chairman, along with four nonexecutive Directors.
The names of the members of the Committee are shown in the table, together with attendance at meetings in 2011.
Committee members include the Chairmen of the main Board Committees.
Bob Diamond, the Chief Executive, also attends each As Chairman of the Board Corporate Governance and Nominations meeting, although he is not involved in decisions relating to his own Committee, I report on the Committees activities in 2011. succession.
Meetings What is our role and what are our responsibilities?
eligible to Meetings Our role is to: Member Independent attend attended review the composition of the Board and Board Committees to ensure Marcus Agius Chairman OA44 they are appropriately constituted and balanced in terms of skills and David Booth I44 experience and to recommend to the Board the appointment of new Sir Richard Broadbent Directors: resigned 30 Sept 2011 I33 Alison Carnwath consider succession plans for the Group Chairman, Chief Executive appointed 1 July 2011 I11 and other key positions, such as roles on the Executive Committee a Sir Michael Rake I43 and other senior management roles: Sir John Sunderland I44 monitor corporate governance issues and developments: and Secretary agree the process for the annual Board Effectiveness Review and track Lawrence Dickinson the progress of any actions arising.
The Committees full Terms of Reference are available from our website.
Key OA on appointment I independent a unable to attend a meeting owing to illness The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 39 Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee Report continued How did we discharge our responsibilities in 2011?
Board Effectiveness We met four times in 2011 and the chart below shows how we allocated We discussed and approved the proposed actions to be taken in our time at our meetings.
I describe below how we discharged our response to the findings of the 2010 Board Effectiveness Review.
responsibilities: We reviewed the market for board effectiveness facilitators and agreed to re-appoint Egon Zehnder.
Board Composition We reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board and the How effective was the Committee in 2011?
principal Board Committees, looking at the need to refresh the Board, To ensure that the Committee is operating effectively, we carried out our the balance and diversity of skills and experience on the Board and annual committee effectiveness review as part of the Board Effectiveness planning ahead for any retirements.
We undertook a skills analysis Review.
The Committee is reviewed by the members themselves as well as and considered the skills that are likely to be required in the future.
Following the review, the Committee was found to be operating effectively.
However, we concluded that the performance We considered and recommended changes to Board Committee of the Committee could be enhanced by making improvements to the composition during the year.
Given the retirement of Sir Richard induction process for new Committee members and providing greater Broadbent from the Board on 30 September 2011, the Committee opportunity for members to bring items onto the Committee meeting approved the appointment of Alison Carnwath as Chairman of the agenda.
An action plan has been put in place to address these matters.
Alison is an experienced remuneration committee chairman and her knowledge of the What is the Committee planning to do in 2012?
investment banking industry will prove valuable given the regulatory For 2012, we will further improve our awareness of succession planning focus on remuneration in that business.
Alison also joined the Board and have greater visibility of potential candidates for senior positions Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee.
below the Executive Committee level.
We will continue to review and We discussed the outcome of the Davies Review on the proportion monitor Board and Board Committee composition against our skills and of women on boards and the implications for Barclays generally.
We experience requirements and our aspirational diversity targets and recommended an aspirational target for the Board to have at least continue to consider potential candidates.
20% of its membership as women by 2013 and for that position to have exceeded 25% by 2015.
To meet this aspirational target, we discussed and agreed steps to identify potential women candidates for the Board by working with our executive search agents.
Marcus Agius Succession Planning Chairman, Board Corporate Governance In 2011, we assumed responsibility for oversight of the Groups and Nominations Committee succession and talent management programme below Board level.
We discussed the processes, methodology and contingency plans Board Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee in place for senior strategic roles.
We discussed succession % allocation of time planning for the position of Chief Executive and for the Executive Committee and reviewed potential candidates for these roles.
2011 2010 1 Corporate governance matters 19 29 5 1 Corporate Governance 2 Board and committee We reviewed our corporate governance disclosures in the 2010 annual composition 31 13 4 report and considered the proposed disclosures for the 2011 annual 2 3 Succession planning and talent 30 34 report.
4 Board effectiveness 16 17 We reviewed and updated Corporate Governance in Barclays and the 5 Other 4 7 Charter of Expectations to ensure they continue to remain relevant and t for purpose, particularly given publication of the Financial 3 Reporting Council's Guidance on Board Effectiveness.
We were updated on significant corporate governance developments in the UK and those emanating from the European Commission and how these might impact the Group.
We reviewed and discussed issues raised at corporate governance meetings held with institutional investors and investor bodies.
40 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Corporate governance report continued Accountability Sir Michael Rake, Chairman of the Board Audit Committee, gives his personal view of the Board Audit Committees activities during 2011.
Board Audit Committee Chairmans Report Who is on the Committee?
Membership of the Committee and attendance at meetings held in 2011 are shown in the table.
Sir Andrew Likierman and I are the designated financial experts on the Committee for the purposes of the US SarbanesOxley Act, although each member of the Committee has a depth of financial expertise and collectively, the Committee has considerable financial and financial services experience on which to draw.
Having worked at KPMG throughout my career until 2007, I have significant experience of accounting and auditing issues from a UK and global perspective.
Sir Andrew is currently Chairman of the National Audit Ofce and is also Dean of the London Business School, following a career at HM Treasury.
Fulvio Conti has many years of financial and accounting experience and his knowledge and experience of the economic and political situation in the Eurozone has proved particularly valuable to our Meetings deliberations at both Committee and Board level.
Alison Carnwath brings eligible to Meetings many years of experience of both the financial services sector and Member Independent attend attended corporate finance from her career at Schroders.
Simon Fraser has a Sir Michael Rake Chairman I1212 background in financial services and, as a fund manager, brings insight a Alison Carnwath I12 9 and perspective as a user of financial statements.
a Fulvio Conti I1211 Simon Fraser I1212 This year, I asked some members of the Committee to take on particular Sir Andrew Likierman I1212 additional responsibilities.
Simon Fraser has been engaged with management on the Groups approach to Treating Customers Fairly.
Secretary Sir Andrew Likierman has been more closely involved in monitoring the Lawrence Dickinson Groups internal control framework, working with management to review control issues of Group level signicance.
Key OA on appointment The Committee members meet privately with me ahead of each I independent a unable to attend certain meetings owing to prior commitments Committee meeting, which gives me the opportunity to learn of and understand any particular issues that individual members may wish Chairmans overview of 2011 to raise during Committee meetings.
The Board Audit Committee has seen another extremely busy year, with its agenda shaped by both external and internal factors.
Continuing What are our responsibilities?
economic uncertainty and, in particular, the situation in the Eurozone, In summary, the Committees role is to: inuenced our areas of focus.
Furthermore, the aftermath of the 2008 monitor the integrity of the Groups financial reporting and satisfy financial crisis has seen our regulators adopt what they describe as a itself that any significant financial judgements made by management more intensive and intrusive approach to supervision, and this changing are sound: regulatory environment has shaped our discussions around internal monitor the Groups internal controls, including internal financial controls, regulatory compliance and financial reporting.
controls: and This year I have visited the Groups operations in Spain and New York, monitor and review the activities and performance of the internal attending meetings of the local subsidiary audit committees.
I met and external auditor, including monitoring their independence regularly with the Chief Internal Auditor during 2011 and have been and objectivity.
actively engaged in the recruitment of the new Chief Internal Auditor, The Committees full Terms of Reference are available from the corporate who took up post in January 2012.
I also regularly interact with the lead governance section of our website.
audit partner of our external auditors.
I have this year met a number of times with representatives of our regulators in both the UK and the US How did we discharge our responsibilities in 2011?
to discuss our approach to internal controls, regulatory compliance and We met 12 times in 2011 and the chart on page 42 shows how we specic financial reporting matters, including a tri-lateral meeting with allocated our time.
Our meetings are attended by management, our UK regulator and our auditor.
After each Committee meeting, including the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chief Internal I present a written report to the Board of the main issues that the Committee discussed and I am available should any Director wish Auditor, Chief Risk officer, Group General Counsel and Head of Compliance.
This year we have been particularly interested in interacting to discuss any particular issues with me in more detail.
with senior management below the Board and Executive Committee level and meetings have been attended by the chief executives of the There are some areas of potential overlap between the Committees remit and that of the Board Risk Committee, of which I am also a business units, along with representatives of the control functions at both Group and business unit level.
Via the Company Secretary, I have sought to ensure that those areas of overlap, such as the risks and controls associated with our The external auditor attends each meeting and the Committee also holds capital and liquidity positions, are managed appropriately, with each Committee viewing the issues through its particular lens.
regular private sessions with the Chief Internal Auditor and the external auditor.
These sessions, which are not attended by management, allow us to discuss any issues of emerging concern in more detail directly with the audit teams.
com annualreport 41 Board Audit Committee Chairmans Report continued I describe below the key issues we considered during 2011: 1bn against future redress and administration of PPI claims.
We were content that the provision was adequate, although it will Financial Reporting and significant Financial Judgements be considered further against actual claims experience.
Given continuing global economic uncertainty and market concerns We reviewed the year-end and halfyear disclosures in respect of legal over the financial health of the sector, our role in monitoring significant proceedings and competition and regulatory matters, particularly in financial reporting issues is key in ensuring that trust in the financial the light of developments in the Lehman litigation.
services sector and Barclays is maintained.
We seek support from the external auditor to assess whether suitable accounting policies have Internal control been adopted and whether management has made appropriate Our role is to review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls, estimates and judgements.
The main issues we reviewed in 2011 are set which is of particular resonance at a time when the business is subject to out below: significant change.
We do this by receiving specic control environment We regularly reviewed the Groups investment in BlackRock, Inc. reviews from each of the businesses, by reviewing reports on control and whether it should be impaired.
Key in our decision-making was issues of Group level signicance, by looking in detail at specic control whether the diminution in value could be considered to be significant issues and by receiving regular reports on regulatory compliance matters.
We closely monitored the BlackRock, Inc. share price Specic issues we considered in 2011 are described below: throughout the year and agreed with management's conclusion at We undertook control environment reviews of Barclaycard, Barclays the time of our third quarter interim management statement that the Africa, Barclays Capital, Europe Retail and Business Banking, Absa, decline in value was such that the investment should be impaired.
Barclays Corporate and Barclays Wealth.
We reviewed carefully the The impairment has been recognised in the full year results for 2011. control environment in Barclays Capital given the pressures on the We monitored the goodwill held for our business in Spain throughout business from both market conditions and heightened regulatory scrutiny.
We particularly wanted to ensure that the control 2011.
We agreed with managements assessment that the goodwill associated with our business in Spain should be written off during the environment is robust and well-documented and that control functions are adequately resourced.
Specic areas of focus for the fourth quarter.
Committee have been the trading and valuation models used by The credit impairment charge during 2011 was signicantly better than Barclays Capital, and the governance that provides assurance around prior year across each of the businesses.
We examined the impairment them.
Furthermore, following the report of unauthorised trading at charge carefully to satisfy ourselves that this was appropriate.
UBS, we received a report on a review of the controls in place at Management decided in late 2010 that it no longer intended to hold Barclays Capital to ensure that they are designed effectively to prevent the occurrence of a similar incident.
the Protium loan for the long term given its low return on regulatory capital.
Consequently, and as part of nalising the year-end 2010 We continued to monitor the controls and governance around results, we agreed with managements recommendation that the value technology, in particular, the progress of a programme implemented of the loan should be reduced to the fair value of the underlying assets.
to put in place specic control enhancements that had been identied.
This resulted in an impairment charge for the year ended 31 December We also received a report on cyber security and the steps the Group 2010.
During the second quarter of 2011, management decided to has taken to mitigate the risk of cyber attacks.
restructure the loan and the proposal to purchase the outstanding financial interest in Protium in order to facilitate earlier repayment of We reviewed the programme that has been put in place to ensure that the Group complies with the UK Bribery Act, which came into force in the loan was agreed by Board Finance Committee a specically authorised sub-committee of the Board.
This resulted in Barclays July 2011. controlling Protiums operating and financial policies and consolidating During the year we tracked the actions that had been agreed to Protium.
The Committee agreed with the accounting treatment.
ensure compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreements entered Given the continuing economic and political uncertainty in the into as part of the settlement reached with US authorities following an Eurozone, we reviewed both our exposures to the selected Eurozone investigation into the Groups compliance with US sanctions and US countries of Ireland, Italy, Portugal, Spain and Greece and the form of dollar payment practices.
This included reviewing whether the actions our disclosure of these exposures in our financial reporting during are on track and monitoring the resources allocated to ensuring that 2011.
Our exposures have been reduced during 2011. the programme is delivered.
We considered the impact of own credit and other one-off items that The FSA imposed a ne on Barclays Capital in January 2011 for could be treated as adjusting items to the adjusted profit Before Tax breaches of client asset segregation rules.
We regularly reviewed the measure and worked with management to ensure that equal remediation programme that was put in place to enhance the Groups prominence was given to both the statutory and adjusted results.
processes and minimise the risk of reoccurrence.
As part of reviewing the results for 2011, we considered the Following a ne for failures associated with the sales of two investment funds, we reviewed the outputs of an independent third party review recognition and valuation of deferred tax assets in the US and Spain and agreed with managements judgement that the deferred tax and the progress of actions taken to review similar products.
assets were appropriately supported by the forecasted profit.
We received regular reports on the arrangements that the Group has We also considered the appropriateness of tax risk provisions made.
in place to enable employees to raise concerns and were updated on We also reviewed the appropriateness of the judgements made action being taken to address any specic matters.
by management in valuing certain portfolios and asset classes and You can nd further details of the Groups system of internal control and were satisfied that these judgements were appropriate.
risk management, including the main features of our internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process, Following the dismissal in May 2011 of judicial review proceedings brought by the British Bankers' Association in relation to the in the Directors Report on page 48 and in the Risk Management section on pages 67 to 158. assessment and redress of Payment Protection Insurance PPI claims, we reviewed managements assumptions in arriving at a provision of 42 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Corporate governance report continued Board Audit Committee Chairmans Report continued to uphold its independence and objectivity.
To assess the performance Objectivity and independence of the external auditor and effectiveness of the auditor, we carry out an annual assessment by One of our key responsibilities is to monitor and review the objectivity seeking views on PwCs performance from key stakeholders across the and independence of our external auditor.
This includes having in Group.
The results of this assessment are reported to the Committee place a policy to govern the non-audit services that may be provided each year and help inform the Committees discussion on whether the by the external auditor, which sets out the circumstances in which the auditor should be recommended for re-appointment.
This includes external auditor may be permitted to undertake non-audit services.
considering whether the audit should be tendered.
Allowable services are pre-approved up to 100,000, or 25,000 in the case of certain taxation services.
Any non-audit service that Following the assessment process described above, the Committee is exceeds these thresholds requires approval from me as Chairman of fully satisfied with the performance of PwC and has recommended to the Committee and must be robustly justied and, if appropriate, the Board and to shareholders that PwC should be re-appointed as the tendered, before it is approved.
I closely review all requests for Groups auditors at the AGM on 27 April 2012.
PwC has signied its approval, particularly any which concern taxation-related services, and willingness to continue in ofce.
specically tax advisory services, where our approach is not to use the auditor unless there is a very strong case for not seeking an alternative Effectiveness supplier.
The Committee receives a quarterly report on non-audit The performance of the Committee is reviewed each year as part of the services undertaken by the auditor so that it can monitor the types Board Effectiveness Review, both by the Committee itself and by the of services being provided and the fees incurred.
This years review concluded that the Committee continues to operate effectively.
Areas where we could enhance our A breakdown of the fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work may performance include ensuring that the form and content of information be found in note 8 on page 212. significant categories of engagement presented to the Committee is appropriate given the Committees busy undertaken in 2011 include regulatory audit work, where the work was agenda and we have put together an action plan to address the findings.
requested by our regulators in the UK and in South Africa and the use of the auditor was agreed with them, and tax compliance services Looking ahead to 2012 in connection with our expatriate and international assignees, where For 2012, the Committees areas of focus will continue to be inuenced we have agreed to use an alternative supplier from 2011 onwards for by the impact of the difficult economic environment and the changing new assignments.
In addition to ensuring we examine the impact of external factors, we will be seeking to ensure that a strong governance Further details of the non-audit services that are prohibited and and control environment is maintained while the business undergoes a allowed under our policy can be found on our website.
period of internal reorganisation as it integrates the operations of Absa and Barclays in Africa and seeks to deliver cost efficiencies and Oversight of Internal Audit and External Audit operational excellence across the Group.
Internal Audit We are responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal audit function and ensuring it is adequately resourced and focused on the right issues.
We also review and approve the annual Internal Audit plan.
Sir Michael Rake During 2011, we received regular reports from Internal Audit, which set Chairman, Board Audit Committee out the Internal Audit functions view of the control environment and performance against any key indicators.
Of particular focus was the need to ensure that there is timely remediation of any audit findings.
We also Board Audit Committee allocation of time % specically reviewed the resources available to the Internal Audit function 2011 2010 and any adjustments to be made to the Internal Audit plan, including 1 Control issues 4 8 1 changes to methodology.
2 2 Financial results 42 41 6 3 Internal audit matters 6 8 Internal Audits self-assessment of conformance, which we reviewed 4 External audit matters 6 5 in the fourth quarter of 2011, evidenced that the function generally conforms to the standards set by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
5 Business control environment 23 23 6 Other including Governance External Audit and Compliance 19 15 5 It is our responsibility to monitor the performance, objectivity and 4 3 independence of the external auditor and recommend to the Board the appointment of the external auditor.
We also agree the audit plan with the external auditor to ensure that the areas of focus are appropriate.
 PwC has been our auditor for many years, although the lead audit partner is rotated every five years.
The current lead audit partner joined the audit team for the 2010 year end and will retire after the 2014 year end.
The appointment of PwC as auditor is subject to shareholder approval each year at the AGM, giving shareholders the opportunity to accept or reject the Boards recommendation that they be reappointed.
In terms of auditor independence and objectivity, we have a policy that governs non-audit services provided by the auditor, which is described above.
PwC also provides specic assurance to us on the arrangements it has in place The strategic report Governance Risk management Financial review Financial statements Shareholder information Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport 43 David Booth, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee, gives you his insight into the work of that Committee in 2011.
Board Risk Committee Chairmans report Who is on the Committee?
Collectively the Committee has a depth of experience in finance and financial risk management.
Both Reuben Jeffery and I have a background in investment banking, with careers at Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley respectively.
Sir Michael Rake is the former Chairman of KPMG International and has a wealth of financial and business experience.
Sir Andrew Likierman has held number of roles in the public financial services sector, including roles at HM Treasury and that of non-executive Director of the Bank of England.
Dambisa Moyo is an international economist, who writes on the macroeconomy, having formerly worked at Goldman Sachs.
The Committees role is to: Meetings eligible to Meetings recommend to the Board the total level of risk the Group is prepared Member Independent attend attended to take risk appetite to achieve the generation of shareholder value: David Booth Chairman I99 monitor risk appetite, including setting limits for individual types of a Reuben Jeffery I98 risk, e. g. credit, market and funding risk: a Sir Andrew Likierman I98 a Dambisa Moyo I97 monitor the Groups risk prole: a Sir Michael Rake I97 ensure that management properly identies principal risks and that they are being appropriately managed: Secretary ensure that risk is taken into account during the due diligence phase Lawrence Dickinson of any strategic transaction: and Key provide input from a risk perspective into the deliberations of the OA on appointment I independent Board Remuneration Committee.
a unable to attend certain meetings either because of illness or prior commitments The Committees full Terms of Reference are available from the Chairmans overview of 2011 corporate governance section of our website.
More information on 2011 has seen some particular challenges for the Committee in its risk management and the internal control framework can be found in oversight of risk management.
Global economic conditions have the Directors Report on page 48 and in the Risk Management section continued to be difficult.
Concerns over the economic prospects for the on pages 67 to 158.
Eurozone, specic countries within it and the possibility of a break up, have greatly inuenced our agenda.
The regulatory environment has How did we discharge our responsibilities in 2011?
also evolved, as our regulators continue to seek assurance as to the We met 9 times in 2011 and the chart on page 44 shows how we robustness of risk management and the financial viability of financial allocated our time at our meetings.
Our meetings are attended by institutions in a stressed environment.
management, including the Group Finance Director, Chief Internal Auditor, Chief Risk officer and Group General Counsel.
The external Understanding, monitoring and mitigating risk is a fundamental task auditor also attends each meeting.
This year meetings have also been for any board.
We play a critical role in setting the tone and culture attended by senior management below Board and Executive Committee that promotes the achievement of effective risk management across level, including representatives of the risk management function at both the Group.
It is important to differentiate, however, between those risks Group and business unit level.
We have been especially interested in that a company actively seeks to take and manage in order to generate hearing from those who are responsible at an operational level for income for Barclays, credit, market and funding risk and those risks implementing risk management in the Group.
that it seeks to minimise in order to manage costs what we know as operational risk.
The Committees principal focus is on the former those I describe below how the Committee discharged its responsibilities risks we take in order to generate income although we also consider during 2011: the latter.
This year, as Chairman of the Committee, I have sought to refocus the Committees agenda on key strategic, forward looking risk Risk Prole Risk Appetite issues.
I have worked with the Chief Risk officer and Company Secretary Our role is to recommend risk appetite to the Board and then to monitor to ensure that the Committees time is used appropriately and that the performance against appetite and the Groups overall risk prole.
The right information is being provided to the Committee at the right time.
main issues we reviewed in 2011 were: I have continued to meet regularly with the Chief Risk officer, and also We received quarterly Group Risk Prole Reports, which provide an with the Group Treasurer and Chief Internal Auditor, to discuss any update on credit and market risk performance in our main businesses emerging issues.
This year I have also had a number of meetings with and across our key geographies of the UK, US, Spain and South Africa.
representatives of our regulators in the UK and the US to discuss our The focus of our discussions was on the potential impact of approach to risk management, and I expect this increased level of macroeconomic factors, particularly the Eurozone crisis and any interaction to continue in the future.
I present written reports to the impact arising from austerity measures being taken by governments Board of the main issues that the Committee discusses and any around the world.
In late 2011, this report was extended to cover Director may contact me at any time to discuss any particular issues Operational Risk in more detail, in line with the changes made to the in more detail.
Groups Principal Risks Policy, which I describe below.
44 Barclays PLC Annual Report 2011 www.
com annualreport Corporate governance report continued Board Risk Committee Chairmans report continued We received quarterly updates on capital and liquidity from the Group We also reviewed pension risk, in view of the triennial valuation of the Treasurer, including an assessment of performance against liquidity pension scheme, and tax risk management, where we considered the risk appetite and an assessment of the Groups liquidity prole, Groups own tax risk and the risk it takes on behalf of clients.
to satisfy ourselves that sufficient liquidity is held to cover both market-wide and Barclays specic stress scenarios.
The Eurozone Internal Control and Risk Management Framework crisis gave rise to difficult conditions in the money markets and we We annually review the internal control and risk management framework discussed and received regular written updates on counterparty and to ensure it remains t for purpose.
This year we reviewed and agreed liquidity risk in the third and fourth quarters of 2011. proposals to update the Groups Internal Control and Assurance Framework GICAF and agreed updates to the Groups Principal Risks We discussed and agreed scenarios for our internal stress testing Policy, to define four principal risks: Credit, Market, Funding and exercises and reviewed the results.
As part of planning for the stress Operational Risk.
More details on the GICAF and the Principal Risks Policy tests, the Committee specically requested that a single European can be found in the Directors Report on page 48 and in the Risk peripheral sovereign default be modelled given prevailing conditions Management section on pages 67 to 158. in the Eurozone.
The stress testing exercises evidenced that the Group remains profitable and well-capitalised above required Remuneration minimum levels.
We also reviewed the results of the stress testing We again provided input to the Board Remuneration Committee on exercises required by the European Banking Authority EBA, which the risk metrics to be used to determine financial performance and we were published in July 2011.
The results of these EBA stress tests reviewed the risk perspective on performance, which was used to inform showed that Barclays remains capitalised above the required remuneration decisions for 2011. regulatory targets for Core Tier 1 capital.
We reviewed the Groups economic capital framework, including Effectiveness the governance around the models used, methodology changes As part of the annual Board Effectiveness Review, the performance of introduced in 2011 and how the framework is used to assist risk the Committee is assessed by the Committee itself and by the Board management across the Group.
Areas where we could enhance our performance In late 2011, we reviewed the proposed risk appetite for 2012.
The risk include continuing to ensure that information ows to the Committee appetite process again assessed the Groups performance in a 1 in 7 are appropriate and timely, given the changing environment.
and 1 in 25 scenario and reviewed the performance of agreed parameters in such scenarios to identify any potential constraints.
Looking ahead to 2012 While we were content to recommend risk appetite to the Board, For 2012, global macroeconomic factors will continue to shape the current economic conditions mean that there is a greater likelihood Committees agenda.
We will continue to closely monitor our risk prole of event risk and we will keep performance against risk appetite and performance against risk appetite, with a particular focus on capital under very close review in 2012. and liquidity.
We will also continue to monitor carefully our Eurozone exposures.
Key Risk Issues Key risk issues are those that have been proposed by management for review by the Committee in detail, so that we can assess the current and potential future impact and ensure that any risks are being managed appropriately.
These in-depth reviews have this year been driven largely David Booth by the changing economic and regulatory environment.
Some of the Chairman, Board Risk Committee specic issues we considered in 2011 were: Given the ongoing difficulties in the Eurozone, we undertook two specic country risk reviews in 2011, choosing Portugal and Italy.
Board Risk Committee allocation of time % These reviews took a holistic approach to Barclays business in those 2011 2010 countries, focusing on both macro risks and specic business risks, 1 Risk profile Risk appetite 1 5 and an assessment of any potential issues those businesses might 4 including capital and face in a stressed environment.
We were particularly keen to ensure 3 liquidity management 45 51 that any lessons learned from these reviews are embedded Group- 2 Key risk issues 38 24 wide.
We also received a presentation on the implications of a 3 Internal control Risk polices 6 2 break-up of the Eurozone and the actions available to mitigate the 4 Regulatory frameworks 4 4 impact on the Group.
5 Other including Remuneration and Governance issues 7 19 We undertook a review of our funding and liquidity risk management 2 framework, particularly given the disruption in the wholesale money markets during the year.
We received a report on the review of risk management controls that took place following the announcement of unauthorised trading at UBS to ensure that any lessons learned could be captured.
We reviewed measures that are being taken in Barclays Capital to enhance risk management and to further develop the vision for risk in that business.
Given US government austerity measures, we reviewed the Groups US Municipal bond business and the scope and extent of our exposures.
com annualreport 45 for private shareholders to request information.
To ensure our registrars Remuneration Alison Carnwath, who became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee continue to provide the highest quality of service to our shareholders, we regularly monitor their operational performance via monthly meetings.
in 2011, reports on the Board Remuneration Committees activities during 2011 in the Remuneration Report, which may be found on pages 54 to 65.
We believe that communicating electronically with our shareholders Relations with Shareholders is beneficial for the environment and lowers costs for the Group.
We therefore actively encourage private shareholders to use our e-view How do we ensure that we understand the views of our shareholders?
As Group Chairman, I am responsible for ensuring that there is effective service to receive their shareholder documents electronically and to get immediate access to information relating to their personal shareholding communication with shareholders.
I am in regular contact with institutional shareholders and, in particular, I met with institutional shareholders ahead and dividend history.
Shareholders can sign up to our e-view service at www.
Barclays e-view participants can also change of the 2011AGM and reported back to the Board on any significant issues that were raised.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Senior their details and dividend mandates online and receive dividend tax Independent Director also had regular contact with shareholders and the vouchers electronically.
We also encourage our private shareholders to Chairman of the Board Remuneration Committee met with key hold their shares in Barclays Sharestore, where shares are held shareholders to discuss the Groups remuneration structure and policy.
electronically in a cost-effective and secure environment.
In addition, all Directors had the opportunity to attend an investor seminar, which was held in June 2011.
Private shareholders can discuss their concerns with us by email: @barclays.
com or in writing to Shareholder During 2011, the Board received an update on the Groups Investor Relations at Barclays PLC, 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HP.
Relations strategy, which included an update on key market issues raised by our owners, investor relations objectives and activities, share price AGM performance and the share register prole.
We also received the results The 2011 AGM was held on Wednesday 27 April 2011 at the Royal Festival of an investor audit carried out by one of our advisers, which provided an Hall in London.
In accordance with best practice, all resolutions were insight into market issues and institutional perceptions of our strategy, considered on a poll, which was conducted by our registrars and monitored management and key issues.
In late 2011, the Board also held a session by independent scrutineers.
The results, along with proxy votes lodged prior on bank sector valuations, gaining an insight into how the market values to the meeting, were made available on our website the same day.
63% of banks and the factors inuencing the markets valuation.
the shares in issue were voted and all resolutions were approved.
How do we engage effectively with our shareholders?
The Board as a whole is committed to the constructive use of the AGM We understand the need to be transparent in our dialogue and to meet with shareholders, hear their views and to answer their questions.
We are supportive of the UK All Directors are required to attend the AGM and all Directors attended the Stewardship Codes aims of improving dialogue between investors and 2011 AGM, where the Chairmen of the Board Committees and I were companies and strive to facilitate meaningful engagement with our available to answer shareholders questions.
I look forward to meeting you shareholders.
Our interaction with our shareholders falls into three main at the 2012 AGM, which will be held on Friday 27 April 2012 at the Royal areas: institutional shareholders, private shareholders and the AGM.
The Notice of Meeting can be found in a separate General shareholder information can be found on our website, document.
The resolutions will be considered on a poll and the results will www.
be announced via the Regulatory News Service RNS and made available on our website on the same day.
Copies of the AGM speeches will also be Institutional Shareholders released via RNS and posted on our website.
Shareholders unable to attend We have an active and dedicated investor relations team that manages the AGM are encouraged to vote in advance of the meeting via www.
a planned and comprehensive investor relations programme, which barclays.
They may also submit questions to facilitates regular access for investors and buy-side and sell-side analysts the Board by writing to Shareholder Relations at the address given above.
to senior management, so that they can interact directly on key topics.
Overall in 2011, over 400 separate meetings took place between Statements of Compliance management and investors, at venues in London, Scotland, USA, Canada, UK Combined Code on Corporate Governance France, Germany, Spain, Ireland, Italy, Scandinavia, Switzerland, the As Barclays is listed on the London Stock Exchange, we comply with Netherlands, the Middle East, Japan and China, reecting the international the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
For the year ended nature of our investor register.
Senior management from across the 31 December 2011, we have complied with the relevant provisions set business also hosted investor and analyst meetings during 2011 including out in the Code and applied the principles of the Code as described in this our quarterly reporting presentations and an investor seminar in June report.
Further information on the Code can be found at www.
In addition to direct meetings, Barclays also participates in investor conferences intended to provide wider access to investors and analysts Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR and took part in 17 such conferences in 2011.
Our website also provides Certain additional information that is required to be disclosed pursuant information for our debt investors, including information on our credit to DTR7.2.
6 may be found in the Directors Report on pages 46 to 49. ratings, capital ratios, senior and subordinated debt securities, and securitisation and covered bond transactions.
New York Stock Exchange NYSE rules permit Barclays to follow UK corporate governance practices Private Shareholders instead of those applied in the USA, provided that any significant As we have a large private shareholder base, it is impractical variations are explained.
This explanation will be contained in our Form to communicate with our private shareholders using the same 20-F ling, which can be accessed from the Securities and Exchange direct engagement model we follow for our institutional shareholders.
Commissions SEC EDGAR database or via our website.
Nevertheless, as we understand the need to treat all shareholders fairly, we follow industry best practice in terms of disclosure.
To this end, we ensure that all documents produced for investor events are also provided on the investor relations section of our website.
A wide range of information for all our shareholders can also be found on the site.
Marcus Agius We also maintain a specic shareholder enquiry line with our registrars Group Chairman 7 March 2012
