Corporate Governance continued Performance evaluation Audit & Management Engagement Committee In order to review the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and A separately chaired Audit & Management Engagement Committee individual Directors, including the Chairman, the Board carries out an the Committee has been established and is made up of the annual appraisal process.
The annual evaluation for the year ended independent Directors, including the Chairman of the Company.
The 31 December 2011 has been carried out and took the form of Board considers that at least one member of the Committee has questionnaires followed by discussions to identify how the sufficient recent and relevant financial experience for it to discharge effectiveness of its activities, including its Committees, policies or its function effectively.
The Chairman of the Company is a member of processes might be enhanced.
The results of the evaluation process this Committee to enable him to be kept fully informed of any issues were presented to and discussed by the Board and it was agreed that which may arise.
The terms of reference of this Committee are the current composition of the Board reflected an appropriate mix of available on request and on the Investment Managers website at skills and experience and that the Board, as a whole, the individual www.
co. uk brwm under the Literature section and will Directors and its Committees were functioning effectively.
also be available at each Annual General Meeting.
The Board has agreed that, in future, the use of an external facilitator The Committee meets at least twice a year and, amongst other things, to undertake the performance evaluation will occur at least every examines the effectiveness of the control systems.
The two planned three years.
meetings are held prior to the Board meetings to approve the half yearly and annual results, including the valuation of any unquoted Delegation of responsibilities investments.
The Committee does not consider that as an investment The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility: trust company it needs to hold an additional meeting although this is kept under review.
Management and administration The management of the investment portfolio and the administration of During the year the principal activities of the Audit & Management the Company have been delegated to the Investment Manager.
The Engagement Committee included: Investment Manager, operating under guidelines determined by the Board, has direct responsibility for the decisions relating to the day to considering and recommending to the Board for approval the day running of the Company and is accountable to the Board for the contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements and investment, financial and operating performance of the Company.
The reviewing the external auditors report thereon: Board has final investment authority on unquoted investments.
Custody and settlement services are provided by The Bank of New reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence and York Mellon International Limited BNYM, a subsidiary of The Bank objectivity of the external auditor: of New York Mellon.
reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the audit The Board has delegated the exercise of voting rights attaching to the and non-audit fees payable to the external auditor and the terms securities held in the portfolio to the Investment Manager.
Details of of their engagement: the Investment Managers voting policy are set out on page 22. reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the Committees of the Board following financial year: Nomination Committee As the Board is small and comprises only non-executive Directors it reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting fulfils the function of the Nomination Committee which will meet when policies: necessary to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment.
Should a vacancy occur or the Board decide to recruit new members, ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and the Board will take into account the size, balance and profile of the standards: and Board as a whole to identify any areas that need strengthening.
Due to the specialist nature of the investment mandate, and the difficulty in considering the remuneration of the Investment Manager, the finding new Directors with knowledge of the mining sector, the existing Secretary and Administrator and reviewing the terms of the Directors will try to identify suitable individuals from their range of investment management agreement.
contacts, although other sources, including external search consultants, may also be used as required.
The Committee has also reviewed the whistleblowing policy that has been put in place by the Investment Manager under which its staff, in confidence, can raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, insofar as they affect the Company.
30 BlackRock World Mining Trust plc
