The Committee considers the risks associated with audit firms Attendance record withdrawing from the market and the relationship with the Companys Scheduled auditor.
The auditors appointment is reviewed each year and the audit Board Audit partners change at least once every five years.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of auditor.
Number of Meetings held 5 2 Number of Meetings attended Other audit service fees of 5,500 excluding VAT paid to Ernst & Anthony Lea 5 2 Young LLP, relate to their review of the half yearly financial statements.
Ian Barby 5 2 The Committee considers whether the skills and experience of the Colin Buchan 5 2 Oliver Baring 4 2 auditor make them a suitable supplier of the non-audit service and Gordon Sage 5 2 whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to their objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit In addition, four ad hoc Board Meetings were held during the year.
resulting from the provision of such services.
Internal controls On an annual basis Ernst & Young LLP review the independence of The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the their relationship with the Company and report to the Board, providing Companys systems of internal control and for reviewing their details of any other relationship with the Investment Manager.
The effectiveness, for ensuring that financial information published or used Board has concluded that Ernst & Young LLP are independent of the within the business is reliable, and for regularly monitoring compliance Company and the Investment Manager.
with regulations governing the operation of investment trusts.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of the internal control systems on an The external auditor is invited to attend the Audit & Management on-going basis to identify, evaluate and manage the Companys Engagement Committee meeting at which the annual accounts are significant risks.
As part of that process, there are procedures considered and at which they have the opportunity to meet with the designed to capture and evaluate any failings or weaknesses and Committee without representatives of the Investment Manager being should a case be categorised by the Board as significant, procedures present.
exist to ensure that necessary action is taken to remedy the failings.
The Board is not aware of any significant failings or weaknesses in the Membership of the Audit & Management Engagement Committee year.
Colin Buchan Chairman Control of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, Ian Barby compliance and risk management, is embedded in the operations of Oliver Baring the Investment Manager and BNYM.
There is a monitoring and Anthony Lea reporting process to review these controls, which has been in place Gordon Sage throughout the year under review and up to the date of this report, carried out by the Investment Managers corporate audit department.
This accords with the FRCs Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Remuneration Committee Directors on the UK Corporate Governance Code formerly the As the Board is small it fulfils the function of the Remuneration Combined Code known as the Turnbull guidance.
Committee which will meet when necessary to determine the remuneration of the Directors.
The remuneration of the Chairman and The Investment Manager reports to the Company on its review of Directors is reviewed against the fees paid to directors of other internal controls, formally on a semi-annual basis and verbally at each specialist investment trusts and investment trusts of a comparable Board and Audit & Management Engagement Committee meeting, and size, as well as taking account of any data published by the provides an annual report from the Investment Managers reporting Association of Investment Companies.
accountants on the control policies and procedures in operation.
The Audit & Management Engagement Committee also receives quarterly The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended by reports from BNYM on the internal controls of its custodial operations, each Director during the year was as follows: together with the opinion of their reporting accountants.
The Board recognises that these control systems can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and relies on the operating controls established by the Investment Manager and BNYM.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 31
