Resolution 11 Authority to disapply pre-emption rights Recommendation: By law, Directors require specific authority from shareholders before The Board considers that each of the resolutions is likely to promote allotting new shares or selling shares out of treasury for cash without the success of the Company and is in the best interests of the first offering them to existing shareholders in proportion to their Company and its shareholders as a whole.
Resolution 11 empowers the Directors to allot new shares for recommend that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions as they cash or to sell shares which are held by the Company in treasury, intend to do so in respect of their own beneficial holdings.
otherwise than to existing shareholders on a pro-rata basis, up to an aggregate nominal amount of 443,218 which is equivalent to Corporate Governance 8,864,362 ordinary shares of 5p each and 5% of the Companys issued Full details are given in the Corporate Governance Statement on ordinary share capital, excluding treasury shares, as at the date of the pages 28 to 32.
The Corporate Governance Statement forms part of Notice of Annual General Meeting.
Unless renewed at a general this Directors Report.
meeting prior to such time, this authority will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2013.
Audit information As required by section 418 of the Companies Act 2006 the Directors Resolution 12 Authority to buy back shares in office at the date of this report each confirm that, so far as they are The resolution to be proposed will seek to renew the authority granted aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys to Directors enabling the Company to purchase its own shares.
The auditor is unaware and each Director has taken all the steps that they Directors will only consider repurchasing shares in the market if they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of any believe it to be in shareholders interests and as a means of correcting relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor any imbalance between supply and demand for the Companys shares.
is aware of that information.
Under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Auditor maximum price which can be paid shall be the higher of i 5% above The auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, has indicated their willingness to the average of the market values of the ordinary shares for the five continue in office and resolutions proposing their reappointment and business days immediately preceding the date on which the purchase authorising the Directors to determine their remuneration for the is made and ii the higher of the price quoted for a the last ensuing year will be submitted at the Annual General Meeting.
independent trade of, and b the highest current independent bid for, any number of ordinary shares on the trading venue where the By order of the Board purchase is carried out.
In making purchases, the Company will deal BlackRock Investment Management UK Limited only with member firms of the London Stock Exchange.
The Directors Secretary are seeking authority to purchase up to 26,575,357 ordinary shares 23 February 2012 being 14.99% of the issued share capital excluding treasury shares as at the date of this report.
This authority, unless renewed at an earlier general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of next years Annual General Meeting.
Annual Report and Financial Statements 31 December 2011 25
