BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of Mr Hooley, Mr Meader and Mr Crowder and Mr Dodd and Mr le Prevost are entitled to attend.
Mr Hooley has been appointed as Chairman.
The Audit Committee has regard to the Guidance on Audit Committees published by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2008 and December 2010.
The Audit Committee examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the annual and half-yearly reports and financial statements, the auditors remuneration and engagement, as well as the auditors independence and any non-audit services provided by them.
The Audit Committee considers the nature, scope and results of the auditors work and reviews prior to providing a recommendation to the Board on the re-appointment or removal of the auditor.
The Audit Committee receives information from the Secretarys compliance department and the external auditors.
The Audit Committee meets at least twice annually, being before the Board meets to consider the Companys HalfYearly and Annual Financial Reports.
The Audit Committee operates within clearly defined terms of reference and provides a forum through which the Companys external auditors report to the Board.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are available upon request of the Secretary.
During the year under review the Audit Committee met four times.
Messrs Crowder, Meader and Hooley attended all four meetings.
Management and Remuneration Committee A management and remuneration committee has been established consisting of Mr Meader, Mr Hooley and Mr Crowder, with Mr Dodd and Mr Le Prevost being entitled to attend all meetings of the Committee.
Mr Meader has been appointed as Chairman.
The function of the management and remuneration committee is: a to ensure that the Companys contracts of engagement with the Administrator and other service providers are operating satisfactorily so as to ensure the safe and accurate management and administration of the Companys affairs and business and are competitive and reasonable for the shareholders and to make appropriate recommendations to the Board: b to monitor and assess the appropriate levels of remuneration for all directors: and c to ensure that the Company complies to the best of its ability with applicable laws and regulations and adheres to the tenet of generally accepted codes of conduct.
