BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued During the year under review the Management and Remuneration Committee met twice and Messrs Meader, Crowder and Hooley attended both meetings.
The chairmanship of the above two committees is reviewed annually by the Chairman.
In addition, each directors performance is assessed annually by the Chairman and the performance of the Chairman is assessed by the remaining directors.
The remuneration of the non-executive directors is reviewed on an annual basis and compared with the level of remuneration for directorships of other similar funds.
All directors receive an annual fee and there are no share options or other performance related benefits available to them.
The Board is committed to an evaluation of its performance being carried out every year.
In accordance with principle seven of the AIC Code within the year under review an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board took place.
Optimus Group Limited the Facilitator, conducted the review through a discussion framework circulated to the directors, followed by interviews with the directors and a review of the Boards documents.
The Facilitator provided a final report which concluded that the Board of the Company has a high standard of corporate governance and there were no significant points to raise.
However the Facilitator recommended the appointment of a Senior Independent Director SID and the Board subsequently appointed Paul Meader as the SID.
Optimus Group Limited, was independent of the Company and of any service provider but had been retained by the Board in 2010 to conduct a review of the services and remuneration of the Company Secretary and Administrator.
The Board expects to next conduct such an externally facilitated review in 2014.
Nomination Committee A Nomination Committee has been established consisting of Mr Crowder, Mr Meader, Mr Hooley, Mr Le Prevost and Mr Dodd with Mr Crowder being appointed as Chairman.
The function of the Nomination Committee is to ensure that the Company goes through a formal process of reviewing the balance and effectiveness of the Board, identifying the experience and skills needed and those individuals who might best provide them and to ensure that the individual has sufficient available time to undertake the tasks required.
During the year under review the Nomination Committee did not meet as the Board had undertaken a full formal externally facilitated appraisal therefore negating the requirement for the Nomination Committee to duplicate this.
