BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are required to prepare financial statements for each financial year which give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company as at the end of the financial year and of the profit or loss for that year.
In preparing those financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently: make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and to enable them to ensure that the financial statements have been properly prepared in accordance with the Law.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Corporate Governance Statement of Compliance with the AIC Code of Corporate Governance In accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
7 the Company is required to comply with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
A copy of the UK Corporate Governance Code is available for download from the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the Association of Investment Companies the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to an investment company.
With effect from 1 January 2012 the Company is also required to comply with the Guernsey Financial Services Commission Financial Sector Code of Corporate Governance the Guernsey Code.
As the Company reports under the AIC Code it is deemed to meet the Guernsey Code.
The Board has undertaken to evaluate its corporate governance compliance on an on-going basis.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
30 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive: executive directors remuneration: and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions not relevant to the position of the Company, being a self-managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code except as set out below.
The Board comprises five non-executive directors all of whom are independent for the purposes of the AIC Code and Listing Rule 15.2.
12A except for Mr Dodd, who is a director of the Investment Manager of AllBlue Limited.
Biographies of the directors appear on pages 8 and 9, demonstrating the wide range of skills and experience they bring to the Board.
In accordance with principle 5 of the AIC Code below is a detail of all other public company directorships and employments held by each director and shared directorships of any commercial company held by two or more directors: Richard Crowder Absolute Alpha Fund PCC Ltd Aviva Investors Alternative Funds PCC Better Capital PCC Limited FCM Funds Public Limited Company FF&P Alternative Strategy PCC Limited FF&P Global Property Fund PCC Limited FF&P Enhanced Opportunities Fund PCC Limited FF&P Venture Funds PCC Limited Japan Residential Investment Company Limited London & Stamford Property Plc Pantheon International Participations Plc Rufford & Ralston PCC Limited 31 BlueCrest AllBlue Fund Limited the Company REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Jonathan Hooley Argentum Capital Limited Aqua Resources Fund Limited F&C Commercial Property Trust Limited Paul Meader Employed by Collins Stewart C. I.
Limited, a subsidiary of Canaccord Financial Inc. John Le Prevost Close Assets Fund Limited Guaranteed Investment Products 1 PCC Limited Harewood Structured Investment PCC Limited Thai Prime Fund Limited Andrew Dodd BlueCrest BlueTrend Limited The Board meets at least four times a year to consider the business and affairs of the Company for the previous quarter.
Between these quarterly meetings the Board keeps in contact by email and telephone as well as meeting to consider specific matters of a transactional nature.
There is regular contact with the Secretary.
Additionally it holds strategy meetings with its relevant advisors as appropriate.
The directors are kept fully informed of investment and financial controls and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company and should be brought to the attention of the directors.
The directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to professional advice at the expense of the Company.
During the year under review the Board met nine times.
Of those nine meetings four were quarterly board meetings and five were ad hoc meetings.
The directors attendance is summarised below: Director Quarterly Board Meetings Ad hoc Meetings Richard Crowder 44 Andrew Dodd 32 Jonathan Hooley 45 Paul Meader 44 John Le Prevost 45 32
