CORPORAT E g OVERNANCE The Directors are committed to a high standard of corporate The Non-Executive Directors frequently meet with the Executive governance and to compliance with the best practice provisions of Chairman and also on their own, without any executives present, at the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which was meetings led by the Senior Independent Director.
issued by the Financial Reporting Council and replaced the previous Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The following The Board maintains a formal schedule of matters reserved for the statement, the Directors Remuneration Report, the Audit Board which is reviewed annually by the Company Secretary and Committee Report and the Business Review: Finance explains how approved by the Board.
The Board is regularly updated throughout the provisions set out in the Code have been applied by the Group the year and receives in advance of the monthly meetings, detailed and details the Groups compliance with the provisions of the Code board packs, which include an agenda based upon the schedule of for the year.
The Directors consider that the Company has been in matters reserved for its approval and appropriate reports and briefing full compliance with the provisions set out in the Code throughout papers.
The specific responsibilities retained by the Board include: the period ended 30 September 2011, unless an explanation has approving the annual budget: reviewing the Groups operational and been provided otherwise.
financial performance: approving major acquisitions, divestments and capital expenditure: reviewing the Groups systems of control and risk The Board management: approving appointments to the Board and the At the end of the year the Board had thirteen members, comprising Company Secretary: approving policies relating to Directors eight Executive Directors and five Non-Executive Directors.
At remuneration and the severance of Directors contracts: ensuring that present the requirement under the Code for at least half the Board to a reasonable discourse occurs with shareholders and establishing and comprise of Non-Executive Directors is not being met.
However, this monitoring Group strategy.
In addition to the scheduled board is under review as part of the work being carried out by the meetings, the Board also has a day devoted entirely to the Groups Nomination Committee and the number of Non-Executive Directors strategic objectives, which provides a further opportunity for all will increase to 6, which the Board considers is appropriate for the Directors and particularly the Non-Executive Directors, to ensure the size of the Company.
Biographies of all the current Directors are strategy is on course, that KPIs are rigorously reviewed and the presented on pages 16 and 17.
Each of the Non-Executive Directors objectives are analysed and challenged.
Primary responsibility for the is considered by the Board to be independent, not withstanding the day to day operations, the development and recommendations of the fact that Nick Hood the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Groups long term objectives and the implementation of the Director has served in excess of nine years on the Board.
Nick Hood commercial strategy for the Group have been delegated to the board will retire from the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 AGM.
Details of the principal operating company Brewin Dolphin Limited BDL of attendance of the individual members of the Board at its meetings Board.
All the Executive Directors on the Group Board also sit on the during the year is shown in the table below: BDL Board.
This separation of responsibilities across the two boards ensures that a range of skills and opinions on strategic and operational matters is applied across the Group.
Maximum possible attendance Attendance Jamie Matheson 11 11 Appropriate training and induction is made available to newly Henry Algeo 11 11 appointed directors, taking into account any previous experience Robin Bayford 11 11 they may already have as directors of a public limited company or Barry Howard 11 10 otherwise.
Training sessions are regularly undertaken for the entire David McCorkell 11 11 Sarah Soar 11 11 Board at least twice a year and the Executive Directors have Ben Speke 11 11 access on request to a professional development trainer, who can Michael Williams 11 11 provide individual executive training tailored to their requirements.
Nick Hood 11 10 Angela Knight 11 11 Executive members of the Board have to date been appointed from Sir Stephen Lamport 11 11 within the Group and have served on the Brewin Dolphin Limited Simon Miller 11 10 Board prior to appointment.
Jock Worsley 11 11 ANNU AL R E POR T AND A C C O UN TS 2011 | 25 CORPORAT E gOVERNANCE CON T I NUED The Roles of the Executive Chairman and NonExecutive Following the completion of the Board evaluation process, it is Deputy Chairman theview of the Board that both the Executive and Non-Executive There is a clear division of duties between the Executive Chairman Directors continue to perform effectively and it is appropriate for and the Non-Executive Deputy Chairman, with terms of reference them to continue to serve as Directors of the Company.
The that have been clearly defined in writing and are reviewed annually Boardshall be recommending that all directors be re-elected and agreed by the Board.
This ensures that a clear balance of byshareholders with the exception of Nick Hood who will retiring power and authority is present.
The Executive Chairman, Jamie atthe AGM.
The Board is in no doubt as to the continued Matheson, has five direct reports: Finance Director Robin Bayford: independence of Nick Hoods thinking and decisions and Head of Investment Management David McCorkell: Chief Operating therigorous level of challenge provided by him.
Officer Henry Algeo: Director of Human Resources Ben Speke and Head of Regulation & Risk Barry Howard.
The biographical details of the Directors can be found on pages 16 and 17.
Board Evaluation In 2010 the annual evaluation of the Boards performance and Directors Conflicts of Interest thatof its sub-committees, individual Directors and Chairman was The Board has a policy and effective procedures for managing undertaken internally.
This year in line with the Code, an external and, where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts evaluation of the Board was carried out based on initial briefings ofinterest.
It is a recurring agenda item at all Board meetings and with the Executive Chairman, Deputy Chairman and Company gives each Director the opportunity to raise any conflict of interest Secretary, following which detailed interviews were held with the they may have, or to update the Board on any change to a previous individual members of the Board and other relevant parties.
A full conflict of interest already lodged.
A Register of Conflicts is held by report was provided to the Board of the findings and the results the Company Secretary and referred to when decisions are made.
The report concluded A log of all conflicts raised is maintained and updated accordingly.
that the Board functioned well and comprised of members whom All Directors are aware that it is their responsibility to raise and understood the nature and extent of the Boards responsibilities update any conflicts of interest they may have.
and its role within the Company.
There was an open Board cultureand effective challenge made.
Committees of the Board The Board had three standing committees during the year: As a result of the review no major changes were recommended, theNominations Committee: the Remuneration Committee: but a number of suggestions from the report are to be taken andthe Audit Committee.
These committees have written terms further.
A separate report was produced on the Chairmans ofreference, which are reviewed regularly and any amendments performance and the Deputy Chairman as Senior Independent approved by the Board.
Membership of the Committees is as set Director carried out a review of the Chairmans performance, using out on page 2.
The terms of reference of the Committees can be the feedback obtained from the Board evaluation process and met viewed on the Companys website, together with Committee with the Chairman to discuss any issues raised.
Sight of all Directors contracts, or, in the case of facilitator selected was independent and has no other connection Non-Executive Directors, letters of appointment, can be obtained with the Company.
Following the year end a Risk Committee was formed, to adopt the risk management Appointment of Executive and Non-Executive Directors responsibilities of the Audit Committee.
The Companys Articles of Association, the Companies Act 2006and other applicable regulations and policies govern All the Committees are able to call on independent professional theappointment of the directors.
Directors may be elected by advisers if they consider it necessary.
shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the board of directors in accordance with the provisions of the Articles of Association.
In accordance with the Code all directors will besubject to re-election at the 2012 AGM.
2 6 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C Nominations Committee Audit Committee The majority of the members of the Nomination Committee are The members of the Audit Committee are Jock Worsley Chairman, Non-Executive Directors, the Committee consists of Nick Hood Nick Hood, Angela Knight, Simon Miller and Sir Stephen Lamport.
Chairman, Jock Worsley, Simon Miller, Sir Stephen Lamport, Details of meeting attendance of the individual members of the Angela Knight and the Executive Chairman, Jamie Matheson committee during the year are shown below: appointed on 22 September 2011.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to review the structure, size and composition of the Maximum possible attendance Attendance Board and to be responsible for the Boards succession planning.
1 Nick Hood 7 5 2 Angela Knight 1 1 During the year, the Nomination Committee progressed with the Sir Stephen Lamport 7 7 current succession plan.
Specialist external search consultants Simon Miller 7 7 have been resourced with a specific remit to source the skills, Jock Worsley 7 7 knowledge and experience required for the continued success of 1 resigned on 26 July 2011 the Board.
A planned process for recruitment is in place, involving 2 appointed on 26 July 2011 the entire Board in the selection process.
The Committee is mindful of the recent recommendations in the Davis Report on diversity and A separate Audit Committee Report is set out on page 31 and is committed to providing equal opportunities for all, to appointing provides details of the role, composition, responsibilities of the and promoting on merit whilst taking into account relevant skills Committee and its relationship with internal and external auditors.
and experience with due regard for the benefits of diversity on theBoard.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board undertakes a full review of all aspects of the Groups A table detailing the attendance of the individual members of the business, identifies the main risks to the business and identifies the committee during the year is shown below: key controls to counter these risks.
The Board recognises that its risk management strategy is essential for achieving good business Maximum possible governance, to protect stakeholders and enhance shareholder attendance Attendance value.
The Board has adopted a risk-based approach to establish Nick Hood 5 5 asystem of internal control.
It reviews its effectiveness periodically, Angela Knight 5 4 by receiving ongoing reports on internal control from the Audit Sir Stephen Lamport 5 3 Simon Miller 5 4 Committee and the BDL Board which is informed by the Jock Worsley 5 4 established Risk Committees.
Day-to-day review and monitoring has been delegated to the Investment Management Risk and Remuneration Committee Controls Committee IMRCC, Corporate Advisory & Broking The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Nick Hood and the Riskand Controls Committee CABRCC and Business Support other members are Simon Miller, Jock Worsley, Sir Stephen Risk &Controls Committee of Brewin Dolphin Limited, the Lamport and Angela Knight.
The Directors Remuneration Report is activitiesof which include overseeing and reviewing the controls, presented on page 34, which gives further information.
monitoring and reporting frameworks and related procedures for riskmanagement.
A table detailing the attendance of the individual members of the committee during the year is shown below: The Regulation & Risk department and Internal Audit also carry outregular reviews.
Full details of the risks considered by the Board are set out in the Business Review: Finance on page 11. Business Maximum possible attendance Attendance Continuity Management is now embedded within the business and Nick Hood 5 5 is reviewed and tested annually.
The Board recognises the potential Angela Knight 5 4 operational and financial losses associated with a service Sir Stephen Lamport 5 4 interruption, and the importance of maintaining viable Simon Miller 5 4 businessresilience strategies.
Jock Worsley 5 4 ANNU AL R E POR T AND A C C O UN TS 2011 | 27 CORPORAT E gOVERNANCE CON T I NUED The Directors are responsible for the system of internal control Insurance established by the Group, reviewing its effectiveness and reporting The Company maintains appropriate insurance cover in respect of to the shareholders that they have done so.
They report as follows: litigation against the Directors.
i There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and Relationship with Shareholders managing the significant risks faced by the Group as outlined The Company places a great deal of importance on communication above.
This has been in place for the period under review and with shareholders and aims to keep shareholders informed by up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Groups Executive Chairman, Head of is regularly reviewed by the Board and accords with the Investment Management and Finance Director meet regularly with revised Turnbull guidance in the Code.
Any system of internal the Groups institutional investors, analysts and financial press.
control is designed to highlight and manage rather than to Annual and Interim reports are distributed to other parties who eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and mayhave an interest in the Groups performance and the Groups can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance website is kept up-to-date covering all corporate activity.
The against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has Executive Chairman provides the Board with regular feedback implemented the Three Lines of Defence model to ensure a following meetings with shareholders.
The Deputy Chairman also robust and effective framework to manage internal controls met with shareholders during the year to discuss any concerns and risks across the organisation.
It facilitates the decision theyhad during the year.
making process while providing effective governance around risk management and assurance.
The Company recognises the importance of ensuring effective communication with all of its shareholders.
Twice-yearly reports, ii Financial results, key operating statistics and controls are written on the Group by Equity Development Limited, are available reported to the Board monthly, and variances are followed up toall shareholders on the Web at www.
Monthly reports are received from the Regulation Regular reports are also available from Edison Investment Research, &Risk and Internal Audit functions.
The Company welcomes all shareholders to its AGM, with the opportunity to iii The Directors have reviewed the Groups system of internal askquestions formally at the meeting or more informally with all controls and compliance monitoring and believe that these members of the board afterwards.
The Companys policy is to provide assurance that problems have been identified on a announce the number of proxy votes cast on resolutions at the timely basis and dealt with appropriately throughout the period AGM.
For shareholders who are clients of Brewin Dolphin Limited under review and up to the date of approval of the annual and who hold their shares in one of our nominee accounts, we report and accounts.
The Audit Committee assists the Board provide an on-line voting service on the Group website for in discharging its review responsibilities.
shareholders to vote before our AGM.
iv There is a whistleblowing policy detailing the internal or Model Code external procedures through which employees are able to The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the raiseany concerns.
FSA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
Company Secretary The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board onallCorporate Governance matters as well as ensuring good information flows within the Board and its Committees.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and may take, if necessary, independent, professional advice at the Companys expense.
2 8 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C Compliance with the Code The Directors consider that the Company has been in full compliance with the provisions set out in the Code throughout the period ended 30 September 2011, except as described below: The Executive Chairman does not meet the provision that the roleof Chairman and Chief Executive should not be exercised by the same individual A.
To ensure that there is a clear balance of power and authority within the Company, there is a cleardivision of duties between the Executive Chairman and the Independent Non Executive Deputy Chairman.
In designing schemes of performance-related remuneration, theremuneration committee does not fully follow the provisions in Section D to the Code D. 1.1 and Schedule A in that, in respect of annual profit share payments paid to executive directors, individual upper limits were not set, nor were predetermined performance criteria applied.
There was, however, an overall upper limit as the Directors profit share pool of 3% of Group profit pre profit share and amortisation of client relationships.
This pool was allocated by the Remuneration Committee amongst the Executive Directors, taking into consideration individual directors performance.
Following a review of this policy with advice from external advisers for 2012 the split between fixed and variable pay has been adjusted.
For the forthcoming year, the profit share pool has been reduced to 2.1% of Group profit as defined above and no individual profit share can be greater than twice fixed salary save for Michael Williams, Executive Director whose profit share participation is determined solely by reference to his own teams investment management performance on a strict formula in line with other investment managers within the Group.
1 3 of profit share above 50,000 is paid in deferred shares, 2 3 if greater than once fixed salary.
Individual performance criteria have been agreed for each director save for Michael Williams, Executive Director whose profit share participation is determined solely by reference to his own teams investment management performance on a strict formula in line with other investment managers within the Group.
Angela Wright Secretary 6 December 2011 ANNU AL R E POR T AND A C C O UN TS 2011 | 29 3 The Lake District 0 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C
