AUDI T COMMI T T EE REPORT Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Nonidentifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action Executive Directors of the Company.
The Audit Committees or improvement is needed, making recommendations on the steps termsof reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and to be taken.
Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then Composition of the Audit Committee referredto the Board for approval.
The members of the Audit Committee are Jock Worsley, FCA Chairman, Simon Miller, Sir Stephen Lamport and Angela Knight The Audit Committee is responsible for: appointed 26 July 2011.
Nick Hood served on the Committee until the 26 July 2011.
Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Chairman of the Committee and the Executive Chairman, who is Groupand any formal announcement relating to the Groups not a member of the Audit Committee, at regular intervals and they financial performance and reviewing significant financial recommend any changes to the Nomination Committee.
reporting judgements contained therein, prior to their submission to the Board: The Chairman of the Committee is a qualified Chartered Accountant and the Board is satisfied that the other members of reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the the Committee are all financially literate.
Groups internal control and risk management systems: The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit monitoring the work of the Internal Audit function and the Risk Committee members and on-going training to enable the Management Department and considering the reports received committee members to carry out their duties.
from the Regulation & Risk and Risk Management Departments: Meetings reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: The Audit Committee maintains a formal calendar of items that are to be considered at each committee meeting and within the annual reviewing the Companys procedures for handling allegations audit cycle, to ensure that its work is in line with the requirements of from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud: the Code and meets its responsibilities.
The items to be reviewed are approved by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his making recommendations to the Board, for a resolution to fellow members.
Each member has the right to require reports on beput to shareholders for their approval in the annual general additional matters of interest.
meeting, on the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the The Finance Director, Head of Regulation & Risk, Head of external auditors: InternalAudit and the Company Secretary normally attend all AuditCommittee meetings.
At the Committees request, other reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence senior management are invited to present such reports as are and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: and required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of The number of meetings and attendance for the year are on the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into page27 of the Corporate Governance Report.
account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
ANNU AL R E POR T AND A C C O UN TS 2011 | 31 AUDI T COMMI T T EE REPORT CON T I NUED Overview of the actions taken by the Audit Committee to reviewing the Groups ICAAP and Groups Annual Corporate discharge its duties Risk Review: During the year, the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by undertaking the following work: reviewing and agreeing the scope of the audit work to be undertaken by the external auditors and the fees to be paid to reviewing the Annual Report and Financial Statements, the external auditors: Half-Yearly Financial Report and Interim Management Statements.
In doing so, the Committee reviewed significant reviewing the Audit Committees own terms of reference: and accounting policies, financial reporting issues and judgements and receiving reports from the external auditors on their audit reviewing its own effectiveness.
of the Annual Report and Financial Statements and review of the Half-Yearly Financial Report: The Audit Committee reports its findings to the Board, identifying any matter on which it considers that action or improvement is reviewing the effectiveness of the external audit process, the needed and making recommendations on the steps to be taken.
external auditors strategy and plan for the audit and the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the External Auditors external auditors: The Audit Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Groups policy on external reviewing and approving the Internal Audit annual plan, audit.
The policy sets out the categories of non-audit services and reviewing all reports from internal audit including management audit services which the external auditors will be allowed to responses to the findings of the reports and their proposals undertake and provides an approval process for the provision of and evaluating the effectiveness of Internal Audit: any other non-audit services.
reviewing the Companys procedures for handling allegations The Board uses the auditors for audit and related activities.
It does from whistleblowers and for detecting fraud: not use the auditors for non-audit services unless there are appropriate reasons for doing so, thereby retaining their objectivity reviewing regular reports from the Groups Head of Regulation and independence.
The majority of tax advisory and similar work is and evaluating the effectiveness of the Groups Regulation & carried out by another major accountancy firm.
An analysis of Risk function: auditors remuneration is provided in note 8 to the financial statements.
receiving regular reports from the Groups Risk Management Committee: To fulfil its responsibility regarding the independence of the external auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed: considering the output from the process used to identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: the external auditors plan for the current year, noting the role of the senior statutory audit partner, who signs the audit report considering a report from the external auditors on their review and who, in accordance with professional rules, has not held of the effectiveness of controls across the Group and receiving office for more than five years, and any changes in the key a report on management action taken in response to the report: audit staff: reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and the arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit disclosures made in the annual report and financial statements relationship: on this matter: 3 2 | B R E w I N D OL P h I N hOL DI N g S P L C a report from the external auditors describing their arrangements Internal Audit to identify, report and manage any conflicts of interest: During the year, the Group has outsourced its Internal Audit function, to Grant Thornton LLP.
The Audit Committee reviewed: the overall extent of non-audit services provided by the external auditors, in addition to its case-by-case approval of the Internal Audits methodology, reporting lines and access to the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors: and Audit Committee and all members of the board: the past service of the auditors who were first appointed in Internal Audits plans and its achievement of the planned April 2002 and reappointed following a review in 2007. activity: The Audit Committee is responsible for recommending to the the results of key audits and other significant findings, the Board the appointment, reappointment or removal of the external adequacy of managements response and the timeliness of auditor.
It is the policy of the Board to undertake a major review of resolution: and the appointment every six years.
The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the external auditor from the market and noted that there are no Overview contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
As a result of its work during the year, the Audit Committee has concluded that it has acted in accordance with its terms of The external auditors meet privately with the Audit Committee at reference and has ensured the independence and objectivity of the least twice a year without senior executive management being external auditors.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present.
available at the AGM to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
An annual review of the effectiveness of the external auditors is carried out by the Audit Committee, taking into consideration: the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors Jock Worsley independence and objectivity: the external auditors fulfilment of Chairman of the Audit Committee the agreed audit plan: 6 December 2011 the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and the content of the external auditors reporting on internal controls.
Following the annual review of effectiveness, the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that reappointment of the auditors be proposed to shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
