Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 27 Corporate governance report Statement of compliance very much accord with the importance that Caledonia attaches to The board recognises the importance of good corporate governance its own executives having board positions at investee companies.
On and this report describes how the company has applied the main 27 November 2010, Mr Allen-Jones reached the point where he had principles of good corporate governance as set out in section one served as a non-executive director for nine years and on 27 May 2011 of the Combined Code issued in June 2008 the Combined Code Mr Davies will achieve the same milestone.
The board with neither throughout the year.
It also identifies, and provides an explanation director taking any part in the discussions has specifically for, those provisions of section one of the Combined Code with which considered each of these non-executive directors independence in the company did not comply for the whole of the year.
the context of the Combined Code and The UK Corporate Governance Code and does not believe that eithers status is compromised simply Shareholders registered on the companys New Zealand branch by length of service.
Rather, the experience, character and conduct of register should note that the principles of good corporate governance each director were the boards determinants of their independence.
set out in the Combined Code may materially differ from the New The board has recognised that succession planning is of particular Zealand Exchange Ltds corporate governance rules and the importance in the context of their long service, however, as stated principles of its Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
in the Chairmans statement, there have been a number of changes A copy of the Combined Code is available on the website of the in key positions on the board in the past two and a half years.
Financial Reporting Council at www.
uk corporate Accordingly, the Nomination Committee intends to undertake a combinedcode.
process of gradual refreshment of the non-executive representation on the board, whilst balancing the need for continuity and stability.
The board Overall responsibility and operation Prior to 21 July 2010, the board, excluding the Chairman, comprised The board as a whole is collectively responsible for the success of six executive directors and five independent non-executive directors the company.
It has adopted a Schedule of Authorities which sets out and therefore did not comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Combined those matters which it specifically reserves for its own decision and Code which requires that, excluding the Chairman, at least half of the those which are delegated to board committees and to executive board should comprise non-executive directors determined by the management.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive board to be independent.
The retirement of Mr Ingram as Chief are separated and clearly defined in the Schedule of Authorities Executive at the annual general meeting held on 21 July 2010 meant adopted by the board.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for that, from that date, the composition of the board has complied with the efficient operation of the board and the Chief Executive for provision A.
3.2. the implementation of the boards strategy and policies and the Board committees management of the companys activities, other than those matters The board has delegated certain specific areas of responsibility to specifically reserved to the board.
The Schedule of Authorities is the following standing committees, the terms of reference of which reviewed annually by the board.
are reviewed annually and are available on the companys website.
All directors receive detailed papers in advance of board meetings The current membership of these committees, which has remained to enable them to discharge their duties and also have unlimited unchanged throughout the year, is noted on page 65. access to senior management should further information be required.
Nomination Committee Presentations by senior executives of investee companies are also The Nomination Committee, chaired by Mr Loudon, is responsible for arranged periodically to enable the board, and the non-executive the regular review of the structure, size and composition including directors in particular, to gain a closer understanding of some of the the skills, knowledge and experience of the board and for giving companys significant investments.
consideration to succession planning for directors and, if requested Appointment, induction and training by the board, for other senior executives.
It is responsible for Under the Combined Code, all new directors appointed by the board identifying, using external search consultants where necessary, were required to seek election by shareholders at the next annual candidates to fill board vacancies as and when they arise, for making general meeting of the company following their appointment and recommendations to the board in relation thereto and for keeping subsequently all directors were required to retire by rotation at least under review the leadership needs of the company, both executive every three years.
Any non-executive director who had served on the and non-executive.
It reviews the time required of the non-executive board for over nine years was subject to annual re-election.
The directors and ensures that they receive formal letters of appointment company complied with these provisions for its year ended 31 March setting out clearly what is expected of them in terms of time 2011, however for its 2011 annual general meeting and for future commitment, committee service and involvement outside years, it will adopt the recommendation of The UK Corporate board meetings.
Governance Code issued in June 2010 that all directors of FTSE 350 The Nomination Committee met twice during the year and the companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
principle business undertaken included a formal review of the size On appointment, new directors are offered induction and training and composition of the board following the 2010 annual board considered appropriate by the board and subsequently as necessary.
performance evaluation and consideration of the contribution of the The Company Secretary provides details of, and where requested non-executive directors retiring at the 2010 annual general meeting, arranges attendance at, external courses to assist in directors prior to giving recommendations for their election and re-election.
Remuneration Committee Board composition The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Mr Davies, is responsible The biographies of the directors appear on pages 22 and 23. for the review of executive remuneration policy.
Within that policy, the Remuneration Committee determines the remuneration packages The board currently comprises eleven directors.
Excluding the of executive directors and reviews those of other senior executive Chairman, five of the directors are executive and five non-executive.
It is also responsible for the design of, and grant of The board considers all of the non-executive directors to be awards under, the companys share incentive schemes and for the independent.
In assessing Mr Goblet dAlviellas independence, the determination of the policy for and scope of pension arrangements, board took account of his position as Chief Executive Officer of Sofina service agreements, termination payments and compensation S. A. whose wholly-owned subsidiary, Rebelco S. A. has a 4.9% commitments for executive directors and, if requested by the board, shareholding in Caledonia.
Mr Goblet dAlviellas position at Sofina for other senior executives.
has not given rise to any conflicts of interest and his circumstances 28 Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 Governance Corporate governance report continued The Remuneration Committee met four times during the year.
and makes a recommendation to the board as to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
The Audit The matters considered by the Remuneration Committee included: Committee is also responsible for the companys formal whistle the approval of the 2010 directors remuneration report blowing arrangements, whereby members of staff may raise any issues of concern regarding possible impropriety in the conduct the grant of options under the companys executive share of the companys business and whereby any such concerns are option scheme properly investigated and appropriate action taken.
the determination of Mr Wyatts remuneration on his appointment as Chief Executive The Combined Code recommends that at least one member of the Audit Committee should have recent and relevant financial the exercise of discretions in respect of Mr Ingrams share awards experience and the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure on his retirement in accordance with the rules of the companys Rules and Transparency Rules similarly require that one member executive share option scheme and deferred bonus plan should have competence in accounting and or auditing.
The Audit Committee considers that Mr Allen-Jones has met these the determination of basic salaries for executive directors and requirements, given his extensive involvement in financial review of salaries for other senior executives for the year transactions as a corporate lawyer and that he is a member commencing 1 April 2011 of the Financial Reporting Review Panel and was previously consideration of a review of the companys executive remuneration a member of the Financial Reporting Council.
structures and approval of revised arrangements in relation The Audit Committee met three times during the year, and each thereto.
of the meetings included a discussion with the auditors without Further information on the companys executive remuneration any of the executive directors present.
During the year, the business policy and the work of the Remuneration Committee is included in undertaken by the Audit Committee included: the directors remuneration report set out on pages 31 to 38. a review of the performance of the external auditors, Deloitte LLP, Audit Committee and the level of fees charged for their services The Audit Committee, currently chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, although scrutiny of valuations of unlisted investments selected by the Audit Mr Thompson will be appointed as Chairman of this committee for Committee following the half-year and full-year Challenge the 2012 financial year, is responsible for the monitoring of the integrity of the financial statements of the company and any Committee meetings announcements relating to the companys financial performance consideration of the reports from the external auditors concerning and for reviewing any significant financial reporting judgements their audit of the 2010 annual financial statements of the company contained therein.
It also reviews the companys systems of internal and their review of the 2010 half-year report control and risk management procedures and considers annually whether an internal audit function is required.
The Audit Committee consideration of the financial disclosures contained in the 2010 annual and half-year reports to shareholders and financial believes that, in the context of the companys business as an investment trust, the key issues on which it has to satisfy itself are reporting issues for the 2010 annual report the integrity of the application of the companys policy for the consideration of the scope of the 2011 annual audit and agreement valuation of its investments, particularly those which are unlisted, with the external auditors of the key areas of focus and the robustness of the groups internal controls.
The valuations of the companys unlisted investments are subject to formal six the review of the risk dashboard and reports from the companys monthly reviews by an internal Challenge Committee, independent Risk Manager on the effectiveness of the groups internal of the relevant investment executives, whose meetings are also controls and risk management procedures for the year ended attended by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and the auditors.
31 March 2011 The Audit Committee then selects a number of valuations for specific consideration of the need or otherwise for an internal review.
A risk dashboard highlighting the key business risks facing audit function the company and the controls, monitoring procedures and further actions needed to mitigate these is maintained by the Finance a review of the independence and objectivity of the external Director and reviewed by the Audit Committee every six months.
auditors, including their system of quality controls and the A formal report on the effectiveness of the groups internal controls level and nature of non-audit services provided by them and risk management procedures is prepared annually for the board an evaluation of the performance of the Audit Committee itself by the companys Risk Manager.
It is the Audit Committees current including a review of its role and responsibilities opinion that, in view of these control processes, the size of the entities controlled by Caledonia and the relatively straightforward consideration of the Bribery Act 2010 and the companys proposed control considerations in relation to other investments, a separate anti-bribery and corruption policy procedures internal audit function is not necessary.
assurance of the companys compliance with the requirements It is also the Audit Committees responsibility to review and monitor for approval as an investment trust.
the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and the Governance Committee effectiveness of the audit process and to develop and implement The Governance Committee, chaired by Mr Allen-Jones, keeps under policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit review corporate governance issues relating to the company and services.
In this regard, the Audit Committee has approved a schedule is responsible for the monitoring and review of the ability of each of specific non-audit activities which may not be undertaken by director to act in the interests of shareholders as a whole and to the external auditors, within the broad principles that the external exercise independence of judgement free from relationships or auditors should not audit their own work, should not make circumstances which are likely to, or could appear to, affect his management decisions on behalf of the company, should not be judgement.
The Governance Committee also reviews conflict or put into the role of advocate for the company and that no mutuality potential conflict situations relating to directors which may require of interest should be created between the company and the external the prior authorisation of the board under the Companies Act 2006 auditors.
The Audit Committee believes that, by applying these the Act and makes recommendations to the board as to whether principles, the objectivity and independence of the auditors is such conflict or potential conflict situations should be authorised maintained, notwithstanding that non-audit work may be and, if so, whether any conditions, such as duration or scope of the undertaken.
On an annual basis, the Audit Committee considers Overview Business review Governance Financial statements Other information Governance Caledonia Investments plc Annual report 2011 29 authority, should be attached.
The Governance Committee Board performance evaluation reviews annually all authorisations previously granted by the The board conducts an annual formal evaluation of its performance and that of its committees and individual directors.
For the year board to ensure that they remain appropriate.
If the Governance Committee believes that a director may be subject to a conflict of ended 31 March 2011, the evaluation of the board as a whole and interest which may prejudice his ability to exercise independence of its committees was led by the Chairman and was conducted by of judgement, it may make such recommendations to the board inviting individual board members to complete a questionnaire regarding the operation and effectiveness of the board as a whole as it may think fit, including that the director abstains from participating in any decision of the board or any of its committees and of its committees, the responses from which were collated on the matter concerned.
by the Company Secretary and discussed.
The evaluation of the performance of the Chairman was led by the Senior Independent The Governance Committee met twice during the year, principally Non-Executive Director and involved individual private discussions to review and approve the corporate governance report for the with all other members of the board and, in particular, members of year ended 31 March 2010, to review potential conflict situations the Governance Committee on his performance, the results of which notified by directors in accordance with the Act and to make were then considered at a meeting of the non-executive directors, recommendations to the board in relation thereto.
The Governance without the Chairman present.
The evaluation of the performance Committee also formally considered whether the influence of the of the Chief Executive was undertaken by the Chairman and the Cayzer Concert Party on Caledonias board was in the general interest non-executive directors.
The performance of the non-executive of the non-Concert Party shareholders and concluded that it was.
directors was reviewed by the Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, with the Senior Attendance at meetings The following table identifies the number of board and committee Independent Non-Executive Director absent in respect of his own performance appraisal.
As part of this review, non-executive meetings held in the year to 31 March 2011 and the attendance directors were invited to complete self-assessment questionnaires record of individual directors.
in relation to their own effectiveness.
The performance of the Committees executive directors, which included further consideration of that Board Nomination Remuneration Audit Governance of the Chief Executive, was undertaken by the Remuneration 1 Number of meetings 11 2 4 3 2 Committee as part of the annual executive salary review process.
Attendance by The results of the evaluation of the board as a whole and of its committees for the year ended 31 March 2011 were presented J R H Loudon 11 2 in a report to the board.
The main action points arising from W P Wyatt 11 the evaluation process were the need to undertake a gradual S A King 11 refreshment of the board and to improve the companys total return The Hon C W Cayzer 10 performance as described in the Chairmans statement and Chief Executives report.
The Nomination Committee also reviewed the J M B Cayzer-Colvin 10 size, structure and composition of the board in the light of the J M May 11 report to the board but in the context that the need for a gradual C M Allen-Jones 11 2 4 3 2 refreshment had already been agreed.
M E T Davies 10 2 4 2 Directors conflicts of interest R Goblet dAlviella 9 2 Each director has a duty under the Act to avoid a situation where C H Gregson 9 1 3 3 1 he has, or could have, a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the companys interests.
The Act D G F Thompson 11 2 4 3 2 however allows directors of public companies to authorise conflicts 2 T C W Ingram 4 and potential conflicts where the articles of association contain a 1.
The Act also allows the articles to contain 2.
Mr Ingram retired as a director on 21 July 2010, but attended all board meetings held prior to other provisions for dealing with directors conflicts of interest to that date.
There are safeguards in the companys articles which apply when the directors decide whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict of interest.
First, only independent directors, being those who have no interest in the matter being considered, are able to take the relevant decision and, second, in taking the decision, the directors must act in a way which they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the success of the company.
The directors are able to impose time limits or conditions when giving authorisations if they think this is appropriate.
The board has adopted procedures to address the requirements of the Act in relation to directors conflicts of interest.
Each director is required to declare any potential conflict situations which may relate to him and his connected persons.
If necessary, these are reviewed by the Governance Committee with each member taking no part in the consideration of his own declaration, which then puts forward recommendations to the board as to whether these situations should be authorised and, if so, whether any conditions to such authority should be attached.
The board then considers and approves these recommendations, again with each director taking no part in relation to his own potential conflict situations.
