Close Brothers Group plc 31 Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate Governance As chairman of the Close Brothers Group The board continued to monitor and assess plc board I am responsible for leading the the groups performance, benchmarking it board and promoting corporate governance against the competition and ensuring that best practice and the following report will the group has the proper allocation of explain and give you an understanding of resources and appropriate governance how the group is governed.
This year has structure for its future expansion.
There been a period of development for the board.
were a number of additional meetings over In line with the recommendations of the and above the normal scheduled meetings Walker report the board established a and the directors continued to make separate Risk Committee in December 2010 themselves available, often at short notice.
chaired by Ray Greenshields, who undertook a detailed and extensive This report will demonstrate that Close induction programme in conjunction with his Brothers is committed to high standards of appointment as chairman of the committee.
corporate governance throughout the group.
The committee has specific responsibility Strone Macpherson for providing oversight and advice to the Chairman board on group risk appetite, risk profile 27 September 2011 and alignment to risk appetite, the risk management framework, the alignment of reward structures to risk appetite and risk management culture.
Further details on the work of the committee can be found on page 37.
We welcomed Geoffrey Howe as a new independent non-executive director and he brings with him extensive financial and legal services experience.
Geoffrey participated in a comprehensive induction programme to familiarise himself with the group and we continued to develop our existing directors and their knowledge by introducing a structured training programme which included site visits to a number of our London and regional offices.
Close Brothers Group plc 32 Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate Governance continued Compliance It is the boards view that the Companys governance regime In May 2010 the new UK Corporate Governance Code the has been fully compliant with the best practice set out in the Code was issued by the Financial Reporting Council Code with effect from 4 January 2011, when Geoffrey Howe replacing the previous Combined Code on Corporate was appointed as an additional independent non-executive Governance for financial years beginning on or after 29 June director.
Prior to this date less than half the board of 2010.
The Code has been applied by the Company since the directors, excluding the chairman, were independent but the start of the current financial year on 1 August 2010.
Companys governance regime was otherwise fully compliant.
The Code sets out guidance on best practice in the form of A copy of the Code can be found on the Financial Reporting principles and provisions on how companies should be Councils website: www.
directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
The Financial Services Authority FSA requires companies listed in the UK to disclose, in relation to the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they have complied with its provisions throughout the financial year.
Where the provisions have not been complied with companies must provide an explanation for this.
Governance Framework Board governance structure The Board Remuneration Nomination and Audit Risk Committee Committee Committee Governance Committee Executive Committee Responsible for developing strategy, setting business objectives and assisting the chief executive with management of the group Board and committee meeting attendance 2010 2011 The attendance of directors at board meetings and committee meetings of which they are members is shown in the table below.
Some directors also attended committee meetings as invitees during the year.
This is not reflected in the table.
Nomination and Audit Governance Remuneration Risk 2 Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Reg Ad hoc Total Reg Ad hoc Total Reg Ad hoc Total Reg Ad hoc Total Reg Ad hoc Total Number of meetings during the year 8 2 10 5 5 4 4 4 2 6 7 7 Executive director Stephen Hodges 8 2 10 Jonathan Howell 8 2 10 Preben Prebensen 8 2 10 Non-executive director Bruce Carnegie-Brown 8 2 10 5 5 4 4 4 2 6 7 7 Jamie Cayzer-Colvin 8 2 10 Ray Greenshields 8 2 10 5 5 4 4 4 2 6 7 7 1 Geoffrey Howe 4 2 6 Strone Macpherson 8 2 10 4 4 Douglas Paterson 8 1 9 5 5 4 4 4 1 5 7 7 1 Geoffrey Howe joined the board on 4 January 2011.
In the period from 4 January 2011 to 31 July 2011, a total of seven board meetings were held.
2 The Risk Committee was established in December 2010.
Close Brothers Group plc 33 Annual Report 2011 The Board Board size, composition and independence Leadership of the board The board currently comprises nine members: the chairman, The boards primary role is to provide leadership, ensure that three executive directors and five non-executive directors.
the Company is appropriately managed and deliver longGeoffrey Howe was appointed as a non-executive director in term shareholder value.
It sets the groups strategic objectives January 2011.
We believe that this size of board is appropriate and provides direction for the group as a whole.
A number for the Company and provides a broad range of views, of key decisions are reserved for and may only be decided knowledge and experience whilst also allowing effective by the board, which enables the board and executive participation and challenge by all directors.
The structure of management to operate within a clear governance framework.
the board ensures that no individual or group of individuals is able to dominate the decision making process.
The Company Below is a summary of matters specifically reserved for the is committed to ensuring that any vacancies arising are filled board: by the most qualified candidates and recognises the value of Setting and monitoring strategy: diversity in the composition of the board.
When board positions Oversight of regulatory compliance and internal control: become available as a result of retirement or resignation the Ensuring adequate financial resources: Company will be focused on ensuring that a diverse pool of Acquisitions and disposals over certain thresholds: candidates is considered.
Board appointments and removals: and Communication with shareholders.
Details of the individual directors and their biographies are set out on pages 8 and 9.
The board delegates some matters to its committees as set out in each committees terms of reference which can be The board has assessed the independence of each nonfound at www.
executive director and is of the opinion that each acts in an The chairman of each committee regularly reports to the independent and objective manner and therefore, under the board on matters discussed at committee meetings.
Code, is regarded as independent, with the exception of Jamie Cayzer-Colvin who is a director of a substantial At each regular scheduled meeting the board receives shareholder.
The boards opinion was determined by reports from the chief executive and finance director on the considering for each non-executive director: performance and results of the group.
In addition, the heads Whether they are independent in character and of the Banking, Securities and Asset Management divisions judgement: update the board on performance, strategic developments How they conduct themselves in board and committee and initiatives in their respective areas and the board meetings: receives updates from the group operating functions on Whether they have any interests which may give rise to an legal, compliance, human resources and corporate actual or perceived conflict of interest: and development matters.
Whether they act in the best interests of the Company and all its shareholders at all times.
There is an annual schedule of rolling agenda items to ensure that all matters are given due consideration and Each non-executive director is required to confirm at least reviewed at the appropriate point in the financial and annually, whether any circumstances exist which could regulatory cycle.
During the year, the board has, in particular, focused on: Meetings and attendance Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process ICAAP The board has regular scheduled meetings.
During the year and reverse stress testing: ended 31 July 2011 there were eight scheduled board Budget for the 2011 2012 financial year: meetings and two ad hoc board meetings called to deal with Capital management: specific time critical business matters.
There were also Acquisitions and disposals: additional board meetings convened to deal with operational Appointment of a new director: issues.
Details of attendance at board meetings can be Results of the employee survey: found on page 32.
Director training and development: Board and committee evaluation: and The directors receive detailed papers in advance of each Implications of the Bribery Act and the new regulatory board meeting.
The board agenda is carefully structured by regime.
the chairman in consultation with the company secretary and the chief executive.
In addition, each director may review the agenda and propose items for discussion with the chairmans agreement.
Close Brothers Group plc 34 Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate Governance continued The annual schedule of board meetings is decided a In accordance with the Code all directors will be subject to substantial time in advance in order to ensure the availability re-election at the AGM.
The board will only recommend to of each of the directors.
In the event that directors are unable shareholders that executive and non-executive directors be to attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they proposed for re-election at an AGM after evaluating the receive papers in the normal manner and have the performance of the individual directors.
Following the opportunity to relay their comments in advance of the performance evaluations, the board will be recommending meeting, as well as follow up with the chairman if necessary.
that all directors be re-elected by shareholders and confirms The same process applies in respect of the various board that each director continues to be effective and demonstrates committees.
Chairman and chief executive Letters of appointment are available for inspection by The roles of the chairman and chief executive are separate shareholders at each AGM and during normal business and there is a clear division of responsibilities between the hours at the Companys registered office.
In accordance with the Code, there is a written statement of the division of responsibilities which has been New directors are also available to meet major shareholders reviewed and approved by the board.
The chairman is on request.
His other significant commitments are set out in his biography on page 9.
The board is satisfied that Powers of directors his significant commitments do not restrict him from carrying The directors are responsible for the management of the out his duties effectively.
They may exercise all powers of the Company, subject to any directions given by special resolution and the As chairman, Strone Macpherson is primarily responsible for articles of association.
The directors have been authorised leading the board and ensuring the effective engagement to allot and issue ordinary shares and to make market and contribution of all the directors.
His other responsibilities purchases of the Companys ordinary shares by virtue of include setting the agenda for board meetings, providing the resolutions passed at the Companys 2010 AGM.
directors with information in an accurate, clear and timely manner and the promotion of effective decision making.
The Board evaluation chairman is also charged with ensuring that the directors In 2009 Boardroom Review undertook an extensive continually update their skills and knowledge and that the independent external review of the board and its performance of the board, its committees and the individual Committees.
In 2010 they were re-appointed to consider the directors is evaluated on an annual basis.
boards progress: the 2010 evaluation demonstrated considerable progress in the boards strategic processes The group chief executive is Preben Prebensen who is and the overall strengthening of the groups governance primarily responsible for the day-to-day management of the structure.
In 2011 the Nomination and Governance groups business.
His other responsibilities include proposing Committee recommended that the board evaluation should and developing strategic objectives for the group, managing be undertaken internally.
The formal and rigorous internal the groups risk exposures in line with board policies, evaluation was led by the company secretary and took the implementing the decisions of the board and facilitating form of confidential questionnaires which assessed the appropriate and effective communication with shareholders performance of the board with separate specific evaluations and regulatory bodies.
completed by board committee members for each of the board committees.
The board evaluation focused on the Senior independent director following areas: The senior independent director is Bruce Carnegie-Brown.
Board competencies and experience: In addition to the existing channels for shareholder Effectiveness of the board and director commitment: communications, shareholders may discuss any issues or Succession planning and talent review: concerns they may have with the senior independent director.
Strategic direction: Board training: and Appointment of directors Use of time at board meetings.
The appointment of directors is governed by the Companys articles of association, the Companies Act 2006 and other The feedback from the evaluations was collated by the applicable regulations and policies.
Directors may be elected company secretary, reviewed with the chief executive and by shareholders in general meeting or appointed by the chairman and presented to the board in July.
board of directors in accordance with the provisions of the articles of association.
The articles of association may be The evaluations confirmed the directors opinion that the amended by special resolution of the shareholders.
board and its committees continue to be highly effective.
Close Brothers Group plc 35 Annual Report 2011 Themes arising which will form the basis of an action plan for In addition, the chairman discusses and agrees any specific 2011 2012 are: development requirements as part of each non-executive Continued focus on non-executive director succession directors half year and year end reviews.
planning: Ensuring there are a wide range of backgrounds and All directors have direct access to the services and advice of diversity on the board: the company secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Focus on execution of strategy: and the board procedures and applicable rules and regulations Ensuring clarity on the purpose and focus of the Risk are observed.
Directors are able to take independent Committee.
external professional advice to assist with the performance of their duties at the Companys expense.
In addition to the independent board evaluation process, the senior independent director led a separate performance Risk and Control Framework review in respect of the chairman which involved a review The board has overall responsibility for the groups risk with the non-executive directors excluding the chairman management framework, regulatory compliance and internal and separate consultation with the chief executive.
The control and for ensuring that they work effectively.
The risk senior independent director subsequently provided feedback management framework and associated governance to the chairman on his appraisal.
arrangements are designed to ensure that there is a clear organisational structure with well defined, transparent and Induction and professional development consistent lines of responsibility and effective processes to On joining the board all directors receive a formal, identify, manage, monitor and report the risks to which the personalised induction programme to meet their specific group is, or might become, exposed.
The Company also provides bespoke inductions for directors when they are appointed as a Identification, measurement and management of risk are committee chair.
In January 2011, Geoffrey Howe was strategic priorities for the group.
Over the past 12 months the appointed as a non-executive director and received a broad groups risk management framework has continued to induction tailored to his experience and needs which evolve.
Governance has been strengthened by the included site visits, one to one meetings with the executive establishment of the Risk Committee, outlined in detail on directors, the company secretary, senior management for page 37, to lead the management of risk across the group.
the business areas and support functions and a confidential This is supported by risk and compliance committees in the meeting with the external auditor.
divisions with responsibility for risk management, internal control and regulatory compliance.
Ray Greenshields was appointed chairman of the newly created Risk Committee in December 2010 and undertook a A key priority of the risk and control framework is to allow comprehensive induction for that role which included business opportunities to be captured while maintaining an meetings with the chief risk officer, executive directors, senior appropriate balance of risk and reward.
The groups risk management across the business areas, heads of the group management framework is designed to ensure that the risks operating functions, site visits and a tailored training to which the group is or may become exposed are identified programme with .
and that those which the group chooses to take are managed, controlled and, where appropriate, mitigated so Based on feedback from the 2010 board evaluation a central that the group is not subject to unexpected loss.
training programme was introduced for the directors which received positive feedback in the 2011 board evaluation.
The The group reviews and revises its risk appetite as part of the training took the form of site visits, including visits to the strategy setting process and identifies its material risks Banking divisions Retail and Commercial businesses at through this process.
This aligns risk taking with the Tolworth and the Winterflood business, informal meetings achievement of strategic objectives.
with senior management, in depth business reviews, attendance at external seminars and FSA forums and The risk management framework is based on the concept of briefings from both internal and external advisers covering three lines of defence.
Business management are topics such as: responsible for ensuring that all key risks have been The Bribery Act: identified, assessed and evaluated and that, where The new regulatory regime: necessary, appropriate controls have been put in place to Treating customers fairly: manage them within their defined risk appetites.
Risk Corporate governance and internal audit: and functions provide oversight of this and group internal audit Regulatory risk management.
ensures that the first and second lines of defence are working effectively.
The risk management framework is All directors attended two dedicated strategy sessions in illustrated in the following table: October 2010 and May 2011.
Both sessions lasted a day and half and focused on strategy development and execution.
Close Brothers Group plc 36 Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate Governance continued 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence 3rd line of defence Group Risk and Compliance Risk Committee Audit Committee Committee Reports to the board.
Reports to the board via the Risk Committee.
Risk Committee delegates to the chief Audit Committee mandates the head of risk officer day-to-day responsibility for group internal audit with day-to-day Chief executive delegates to divisional oversight and challenge on risk related responsibility for independent assurance.
and operating business heads day-toissues.
day responsibility for risk management, Group internal audit provides regulatory compliance and internal Risk functions provide support and independent assurance on: control in running their divisions or independent challenge on: First and second lines of defence: businesses.
Risk framework: Appropriateness effectiveness of Risk assessment: internal controls: and Business management has day-to-day Risk appetite and strategy: Effectiveness of policy implementation.
ownership, responsibility and P erformance management: accountability for risks: Risk reporting: and Key features: I dentifying and assessing risks: Adequacy of mitigation plans.
Draws on in depth knowledge of the M anaging and controlling risks: group and its businesses: M itigating risks: and Key features: Independent assurance on the R eporting risks.
Over-arching risk oversight unit activities of the firm including the risk takes an integrated view of risk management framework: and Key features: qualitative and quantitative : Assesses the appropriateness and Promotes a strong risk culture and Risk management separate from risk effectiveness of internal controls.
focus on sustainable risk-adjusted control but work together: returns: Supports through developing and I mplements the risk framework: advising on risk strategies: and Promotes a culture of adhering to Creates constructive tension through limits and managing risk exposures: challenge critical friend.
and O ngoing monitoring of positions and management of risks.
The key principles underlying risk management in the group are: Business management own all the risks assumed throughout the group and are responsible for ensuring that these are managed on a day-to-day basis to ensure that risk and return are balanced: The board and business management promote a culture in which risks are identified, assessed and reported in an open, transparent and objective manner: The overriding priority is to protect the groups long-term viability and produce sustainable medium to long-term revenue streams, not simply to maximise short-term profits: Risk functions are independent of the businesses but partner closely with and provide support and challenge to the businesses: Risk management across the group is proportionate to the scale and complexity of the groups individual businesses: Risk mitigation and control activities are commensurate with the degree of risk: and Risk management and control supports decision making.
Close Brothers Group plc 37 Annual Report 2011 Risk Committee Work in 2011 Membership At each committee meeting, the group chief risk officer The committee is chaired by Ray Greenshields.
The other provides the committee with a presentation on the key risk members of the committee are Douglas Paterson and Bruce issues faced by the group.
An update is also given on the Carnegie-Brown who chair the Audit and Remuneration key issues discussed at the groups executive risk forum the Committees respectively.
All members of the committee are Group Risk and Compliance Committee GRCC and independent non-executive directors.
A record of attendance minutes of the GRCC are included in the committee packs at meetings since the committee was established in for review.
December 2010 is set out on page 32.
During 2011, the work of the committee particularly focused Responsibilities on a number of key areas, including: The committees primary responsibilities are to: Oversight of the review, design and implementation of an Develop, review and recommend risk appetite in the enhanced risk management framework and received context of both the groups strategy and the economic, regular reports on the enhancement of the group risk market and regulatory environment: policy framework: Monitor the risk profile in relation to current and future The group risk appetite framework was developed strategy and ensure that it is consistent with the risk significantly during 2011 and continues to be enhanced.
appetite: Risk appetite was regularly reviewed by the committee, Consider, evaluate, monitor and challenge the which makes recommendations to the board on risk appropriateness and effectiveness of the risk appetite and tolerance as part of this ongoing process: management framework and the oversight arrangements Considering the groups risk profile relative to current in relation to the business undertaken and risk profile: and future group strategy.
The committee reported to Review and challenge reports and recommendations the board following each meeting on its consideration regarding current risk exposures and overall risk strategy of the risk profile of the group and any longer-term and discuss mitigation, providing advice as appropriate: macroeconomic or perceived strategic threats to the Consider and assess the implications of proposed group and made recommendations as appropriate: regulatory and legal changes that are material to the risk Providing oversight and challenge for the scenario-based profile, risk appetite and management of risk: operational risk capital methodology in order to assess Oversee and challenge the design and execution of stress the risk capital requirements: and scenario testing: The committee received additional in depth business Provide the advice, oversight and challenge necessary to reviews on risk management in treasury and credit risk embed and maintain a supportive risk culture: and management.
These provided a key insight to the risks Agree recommended actions, as appropriate, and ensure and associated drivers and how they are measured, that these are owned and followed through to completion.
controlled and mitigated: Review of the risk management operating model, strategy In addition the committee: and policy: Provides input and advice to the Remuneration Oversight of the ICAAP with detailed review and challenge Committee on the alignment of reward structures to the of the assumptions and conclusions: groups risk appetite: and Consideration of the Individual Liquidity Adequacy Considers and approves the appointment and dismissal Assessment ILAA : and of the group chief risk officer.
The output of stress testing and scenario planning.
Meetings The chairman of the committee together with the chief risk Since the committee was established in December 2010, a officer has a formal programme of meetings with senior total of seven meetings of the committee were held during management across the group in addition to regular ad hoc the year ended 31 July 2011. meetings.
The company secretary, or her nominee, acts as secretary to The Company has complied with the Turnbull Committee the committee.
The group chief risk officer and the group guidance for directors.
Identifying, evaluating and managing head of compliance attend all meetings and all other nonthe groups significant risks is an ongoing process which is executive and executive directors who are not committee regularly reviewed by the board, and which has been in members attend by invitation.
place for the year ended 31 July 2011 and up to the date of the approval of these financial statements.
Other executives, subject matter experts and external advisers are also invited to attend the committee and, as required, to present and advise on reports commissioned by the committee.
Close Brothers Group plc 38 Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate Governance continued Audit Committee The company secretary, or her nominee, acts as secretary to Membership the committee.
The external auditor and the head of group The committee is chaired by Douglas Paterson.
The other internal audit attend all meetings and the committee meets members of the committee are Bruce Carnegie-Brown and privately with them at each meeting.
The chairman of the Ray Greenshields who chair the Remuneration and Risk board, Jamie Cayzer-Colvin and Geoffrey Howe who are Committees respectively.
All members of the committee are both non-executive directors, the executive directors, heads independent non-executive directors and served throughout of internal audit, risk and compliance and the group financial the year.
A record of attendance at meetings during the year controller attend by invitation.
ended 31 July 2011 is set out on page 32.
Other executives, subject matter experts and external Responsibilities advisers are also invited to attend the committee and, as The committees primary responsibilities are: required, to present and advise on reports commissioned by Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the the committee.
Company and the form and content of published announcements: Work in 2010 2011 Reviewing the appropriateness of the groups accounting During the year, the committee focused on a number of key policies, accounting treatments, judgements and areas, including: disclosures in relation to the financial affairs of the group: The groups annual and half year reporting including Reviewing the adequacy of the groups system of significant reporting judgements made by management: regulatory compliance and internal control: Reviewing the accounting issues and proposed Monitoring the groups processes for internal and external accounting treatments relating to the business audit: and acquisitions and disposals in the Asset Management Monitoring and reviewing the groups whistleblowing division: procedures.
Monitoring market developments in disclosures including reviewing a summary of the recommendations of the The committee reports to the board on all of these issues, Financial Reporting Council discussion paper on Effective identifying any matters where it considers that action or Company Stewardship: improvement is needed and makes recommendations as to Reviewing the reports of the internal and external auditor: the steps to be taken.
Reviewing and approving a revised policy for the approval of non-audit services for the external auditor and the Audit Committee chairman co-source internal audit provider: Douglas Paterson was a senior partner in the banking and Considering the impact on the committee of the creation capital markets division of  until of the new Risk Committee: and 2001, is a non-executive director of Goldman Sachs Oversight of the project to implement a new general International Bank and has, in the view of the board, the ledger within the Banking division.
appropriate level of recent and relevant financial experience as required by the Code.
In its consideration of each of these respective areas, the aims of the committee have been to: The committee chairman plays a leading role in the setting of Understand and challenge the valuation and other the annual agenda planning for the committee and with the accounting judgements made by management: agenda for each committee meeting.
Prior to every Satisfy itself that the disclosures in the financial statements committee meeting, the committee chairman holds a about these estimates and valuations are transparent and meeting with the group finance director, the heads of group appropriate: internal audit, compliance and risk, company secretarial and Review the conclusions of the external auditor and, where the group financial controller to ensure he is fully briefed on applicable, other experts to understand how they came to all relevant issues and that these are brought to the attention their conclusions: of the committee.
In addition he has regular contact with the Satisfy itself that the group internal controls and policies lead external audit partner throughout the year.
are adequate and appropriate: and Ensure controls are in place over the implementation of Meetings relevant major projects.
A total of five meetings of the committee were held during the year ended 31 July 2011.
The committee meetings were The external auditor presented for approval to the committee scheduled to coincide with the financial reporting and audit their audit plan, audit fee proposal and engagement letter, as cycles of the group.
The committee has throughout the year well as confirmation of their independence.
In addition the monitored the integrity of the financial statements through a external auditor provided the committee with reports review of the interim and annual reports.
summarising their main observations and conclusions arising from their year end audit, half year review and Close Brothers Group plc 39 Annual Report 2011 recommendations for enhancements to the groups The clarity, quality and robustness of written reports reporting and controls.
presented to the committee setting out the external auditors findings arising from the audit: Group internal audit The quality of the observations provided to the Company The committee receives a report from the head of group by the external auditor on the groups systems of internal internal audit at each meeting.
The head of group internal control: and audit has unfettered access to the committee and meets The views of management on the performance of the privately with them at each meeting.
The head of group external auditor.
internal audit reports functionally to the committee through the chairman of the committee and to the finance director, The outcomes of the evaluation were considered by the who provides support and guidance to the function including committee and the board.
with regard to the professional development of the head of group internal audit.
Group internal audits role is to assess There are no contractual obligations restricting the continuously how operating risks are being managed and Companys choice of external auditor.
controlled throughout the group, to report regularly to the committee on the results of these assessments and Audit and non-audit work influence the continuous development of the risk The committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of management and control process through sharing best the external auditor to supply audit and non-audit work, practice.
An annual internal audit plan is presented to the which takes into account relevant regulation regarding the committee each year which focuses in particular on higher provision of such services by an external audit firm.
risk areas of the groups business.
The committee actively monitors the audit reports and ensures relevant matters The committee approved a revised policy for the award of raised are dealt with in a timely and appropriate manner.
non-audit work to the external auditor during the year.
The These reports offer the committee oversight of group internal key elements of the policy are: audits work and the co-source internal audit provider and The external auditor may not be used where the provision allow the committee to monitor the level of internal control of such services breaches ethical rules or guidelines or within the group.
where the committee believes there is a threat to auditor independence: External auditor The provision of any non-audit work expected to exceed a Deloitte LLP has been the sole auditor of the group since value of 100,000 must be pre-approved by the committee: 2008.
Fees under 100,000 are not considered to be significant in terms of the overall audit fee and are pre-approved, The committee is responsible for making recommendations subject to confirmation from the auditor and the to the board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment agreement of the group financial controller, that the scope and removal of the external auditor and the board submits neither breaches rules nor impairs independence: the committees recommendations to shareholders for their The committee chairman is informed of all assignments approval at the AGM.
The committee also approves the incurring fees of over 10,000 throughout the year: and terms of engagement of the external auditor and fixes their The committee is consulted where cumulative non-audit remuneration as authorised by shareholders at the AGM.
fees in any given year may exceed the annual audit fee.
The board has endorsed the committees recommendation that shareholders be requested to approve the re-appointment The policy reflects the committees view that there are of Deloitte LLP as external auditor at the AGM on 17 benefits to the auditor carrying out non-audit work where it is November 2011. closely related to the audit, where a detailed understanding of the group is required and or where they can deliver a The committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess better value and higher quality service than available the independence and objectivity of the external auditor elsewhere in the market.
The committee balances these and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into benefits with the potential impact on auditor independence.
consideration relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The annual evaluation is carried out following A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditor is completion of the annual report and audit.
included in note 6 on page 76 of the Financial Statements.
Examples of non-audit work awarded to the external auditor In assessing the effectiveness of the groups external auditor in the year to 31 July 2011 include: the committee has regard to: Transaction support on a business disposal: The experience and expertise of the engagement team: Tax compliance services: and The proposed scope of the audit work planned and Advice and review of the groups approach to new executed: regulatory requirements.
The quality of the dialogue between the external auditor, the committee and senior management: Close Brothers Group plc 40 Annual Report 2011 Governance Corporate Governance continued In assessing the independence of the external auditor, the be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The committee considers the level of non-audit work carried out.
board believes this procedure operated effectively Having given consideration to the additional non-audit work throughout the year.
undertaken by the auditor in the year, and after review with the audit partner and the executive directors, the committee Investor Relations is satisfied as to the independence of the external auditor.
The group has an extensive investor relations IR programme to inform shareholders and financial analysts Nomination and Governance Committee about the groups performance throughout the year and to The committee is chaired by Strone Macpherson.
The other ensure they have appropriate access to the groups members of the committee are Bruce Carnegie-Brown, management.
The IR team also regularly provides the board Ray Greenshields and Douglas Paterson who chair the with feedback from investor meetings, relevant analyst Remuneration, Risk and Audit Committees respectively.
All research and updates on share price performance.
the members of the committee are independent nonexecutive directors and served throughout the year.
A record In addition to formal announcements and reporting around of attendance at meetings during the year ended 31 July the financial calendar, the IR programme includes meetings, 2011 is set out on page 32. telephone discussions and investor presentations.
During the year detailed presentations on the groups Banking and Responsibilities Asset Management divisions were held in order to provide The committees primary responsibilities are: shareholders with additional detail on the business and Considering the appointment or retirement of directors: strategy of these divisions.
before an appointment is made, the skills, knowledge and experience required for a particular appointment are The chief executive and finance director meet with the evaluated and external advisers may be used to facilitate groups major institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
the search for suitable candidates: The chairman and the senior independent director are also Regular reviews of the structure, size and composition of available to meet with major shareholders, particularly in the board: relation to corporate governance and remuneration.
Considering the leadership needs of the group and Shareholders also have the opportunity to ask questions to considering succession planning for directors and other the board at the AGM, either in person or by submitting senior executives: and written questions in advance.
The chairmen of each of the Assessing the contribution of non-executive directors.
board committees attend the AGM and all other directors are expected to attend the meeting.
Work in 2010 2011 During the year the committee focused on: The groups financial reports, news releases, presentation Reviewing and recommending a new non-executive materials and web casts of financial presentations are director appointment: available on the IR section of the Close Brothers Group Talent management and succession planning: website: www.
Board evaluation: Diversity: and Substantial Shareholdings Time commitment of non-executive directors.
The Company has been notified at 16 September 2011 under the provisions of the Disclosure and Transparency Remuneration Committee Rules of the following significant interests in the voting rights Details of the role and work of the committee are set out in of the Company.
the Report of the Board of Directors Remuneration on Ordinary Voting pages 44 to 55. shares rights millions % Conflicts of Interest Caledonia Investments 19.6 13.45 The articles of association include provisions giving the Lloyds Banking Group 16.9 11.58 directors authority to approve conflicts of interest and Prudential 11.6 7.93 potential conflicts of interest as permitted under the Aberdeen Asset Management 6.6 4.52 Companies Act 2006.
Artemis Investment Management 6.0 4.08 Legal & General 5.3 3.62 A procedure has been established whereby actual and Schroders 5.0 3.39 potential conflicts of interest are regularly reviewed and appropriate authorisation sought, prior to the appointment of Aviva 3.0 2.02 any new director or if a new conflict arises.
The decision to authorise a conflict of interest can only be made by nonSubstantial shareholders do not have different voting rights conflicted directors and in making such a decision the from those of other shareholders.
directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, will Close Brothers Group plc 41 Annual Report 2011 Going Concern In preparing the group financial statements, IAS 1 requires The groups business activities, together with the factors that directors: likely to affect its future development and performance and Properly select and apply accounting policies: its summarised financial position are set out in the Present information, including accounting policies, in a Chairmans and Chief Executives Statement and Business manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and Review on pages 2 to 5 and 11 to 23 respectively.
The understandable information: principal risks and uncertainties the group currently faces are Provide additional disclosures when compliance with the described on pages 24 to 28 of the Business Review along specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable with the ways the group seeks to manage those risks.
users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial The group has a strong, proven and conservative business position and financial performance: and model and a range of diversified financial services Make an assessment of the companys ability to continue businesses and has traded profitably during the year.
well positioned in each of its core businesses, well capitalised, soundly funded and has adequate access to The directors are responsible for keeping adequate liquidity.
accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company expectation that the Company and the group have adequate and enable them to ensure that the financial statements resources to continue in operational existence for the comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and going concern basis in preparing the annual report.
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Statement of Directors Responsibilities The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report The directors are responsible for the maintenance and and the financial statements in accordance with applicable integrity of the corporate and financial information included law and regulations.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements Company law requires the directors to prepare financial may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the group financial Responsibility statement statements in accordance with International Financial We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European The financial statements, prepared in accordance with the Union and Article 4 of the International Accounting relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair Standards Regulation IAS and have elected to prepare view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or the parent company financial statements in accordance with loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice consolidation taken as a whole: and United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
The management report, which is incorporated into the Under company law the directors must not approve the directors report, includes a fair review of the development accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and and performance of the business and the position of the fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the company and the undertakings included in the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that In preparing the parent company financial statements, the they face.
directors are required to: Select suitable accounting policies and then apply them By order of the board consistently: Make judgements and accounting estimates that are Elizabeth Lee reasonable and prudent: Company Secretary State whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures 27 September 2011 disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and Prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
