40 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Report of the Nomination Committee Role of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee is a sub-committee of the Board whose purpose is to advise the Board on the appointment and, ifnecessary, dismissal of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The full terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are provided on the Companys website.
Composition of the Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises all the independent Non-Executive Directors together with the Chairman and ChiefExecutive.
The quorum necessary for the transaction of business is two, each of whom must be an independent Non-Executive Director.
The Chairman acts as the Chairman of the Committee, although the Chairman may not chair the Committee when it is dealing with the matter of succession to the Chairmanship of the Company.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend the Committee meetings.
However, other individuals and external advisers may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Committee.
The Committee has the authority to seek any information that is required from any officer or employee of the Company or its subsidiaries.
In connection with its duties, the Committee is authorised by the Board to take such independent advice including legal or other professional advice, at the Companys expense as it considers necessary, including requests for information from, or commissioning investigations, by externaladvisers.
Main activities of the Nomination Committee Mr A. M. Thomson chairs the Nomination Committee which also comprises Messrs J.
A. Biles, J. Vogelsang, S. C. Harris and DrK.
In 2011 the Committee discussed succession planning, board diversity and assessment of the Chief Executive and other senior executives.
In particular, the need to broaden the Board membership with respect to gender, ethnicity and age was discussed and we have engaged an international search firm to identify suitable candidates with relevant experience.
The Committee considered and authorised the potential conflicts of interest which might arise where a Director has fiduciary responsibilities in respect of other organisations.
The committee understands that no inappropriate conflicts of interest exist.
The Committee also assigned the Chairman to review and agree with the Chief Executive the Groups objectives for the forthcoming year.
In November 2011 the Nomination Committee, with both Executive Directors in attendance, carried out a formal evaluation of the Boards performance, and reviewed the Boards size and composition, the frequency of and process for Board and committee meetings, and best practice for the handling of a number of Board issues including the review of strategy, letters of appointment and Directors training.
On behalf of the Committee: A. M. Thomson Chairman of the Nomination Committee 23 February 2012
