Bodycote plc 37 Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement Chairmans message As Chairman I have taken a leading role in shaping the governance agenda at Bodycote and wanted to take this opportunity to address shareholders on what I believe are the important governance developments at Bodycote over the last year.
The policy of the Board is to manage the affairs of the Company in accordance with the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code by promoting wide discussions on topics to which Board members contribute and demonstrate mutual engagement.
We strive to maintain best practice and continually seek to improve our practices for the benefit of our shareholders.
Alan Thomson Chairman Governance reporting Board diversity Following the publication of the Davies Report on the representation of women on plc boards, our Nominations Committee discussed its recommendation.
Bodycote is a global business with operations in 27 countries and therefore diversity generally is an integral part of how we dobusiness.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity when making appointments to the Board, taking into account relevant skills, experience, knowledge, personality, ethnicity and gender.
Our prime responsibility, however, is the strength ofthe Board and our overriding aim in any new appointments must always be to select the best candidate.
As, over time, werecruit new members we would expect to address the issue of gender and ethnicity but do not propose to set targets forthe percentage of women on our Board in future years.
Female representation on our Executive Committee is currently 20%.
We will increase female representation on the Board ifappropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
Females represent about 20% of ouremployees.
Succession planning Succession planning ensures that appropriate senior leadershipresources are in place to achieve Bodycotes strategic objectives.
The plans are regularly reviewed by the Nomination Committee.
The Board further develops its knowledge and gains greater visibility of executive talent and management succession by visiting the Groups sites and meeting with key talent and seniorexecutives.
A clear road map for non-executive refreshment has been developed in 2011 and external consultants were appointed.
Board evaluation During the year, the Board conducted an evaluation of its own performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
The process involved the completion by each Director of a confidential questionnaire in a form consistent with previous years, and including amongst other areas: remit and objectives, Board composition, training and resources, governance, stakeholder engagement, Board procedures and overall effectiveness.
The respective Chairmen analysed the completed questionnaires and summarised the findings in a report for the respective Committee and Board.
The Chairman subsequently conducted one-to-one discussions with each of the Board members after which he reported back to the whole Board on the evaluation process.
The responses to the questionnaires demonstrated a high degree of consistency and the evaluation process affirmed the Boards confidence in the Groups system of corporate governance.
Board members work well together with open discussions being a feature of all debates.
Arising from the exercise, the Board has concluded that the focus should be placed on divisional growth strategies, technology development, Safety & Health and sustainability as well as continued training.
Messrs S. C. Harris and D. F. Landless were appraised internally in January and February 2012.
The Remuneration and Audit Committees reviewed their own performance in December 2011 and the Nomination Committee reviewed its performance in November 2011.
Led by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, the Directors have carried out an evaluation of the Chairmans performance in November 2011.
Compliance reporting In respect of the financial year 2011 Bodycotes obligation under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is to prepare a corporate governance statement with reference to The UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the FRC in June 2010 the New Code.
In respect of the year ended 31 December 2011 Bodycote has complied with the provisions of the 2010 Code, with the exception of provision E1.1.
The Board has taken the view that generally it is the responsibility of the Chief Executive and the Finance Director to manage relationships with institutional investors.
The Chairman also meets institutional investors to discuss overall strategy, governance and any concerns that shareholders may have.
Only where these more usual channels of communication have failed would the Board expect the Senior Independent or other Non-Executive Directors to become involved, notwithstanding that the 2010 Code specifies attendance of the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director at meetings with major shareholders.
Regular feedback by the Companys advisers on investor meetings and results presentations is circulated to all Directors.
Apart from this distinct area, Bodycote was in compliance with the provisions of the 2010 Code throughout 2011.
Operation of the code Taken together with the Audit Committee Report, the Nomination Committee Report and the Board report on remuneration presented on pages 37 to 48, this statement explains how Bodycote has applied the principles of good corporate governance set out in the 2010 Code.
Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review 38 Bodycote plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Leadership The Board is responsible to shareholders for good corporate governance, setting the Companys strategic objectives, values and standards and ensuring the necessary resources are in place to achieve the objectives.
The Board met on nine occasions during 2011, including a specific meeting to review and update the Companys long-term strategy.
The Board of Directors comprises six members, of whom four are Non-Executive Directors and two are Executive Directors led by the Companys part-time Non-Executive Chairman, Mr A. M. Thomson, who also chairs the Nomination Committee.
The Chief Executive is Mr S. C. Harris and the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is Mr J. Vogelsang, who also chairs the Remuneration Committee.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr J.
Brief biographical details of all Directors are given on page 33.
The Board makes visits to UK and overseas facilities.
Certain defined powers and issues are reserved for the Board to decide, inter alia: Strategy: Approval of financial statements and circulars: Capital projects, acquisitions and disposals: Annual budgets: Directors appointments, service agreements, remuneration and succession planning: Policies for financial statements, treasury, safety, health and environment, donations: Committees terms of reference: Board and committee chairmen and membership: Investments: Equity and bank financing: Internal control and risk management: Corporate governance: Key external and internal appointments: and Employee share incentives and pension arrangements.
In advance of Board meetings Directors are supplied with up-to-date information about the trading performance of each operating division and sub-division, the Groups overall financial position and its achievement against prior year, budgets and forecasts.
They are also supplied with the latest available information on safety, health and environmental and risk management issues and details of the safety and health performance of the Group, and each division, in terms of severity and frequency rates for accidents at work.
Where required, a Director may seek independent professional advice, the cost of which is reimbursed by the Company.
AllDirectors have access to the Company Secretary and they may also address specific issues to the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, all newly appointed Directors and any who have not stood for re-election at the two previous Annual General Meetings, if eligible, must submit themselves for re-election.
However, this has been superseded by the Directors decision to stand for yearly re-election.
Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, are appointed for fixed terms not exceeding three years from the date of first election by shareholders, after which the appointment may be extended by mutual agreement.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities is set out on page 49.
The Board also operates four committees.
These are the Nomination Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
So that the necessary actions can be taken promptly, a Finance Committee, comprising the Chairman or failing him any other NonExecutive Director, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director operates between the dates of scheduled Board meetings and is authorised to make decisions, within limits defined by the Board, in respect of certain finance, treasury, tax or investmentmatters.
Independence of Non-Executive Directors The Board considers that Messrs J.
A. Biles, J. Vogelsang and Dr K. Rajagopal are all independent for the purposes of theCode.
Commitment Attendance of Directors at regular scheduled meetings of the Board and its Committees is shown in the table below: Remuneration Nomination Full Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Director Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended Eligible Attended A. M. Thomson 9 9 6 6 2 2 S. C. Harris 9 9 2 2 J. Vogelsang 9 9 4 4 6 6 2 2 J.
A. Biles 9 9 4 4 6 6 2 2 K. Rajagopal 9 9 4 4 6 6 2 2 D. F. Landless 9 9 Bodycote plc 39 Annual Report 2011 All Directors attended the maximum number of scheduled Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committee meetings that they were scheduled to attend.
All Directors attended the maximum number of scheduled Board meetings.
In addition by invitation Messrs Thomson, Harris and Landless attended the whole or part of all the meetings of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
Proposals for re-election The Board decided, in line with the New Code, that all Directors will retire annually and, other than in the case of any Director who has decided to stand down from the Board, will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Accordingly Messrs A. M. Thomson, S. C. Harris, D. F. Landless, J. Vogelsang, J.
A. Biles and Dr K. Rajagopal will stand for re-election and the Board recommends to shareholders that they re-elect all the Directors.
The performance of each Director was evaluated as indicated above and the Board confirms in respect of each that their performance continues to be effective and that each continues to demonstrate commitment to his respective role.
Internal control and risk management The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks, including risks arising out of Bodycotes corporate and social engagement.
The Board continuously and regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from thestart of 2000 to the date of approval of this report and which is in accordance with Internal Control: Guidance for Directors onthe Combined Code published in September 1999 and with revised guidance on internal control published October 2005.
TheBoards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management and from internal audit to consider whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging these review responsibilities.
The Group prepares a comprehensive annual budget which is closely monitored and updated quarterly.
The Groups authority matrix clearly sets out authority limits for those with delegated responsibility and specifies what can only be decided with centralapproval.
The Internal Audit department monitors the Groups internal financial control system and its reviews are conducted on the basis of plans approved by the Audit Committee, to which Internal Audit reports are submitted on a regular basis.
Each Division provides assurance on specified financial and non-financial controls and these are reported twice-yearly to the Audit Committee.
During 2011, in compliance with provision C. 2.1, management performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
Managements assessment, which has been reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board, included a review of all Group and operational risks by means of workshops and interviews and the risks identified both before and after mitigating actions were assessed using conventional impact and likelihood scoring, and further assessment, monitoring and review work was scheduled for 2012.
The Groups risk management framework is progressively being embedded throughout the Group.
Theprincipal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group are shown in the Finance Directors report on page 26.
No significant previously unidentified risks were uncovered as part of this process, and the necessary actions have been or are being taken toremedy any significant failings or weaknesses identified as part of the reviews.
Investor relations The Chief Executive and Finance Director regularly talk with and meet institutional investors, both individually and collectively, andthis has enabled institutional investors to increase their understanding of the Groups strategy.
In November 2011 the Group held a Capital Markets day, informing analysts and major shareholders of the Group's strategy and progress.
The business of the Annual General Meeting comprises a review of the Groups operations for the benefit of shareholders attending.
In addition, internet users are able to view up-to-date news on the Group and its share price via the Bodycote website at www.
Users of the website can access recent announcements and copies of results presentations andcan enrol to hear live presentations.
On a regular basis, Bodycotes financial advisers, corporate brokers and financial publicrelations consultants provide the Directors with opinion surveys from analysts and investing institutions following visits andmeetings with the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are available to discuss any issues not resolved by the Chief Executive and Finance Director.
Onspecificissues, such as the introduction of long-term incentive and share matching schemes in 2006 and changes theretoin2009 and 2010, the Company has sought and will continue to seek the views of leading investors.
By order of the Board: U. S. Ball Secretary Springwood Court 23 February 2012 Springwood Close Tytherington Business Park Macclesfield Cheshire SK10 2XF Additional information Financial statements Governance Business review
