Statement of Corporate Governance Meetings Audit Remuneration Compliance held and Board Committee Committee The Company is committed to high standards of corporate attendance meetings meetings meetings governance.
The Board is responsible for good governance, Allan 5 5 3 3 1 1 and this statement describes how the Company applies the McKenzie principles identified in the UK Corporate Governance Code Frank 5 5 n a n a published in May 2010 the Governance Code, which is Frame available on the Financial Reporting Councils website: David 5 5 3 3 1 1 www.
uk, throughout the financial year.
The Board Gairns confirms that the Company has complied throughout the Tony 5 5 n a 1 1 accounting period to 31 August 2011 with the relevant Lowrie provisions of the Governance Code.
Iain 5 5 3 3 n a McLaren The Company is also a member of the Association of Investment Companies AIC, which has published its own Peter Tyrie 2 2 n a n a Code of corporate governance to recognise the special Iain Watt 5 5 n a n a circumstances of investment trusts.
The Board is of the Member of Audit Committee Member of Remuneration Committee opinion that the Company has complied with the Peter Maynard was appointed on 12 October 2011 and therefore did not attend meetings during the financial year recommendations of the AIC Code.
Directors also attended a number of non-scheduled meetings The Board to deal with special ad-hoc issues.
The Board consists of seven non-executive Directors.
Profiles of the Board members appear on pages 17 to 19 of the The Board has a schedule of matters reserved to it for annual report.
Each Director has the requisite range of decision, and the requirement for Board approval on these business and financial experience to enable the Board to matters is communicated directly to the senior staff of the provide clear and effective leadership and proper stewardship Manager.
Such matters include overall strategy, review of of the Company.
Mr Frame is the Senior Independent investment policy, performance, gearing policy, treasury, Director and is available to shareholders in the event that marketing, Board composition, corporate governance policy there are concerns that cannot be resolved through and communications with shareholders.
Full and timely discussion with the Chairman.
information is provided to the Board to enable the Directors to function effectively and to discharge their responsibilities.
The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
All The Board also reviews the financial statements and revenue Directors are considered to be independent of the Manager budgets.
and to be free of any material relationship with the Manager which could interfere with the exercise of their independent The Board monitors on a regular basis the direct and indirect judgement.
The Board takes the view that length of service interests of each Director and has concluded that there were does not compromise independence.
This is consistent with no situations which gave rise to an interest of a Director the AIC Code.
When making a recommendation for rewhich conflicted with the interests of the Company.
electing a Director, the Board will take into account the onFollowing the implementation of the Bribery Act 2010, the going requirements of the Governance Code.
Board has adopted a zero tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and has implemented appropriate procedures The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys designed to prevent bribery.
It delegates, through an investment management agreement and specific instructions, the day-to-day Performance Evaluation management of the Company to the Manager, Aberdeen An appraisal of each Director, including the Chairman, and of Asset Managers Limited.
the operation of the Board and its Committees, was undertaken during the year.
The Chairmans performance The Board normally meets at least five times each year, and assessment was led by the Senior Independent Director.
The more frequently where business needs require.
In addition, Board also reviewed the Chairmans and Directors other there is regular contact between the Directors and the commitments.
The Board is satisfied that each Directors Manager throughout the year.
The following table sets out performance continues to be effective, and that each the number of scheduled Board meetings including remains fully committed to the Company.
Committees held during the financial year and the number of meetings attended by each Director.
Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 25 Statement of Corporate Governance continued There is no separate Nomination Committee.
Director New Directors will be given appropriate induction from the appraisals, succession planning, new appointments and Manager.
All Directors are entitled to receive appropriate training are considered by the whole Board.
The Board has adopted the principle of external evaluation of There is a procedure for a Director to take independent its members and will report on the first such evaluation in professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Remuneration Committee Succession Planning The Remuneration Committee, which comprises David In line with the Companys strong commitment to its Gairns Chairman, Allan McKenzie and Tony Lowrie, is corporate governance responsibilities, the Board regularly responsible for determining the level of Directors fees.
The reviews its performance and structure to ensure it has the terms of reference are available on request and on the correct mix of relevant skills and experience for the good Companys website.
Details of Directors remuneration are conduct of the Companys business.
New Directors are contained within the Directors Remuneration Report.
identified against the requirements of the Companys business and the need to have a balanced Board.
For new Internal Control appointments a description of the required role is prepared The Board is responsible for the Companys system of and nominations of Directors are sought in the financial and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks The Board welcomes greater transparency in the fulfilment of faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the its responsibilities to shareholders.
New Board appointments year under review and up to the date of approval of this are now routinely facilitated by an external recruitment firm annual report and accounts.
It is regularly reviewed by the to ensure that a wide range of candidates can be considered.
Board and accords with the FRCs guidance, Internal Control: In all searches, the over-riding priority is to appoint the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The person with the best mix of experience and skills to Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys risk complement the existing make-up of the Board.
management and internal control systems.
In particular, it has reviewed and updated the process for identifying and The Board has agreed a succession planning programme in evaluating the significant risks affecting the Company and order to provide an appropriate balance between new blood the policies by which these risks are managed.
The significant and continuity, in line with good corporate governance.
In risks faced by the Company are as follows: accordance with that programme, Mr Frame will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
During the year an financial: external consultant was employed by the Board to identify a operational: potential candidate to succeed him.
This resulted in the compliance: and appointment of Peter Maynard as a non-executive Director reputational.
Mr Maynard qualified as a solicitor and has extensive experience in the legal, corporate governance The Directors have delegated the investment management of and regulatory compliance areas.
He will offer himself for rethe Companys assets to the Manager within overall election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system Board supports his candidature.
of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control The Companys Articles of Association provide that a systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit Director appointed during the year is required to retire and function which undertakes periodic examination of business seek election by shareholders at the next Annual General processes, including compliance with the terms of the Meeting and that all Directors are required to submit management agreement, and ensures that recommendations themselves for re-election at least once every three years.
to improve controls are implemented.
The Board has implemented the provisions of the Governance Code whereby all Directors of the Company will Risks are identified and documented through a risk stand for re-election on an annual basis.
The Board has management framework by each function within the reviewed the skills and experience of each Director, and Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the supports their re-election.
FRC guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
26 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and McKenzie to be a member of the Audit Committee.
All timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to members of the Audit Committee are chartered accountants systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required and have the necessary recent and relevant financial is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
The Audit Committee considers reports from the external auditor and the Managers internal audit and Note 19 to the accounts provides further information on compliance functions.
The terms of reference of the Audit risks.
The key components designed to provide effective Committee, which are available on request and on the internal control are outlined below: Companys website, are reviewed and re-assessed on an The Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts annual basis.
The main responsibilities of the Audit which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities Committee are: and review its performance: the emphasis is on obtaining the relevant degree of assurance and not merely reporting to review and monitor the internal control systems and risk by exception.
management systems on which the Company is reliant.
The Board and the Manager have agreed clearly defined to consider annually whether there is a need for the investment criteria, specified levels of authority and Company to have its own internal audit function.
Reports on these issues, including to monitor the integrity of the interim and annual financial performance statistics and investment valuations, are statements of the Company by reviewing, and challenging regularly submitted to the Board and there are meetings where necessary, the actions and judgements of the with the Manager as appropriate.
As a matter of course, the Managers compliance to meet with the external auditor to review their proposed department continually reviews the Managers operations.
audit programme of work and the findings of the auditor.
Written agreements are in place which specifically define The Committee also uses this as an opportunity to assess the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third the effectiveness of the audit process.
to develop and implement policy on the engagement of the The Board has considered the need for an internal audit external auditor to supply non-audit services.
The nonfunction but, because of the compliance and internal audit fees for the year to 31 August 2011 were 4,000, control systems in place within the Manager, has decided to relating to the review of the interim accounts.
The Board place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit will review any future non-audit fees in the light of the procedures.
requirement to maintain the auditors independence.
The Audit Committee carried out six monthly reviews of to review the arrangements in place within the Manager internal controls, including the internal audit and whereby staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about compliance functions.
At its October 2011 meeting, the possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or Audit Committee performed its annual assessment of other matters.
internal controls for the year ended 31 August 2011 and to make recommendations to the Board in relation to the taking account of events since 31 August 2011.
The results appointment of the external auditor and to approve the of the assessment were reported to the Board.
remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Internal control systems are designed to meet the to monitor and review annually the external auditors Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is independence, objectivity, effectiveness, resources and exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are qualification.
At its October 2011 meeting, the Committee designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure was satisfied that the auditor remained independent and to achieve business objectives and by their nature can only objective.
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against to review the performance of the Manager and its material misstatement or loss.
compliance with the Management Agreement.
Accountability and Audit Going Concern The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Shareholders are given the opportunity to vote on the auditor in connection with the financial statements appear continuation of the Company every three years.
The last on pages 29 and 31. continuation vote was in December 2009 when shareholders voted in favour of continuation.
The members of the Audit Committee are Mr Gairns Chairman, Mr McKenzie and Mr McLaren, who are all The Companys assets consist substantially of equity shares deemed to be independent.
As the Board believes that Mr in companies listed on recognised stock exchanges and in McKenzie is considered to be independent and there are no most circumstances are realisable within a short timescale.
conflicts of interest, the Board considers it appropriate for Mr Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued The Directors believe that it is appropriate to continue to asset.
These adopt the going concern basis in the preparation of the Principles set out the Managers framework on corporate accounts, and they consider that the Company has adequate governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in resources to continue in operational existence for the relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested foreseeable future.
The Board has also reviewed the Managers Disclosure Response to the UK Stewardship Code, which appears on the Managers website, at the web-address Review of Manager given above.
The Board keeps the resources of the Manager under constant review.
In addition, it conducts an annual review of The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the terms and conditions of the Management Agreement the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced Agreement and of all aspects of the Managers by the portfolio companies and for attending company performance under this Agreement.
The notice period for meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction the Company under the Agreement if it wishes to terminate from the Board, is empowered to use discretion in the the Agreement is three months or on shorter notice in exercise of the Companys voting rights.
Compensation is payable in lieu of the unexpired notice period if actual notice is less than the The Board recognises and supports the Managers policy of notice period.
Following the most recent review, the Board active engagement with investee companies and the voting concluded that the Manager, whose team is well-qualified of all of the shares held by the Company.
The Board receives and experienced, had satisfactorily met the terms of its from the Manager regular reports on the exercise by the Agreement with the Company, and is satisfied that the Manager of the Companys voting rights and discusses with continuing appointment of the Manager is in the interests of the Manager any issues arising.
It is the Boards view that the Company and its shareholders.
having an active voting policy and a process for the monitoring by the Board of the Managers exercise of those Relations with Shareholders votes, especially in relation to controversial issues, aids the The Directors place great importance on communication efficient exercise of the Companys governance with shareholders.
Besides shareholders, the report and responsibilities.
accounts are widely distributed to other parties who have an interest in the Companys performance.
Shareholders and Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on Investment Policy the Company through the Managers freephone information The Directors, through the Manager, encourage companies in service, and the Company responds to letters from which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the shareholders on a wide range of issues.
The Manager area of Corporate Governance and Socially Responsible maintains contact with institutional shareholders and feeds Investing.
They believe that this can best be achieved by back shareholder views to the Board.
The Chairman also entering into a dialogue with company management to meets with representatives of the major shareholders during encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies the financial year.
The Companys annual and half-yearly in both areas.
reports and other publications can be downloaded from the Companys website, www.
The Managers ultimate objective, however, is to deliver superior investment return for their clients.
Accordingly, It is the intention of the Board that, in the ordinary course, whilst the Manager will seek to favour companies which the notice of the Annual General Meeting included within pursue best practice in these areas, this must not be to the the annual report and accounts is normally sent out at least detriment of the return on the investment portfolio.
20 working days in advance of the meeting.
All Directors intend to be available at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and shareholders are encouraged to attend.
Proxy voting figures for each resolution are announced to the meeting after voting on a show of hands.
Proxy Voting as an Institutional Shareholder The Board has delegated responsibility for actively monitoring the activities of portfolio companies to the Manager.
The Board has reviewed and accepts the Managers Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the Managers website, at http: www.
aberdeen- 28 Edinburgh Dragon Trust plc
