Corporate Governance The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide both of which were issued in October 2010.
The AIC Code as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, which was issued in June 2010, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
uk and copies of the AIC Code and the AIC Guide can be found on the website of the Association of Investment Companies www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code during the year to 30 September 2011 except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, which is an externally managed investment company.
The Company has not, therefore, reported further in respect of these provisions.
In addition, the AIC Code includes provisions relating to the annual re-election of Directors of FTSE 350 companies which the Board considers not relevant to the position of the Company as explained further below.
The Board of Directors The Board comprised six Directors at 30 September 2011, all of whom were non-executive.
The Board appointed Ms K Barker as a non-executive Director on 1 November 2010 and Mr G Cullinan as a non-executive Director on 1 January 2011.
The Board nominated Ms L Webber as the Senior Independent Director with effect from 31 March 2011 in place of Mr JP Williams who retired from the Board at the Annual General Meeting in February 2011.
The Directors terms of appointment are available for inspection on request.
It is the responsibility of the Board to ensure that there is effective stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Board has agreed a schedule of matters reserved for its specific approval, which includes a regular review of the Companys management arrangements with Electra Partners.
Management agreements between the Company and Electra Partners set out the matters for which Electra Partners is responsible and those over which Electra Partners has authority in accordance with the policies and directions of the Board.
Regular Board meetings are held to consider, as appropriate, such matters as overall strategy, investment performance, gearing, share price performance, share price discount, the shareholder profile of the Company and communication with shareholders.
The Chairman is responsible for setting the Boards agenda and ensuring that adequate time is available for discussion on all agenda items, in particular strategic issues.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties effectively.
The numbers of meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board held during the year and the attendance of the individual Directors at those meetings is shown in the table below.
All the Directors attended the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011 77 Further information Governance Financial statements Business review Overview
