Directors Attendance at Meetings of the Board and Committees of the Board Remuneration Audit and Nomination Valuations Board Committee Committee Committee Number of Meetings 14 4 3 2 Dr C Bowe 14 3 RA Armstrong 5 2 1 K Barker 11 3 2 1 G Cullinan 7 2 1 1 RK Perkin 13 4 3 2 MEDA Walton 14 4 3 2 L Webber 12 4 2 2 JP Williams 6 2 1 Dr Bowe is not a member of the Audit or Valuation Committees.
Mr RA Armstrong and Mr JP Williams were not members of the Valuations Committee.
They retired from the Board on 24 February 2011.
Ms Barker and Mr Cullinan were appointed to the Board during the year.
The Board receives information that it considers to be sufficient and appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
Directors receive board papers several days in advance of Board meetings and are able to consider in detail the Companys performance and any issues to be discussed at the relevant meeting.
The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience, independence and knowledge of the Company to enable it to provide effective strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, including their relevant experience can be found on pages 84 and 85.
Independence of the Board Mr Walton has served on the Board for more than nine years.
Dr Bowe and Mr Perkin were non-executive Directors of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC throughout the year and Mr Walton was appointed as a non-executive Director of Electra Private Equity Investments PLC on 31 March 2011.
Electra Private Equity Investments PLC is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Electra which was established solely for the purpose of issuing and redeeming Zero Dividend Preference shares.
The Board has carefully considered the independence of each Director under the provisions of the AIC Code and, notwithstanding Mr Waltons length of service and the cross-directorships detailed above, has concluded that each Director is wholly independent on the basis that the Board firmly believes that independence is a state of mind and the character and judgement which accompany this are distinct from and are not compromised by length of service.
Mr Walton is the only Director who has been in office for more than nine years and he submits himself for annual re-election by shareholders.
The Board carried out a formal appraisal process of its own operations and performance and those of its Committees during the year.
This was implemented by means of questionnaires circulated to the Directors, the results of which were then reviewed by the Board.
Issues covered included Board composition, meeting arrangements and communication.
The process was considered by the Board to be constructive in identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and of its Committees.
The Board concluded that its performance and that of its Committees was satisfactory.
The Board proposes to commission an  evaluation of its operations and performance and those of its Committees in early 2012.
The Chairman carried out a formal appraisal of each of the Directors during the year and the Board, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director, similarly appraised the Chairman.
Relevant matters considered included the attendance and participation at Board and Committee meetings, commitment to Board activities and the effectiveness of the contribution made by the relevant Director.
As a result of this process, the Chairman has confirmed that each of the Directors being proposed for re-election continues to be effective and that each of them continues to show commitment to his role.
The Senior Independent Director has also confirmed the continuing effectiveness and commitment of the Chairman.
78 Electra Private Equity PLC | Report and Accounts 2011
