The Committee also met with the external auditors and Introduction Internal Audit, without executive management, following The Audit Committee provides independent monitoring, review of the 2010 financial statements, the final audit and guidance and challenge to executive management with the the 2010 Internal Audit report and no matters of concern were aim of ensuring high standards of reporting, controls and raised in this discussion.
John Warren also met privately with compliance.
In doing so, it performs an important function for both the audit engagement partner of the external auditors the Board and in providing assurance for shareholders.
and the Internal Audit Director during the year.
The Committee The Committees role covers the four connected areas of is supported by Martin Palmer Group Company Secretary, financial reporting, risk, internal control and oversight of who acts as secretary to the Committee.
Responsibilities and terms of reference Committee membership and meetings The Committees main responsibilities are to oversee and All members of the Committee are independent nonmonitor: the integrity of the financial statements, including executive directors.
John Warren, who chairs the Committee, reviewing the findings of the external auditors: the effectiveness is a qualified accountant and a previous group finance of systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk director who has past experience in chairing audit committees management: the effectiveness of Internal Audit: the external and fulfils the requirement for recent and relevant financial audit process, including the appointment of the external experience.
Alastair Lyons and Colin Holmes are also auditor, their fees, independence and objectivity: and the qualified accountants and have broad business and nature and scope of the external audit and its effectiveness.
This combination provides a high level The Committee is also responsible for the policy on the of financial expertise to fulfil the duties of the Committee.
engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit Recommendations on Committee membership are made to the services, taking into account relevant ethical guidance.
External Board by the Nomination Committee and it is also reviewed as legal or other independent professional advice can be obtained part of the Committees performance evaluation.
There were at the Companys expense and this facility was not utilised no changes to Committee membership during the year.
Attendance Name Date of appointment Role at meetings The Committees terms of reference are available on John Warren 01 03 2006 Chairman 3 3 the Companys website www.
Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 3 3 Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Member 3 3 Main activities during the year The Committee followed a programme structured around the annual reporting cycle and reports from Internal Audit, the The Committee met three times in 2011 and an overview of external auditors and management.
The key financial reporting the main activities is provided below.
Detailed papers and focus was, as usual, on the integrity of the preliminary results, information were received sufficiently in advance of meetings the Annual Report, the half-yearly results and the half-yearly to allow proper consideration of matters for discussion.
financial report, all published under IFRS.
As part of the review The Company Chairman, Chief Executive and Group Finance process, the Companys key accounting judgements were Director attend meetings by invitation and were present at all considered, together with an assessment of subjective areas, meetings in 2011.
The external auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, and and the Committee satisfied itself that the Annual Report the Internal Audit Director were also in attendance at presented a true and fair view.
Presentations for analysts all meetings.
following the announcement of the final and half-yearly results also received scrutiny before submission to the Board.
Submissions from the external auditors relating to the 2010 final audit, the 2011 interim review and the audit strategy for the 2011 final audit were discussed and assessed, and the results and effectiveness of the 2010 final audit were reviewed.
54 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Audit Committee report Governance The Committee reviewed the system of internal control and risk Internal audit function management systems and reported its findings to the Board that The Internal Audit function follows an approved audit programme there were no material control weaknesses.
Reports from Internal using a risk based methodology and the Committee has approved Audit were considered and the content, conclusions and results its remit.
Reporting to the Committee includes summaries of all were challenged and tested and progress with the actions agreed completed and ongoing audit assignments, allowing members with management were reviewed.
The focus of the Internal of the Committee to question the Internal Audit Director.
Audit programme for 2012 and the resources that would be Progress against the annual audit programme is reviewed and needed were also reviewed.
A review was also completed of the managements response and speed of action in respect of issues Committees terms of reference and the Companys whistleblowing raised is monitored.
The effectiveness, workload and adequacy of policy and arrangements.
resources of the Internal Audit function is kept under review using a planning, reporting and review regime.
The freedom, scope and External auditors access allowed to Internal Audit in performing their duties during During the year, the Committee reviewed the independence the year were confirmed as unrestricted and the Internal Audit and objectivity of the external auditors, which was confirmed in Director has direct access to the Chairman of the Committee.
an independence letter containing information on procedures providing safeguards established by the external auditor.
Performance evaluation Regulation, professional requirements and ethical standards are An evaluation of the performance of the Board Committees was taken into account, together with consideration of all relationships carried out as part of the first external independent evaluation between the Company and the external auditors and their staff.
of the Board completed towards the end of 2011.
The Committee Relations with the external auditors are managed through a series was found to be effective and well run, with the level of of meetings and regular discussions and we ensure a high quality accounting and financial expertise providing strong challenge.
audit by challenging the key areas of the external auditors work.
It was also concluded that the Committee had appropriate terms The relationship is kept under review and, following adopted of reference and had fulfilled its remit in 2011 and that the audit practice, the audit engagement partner will rotate on completion process continued to be effective.
of the 2011 final audit after five years in the post.
Our 2012 AGM Notice contains a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors to the Company.
In making this John Warren recommendation, the Committee took into account, amongst Chairman of the Audit Committee other matters, the independence and objectivity of KPMG Audit 24 February 2012 Plc, their continuing effectiveness and cost.
The external auditors have been in post since flotation in 1997 and there are no contractual restrictions on the choice of external auditor.
The 2012 AGM Notice also contains a resolution to give the directors authority to determine the auditors remuneration, which provides a practical flexibility to the Committee.
The Committee keeps under review its policy which requires the Committee to approve all non-audit services proposed to be undertaken by the external auditors, with the exception of tax advisory and compliance work undertaken in the ordinary course of business and audit related services, which are treated as pre-approved.
When an approval request is made, the Committee will have due regard to the nature of the non-audit service, whether the external auditor is a suitable supplier, whether there is likely to be any threat to independence and objectivity in the conduct of the audit, and the related fee level, both separately and relative to the audit fee.
For an analysis of fees paid to the external auditors, see note 5 on page 73.
The non-audit services provided during the year related to tax advisory and compliance work.
Provision of these services is not considered to impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
