The leadership of the Company is kept under review and Introduction the Committee leads the process for Board appointments, The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that the right which are conducted on merit, against objective balance of experience and qualities are in place on the criteria including diversity, using the services of an Board and its Committees to successfully deliver the appropriate external search consultant.
It reviews the structure, composition makes recommendations to the Board, including on the and balance of skills on the Board, is responsible for identifying re-appointment of non-executive directors, the proposed and nominating candidates for Board appointment and assists re-election of directors at the AGM, and membership of the the Board in its oversight of succession planning for both Audit and Remuneration Committees.
It also reviews the directors and senior executives.
results of the Board performance evaluation that relate to the composition of the Board.
External legal or other independent Committee membership and meetings professional advice can be obtained at the Companys expense All members of the Committee are independent non-executive and this facility was not utilised during the year.
directors, with the exception of the Chairman of the Company and the Chief Executive.
Malcolm Harris chairs the Committee The Committees terms of reference are available on and is supported by Alastair Lyons, Colin Holmes, John Warren the Companys website www.
There were no changes to Committee information-on corporate-governance.
Main activities during the year Attendance Name Date of appointment Role at meetings During the year, the Committee reviewed and amended Malcolm Harris 18 12 1998 Chairman 4 4 its terms of reference, updating them for best practice and current role - 03 07 2008 corporate governance developments.
The structure, size and composition of the Board was reviewed and the Committee Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Member 4 4 concluded that the present Board balance and composition Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Member 4 4 remained appropriate, to be reviewed again in 2012.
The Committee recommended that all the directors stand John Warren 01 03 2006 Member 4 4 for re-election at the 2011 AGM in accordance with the UK David Ritchie 03 07 2008 Member 4 4 Corporate Governance Code, having considered the matter on a case by case basis, and that Jonathan Hill, who was The Committee met four times in 2011 and an overview appointed by the Board in 2010, seek re-appointment.
of the main activities is provided below.
Papers were The Nomination Committee report was approved for inclusion received sufficiently in advance of meetings to allow proper in the 2010 Annual Report and succession planning for consideration of matters for discussion.
The Committee is directors and senior executives was kept under review.
supported by Martin Palmer Group Company Secretary, Service contracts for the Chairman and Deputy Chairman were who acts as secretary to the Committee.
recommended to the Board for renewal for second three year terms, following consideration of their respective contributions, Responsibilities and terms of reference performance and commitment to their roles.
The Committees main responsibilities are to regularly A policy on the renewal of non-executive directors review the structure, size and composition of the Board service contracts was adopted so that renewal following including skills, knowledge, experience and diversity and the conclusion of a second three year term would be make recommendations to the Board on any changes needed.
recommended to the Board based on annual re-appointment, It gives full consideration to succession planning for directors subject to satisfactory performance and there being no and senior executives, taking into account the challenges and requirement to re-balance the Board.
The aim is to ensure opportunities facing the Company and the skills and expertise that the Committee applies regular rigorous review to nonneeded in the future.
executive directors serving more than six years and the need to refresh the Board.
56 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Nomination Committee report Governance During the year, the Board welcomed publication of Lord Davies report on Women on Boards.
The principle of boardroom diversity is strongly supported and the Committee formulated a diversity statement for Board approval, which was subsequently published on the Companys website.
The statement took the opportunity to explain that appointments to the Board will always be based on merit so that the Board has the right individuals in place and that diversity is seen as an important consideration as part of the objective criteria used to assess candidates to achieve a balanced board.
The Committee will continue to consider boardroom diversity in future succession planning as an outcome of the Board performance evaluation.
Performance evaluation An evaluation of the performance of the Board Committees was carried out as part of the first external independent evaluation of the Board completed towards the end of 2011.
The Committee was found to be effective and it was concluded that it had appropriate terms of reference and had fulfilled its remit in 2011.
Malcolm Harris Chairman of the Nomination Committee 24 February 2012 Bovis Homes Group PLC | 57
