Corporate governance report Dear Shareholder, Bovis Homes had a successful year in 2011 and, in addition to the strong operational outturn achieved by the Group, the Board performed well, delivering on the strategies and objectives set at the start of the year.
This performance was supported by our high standards of corporate governance and I am pleased to confirm that your M alcolm Harris Company was compliant with the provisions of the UK Chairman Corporate Governance Code, published in June 2010, and remains so today.
I am also pleased to introduce the Corporate Governance During the year, the Board welcomed publication of Lord Davies Report, prepared and approved by the Board.
As Chairman of report on Women on Boards.
The Board strongly supports the the Board I am responsible for its leadership and for ensuring principle of boardroom diversity and in common with many its effectiveness.
2011 was a busy year covering the full range of other companies, we published a statement on diversity on Board activities and the balance of non-executive and executive the Groups website, which appeared in September 2011. directors worked well, with the non-executive directors providing In our statement, we took the opportunity to explain that we will constructive challenge and assisting in developing strategy and always make appointments to the Board based on merit, so that proposals put forward by the executive directors.
we have the right individuals in place, and that diversity is seen as an important consideration in achieving a balanced board.
We held Board meetings in the regions, which included discussion with management teams on local market conditions As we look to the challenges ahead, I would like to thank my and progress in achievement of their objectives.
We also colleagues on the Board for their strong individual contributions held a strategy day to review the immediate and longer term and collective support during 2011. strategy for the Group with the overall objective of maximising shareholder returns.
We value dialogue with all our shareholders and I have again written to major shareholders advising of my availability to With our focus on corporate governance best practice, we hold discussions with them.
Our AGM this year will be held introduced the annual re-election of directors at our 2011 on 16 May 2012 and I look forward to meeting those of our Annual General Meeting and we conducted our first external shareholders who are able to attend and to answering any independent evaluation of the Boards performance.
The overall questions on this governance report and any other matters outcome of the evaluation was positive and it was a source of covered by the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
reassurance that the areas identified for improvement, which are now the subject of an action plan, were not fundamental in nature.
As Chairman, I also completed one to one assessments with each Malcolm Harris director, which included consideration of any identified training Chairman and development needs.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 31 The Board benefits from a broad range of expertise and Introduction experience and has a strong blend of skills and qualities, The Company is committed to the highest standards of which allowed it to perform effectively and to a high level corporate governance as a contributor to the long term success during 2011.
There was no change to Board membership of the business.
It recognises that trust and engagement must during the year and up to the date of this report.
exist between companies and investors and that appropriate Three non-executive directors have been determined by the boardroom behaviours are an essential component of Board as being independent in character and judgement with governance best practice.
To support its high governance no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or standards and demonstrate that it takes them seriously, the could appear to affect, the directors judgement.
Company has put a corporate governance framework in place, which fits the context of the business.
This framework is In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and as permitted described in the governance policy guidelines in the annex to by the Companys Articles of Association, the Board has this report on page 37. authorised and subsequently reviewed a number of potential This report sets out the Companys compliance with the conflicts of interest regarding the directors.
The Board is 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial satisfied that powers to authorise potential conflicts are Reporting Council publicly available at www.
also describes how the governance framework is applied.
All the directors have service agreements or contracts and the The Code is supplemented by the Revised Turnbull Guidance details of their terms are set out in the Remuneration Report to enable listed companies to comply with Listing Rule 9.8.
A further one year term was approved by the 5 and 6.
The Board reviewed the new Code during 2010 Board for John Warren on 11 January 2012. and took steps to bring its approach into line for 2011 where it thought it was right to do so.
In accordance with the Code, all the directors will be offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board The Board is pleased to report that the Company has, strongly supports all the individual directors re-elections, throughout 2011, complied with and applied the provisions taking account of the balance of skills and expertise and the of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as set out below.
performance of the Board as a whole.
Information on share capital is provided on pages 58 and 59.
Board meetings Board membership The Board generally meets eight times a year and at each Throughout the year and up to the date of this report, the meeting receives regular reports covering, for example, Board comprised the Chairman, who is non-executive, three health and safety, customer satisfaction, current trading, independent non-executives and two executive directors.
At particular points in the year, the Biographical details are set out on page 30 and their dates Board reviews strategy, budgets, forecasts, risks, financial of appointment and attendance at Board meetings are statements and succession planning.
The Board also shown below.
reviews other topics, such as the market environment, land acquisitions, land sales, investor and analyst feedback, and technical and regulatory developments.
Tenure in Attendance Name Date of appointment Current role current role at meetings 28 06 1996 Malcolm Harris Chairman 3.5 years 8 8 current role 03 07 2008 Alastair Lyons 01 10 2008 Deputy Chairman 3.5 years 8 8 Colin Holmes 01 12 2006 Non-executive 5 years 8 8 John Warren 01 03 2006 Non-executive 6 years 8 8 01 07 2002 David Ritchie Chief Executive 3.5 years 8 8 current role 03 07 2008 Jonathan Hill 23 08 2010 Finance Director 1.5 years 8 8 32 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Corporate governance report Governance The Board receives comprehensive papers a week in advance of The report was then presented to the Board and discussed.
each meeting plus any other information required to enable it to The overall picture was positive and concluded that the Board discharge its duties.
Meetings are conducted in an atmosphere had many strengths including its membership, common sense of of open discussion, which enables the non-executive directors to purpose and strong communication amongst its members.
challenge and test the strategy, policy and proposals put forward The diversity of backgrounds amongst the non-executive directors by the executive directors.
was thought reasonable and future succession planning will continue to include consideration of Board diversity.
In a typical year, half of all Board meetings are held in London and the balance in the regions, providing the opportunity to meet Areas for improvement were identified and, whilst not fundamental and assess local management teams and receive presentations in nature, they are the subject of an action plan and are expected from them.
The Board also meets the Group Executive Committee to add value in 2012.
An overview is provided below.
the senior management below the Board at several points in During 2010, the Board completed an internal performance the year.
Actions taken in 2011 on the outcomes included the The annual strategy day is valued by the Board as providing allocation of more time to the development of strategy, including the opportunity for an in-depth review of the immediate and a strategy day with external guests, the review of the risk matrix longer term strategy for the Group, often supported by methodology and major risks, the review of succession planning external contributions.
options, and discussions with local management teams on their progress against objectives and key areas impacting the business.
The Chairman also holds meetings with the non-executive directors without the executives present.
Individual director assessments were carried out by the Chairman towards the end of 2011, using a discussion and interview process Board performance evaluation which covered overall understanding of the business, effectiveness of contribution and challenge, communications, time commitments The Board undertook the first external independent evaluation and training and development.
The outcomes showed that all of its own performance towards the end of 2011.
This was the directors are contributing effectively and are demonstrating conducted by Independent Audit which has no other connection commitment to their roles.
with the Company using a document review, followed by an interview process which included meetings with the directors and Company Secretary, the external auditors and the advisers to the Remuneration Committee.
Key improvement areas Objectives for 2012 Strategy Develop further the Boards focus on longer term strategy and the Companys strategic ambition.
Broaden the range of scenario stress testing in light of market conditions and the uncertain economic background.
Risk and risk Monitor an increased focus on risk management, articulation of the risk appetite and improved risk reporting.
management Succession planning Develop further focus on both non-executive and executive succession planning and executive management leadership development.
Create further opportunities for the non-executive directors to interact with and assess the talent of senior management below the Board.
Further improve the Boards knowledge of business model alternatives, including competitor models.
Business model Bovis Homes Group PLC | 33 The performance evaluation of the Chairman was completed As part of the external independent evaluation of the Boards as part of the external independent Board evaluation performance completed in 2011, it was concluded that the conducted by Independent Audit and the findings were Committees were contributing and functioning effectively and reviewed with the Senior Independent Director.
Discussion all were achieving their respective remits.
then took place with the other non-executive directors and the executive directors.
The result confirmed that the Chairman Governance supporting the business provided strong leadership to the Board and created an The Board aims to meet governance best practice where it fits appropriate environment for Board debate with effective our business and here some of the detail is set out.
management of the Boards agenda.
Amongst matters reserved for the Board are leadership of It was also confirmed that the Board continued to benefit the Group, approval of strategy and budgets, oversight of from having retained the Chairmans in depth knowledge operations and performance, capital structure, financial of the sector gained during his executive career with the reporting, internal controls and approval of major expenditure Company, his continued participation in industry thinking, and transactions.
and his interaction with principal shareholders on matters of The Board has approved a written division of responsibilities corporate governance.
between the non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive and the role of the non-executive Deputy Chairman has Board committees been similarly defined.
The Chairman is primarily responsible The Board is supported by standing Audit, Nomination and for the effective working of the Board, taking a leading Remuneration Committees and their memberships, roles and role in determining its composition and structure, and also activities are set out in separate reports: Audit Committee ensuring that effective communications are maintained on pages 54 and 55, Nomination Committee on pages 56 with shareholders.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the and 57, and Remuneration Committee on pages 39 to 52. operational management of the Group, developing strategic Each Committee reports to and has terms of reference operating plans and presenting them to the Board and for the approved by the Board and the minutes of Committee implementation of strategy agreed by the Board.
The Deputy meetings are circulated to and reviewed by the Board.
Chairman supports the Chairman in ensuring that the Board is The Audit Committee is chaired by John Warren, the effective and constructive relations are maintained, in addition Remuneration Committee is chaired by Colin Holmes and the to acting as the Senior Independent Director, in which capacity Nomination Committee is chaired by Malcolm Harris.
he leads the annual performance evaluation of the Chairman and provides an additional point of contact for shareholders.
Board and committee structure The Groups Board and Committee structure, which maintains short and effective reporting lines, is as follows: Bovis Homes Group PLC Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Group Executive Committee Bovis Homes Ltd Board South West South East Central Regional Board Regional Board Regional Board 34 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Corporate governance report Governance The Companys Management Paper is subject to regular Board All shareholders are invited to attend the Companys AGM, review and contains appropriate controls, authorities and procedures which this year will be held on 16 May 2012.
The full Board, across the range of the Groups activities and includes the authorities including all Committee chairmen, attend and it values this and decision making delegated by the Board to management.
meeting as a means of communicating with private investors and encourages their participation.
All shareholders have the The advice and services of the Group Company Secretary are opportunity to exercise their right to vote and appoint proxies, available to the directors and all directors have access to the if they are unable to attend, and to facilitate this we provide Companys professional advisers and can seek independent an electronic voting facility.
Those attending the AGM have the professional advice at the Companys expense.
It is confirmed that opportunity to ask questions relevant to the business of the no such advice was sought during the year.
meeting and hear the views of other shareholders before voting.
After the meeting the results of voting on all resolutions are Training is made available to directors when required and the published on the Groups website.
Chairman ensures that directors continually update and refresh their knowledge and skills and familiarity with the Company, Risk management and internal control as appropriate to their role on the Board and on Board The Code states that a board is responsible for determining the Committees.
During 2011 the directors received regulatory nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in and technical updates.
The Board has agreed that The Company has an insurance policy in place which insures this important principle should form part of its consideration of directors against certain liabilities, including legal costs.
strategy and all major decisions.
The Board also has responsibility for maintaining sound risk management and internal control Shareholder engagement systems and, whilst their monitoring and review forms part of the The Company has a comprehensive investor relations programme, work undertaken by the Audit Committee, the Board is ultimately which allows the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to responsible for the management of risk.
Risk is a regular agenda regularly engage with our major shareholders.
In addition to oneitem, which allows all directors to review the quality of risk to-one meetings through the year, the Company holds a series of management processes, risk mitigation and the risk appetite.
presentations and meetings following the announcement of the The Board has complied with Principle C. 2 of the Code by final and half-yearly results.
These presentations are made publicly establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating available so that all shareholders can access them on the Groups and managing the risks that are considered significant by the website at www.
Towards the end of Company, in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
2011, the Company held an analyst and investor presentation This process has been in place for the period under review and focused on progress in delivering its strategy, during which the up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts Company showcased its product through the viewing of full-scale and includes compliance with provision C. 2.1.
It is designed to replicas of sections of its homes constructed at the London offices manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable of its joint corporate broker, which was well received.
The Board and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or reviews feedback on investor relations meetings and presentations, loss.
Monitoring is based principally on reviewing reports from including the matters communicated and discussed and this has Internal Audit and from management and covers all controls, been positive and helpful.
including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The Board also values other channels to obtain shareholders views management processes.
The Board operates a robust process and the Chairman, being responsible for ensuring that all directors of risk reporting and has clear procedures for identification and are aware of any issues or concerns that major shareholders may monitoring of key risks.
have, writes to them annually advising his availability to meet and The Audit Committee reviews the system of internal control hold discussions on any matter.
In addition, the Deputy Chairman and risk management systems annually and reports its findings also the Senior Independent Director is accessible to shareholders.
It receives reports from the internal and external The Chairman, Deputy Chairman and the other non-executive auditors and management which assess the effectiveness of directors regularly attend the annual analyst and investor internal control and risk management and make recommendations presentation, giving major shareholders the opportunity to put for improvements.
views and hold discussion with them.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 35 Risk assessment The Group maintains a regular weekly and monthly financial reporting cycle, allowing management to assess the financial As the activities of the Group evolve, the nature of the risks on progress of the Group, and this is further supported by a which it focuses evolve.
A key part of the system of internal formal budget and forecast process which ensures that control is the maintenance of the risk analysis and matrix, there is a robust and relatively recent financial forecast in compiled using the risk universe as the basis of identification place at all times against which to assess performance.
and a process of evaluation that distils the impact of key risks, Together with this financial reporting, the Group requires mitigation measures and residual risk for Board review, leading its regional management teams to report key business to assessment of changing risk tolerance and, ultimately, issues as part of a monthly regional reporting pack on a the risk appetite.
During 2011, a full risk review, a risk standardised basis.
brainstorming session and an interim risk review took place.
In setting its approach, the Board aims to ensure that the Finally, there is a process of accounts preparation which Company is neither prevented from taking opportunities nor ensures that there is an audit trail between the output from exposed to unreasonable risk.
the Groups financial reporting system and the Groups Control framework financial statements as they are prepared for reporting.
The Group maintains a control environment, which is regularly Going concern reviewed by the Board.
As new procedures and working practices are adopted, risk factors are reviewed and internal After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable controls embedded into systems.
The principal elements of expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue the control environment include regular board meetings, the in operation for the foreseeable future.
These enquiries consist regional structure, defined operating controls and authorisation of the production and review of detailed financial forecasts limits, an Internal Audit function and a comprehensive financial covering the period January 2012 to December 2014. reporting system.
These forecasts take into account current market trends with reasonable judgements and estimates applied to arrive at There are a number of elements of the Groups internal control future cash flow estimates.
As part of this review, the Group and risk management systems that are specifically related to has analysed its forecast covenant compliance over this period the Groups financial reporting process.
linked to its banking facility, arriving at an assessment of the headroom evident between the forecast covenant Firstly, there is a well understood management structure which test outcomes and the outcomes necessary to achieve allows for clear accountability and an appropriately granular covenant compliance.
The Group entered into a new banking level of financial control.
This structure is underpinned by facility on 27 January 2010.
This facility provides a committed documented authority levels for business transactions laid out revolving credit facility with a limit of 150 million maturing in in the Groups Management Paper.
The process of financial September 2013.
As at 31 December 2011, the Group had no reporting is further supported by process documents for both drawings under its revolving credit facility, and held net cash internal management reporting and external Group reporting of 51 million.
which stipulates amongst other things reporting timetables and contents of key management reports.
The Group regards the combination of existing cash in hand and this new facility as adequate in terms of flexibility and The Group maintains computer systems that record financial liquidity for its needs.
More details on the Groups approach transactions and whose effectiveness is reviewed by the to financial risk management are laid out in note 22.
For these Internal Audit function on a regular basis.
Any findings arising reasons, the Group continues to adopt the going concern basis from these exercises are reported to the Audit Committee.
Control over cash expenditure which lies at the heart of any financial reporting process is key.
The Group maintains tight control in this area through a centralised Group payment function, regularly maintained authorisation documents and segregation of authorisation accountability.
36 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Corporate governance report Governance Annex to corporate governance report Under the Articles of Association, all directors are subject to retirement Corporate governance policy guidelines by rotation at least once in every three years at the Annual General These guidelines have been adopted by the Board and provide Meeting.
New directors appointed by the Board must be re-appointed by guidance on how corporate governance principles are applied by shareholders at the following Annual General Meeting.
7 Director training On appointment, new directors are given a comprehensive induction 1 Board membership and balance to the Groups business activities, strategy and methods of operating, The composition of the Board is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure policies, procedures and management structure.
As necessary, that it remains appropriate for successfully directing the business directors receive training to complement their roles on the Board activities of the Group.
Consideration is given to boardroom diversity and Board Committees.
and the mix of experience, skills, ability and vision of executive and non-executive directors by the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination 8 Director remuneration Committee and the Board give regular consideration to planning for The Remuneration Committee determines, on behalf of the Board, the succession to Board and senior management positions, ensuring that policy for executive remuneration and remuneration for the Chairman, appropriate management development measures are in place.
The Board each of the executive directors and senior management in accordance currently comprises the Chairman, the Deputy Chairman also the Senior with its terms of reference.
The Remuneration Committee comprises Independent Director, two further independent non-executive directors the independent non-executive directors and meets as required.
External remuneration advice appropriate to the size and position of the Company is sought when required.
Non-executive director 2 Board selection remuneration, excluding that of the Chairman, is determined by the Board without their participation.
The Board receives recommendations on the appointment of directors from the Nomination Committee, following an evaluation of the balance 9 Financial information and internal control of knowledge, skills, experience and diversity available on the Board.
The review of submissions for Board approval in respect of the Groups This Board committee comprises the independent non-executive annual report and accounts, half-yearly financial report, preliminary directors, the Chairman and the Chief Executive and meets as required statement, interim management statements and other public financial to consider proposed changes to Board membership.
information is the responsibility of the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee reviews the Groups system of internal control and oversees 3 Non-executive director independence compliance therewith.
The Audit Committee comprises the independent The non-executive directors are independent in character and judgement non-executive directors.
and free from any business or other relationship which could affect or appear to affect the exercise of their independent judgement on matters 10 Supply of information under consideration by the Board.
The receipt of fair remuneration and Senior management are responsible for providing the Board with being a shareholder is not considered to prejudice independence or appropriate, complete and timely information relevant to the Boards prevent a non-executive director from acting independently.
discharge of its responsibilities, the monitoring of the performance of business activities, including significant variances, and progress with the 4 Chairman and Chief Executive implementation of strategies.
Directors have reasonable access to senior The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and there is a management to enable them to make further enquiries as they consider clear division of responsibilities between the two roles which has been in their judgement appropriate.
set out in writing and approved by the Board.
It is normal practice for the 11 Board procedures and authorities role of Chairman to be a non-executive position.
The role of the Deputy Chairman has also been set out in writing and approved by the Board.
The Chairman and Chief Executive determine the agenda for each Board meeting and papers are distributed in advance so that matters 5 Number of directors can be properly considered by the directors.
A schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision is in place and detailed authorities An appropriate balance between executive and non-executive and associated procedures have been established for individual directors directors is maintained and the size of the Board is set as necessary to in the performance of their duties.
The Board undertakes annual achieve this.
The number of non-executive directors is decided so as to performance evaluations and a formal external performance evaluation provide the diversity of skills, ability, vision and experience necessary every third year.
for a sound independent contribution to the Board and the successful management of the Groups business.
By way of guidance, at least half 12 Relations with shareholders the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise independent The Board as a whole accepts responsibility for ensuring that a non-executive directors.
satisfactory dialogue is maintained with shareholders.
The aim is to ensure that this dialogue is based on a mutual understanding of 6 Length of appointment objectives.
Investors are encouraged to attend the Annual General Executive directors are employed on service contracts with notice Meeting and to vote and participate.
periods which do not exceed one year.
Non-executive directors service agreements set the length of their appointments at periods of up to 13 Corporate policies three years and their notice periods up to twelve months.
Their total The Board ensures that corporate policies and procedures on ethical length of appointment would not normally exceed nine years.
and corporate social responsibility matters, including sustainability, The renewal of service agreements after two three year terms is subject health and safety and the environment are maintained, monitored and to rigorous review and based on annual re-appointment thereafter.
Bovis Homes Group PLC | 37 Brook Valley Congleton, Cheshire 38 | Annual report and accounts | Governance Governance
