16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 27 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 27 Directors Report on Corporate Governance The Group is committed to, and strives for, best practice in The Board corporate governance.
The Board is accountable to the Groups The Board of Directors currently comprises the Executive Chairman, shareholders for good corporate governance.
This statement two further Executive Directors and seven Non-executive Directors, describes how the principles of corporate governance set out in six of whom the Board has identified as Independent Directors.
Ian section one of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued in 2010 Brindle, a representative of Sherborne, the Companys largest the Code have been applied.
shareholder, does not meet the criteria of independence as set out in the accepted guidance.
Statement of compliance The biographies of the Directors appear on page 22.
These The Directors consider that the Company has, throughout the year demonstrate a range of experience, skills and personal standing ended 31 December 2011 and up to the date hereof, applied the sufficient to bring independent judgement on issues of strategy, principles and met the requirements of the Code with the following performance, resources and standards of conduct which are vital to exceptions: the success of the Group.
All Directors have access to the advice The Company did not comply with Code provision A.
3.1 in that and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Mr Bramson, the Companys Chairman was, by virtue of his Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that participation in Sherborne the Companys largest shareholder, applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board not independent on appointment.
meets formally on a regular basis and is responsible for approving the Groups objectives and policies.
The Board focuses mainly on On 6 October 2011 Mr Grisay announced his intention to retire strategy, investment and financial performance, the Groups control from the Board with effect from the conclusion of this years environment and executive management and Board succession.
On the same date, the Company enable the Board to discharge its duties, all Directors receive announced that Ed Bramson, the Companys Chairman, would appropriate and timely information ensuring that they are properly take on the role of Executive Chairman to oversee the briefed on issues for consideration in advance of meetings.
In implementation of the strategic review that was underway at that addition, all Directors have access to senior management and can time.
Mr Bramsons appointment as Executive Chairman is for an request, either during meetings or at other appropriate times, interim period only.
While the Board acknowledges that the further explanation or written papers on matters as they see fit.
temporary appointment of Ed Bramson as Executive Chairman does not meet the best practice guidance set out in the Code The Board has a detailed list of matters specifically reserved to it Provision A.
2.1, they believe it to be appropriate given the the Board Reserved List.
This is contained in The Directors strategic review work being performed by Mr Bramson.
Guide, a training and reference document issued to all Directors on appointment and updated as appropriate.
The Board Reserved List The Chairmen of the Audit, Risk & Compliance, Remuneration and is reviewed annually and clearly sets out what authority is delegated Nomination committees will be available to answer questions at this from the Board to Board Committees and to management.
This years Annual General Meeting to be held on Wednesday, 9 May 2012. ensures that matters of significance are overseen and reviewed by the Board prior to implementation.
Examples of matters reserved Going concern for the Board as set out in the Board Reserved List are the approval The Code requires Directors to report, under the terms set out in the of: the Group strategy: the annual budget: the composition and relevant guidelines to the Code, on the appropriateness of adopting terms of reference of any of the Board Committees: the high level the going concern basis in preparing Financial Statements.
organisational structure: and the review of the effectiveness of the The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to Groups system of internal control.
affect its future development, performance and position are set out The composition of the Board is reviewed annually.
in the Business Review on pages 2 to 21.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the The Board committees Business Review on pages 2 to 21.
In addition, note 36 to the The Board has established a number of standing committees to Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and facilitate the smooth transaction of business within the Group.
processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: The terms of reference of each Board Committee, outlining its and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk.
authority and duties, are reviewed and approved annually by the Board, published on the Companys website and are available on The Group has considerable financial resources together with longwritten request from the Company Secretary.
The terms of term contracts with a number of clients across different geographic reference of each of the Board Committees provide the authority areas and industries.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have Companys expense.
adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 28 28 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance Statement of diversity policy A Statement of the Nomination Committee The Group recognises the value of a diverse workforce and aims to Purpose and Terms of Reference attract and retain the best people from the widest pool of talent, The Committee leads the process, and makes recommendations to experience and perspectives drawn from all sections of society.
We the Board, for all new Board appointments and the appointment of believe that differences in gender, background, perspective, Non-executive Directors to any Board Committee.
It is responsible expertise and culture are an asset to the Company.
for evaluating the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on The diversity of the Board is intended to be improved when new the Board and ensuring that a formal, rigorous and transparent appointments are made as a result of Director rotation.
As a result, appointment process exists.
the Companys succession planning process has been revised to include the Companys commitment to improved diversity including Membership gender diversity.
The Committee is chaired by Edward Bramson.
The Committee comprises the Executive Chairman and two independent Consistent with the Boards intention to improve diversity through Non-executive Directors.
Director rotation, we anticipate that there will be at least one female Director appointed to the Board by 2013.
Members of the Nomination Committee: Edward Bramson appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011, Keith Bedell-Pearce and Kieran Poynter appointed 1 March 2011.
Nick MacAndrew and Brian Larcombe served as members of the Committee until their removal from the Board on 3 February 2011.
Activities and work of the Committee Throughout 2011 external search consultants were engaged by the Committee to conduct a search for two additional independent Non-executive Directors.
Having identified suitable candidates, the Committee recommended the appointment of Keith Jones and Keith Percy to the Board in October 2011.
Messrs Jones and Percy joined the Board in November 2011 following receipt of their necessary FSA approvals.
As an integral part of its succession planning, the Committee reviews the balance and composition of the Board including the number of Directors serving thereon.
On an annual basis the Committee reviews the terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors set out in the standard letter of appointment to ensure that they continue to meet the requirements of the Code.
This standard letter of appointment can be inspected during normal working hours at the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary.
The Committee considers, on an annual basis, the time required of Nonexecutive Directors for the fulfilment of their duties and assesses the contribution of the Directors, their independence and their suitability for re-election prior to an appropriate resolution being put to shareholders.
Under the Companys Articles of Association, all Directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after their appointment and to re-election at least every three years.
However, in line with the Code, all of the Directors are subject to annual re-election by Shareholders.
For the Board Edward Bramson Chairman, Nomination Committee 23 March 2012 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 29 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 29 the year as well as other matters that the Board has asked the B Statement of the Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee Committee to consider or investigate.
Purpose and Terms of Reference Changes effective March 2012 The Committee vouchsafes the processes and controls surrounding In March 2012 the Board resolved to split the existing Audit, Risk the production of the Groups Financial Statements and provides the and Compliance Committees activities into two distinct committees, Board with assurance that the processes and controls exist to each of which has separate Terms of Reference.
The new facilitate reporting on the Groups risk management activities, committees are the Risk Committee and the Audit and including those related to Social, Environmental and Ethical matters, Compliance Committee.
internal control and adherence to policies and procedures.
The newly created Risk Committee is chaired by Keith Percy.
The other members of the Risk Committee are Jeff Medlock, Membership Keith Jones, Derham ONeill and Kieran Poynter.
The Committee is chaired by Kieran Poynter.
The Committee comprises solely independent Non-executive Directors.
The Audit and Compliance Committees membership is unchanged from the former Audit, Risk and Compliance Committee.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the Committee has recent and relevant financial experience, a position that should For the Board continue throughout 2012.
Kieran Poynter Members of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee: Chairman, Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee Kieran Poynter appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011, Keith 23 March 2012 Bedell-Pearce Chairman of the Committee until 3 February 2011, Jeff Medlock appointed on 1 March 2011 and Derham ONeill appointed on 1 March 2011.
Brian Larcombe served as a member of the Committee until his departure from the Board on 3 February 2011 and Gerhard Roggemann served as a member of the Committee until he retired from the Board in May 2011.
Activities and work of the Committee The Committee normally discharges its responsibilities, as allocated by its terms of reference, within a schedule of four meetings.
Two meetings are held early in the year, one to deal with matters of governance for example, compliance with the Code, the Financial Services and Markets Act, the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems, monitoring and reviewing the internal Audit Risk & Compliance department and monitoring and reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external audit process and the other to consider the integrity of the year-end Financial Statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys and the Groups financial performance, including any significant financial reporting judgements contained therein.
A similar process is adopted at the interim reporting stage, with a final meeting taking place late in the year to consider relevant year-end matters.
The Committee also considers and reviews other risk management or control documentation including the Groups policy on whistleblowing, the results of internal and external audit and compliance reports or management letters, and oversees the award of any non-audit related consultancy work.
On an annual basis the Committee considers and makes a recommendation to the Board as to the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors and approves their remuneration and terms of engagement.
Other meetings of the Committee are called at the request of the Chairman to consider ad hoc control issues that may emerge during 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 30 30 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance C Statement of the Remuneration Committee Attendance at meetings The following table identifies the number of Board and formal Purpose and Terms of Reference committee meetings held in 2011 and the attendance record of the Full details of the purpose, terms of reference, activities and work of individual Directors as members of committees of the Board.
In the Committee are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
addition to the scheduled meetings detailed below a number of ad hoc Directors meetings, sub committees of the Board and Membership Board Committees were held.
The Chairman of the Committee is Keith Bedell-Pearce.
Non-executive Director meetings Audit, Members of the Remuneration Committee: without Risk & management Compliance Remuneration Nomination Keith Bedell-Pearce appointed Chairman on 3 February 2011, Board present Committee Committee Committee Jeff Medlock appointed on 1 March 2011, Derham ONeill Number of meetings appointed on 1 March 2011, Kieran Poynter appointed on held 2011 2010 7 7 2 2 5 5 5 6 2 2 3 February 2011 and Keith Jones appointed 12 March 2012.
1 Edward Bramson 52 2 2 Nick MacAndrew 1 Brian Larcombe served as the Chairman of the Committee until his Alain Grisay 7 departure from the Board on 3 February 2011 and Gerhard Keith Bedell-Pearce72 552 Roggemann served as a member of the Committee until he retired 1 Ian Brindle 5 2 from the Board in May 2011.
1 Derham ONeill 62 32 4 Keith Jones Attendees at the Remuneration Committee 2 Brian Larcombe 1 2 Alain Grisay and the Group Head of Human Resources attended all David Logan 7 meetings of the Committee in 2011.
Ian Brindle also attended all Jeff Medlock 72 32 Committee meetings in 2011.
4 Keith Percy Activities and work of the Committee Kieran Poynter 72 531 3 The Board is ultimately accountable for the Groups remuneration Gerhard Roggemann2 121 1 policy but delegates responsibility to the Remuneration Committee.
Appointed to the Board in February 2011 The Remuneration Committee has resolved the following key issues 2 Removed from the Board in February 2011 during the year: 3 Retired from the Board in May 2011 4 Appointed to the Board in November 2011 Revised the remuneration policy and ensured that it meets the requirements of the FSA Remuneration Code to the extent Board Roles applicable to the Company : Chairman Recommended the remuneration of the Executive Directors to The Executive Chairman of the Company is Edward Bramson.
As the Board: Chairman, Mr Bramson is responsible for leadership of the Board Reviewed and approved the remuneration of the Executive and ensuring the effective running and management of the Board.
Committee and FSA Code staff: The role profile of the Chairman includes the following specific responsibilities: Approved that the performance targets in relation to long-term awards require no amendment at this stage: Ensuring that the Board agenda for each meeting takes account of the issues and concerns of each Board member and that Overseen the Companys remuneration policy as it applies to members of the Board receive accurate, timely and clear executives, senior management and employees, including the information on the Company and related matters to enable them discretionary cash bonus scheme and awards under the longto monitor the Groups performance and take sound decisions: term incentive schemes: Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and Verified that the remuneration policy does not encourage ensuring that the Board develops an understanding of the views excessive risk beyond that of the appetite of the Company: of major investors: Completed the annual review of the Committee Terms of Ensuring that, in conjunction with the Company Secretary, a Reference.
formal induction and development process, including any relevant internal and external training, exists for all Directors and For the Board the Board as a whole with a view to enhancing the Boards effectiveness: and Keith Bedell-Pearce Ensuring constructive relations between Executive and NonChairman, Remuneration Committee executive Directors and an effective contribution from all 23 March 2012 Directors.
16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 31 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 31 The performance of the Chairman is reviewed annually by the NonDirectors conflicts of interest executive Directors in a meeting chaired by the Senior Independent From 1 October 2008, Directors have a statutory duty to avoid a Director.
situation in which they have or can have an interest that conflicts or possibly may conflict with the interests of the Company.
A Director will not be in breach of that duty if the relevant matter has been Chief Executive authorised in accordance with the Articles of Association by the The Chief Executive of the Company is Alain Grisay.
Executive, Alain is responsible for overseeing the implementation of the strategy as set by the Board, providing strategic vision and executive leadership to all the Groups business activities and Directors and Directors re-election ensuring the effective running of the business and the Group The Directors who served at any time during the year ended Management.
31 December 2011 are as shown in the Directors Remuneration Report on page 38.
Details of the Executive Directors service contracts and Non-executive Directors letters of appointment can Non-executive Directors be found on page 38.
Messrs Bedell-Pearce, Brindle, Jones, Medlock, ONeill, Percy and Poynter are the Companys Non-executive Directors.
As NonKeith Jones and Keith Percy joined the Board during the year as executive Directors they are responsible for: promoting independent Directors and as such will retire at the Annual General entrepreneurial leadership and the highest standards of governance Meeting and being eligible will offer themselves for election.
With the within a framework of prudent and effective controls: constructively exception of Alain Grisay, who has expressed his intention to retire challenging and helping develop strategic proposals: ensuring that on conclusion of the Annual General Meeting, all other Directors will, the Group has in place the necessary resources to meet its strategic in accordance with the Code, offer themselves for re-election at the objectives: reviewing management performance: determining Annual General Meeting.
appropriate levels of Executive Director Remuneration In accordance with the requirements of the Code, during 2011, the Remuneration Committee members, taking a prime role in Nomination Committee gave more detailed consideration to the appointing, and where necessary removing, Executive Directors: proposed re-election of Messrs Bedell-Pearce and Medlock, given setting the Companys values and standards to ensure its that they have both served more than six years as Directors.
obligations to its stakeholders are understood and met: and reviewing communication with shareholders.
The Nomination Committee has reviewed the structure, size and composition of the Board, and has confirmed that all Directors Board evaluation and professional development submitting themselves for election and re-election demonstrate the A comprehensive and rigorous external evaluation of the commitment and devote sufficient time to perform their duties as performance of the Board, its principal Committees and all Directors members of the Board and should be elected or re-elected.
was conducted in the first quarter of 2012.
Each Director was Details of the Directors offering themselves for election or re-election interviewed by an external evaluator to extract their views on the can be found on page 22. perceived operation and effectiveness of the Board, the Board Committees and individual Directors.
The results of this process Board succession planning were presented to the Board in March 2012.
All recommendations The Nomination Committee has a succession plan for the Boards made by the external evaluator were accepted by the Board and the Non-executive Directors.
The plan was shaped by a skills profile, Board have committed to addressing all matters raised during 2012. projected and expected normal retirements, and the Companys The Board also set themselves objectives early in 2011 and commitment to corporate governance best practice.
The plan is assessed their performance against these objectives at a meeting approved annually by the Board.
At the same meeting Board objectives for 2012 were discussed and an agreed set of Board objectives for Relations with shareholders 2012 was approved at the end of January 2012.
The Board as a whole acknowledges its responsibility for ensuring The Company has a full and formal induction process for all new satisfactory dialogue with shareholders and that communications appointments to the Board.
The Chairman, in consultation with the are given high priority.
The Company welcomes the views of Company Secretary and individual Directors, is responsible for shareholders and, where practicable, enters into dialogue with assessing the professional development needs of each Director.
The institutional shareholders based on the need for mutual induction process and ongoing professional development is understanding of objectives.
The Companys Chief Executive and facilitated by the Company Secretary who, in consultation with the Chief Financial Officer regularly meet the largest institutional individual Director, identifies the most appropriate method of shareholders and Company analysts following the announcement of ensuring professional development.
The Company Secretary also the year-end and interim results: the Senior Independent Director assists in organising attendance at internal or external courses to and all other Non-executive Directors have the opportunity to attend develop familiarity with the Companys business operations.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 32 32 | GOVERNANCE | Directors Report on Corporate Governance provides a forum, both formal and informal, for investors to meet reporting and resolution of activities that do not meet the required and discuss issues with Directors and senior management of the standards of business conduct.
The Group has an appropriate organisational structure for planning, At its Annual General Meeting, the Company complies with the executing, controlling and monitoring business operations in order provision of the Code relating to the disclosure of proxy votes, the to achieve its objectives.
The structure is designed to provide clear separation of resolutions and the attendance of the Committee responsibilities and a control framework for key areas of the Groups Chairmen.
The results of the votes cast at the Annual General business.
Meeting are posted on the Companys website.
Operational responsibility rests with the Chief Executive and is Following the announcement of the first phase of the Companys devolved through a documented executive structure with clearly Strategic Review, the Companys Executive Chairman and Chief delegated and appropriate levels of authority.
Members of Group Financial Officer met with a number of the Companys largest Management are, therefore, accountable for the operation of the shareholders.
The feedback from these meetings was circulated to systems of internal controls within the Groups business.
Unattributable feedback from a number of the Business risks Companys shareholders, facilitated by the Companys brokers, is The identification of major business risks is carried out by the Board also presented to the Board following managements year-end results presentations.
in conjunction with management and procedures to control these risks, where possible, are reviewed and agreed.
Electronic communications Quarterly reports are prepared by each area of the business, Copies of the 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements, the covering all key locations.
These quarterly reports include issues of Notice of Annual General Meeting, other corporate publications, material business risk which are discussed in detail by the Group press releases and announcements are available on the Companys Management which includes both Executive Directors.
Shareholders are encouraged to take advantage of the items identified are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
provisions allowing the Company to communicate electronically.
The key risks facing the Group at the year end and the mitigating Internal control actions assigned to these risks are detailed in the Business Review The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of on page 13. internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness on a regular basis.
Monitoring and corrective action Managements role is to implement and operate the Board policies on risk and risk management.
The system of internal control is The Company has a formal compliance function which, in addition designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to to providing regulatory advice to the business, has undertaken achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and compliance monitoring and performed a number of regulatory not absolute assurance against material errors, losses or fraud.
A separate Internal Audit department conducted regular monitoring of various business areas in line with a The Company, as required by the FSA Listing Rules, complied plan agreed annually with the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
with the Code provisions on internal control for the year ended Any issues of significance are brought to the attention of the Board 31 December 2011. by the Internal Audit, Risk & Compliance departments and through The procedures that the Directors have established are designed to the regular reporting process.
Planned corrective actions are provide effective control within the Group and accord with the independently monitored for timely completion and reviewed by the Internal Control Guidance for Directors on the Code issued by the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales Internal The Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee reviews the effectiveness Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code the of the operation of the Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit Turnbull Guidance.
Such procedures have been in place throughout departments at least twice each year.
the year and up to 23 March 2012, the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
A high-level overview of Independence of the auditor the ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing The Board has in place rigorous systems for ensuring the significant risks including social, environmental and ethical issues is independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the Groups auditor detailed below.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board to and has satisfied itself that during the year no aspect of its work was ensure it complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
In maintaining a clear perception of independence and balancing that with the best interests of the Control environment Group, the Board has a clear policy that it follows when considering The Group is committed to the highest standards of business the award of non-audit work to the Groups auditor.
The policy conduct and seeks to maintain these standards across all areas of applied during 2011 is detailed below.
The Group has in place appropriate procedures for the 16272 F&C Annual Report Part 1:Layout 1 28 03 2012 18:12 Page 33 ANNUAL REPORT AND FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2011 | 33 The Company does not impose an automatic ban on the Groups auditor undertaking non-audit work.
The Groups aim is always to have any non-audit work involving accountancy firms carried out in a manner that affords value for money while taking into account relevant ethical guidance.
The firm must not be in a position of conflict in respect of the work in question and must have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group.
The auditor of the Company is permitted to perform non-audit work in areas where, in the opinion of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee, it is appropriate for it to do so and there are no actual or perceived independence issues.
The Chairman of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is authorised to approve the use of the auditor for non-audit work provided that the cost does not exceed 50,000 and the aggregate value does not exceed the audit fee for the financial year in question.
In other circumstances, the approval of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee is required.
The performance, independence, competence and cost of the auditor are reviewed annually by the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee.
When the Committee considers it appropriate, the provision of audit services will be formally market-tested through a tender process involving those audit firms judged competent to meet the needs of the Group.
The frequency of this market-testing will depend on the views of the Audit, Risk & Compliance Committee, on the needs of the Group and prevailing leading practice.
During the year a number of accountancy firms, all of whom are independent of KPMG, the external auditor, provided non-audit related services to the Group.
Details of fees paid to these firms during 2011 are disclosed in note 4 c on page 58 of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
Future developments The Board believes that the controls in place during 2011 have been appropriate to the needs of the Group.
Nevertheless, it is committed to the highest standards of governance and business conduct and will ensure that those controls continue to develop in line with the requirements of the FSA and leading practice.
By order of the Board, W Marrack Tonkin, FCCA Secretary 80 George Street Edinburgh EH2 3BU 23 March 2012
