Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES corporate governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in THE BOARD place a framework for corporate governance which it The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the believes is appropriate for an investment trust company.
Companys affairs and for promoting the long term This Corporate Governance Statement forms part of the success of the Company.
All matters which are not Directors Report.
delegated to the Companys Managers under the Management and Secretarial Services Agreements are ASSOCIATION OF INVESTMENT COMPANIES reserved for the Boards decision.
Matters reserved for CODE the Board include, amongst other things, decisions on The Board has considered the principles and strategy, management, structure, capital, share issues, recommendations of the Association of Investment share repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, risk Companies Code of Corporate Governance the AIC management, investment performance, share price Code, by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance discount, corporate governance, the appointment of the Guide the AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained in Company Secretary and Board appointments.
The the AIC Guide, addresses all of the principles set out in Companys investment policy is detailed on page 16.
Section 1 of the Combined Code as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues The Board currently consists of five Directors, four of that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board whom are independent of the Managers.
considers that reporting against the principles and Mr Shaughnessy is an employee of Fidelity and is not recommendations of the AIC Code and by reference to deemed to be independent.
The independent Directors the AIC Guide which incorporates the Combined Code are considered to be free from any relationship which will provide better information to shareholders.
The AIC could materially interfere with the exercise of their Code and AIC Guide may be found on the AICs website independent judgement and are able to allocate www.
co. uk sufficient time to the Company to discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good governance and considers that the Company The independent Directors form the membership of the has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Audit Committee, Management Engagement Code, and therefore has met its obligations in relation to Committee and Investment Committee and the full Section 1 of the Combined Code and associated Board form the membership of the Nomination and disclosure requirements of the Listing Rules except as set Remuneration Committee.
out below: The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to The Combined Code includes provisions relating to: discharge its duties effectively and the table on page 26 gives the attendance record for the meetings held the role of the chief executive during the period.
executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not relevant to the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported in respect of these provisions.
Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 25 Corporate Governance Statement Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the period.
Regular Board meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals.
Management Regular Nomination Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings John Owen 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 Nicholas Bull 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 David Causer 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 Peter Pleydell-Bouverie 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 1 Gary Shaughnessy n a n a n a n a 2 Douglas Naismith 4 4 1 1 n a n a 1 appointed on 1 March 2011 2 resigned on 1 March 2011 SENIOR INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR for identifying possible candidates for consideration by The Board appointed Nicholas Bull as Senior the Board.
Whilst the independent Directors take the Independent Director on 26 October 2010.
The Senior lead in the appointment of new Directors, any proposal Independent Director fulfils the role as a sounding board for a new Director will be discussed and approved by the for the Chairman and as intermediary for other nonentire Board.
External consultants may also be used to executive Directors where necessary.
Details of the changes to the Board which have taken place during the period and BOARD COMPOSITION since the period end are outlined in the Directors Report The Board consists of Directors who, between them, on page 21. have good knowledge and wide experience of business in Asia and of investment trusts.
The Directors believe TRAINING that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills, Upon appointment, each Director is provided with all experience, independence, knowledge of the Company relevant information regarding the Company and and length of service to discharge its duties and provide receives training on the investment operations and effective strategic leadership and proper governance of administration functions of the Company, together with a the Company.
summary of their duties and responsibilities.
In addition, a new Director will receive an induction, spending time Biographical details of all Directors including their with representatives of the Managers whereby he or she relevant directorships are given on pages 14 and 15 of will become familiar with the various processes which the this report.
Managers considers necessary for the performance of its duties and responsibilities to the Company.
The The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up times with only the interests of the shareholders in mind to date and attend training courses on matters which are and independently of any other associations.
It meets at directly relevant to their involvement with the Company least four times a year, including an annual meeting in and the Chairman reviews and agrees development and China at which the Board has the opportunity to meet training needs with each Director and the Senior the investment team led by Anthony Bolton.
Independent Director will do likewise for the Chairman.
The Directors also receive regular briefings from, Between these meetings there is regular contact with the amongst others, the AIC, the Companys Auditor and the Managers.
Other meetings are arranged as necessary.
Company Secretary regarding any proposed Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to developments or changes in law or regulations that pursue matters referred to them from the Board and the affect the Company and or the Directors.
Chairman is in contact with the other Directors regularly without representatives of the Managers being present.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION A formal and rigorous annual process for the evaluation CHANGES TO THE BOARD of the Board, its Committees and its Directors is in place All appointments to the Board and replacements of and undertaken at the June Board meeting every year Directors take place in accordance with the Companies ahead of the Annual General Meeting.
This will take the Act and the Companys Articles of Association.
The form of written questionnaires and, if appropriate, Company complies with the requirements of the AIC interviews.
The review of the performance of the Code in respect of appointments to the Board.
The Chairman is led by the Senior Independent Director on Nomination and Remuneration Committee is responsible an annual basis.
Page 26 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Statement The Company Secretary and Portfolio Manager will also its appointed representative, Christopher Pirnie, who is participate in these processes to provide all-round responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board feedback to the Board.
The results of these evaluations procedures are followed and that applicable rules and will be issued to and discussed by the Board.
The regulations are complied with.
The Directors also have process is considered to be constructive in terms of the ability to take independent professional advice, if identifying areas for improving the functioning and necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company performance of the Board and action will be taken on maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Board of Directors discharges certain of its corporate The Board is considering seeking externally facilitated governance responsibilities through four Committees: evaluation for future years.
THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION The Audit Committee consists of all the independent All the Directors will stand for election by the Directors, and Mr Causer chairs this Committee as the shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting Board believes it appropriate for him to do so given his following their appointment.
The Directors retire financial background and experience as chairman of an by rotation and offer themselves for re-election by audit committee.
The Committee considers that shareholders every three years.
Directors who serve collectively the members of the Committee have on the Board for more than nine years are subject to sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to annual re-election.
The Nomination and Remuneration Committee has The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined considered the performance and contribution to the in its written terms of reference which are available on Company of each Director and concluded that in each the Companys pages of the website: case they have been effective and that they continue to www.
demonstrate commitment to their roles.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended their continued service The Audit Committee of the Board meets formally twice and this has been endorsed by the Board as a whole a year and with the Auditor at least twice a year to which recommends the election of the entire Board at review these and other appropriate matters.
A subthe forthcoming Annual General Meeting to committee of the Audit Committee consisting of the shareholders.
Audit Committee Chairman and the Senior Independent Director meets regularly to review matters of an The names of Directors submitted for election are ad hoc nature.
accompanied by sufficient biographical details to enable shareholders to make an informed decision.
The terms The members of the Audit Committee are David Causer and conditions of appointment of Directors are available Chairman, John Owen, Nicholas Bull and Peter for inspection at the registered office of the Company Pleydell-Bouverie.
and will be available prior to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee discharges its responsibilities in a number of ways, including as set out below: DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Levels of remuneration are competitive and sufficient to Reviewing the Companys draft annual and interim attract and retain the standard of Directors needed to financial statements prior to Board approval and manage the Company successfully.
The Company reviewing the scope and results of the audit including Secretary provides information on comparative levels of external Auditors report on the annual financial Directors fees to the Board in advance of each review.
statements: The level of Directors fees is determined by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee within the Reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys limit governed by the Articles of Association.
Directors accounting policies: fees are disclosed fully in each Annual Report see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 31.
Reviewing and approving the audit fee: Shareholdings by Directors are encouraged and the Directors share interests are disclosed in the Directors Reviewing the external Auditors terms of Report on page 22.
The Directors do not receive engagement: performance related remuneration.
Reviewing the external Auditors plan for the audit of THE COMPANY SECRETARY the Companys financial statements: The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for Reviewing the external Auditors quality control the Board as a whole.
The Directors have access to the procedures: advice and services of the Company Secretary through Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 27 Corporate Governance Statement Reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness and cost THE MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT of the external audit process and the external COMMITTEE Auditors independence and objectivity, with The Management Engagement Committee consists of particular regard to the provision of non-audit all the independent non-executive Directors, and services taking into consideration relevant UK Mr Owen, Chairman of the Company, also chairs this professional and regulatory requirements and to Committee.
The Committee is charged with reviewing consider the risks associated with audit firms and monitoring the performance of the Investment withdrawing from the market: Managers and the Secretary in respect of their contracts and the fees they are paid.
This Committee meets at Reviewing the overall services provided by the least once a year and reports to the Board of Directors, Companys external Auditor and alternative audit making recommendations where appropriate.
services available: The level of remuneration of the Investment Managers Considering the scope of work undertaken by the and the Secretary is determined by the Management Investment Managers internal audit department: Engagement Committee: it relates to the investment management function carried out by the Investment Reviewing the Investment Managers report on Managers, on which a percentage of the funds under internal controls and reporting to the Board: and management is paid, where a performance fee is due, and to the administrative function carried out by the Considering whether the Company needs an internal Secretary.
The Board is mindful that the amounts paid to audit function given that the Company delegates its the Investment Managers and to the Secretary should be day to day operations to third parties.
sufficient to ensure that both the Investment Managers and the administrators within the Secretary who are THE NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION engaged to look after the Companys affairs are highly COMMITTEE skilled and that those individuals should be duly focused The Nomination and Remuneration Committee consists on the Companys business.
Mr Owen, Chairman of the Company, also chairs this Committee.
The Committee is charged The criteria which are taken into consideration in with nominating new Directors for consideration by the reviewing the performance of the Investment Managers Board of Directors, and subsequent approval by and the Secretary include those set out below: shareholders.
It believes that the best way of ensuring that the Board as a whole and each independent Quality of team the skills and particular experience Director individually carry out their duties in an of the teams involved in managing all aspects of the independent manner, irrespective of the interests of the Companys business: Investment Managers, is to ensure that the search for, the interview of and recommendation to the Board of a Commitment of the Investment Managers to the candidate is entirely controlled by this Committee.
investment trust business generally and to the The Nomination and Remuneration Committee also Company in particular: considers the re-election of Directors who are retiring by rotation.
Managing the portfolio of the Company, investment management, portfolio management skills, The Committee also concerns itself with the experience and track record and other investment remuneration of the Directors, considering the Directors related considerations.
Running and controlling the roles and the responsibility and time involved in carrying administration, the accounting and the company these duties out effectively.
It also makes itself aware of secretarial function: the directors fees of other investment trust companies and other comparable entities.
The level of remuneration Shareholder relations shareholder information and of the non-executive Directors is set by the Nomination relations, discount and premium management: and and Remuneration Committee.
Marketing commitment to and execution of This Committee meets on an annual basis and as and activities designed to secure sustainable demand when required, makes recommendations to the Board from potential long term investors.
The members of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee are John Owen Chairman, The Committees terms of reference are available on the Nicholas Bull, David Causer and Peter Pleydell-Bouverie.
Companys pages of the website: www.
The Committees terms of reference are available for inspection at the Companys registered office and are THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE included on the Companys pages of the website: The Investment Committee consists of all the www.
independent non-executive Directors and one representative of the Unlisted Investment Manager, with Page 28 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Statement the requisite investment experience, attends on an controls report which is regularly reviewed.
Mr Pleydell-Bouverie chairs this has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
The Committee as the Board believes it appropriate for him Board has decided that the systems and procedures to do so given his extensive investment experience.
employed by the Managers, including its internal audit function and the work carried out by the Companys The Committee considers that collectively the members external Auditor, provide sufficient assurance that a of the Committee have sufficient recent and relevant sound system of internal control, which safeguards investment and financial experience to discharge its shareholders investments and the Companys assets, is responsibilities fully.
The Committee is charged with maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the reviewing and monitoring the on-going performance of Company, is therefore considered unnecessary.
The the investments: discussing with the Investment Audit Committee has received and reviewed the report Managers the strategy for the investment portfolios: on the effectiveness of the internal controls maintained reviewing all investments including pre-IPO on behalf of the Company and meets the Managers opportunities: and reporting to the Board on a Internal Audit representative at least twice a year.
Chairman of the Audit Committee has direct access to the Managers Head of Internal Audit and vice versa.
The Committee meets no less than once a year and at such other times as the Chairman of the Committee shall The Board also receives each year from the Managers a require.
report on its internal controls which includes a report from the Managers reporting accountants on the control FINANCIAL REPORTING procedures in operation around the investment Set out on page 24 is a statement by the Directors of management and administration processes.
By means of their responsibilities in respect of the financial the procedures set out above and in accordance with the statements.
The Auditor has set out in their reporting Financial Reporting Councils Internal Control: Revised responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, the on page 32.
The Board has a responsibility to present a Directors have established an ongoing process for balanced and understandable assessment of annual and identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks interim reports, interim management statements, other faced by the Company and have reviewed the price sensitive public reports, as well as to provide effectiveness of the internal control systems throughout information required to be presented by statutory the period to 31 March 2011.
This process continued to requirements.
All such reports are reviewed and be in place up to the date of the approval of these approved by the Board prior to their issue to ensure that financial statements and is expected to remain in place this responsibility is fulfilled.
INTERNAL CONTROLS WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE The Board is responsible for the Companys system of Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The good service pursuant to the Management Agreement identification, control and evaluation of risk is formulated includes the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise by a series of quarterly investment performance reports, concerns through a workplace concerns escalation policy a regular internal controls report and quarterly or whistle-blowing procedure.
Fidelity has advised compliance reports as provided by the Managers.
the Board that it is committed to providing the highest The system of internal controls is designed to manage level of service to its customers and to applying the rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve business highest standards of quality, honesty, integrity and objectives and can only provide reasonable, but not probity.
The aim of the policy is to encourage employees absolute, assurance against material misstatement and others working for Fidelity to assist the Company in or loss.
tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within the organisation and in setting standards of ethical The Board has contractually delegated to external conduct.
This policy has been endorsed accordingly.
agencies, including the Managers, the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which SHAREHOLDERS include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all services and the day-to-day accounting and Company Directors are made aware of shareholders concerns and Secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and entered into after full and proper consideration by the other Directors are available to meet with major Board of the quality and cost of services offered shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
The including the control systems in operation in so far as Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Company and liaises with the Managers and the Companys broker to canvass shareholder opinion and The Board, assisted by the Managers, has undertaken communicate its views to shareholders.
The Board aims regular risk and controls assessments.
The business risks to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue have been analysed and recorded in a risk and internal between the Company and shareholders.
It believes that Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011 Page 29 Corporate Governance Statement the Companys institutional shareholders have proper access to the Managers at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
If any shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on pages 14 and 60.
All shareholders, particularly individual shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there will be a presentation of the periods results and the forthcoming years prospects, followed by the opportunity to meet representatives of the Managers and the Board.
Except where a poll is called, all resolutions at the Annual General Meeting are dealt with on a show of hands.
The proxy voting results are counted, are available to the meeting and are disclosed in the Companys page of the Managers website www.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 53 to 55 sets out the business of the Annual General Meeting.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the annual report and financial statements.
The Chairman of the Board and the other members of the Board, will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules is set out in the Directors Report on pages 18 to 23 because it is information which refers to events that have taken place during the course of the year.
The following is a list of that information: Directors shareholdings Directors and Officers liability insurance Substantial share interests Share capital Share issues Going concern On behalf of the Board John Owen Chairman 17 June 2011 Page 30 Fidelity China Special Situations PLC Annual Report 2011
