Corporate Governance Statement The Company is committed to high standards of corporate The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, four of governance.
Accordingly, the Board has put in place a framework whom are independent of the Companys Manager and are for corporate governance which it believes is appropriate for an considered to be free from any business or other relationship investment trust company.
This Corporate Governance Statement which could materially interfere with the exercise of their forms part of the Directors Report.
The Board follows a procedure of notification of other interests that may arise as part of considering AIC CODE any potential conflicts.
Mr Robinson, the Senior Independent The Board of Fidelity European Values PLC has considered the Director, fulfils the role as a sounding board for the Chairman principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate and as intermediary for the other non-executive Directors where Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate necessary.
Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the Mr Fraser was an employee of the Manager until the end of principles set out in Section 1 of the UK Code of Corporate December 2008 and is therefore not independent.
The Board Governance UK Code, as well as setting out additional believes it to be an important aspect of the corporate governance principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific of an investment trust company that there should be links with the relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting Manager to ensure that the Manager is party to the responsibility, against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code and authority and accountability of the Board to the shareholders.
The by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Code Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to will provide better information to shareholders.
The AIC Code and discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
the AIC Guide may be found at www.
co. uk In common with most investment trusts there is no chief executive The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for good as the management function has been delegated as set out governance and considers that the Company has complied with above and is supervised by the Chairman and the Board.
The the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions independent Directors form the membership of the Audit of the UK Code and associated disclosure requirements of the Committee and the Management Engagement Committee.
Listing Rules except as set out below.
The UK Code includes BOARD BALANCE provisions relating to: The Directors believe that the Board has an appropriate balance the role of the chief executive of skills, experience, independence, knowledge of the Company executive directors remuneration and length of service to discharge its duties and provide effective the need for an internal audit function strategic leadership and proper governance of the Company.
In particular the Directors have a wide knowledge and experience of For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to fund management, investment trust management and business in the UK Code, the Board considers that these provisions are not Europe.
Biographical details of all the Directors are given on page relevant to the position of Fidelity European Values PLC, being an 13 of this report.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Directors support the recommendations of Lord Davies of Abersoch in his report, Women on Boards, published in 2011.
The Company has no separate Nomination & Remuneration Committee and in this respect does not comply with the UK Code The Board has specifically considered the issues detailed therein principle A.
4 and the equivalent AIC Code principle.
The reasons and its policy is as follows: for non-compliance are detailed on pages 23 and 24.
The Board aims to have a balance of skills, expertise, length of THE BOARD AND ITS COMMITTEES service and knowledge of the Company represented on the Board.
The Board carries out its candidate searches with full regard to the THE BOARD benefits of diversity, including gender, drawing from the widest The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Companys possible pool of talent against a set of objective criteria, and affairs and for promoting the long term success of the Company.
It makes its appointments on the basis of merit.
delegates through the Management Agreement and through specific instructions the day to day management of the Company In line with the recommendations of the Davies Report the Board to the Manager, FIL Investments International.
The Company has hopes to achieve at least 20% female representation on the Board no executives or employees.
All matters not delegated to the between 2013 and 2015.
Progress reports against this will be Manager are reserved for the Boards decision.
Matters reserved provided in each Annual Report.
for the Board include, inter alia, decisions on strategy, management, structure, capital, share issues, share repurchases, gearing, financial reporting, risk management, investment performance, share price discount, corporate governance, Board appointments and the appointment of the Manager and the Company Secretary.
The Companys investment policy is detailed on pages 14 and 15.
22 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Statement Management Regular Audit Engagement Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Humphrey van der Klugt 5 5 3 3 3 3 Simon Duckworth, DL 5 5 3 3 3 3 Simon Fraser 5 5 n a n a Robin Niblett 5 5 3 3 3 3 James Robinson 5 5 3 3 3 3 Figures indicate those meetings for which each Director was eligible to attend and attended in the year Regular Board Meetings exclude procedural meetings held to discharge, for example, formal approvals BOARD MEETINGS Key representatives of the Manager attend each Board meeting, The Board meets formally at least fives times a year and between enabling the Board to probe further on matters of concern or seek these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager.
Other clarification on certain issues.
meetings are arranged as necessary.
Additionally, Board Committees and sub-groups meet to pursue matters referred from The Board has delegated certain of its corporate governance the Board and the Chairman is in contact with the other Directors responsibilities to the Audit and Management Engagement regularly without representatives of the Manager being present.
Committees, each composed of all the independent Directors.
The Board ensures that it conducts its business at all times with CHANGES TO THE BOARD only the interests of the shareholders in mind and quite independently of any other associations.
It endeavours to provide All appointments to the Board and replacements of Directors take leadership in terms of the direction of the Company.
place in accordance with the Companies Act, the Companys Articles of Association and the AIC Code.
Whilst the independent The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge Directors take the lead in the appointment of new Directors, any its duties effectively and the table above gives the attendance proposal for a new Director will be discussed and approved by record for the formal meetings held during the year.
As a consequence, there is no Nomination Committee.
External consultants are used to identify potential COMPANY SECRETARY candidates.
The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The appointment of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The Board carries out its candidate search against a set of The Directors have access to the advice and services of the objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for the Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied The terms and conditions of appointment of Directors are with.
Each of the Directors of the Company is entitled to take available for inspection at the registered office of the Company independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in and will be made available prior to the forthcoming Annual the furtherance of their duties.
SUPPLY OF INFORMATION TO DIRECTORS CHANGES TO THE COMPANYS ARTICLES OF ASSOCIATION The Chairman is responsible for the promotion of a culture of Changes to the Companys Articles of Association must be made openness and debate, for ensuring that the Directors receive by special resolution.
accurate, timely and clear information and for ensuring that there TRAINING is adequate time available for the discussion of agenda items, particularly strategic issues.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and The Board receives in due time information in a form and of a his or her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Board new Director will receive an induction, spending time with meeting papers are the key source of regular information for the representatives of the Manager whereby he or she will become Board, the contents of which are determined by the Board and familiar with the various processes which the Manager considers contain sufficient information on the financial condition of the necessary for the performance of its duties and responsibilities to Company.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 23 Corporate Governance Statement The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to keep up to date Since all Directors are non-executive, the Company is not required and attend training courses on matters which are directly relevant to comply with the principles of the UK Code in respect of executive to their involvement with the Company and the Chairman reviews directors remuneration.
Directors fees are disclosed fully in the and agrees development and training needs with each Director.
Annual Report see the Directors Remuneration Report on page 28.
Levels of fees are considered to be competitive and sufficient The Directors also receive regular briefings from, among others, to attract and retain the standard of Directors needed to manage the AIC, the Auditor and the Company Secretary regarding any the Company successfully.
The limit on aggregate fees is governed proposed developments or changes in law or regulations that by the Companys Articles of Association.
Shareholdings by could affect the Company and or the Directors.
Directors are encouraged and the Directors share interests are disclosed on page 19 of the Directors Report.
The Directors do not ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION receive performance related remuneration.
As required by company law, all newly appointed Directors stand ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT for election by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
In accordance with the FINANCIAL REPORTING AIC Code all Directors are subject to annual re-election due to the Companys status as a FTSE 350 company.
Biographical details Set out on page 21 is a statement by the Directors of their can be found on page 13.
A procedure has been put in place responsibilities in respect of the preparation of the annual report whereby formal letters of appointment, which specify the terms of and financial statements.
The Auditor has set out its reporting appointment, are issued to new Directors on appointment and to responsibilities within the Independent Auditors Report on page existing Directors following re-election at the Annual General 30.
The Board has a responsibility to present a balanced and Meeting.
The Board will consider the length of tenure as one of the understandable assessment of annual, half-yearly, other price matters under review during Director evaluations.
sensitive public reports and reports to regulators, as well as to provide information required to be presented by statutory PERFORMANCE EVALUATION requirements.
All such reports are reviewed and approved by the A formal and rigorous process for the evaluation of the Board, its Board prior to their issue to ensure that this responsibility is fulfilled.
Committees and its Directors has been put in place and takes GOING CONCERN place regularly.
The process includes regular discussion and regular written questionnaires, although the format may change The Companys business activities, together with the factors likely to from time to time to ensure that the Board does not become affect its future development, performance and position are set out complacent in fulfilling a box-ticking exercise.
If appropriate, on pages 14 to 15.
The financial position of the Company, its cash interviews are held.
flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the financial statements and notes thereto on pages 31 to 48.
The The performance and contribution to the Company of each Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its Director holding office during the year to 31 December 2011 have capital, financial risk objectives, details and financial instruments been considered.
It has been concluded that in each case the and its exposures to credit and liquidity risk are also set out in the Directors have been effective and that they continue to Business Review on pages 14 to 17 and in the notes to the demonstrate commitment to their roles.
The candidature of the financial statements on pages 35 to 48.
Directors seeking re-election has been endorsed by the Board as a whole which commends their re-election to shareholders.
The The Companys assets consist mainly of securities which are readily performance of the Chairman is evaluated by the Board in the realisable.
Where outsourcing arrangements are in place, Chairmans absence on an annual basis.
The Company Secretary including registrar and custodian services, alternative providers and Portfolio Manager also participate in parts of these processes are readily available.
As a consequence, the Directors believe to provide all-round feedback to the Board.
The results of these that the Company is well placed to manage its business risks evaluations are discussed by the Board and the process is successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
considered to be constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and The Board receives regular reports from the Manager and the action is taken on the basis of the results.
Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the This year, in line with good corporate governance, the Board has foreseeable future.
Thus they continue to adopt the going concern arranged for an independent externally facilitated assessment of basis of accounting in preparing the annual financial statements.
its performance to take place.
The next continuation vote will be put to shareholders at the DIRECTORS REMUNERATION Annual General Meeting in 2013.
The level of Directors fees is determined by the whole Board and therefore a separate Remuneration Committee has not been appointed.
Directors do not vote on their own fees.
These fees take into account the responsibilities, commitment and work involved for the Directors together with the levels of remuneration paid by similar companies.
24 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Statement INTERNAL CONTROL WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE The Board is responsible for the Companys systems of internal Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good control and reviewing their effectiveness.
The Board has service pursuant to the Management Agreement includes the contractually delegated to external agencies, including the ability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through a Manager, the management of the investment portfolio, the workplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, procedure.
Fidelity is committed to providing the highest level of the registration services and the day to day accounting and service to its customers and to applying the highest standards of company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is to entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the encourage employees and others working for Fidelity to assist the quality and cost of services offered including the control systems in Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
the organisation and in setting standards of ethical conduct.
This The Directors review the effectiveness of the Companys systems of policy is endorsed accordingly.
internal control on a regular basis.
BRIBERY ACT 2010 The identification, control and evaluation of risks identified The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly covering financial, operational and compliance matters is and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has to formulated by a series of quarterly investment performance reputation and business confidence.
The Board, the Investment reports, internal controls reports and quarterly compliance reports Manager, the Investment Managers employees and others acting as provided by the Manager.
This process is in accordance with on the Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate high the FRCs Internal control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the standards of behaviour when conducting business.
Combined Code, has been in place for the year ended 31 The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation December 2011, continued to be in place up to the date of the and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery, approval of these financial statements and is expected to remain and the governance framework for training, communication, in place for the coming year.
The systems of internal control are monitoring, reporting and escalation of compliance together with designed to manage and reduce rather than eliminate risk of enforcing action as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a zero failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide tolerance policy in this regard.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misAUDIT COMMITTEE AND AUDITOR statement or loss.
The Board also determines the nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent Directors strategic objectives.
and is chaired by Mr Robinson.
Mr van der Klugt is a member of the Audit Committee because the Board believes it to be The Companys Audit Committee meets representatives of the appropriate for all independent Directors to have such Manager and receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of responsibility.
The Committee meets three times a year and the accounting records and management information maintained considers that collectively its members have sufficient recent and on behalf of the Company.
It reviews the annual and half-yearly relevant financial experience to discharge their responsibilities financial statements and the nature, scope and findings of the fully.
The Committees authority and duties are clearly defined in its statutory audit.
The Board carries out a risk and control assessment written terms of reference which are available on the Companys including a review of the corporate strategy and the Managers pages of the Managers website.
These include responsibility for and other third party suppliers risk management processes.
The reviewing the half-yearly report and annual report and financial key element of this assessment is the internal controls report statements, reviewing the scope and results of the audit and the prepared by the Manager for its investment trust clients.
The effectiveness and cost of the audit process and reviewing the internal controls report sets out the Managers control policies and Companys internal financial controls.
procedures with respect to the management of its clients investments.
Whilst the Company, in common with most investment By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance with trusts, has no internal audit function, the effectiveness of these the FRCs internal guidance, the Directors have reviewed the controls is monitored by the Managers internal audit department.
effectiveness of the Managers risk management and internal The Audit Committee receives and reviews the internal controls controls systems throughout the period.
They also include report on the effectiveness of the internal controls maintained on responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external Auditors behalf of the Company and an annual compliance report from the independence and objectivity with particular regard to the Manager.
provision of non-audit services, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements and to consider the The Board also receives each year from the Manager a report on risks associated with audit firms withdrawing from the market.
the Managers internal controls which includes a report from the Managers reporting accountants on the control procedures in operation around the investment management and administration processes.
By means of the procedures set out above and in accordance with the FRCs internal guidance, the Directors have established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 25 Corporate Governance Statement The Audit Committee meets the Auditor at least once a year to The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the review these and other appropriate matters.
In the year to 31 performance of the Manager are set out below: December 2011 the Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by inter alia: Quality of team the skills and particularly the experience of the team involved in managing all aspects of the Companys Reviewing the Companys draft annual and half-yearly financial business: statements prior to Board approval and reviewing the external Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust business Auditors report on the annual financial statements: generally and to the Company in particular: Determining the appropriateness of the Companys accounting Managing the Company in running and controlling the policies: administration, the accounting and the secretaryship of the Reviewing and recommending the audit fee and reviewing any Company: non-audit fees payable to the Companys external Auditor: Investment management portfolio management skills, Reviewing the external Auditors terms of engagement including experience and track record and other investment related the appointment, reappointment or removal of the Auditor as considerations including gearing, currencies, hedging, appropriate: buybacks etc: Evaluating the external Auditors plan for the audit of the Shareholders shareholder consciousness and relations, Companys financial statements: discount management and commitment to the Companys Reviewing the external Auditors quality control procedures: goals: and Assessing and monitoring the effectiveness of the external audit Management Agreement consideration of fees, notice process and the external Auditors independence and periods and duties.
objectivity: Considering the scope of work undertaken by the Managers The Committee met on 19 January 2012 and reviewed the internal audit department: performance of the Manager for the year to 31 December 2011.
Reviewing reports on risk and internal controls and reporting to The Committee noted the Companys good long term performance the Board: record and the commitment, quality and continuity of the team Considering and reconfirming that it does not need an internal which was responsible for the Company.
The Committee audit function given that the Company delegates its day to day concluded that it was in the interests of shareholders that the operations to third parties: and appointment of the Manager should continue.
Details of the Recommending the appointment or reappointment of the Management Agreement appear on pages 18 and 19. external Auditor.
RESPONSIBILITY AS INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER The last review of alternative audit service providers took place in The Board has adopted the Managers Principles of Ownership in 2006 resulting in a change of audit firm.
The Auditors continued relation to investments.
These principles include the pursuit of an appointment is reviewed each year and audit partners change at active investment policy through portfolio management decisions, least once every five years.
There are no contractual obligations voting on resolutions at general meetings and maintaining a that restrict the Committees choice of Auditor.
continuing dialogue with the management of investee companies.
The Manager, in its Principles of Ownership, expressly declares The Committee also reviews corporate governance issues, the that it supports the Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code existence and performance of all controls operating in the setting out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders and Company including the adherence to Section 1159 status and, agents.
the relationship with and the performance of third party service providers such as the Registrar and Custodian.
Further details of the Managers Principles of Ownership and voting may be found at www.
co. uk MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Management Engagement Committee consists of all of the independent Directors and is chaired by Mr van der Klugt.
The The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all Directors are Committee is charged with reviewing and monitoring the made aware of shareholders concerns and the Chairman, the performance of the Manager and ensuring that the terms of the Senior Independent Director and other Directors have meetings Companys Management Agreement are competitive and with major shareholders to discuss strategy and governance.
This Committee meets annually and shareholder profile of the Company is regularly monitored and the reports to the Board of Directors, making recommendations where Board liaises with the Manager and the Companys broker to appropriate.
The Committees terms of reference may be found on canvass shareholder opinion and communicate views to the Companys pages of the Managers website.
The Company is concerned to provide the maximum opportunity for dialogue between the Company and shareholders.
The level of remuneration of the Manager is agreed by the It is believed that institutional shareholders have proper access to Management Engagement Committee: it relates to the investment the Manager at any time and to the Board if they so wish.
If any management function, on which a percentage of the funds under shareholder wishes to contact a member of the Board directly they management is paid.
The management fee was renegotiated to should contact the Company Secretary whose details are given on include a performance related element with effect from 1 January page 56.
This was further renegotiated with effect from 1 January 2012.
26 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Statement All shareholders, particularly individual shareholders, are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting at which there is a presentation of the past years results and the forthcoming years prospects, followed by the opportunity to meet the Board and representatives of the Manager.
At general meetings all proxy votes are counted and, except where a poll is called, proxy voting is reported for each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands.
Proxy votes are disclosed on the Companys pages of the Managers website.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting on pages 51 to 54 sets out the business of the meeting and the resolutions dealing with special business are explained more fully in the Directors Report on page 20.
A separate resolution is proposed on each substantially separate issue including the annual report and financial statements.
The Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available to answer questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES Other information required to be disclosed pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules has been placed in the Directors Report on pages 14 to 20 because it is information which refers to events that have taken place during the course of the year.
The following is a list of that information: Directors shareholdings Directors and Officers liability insurance Substantial share interests Share capital Share issues Share repurchases On behalf of the Board Humphrey van der Klugt 6 March 2012 Fidelity European Values PLC Annual Report 2011 27
