Corporate Governance Statement Corporate governance is the process by which a board of management on other commercial boards brings to their directors of a company looks after the shareholders interests and corporate governance.
Fidelity Special Values PLC was established by which it endeavours to enhance those interests often referred and is managed and promoted by its Manager, which is therefore to as shareholder value.
Shareholders hold the directors one of the main reasons shareholders choose to invest in the responsible for the stewardship of a companys affairs, delegating Companys shares.
authority to the directors to manage the company on their behalf and holding them accountable for its performance.
It follows that it is an important aspect of the corporate governance of Fidelity Special Values PLC that its Manager should This report, which forms part of the Directors Report, explains how be party to the responsibility, authority and accountability to those the Directors of Fidelity Special Values PLC deal with that investing in their management.
THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE POLICIES AND MODUS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REQUIREMENTS OPERANDI OF FIDELITY SPECIAL VALUES PLC Part of the London Stock Exchanges Listing Rules is the The corporate governance of any investment trust company, while requirement for all listed companies to set out a statement in their following the guidelines of the AIC Code of Corporate annual reports on how they comply or if not explain why not Governance, will vary in certain respects depending on its own with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code circumstances.
The Board of Fidelity Special Values PLC has formerly the Combined Code.
Because investment trust considered its own circumstances and determined its own companies differ in many ways from conventional operating corporate governance policies and modus operandi.
companies, the Association of Investment Companies has drawn up its own set of guidelines the AIC Code of Corporate In this section we have outlined the corporate governance policies Governance which meet with the approval of the Financial and modus operandi through the following three aspects of Reporting Council and which form the basis of Fidelity Special corporate governance: Responsibility, Authority and Accountability.
It is first of all important that shareholders have confidence in the Board of Directors, whom they hold responsible and accountable To add to that the Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTR, for the Companys affairs.
require that certain extra information be reported in the corporate governance statement.
Because some of it is not relevant to a In determining the guidelines for the composition of the Board, the charter of the general principles and practice of the Boards Directors believe that there should be a clear majority of the Board governance of the Company the purpose of a corporate members including the Chairman, who are independent of governance statement, that information has been set out in detail management, and that the make up of the Board should bring in the Directors Report on pages 20 to 26.
A section of this understanding and experience of investment management, statement at the end, entitled Disclosure and Transparency Rules, investment trust management, the investment objective of the provides a list of the information that is required and where it can Company, marketing, general business experience and finally of be found in the Directors Report.
Fidelitys investment philosophy and its operations.
There are 21 principles which form the substance of the AICs While the key determinant of independent behaviour stems from Code of Corporate Governance.
The complete details of how your personal character, the Directors recognise that any individual who Company has adopted them are provided in its corporate is employed by or otherwise materially financially associated with governance schedule which is available for inspection by the Manager, FIL Investments International, cannot be regarded as shareholders and investors at the Companys registered office, independent.
However, the Board regards it as helpful to have one Fidelitys Investor Centre and on the website.
This takes each of the senior executive from FIL Investments International serving as a detailed points in the AICs Code of Corporate Governance and Director.
Other relationships or time served as a Director are not sets out exactly how the Board has chosen to respond to those regarded prima facie as compromising independent behaviour points.
This report contains a summary of how the Board has but may nevertheless be of interest to shareholders and adopted these principles.
consequently the details and the Directors current business associations are set out on page 18 for shareholders perusal.
All THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OF AN INVESTMENT TRUST of the independent Directors are considered to be free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with COMPANY The corporate governance of most investment trust companies, the exercise of their independent judgement and all of the including Fidelity Special Values PLC, is different from most other Directors are able to allocate sufficient time to the Company to commercial companies in one important respect: they do not discharge their responsibilities fully and effectively.
The Board employ their own people as management but rather the services follows a procedure of notification of other interests that may arise of a fund management company.
This affects the way investment as part of considering any potential conflicts.
trusts are governed but not the purpose of their governance.
Given that the Managers business is not dedicated solely to the interests All of the Directors are non-executive and five of the six have no of investment trust companies and their shareholders, the relationship with the Manager.
In addition the Board has composition of investment trust boards of directors must be largely appointed Ben Thomson as Senior Independent Director in which independent of management.
However, it must have the he fulfils the role as a sounding board for the Chairman and as knowledge and experience of both fund management and intermediary for other non-executive Directors where necessary.
investment trust management, which the presence of executive Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 28 Corporate Governance Statement Each Directors individual independence, including that of the difficult times but challenge it when necessary: it is a sine qua Chairman, has been considered, taking into consideration: non to good performance.
integrity, selflessness, intelligent scepticism but not cynicism, AUTHORITY positiveness, courageousness and decisiveness: The Board of Directors is furnished by the shareholders with the independence of mind and character: authority to manage the Company on their behalf, being required experience and knowledge of investment trusts, of the to discharge the responsibilities outlined above.
The Board, being investment business generally and of Fidelity: wholly non-executive and by majority independent of financial literacy: management, carries out its duties through the mechanism of conflicts of interest: and Board meetings and Board Committee meetings.
The most performance as a Director.
important aspect of the Directors duties concerns the management of the Companys portfolio of assets and of the risk Based on the above considerations all five non-Fidelity Directors, profile of its balance sheet.
While the day to day investment including the Chairman, have been assessed and are considered management is delegated to FIL Investments International, there to be independent.
are certain decisions which are retained and made by the Directors, including the payment of dividends, the share repurchase guidelines and the derivatives and gearing policies.
Tenure, the term served by a director of a company, is a controversial issue.
It is the belief of the Board that it can best do its job if it works as a team composed of individuals who work well In structuring the Board meetings, the Directors try to concentrate together, if each contributes to its performance.
In order to do so it as much as possible of their regular Board meetings on i believes that its membership benefits from the inclusion of both investment matters including strategy, investment policy, gearing and derivatives policies, portfolio and stock reviews, portfolio Directors who have served a long time and bring both experience and past knowledge of the Company and its business to its turnover, monitoring performance etc and ii shareholder value governance and also include newer members who bring matters including monitoring the discount, share repurchases and additional further attributes to the Companys governance.
Fidelitys Investment Trust Share Plan and ISA marketing.
The Chairman is responsible for the promotion of a culture of openness and debate, for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely Recognising that different shareholders have different views on and clear information and for ensuring that there is adequate time tenure, the Board decided in 2004 that each Director would be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
available for the discussion of agenda items, particularly strategic issues.
The Board considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties efficiently.
The attendance record for the meetings held in The Board meets regularly with the Companys financial advisers and stockbrokers to discuss shareholder value and investor the year can be found in the Directors Report on page 23. relation issues while the Manager meets with the larger shareholders at least once a year and reports back to the Board RESPONSIBILITY The responsibilities delegated by shareholders to the Board of on those meetings.
Key representatives of the Manager attend Directors include: each Board meeting, enabling the Board to probe further on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
The stewardship and monitoring of the affairs of the Company, The Board of Directors discharges certain of its corporate which includes the management of risk and the monitoring of the controls at work in the Company: governance responsibilities through three Committees: 2.
The promotion of the Companys prosperity so as to endeavour THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Audit Committee is chaired by Sharon Brown and consists of to maximise shareholder value in the long term, which includes all of the independent Directors, except for Lynn Ruddick, and is the responsibility for the appropriateness of the Companys charged with reviewing and monitoring the production of the investment objective, investment strategy and investment performance and for the Companys efforts in seeking to annual and half-yearly financial statements, the audit process, minimise the level and the volatility of the discount or premium corporate governance issues, the existence and performance of all controls operating in the Company including the adherence to at which the shares may sell in relation to the net asset value.
Section 1159, the relationship with and performance of other third The Companys investment policy is detailed on page 19: and party service providers such as the Registrar or the Custodian, considering the risks associated with audit firms withdrawing from 3.
Making recommendations to shareholders for their consideration at annual general meetings on matters not the market and the relationship with the independent Auditor and its ongoing appointment and level of fees.
Finally it also has delegated to the Board of Directors, which include the approval responsibility for reviewing and monitoring the external Auditors of the annual financial statements, the election and re-election of independence and objectivity with particular regard to the Directors and the appointment of the Auditor.
provision of non-audit services, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements, including the The Board believes that a good working relationship comes appointment, reappointment or removal of the Auditor as from the Board and management working harmoniously appropriate.
together: in particular the Board should support the Manager in Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 29 Corporate Governance Statement The Auditors continued appointment is reviewed each year and THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE the audit partner changes at least once every five years.
The last The Nomination Committee, chaired by Lynn Ruddick, consists of review of alternative audit service providers took place in 2006 all the Directors and is charged with: resulting in a change in audit firm.
There are no contractual obligations that restrict the Committees choice of Auditor.
The 1. nominating new Directors for consideration by the Board of Committee meets with the independent Auditor at least once a Directors, in turn for approval by shareholders: and year to review all these matters.
The Committee itself meets at 2. consideration of the re-appointment of Directors.
least twice a year and reports to the Board of Directors, making recommendations where appropriate.
In respect of new Directors the Board believes that it is important in the search for, the interview of and recommendation to the The continued increase in the scope and in the technical nature of Board of a candidate that it be controlled by the independent the work of the Committee means that its Chairman must have Directors who in turn form the majority of this Committee.
After and does have recent and relevant financial experience.
consideration of the attributes considered necessary for the appointment of a new Director, members of the Committee THE MANAGEMENT ENGAGEMENT COMMITTEE recommend a number of candidates for consideration as a The Management Engagement Committee is chaired by Lynn Director of the Company.
In the event that insufficient suitable Ruddick and consists of all of the independent Directors.
It is candidates are identified, an external consultant would be used.
charged with reviewing and monitoring the performance of the The Board carries out its candidate search from the widest Manager in respect of its contract and the fees it is paid.
possible pool of talent against a set of objective criteria on the basis of merit, with due regard for the benefits of diversity on the This Committee meets at least once a year and reports to the Board.
Board of Directors, making recommendations where appropriate.
When a new Director is appointed to the Board, he or she is The level of remuneration of the Manager is determined by the provided with all relevant information regarding the Company and Management Engagement Committee: the fee relates to the his or her duties and responsibilities as a Director.
In addition, a investment management function, on which a percentage of funds new Director will receive an induction, spending some time with under management is paid thereby relating this part of its representatives of the Manager whereby he or she will become familiar with the various processes which the Manager considers remuneration to performance and a set fee for the administrative function.
necessary for the performance of its duties and responsibilities to the Company.
The Companys policy is to encourage Directors to The Board of Directors is mindful that the amounts paid to the keep up to date and attend training courses on matters which are Manager should be sufficient to ensure that both the Portfolio directly relevant to their involvement with the Company and the Chairman reviews and agrees development and training needs Manager and the administrators within the management house with each Director.
The Directors also receive regular briefings appointed to the job of looking after its affairs are highly skilled and that those individuals should be largely focused on the from, among others, the AIC, the independent Auditor and the Companys business.
Company Secretary regarding any proposed developments or changes in law or regulations that could affect the Company and or the Directors.
The criteria which are taken into consideration in reviewing the performance of the Manager are set out below.
It is the policy of the Board for all Directors to retire and seek reQuality of team the skills and particularly the experience of election at each annual general meeting AGM of the Company.
the team involved in managing all aspects of the Companys Biographical details for each Director are set out on page 18 to provide sufficient information to enable shareholders to make an business: informed decision regarding their re-election.
In addition, the terms Commitment of the Manager to the investment trust business and conditions of appointment of Directors are available for generally and to the Company in particular: Managing the Company in running and controlling the inspection at the registered office of the Company and will be administration, the accounting and the secretaryship of the available prior to the forthcoming AGM.
Company: A formal annual process for the evaluation of the Board and its Investment management portfolio management skills, Committees is in place.
This takes the form of written experience and track record and other investment related considerations including gearing, currencies, use of derivatives, questionnaires and, if appropriate, interviews.
The performance of hedging, share repurchases etc: the Chairman is evaluated by the other Directors on an annual Shareholders shareholder consciousness and relations, basis.
The Company Secretary and Manager also participate in these processes to provide all round feedback to the Board.
The discount management and commitment to the Companys results of these evaluations are issued to and discussed by the goals: and Management Agreement consideration of fees, notice Board.
The process is considered to be constructive in terms of periods and duties.
identifying areas for improving the functioning and performance of the Board and action is taken on the basis of the results.
As a consequence of this process the Board has decided not to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 30 Corporate Governance Statement Each Committee has written terms of reference which are available and enables boards to satisfy any requirements they may have for inspection at the Companys registered office and on the under the UK Corporate Governance Code UK Code as well as Companys pages of the Managers website.
setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The AIC Code and ACCOUNTABILITY the AIC Guide may be found at www.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and Given that the shareholders entrust the Board of Directors with the management of the Companys affairs, it is necessary that the recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Board accounts for itself to shareholders.
The process of Guide which incorporates the UK Code, will provide better accountability involves providing all the necessary information for information to shareholders.
shareholders to make judgements about the Boards stewardship and performance through a full and informative annual financial The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC report, a half-yearly financial report, interim management Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Code, except as set statements, accessibility to the Board at any time through the office out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to: of the Chairman and finally the presentation of the results the financial statements and future prospects at the AGM.
The Management Engagement Committee being chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The AGM is the pivotal point in the relationship between the Board The role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration of Directors and shareholders and is the occasion when the Board and the need for an internal audit function.
accounts for itself in a public meeting.
It regards any bona fide issue that any shareholder raises as one that should be put to all For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and the preamble to the shareholders at the AGM so that all those attending can hear any UK Code, the Board considers that these issues are not relevant to concerns expressed in open forum and make their own judgement the position of Fidelity Special Values PLC, being an externally accordingly.
The AGM provides shareholders with an opportunity managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not to vote on certain issues that are not ultimately delegated to the reported further in respect of these provisions.
This includes the re-election of Directors every year in addition to the normal matters of approving the financial INTERNAL CONTROL statements, the appointment of the independent Auditor, the issue The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal of new shares and the repurchase of shares for cancellation.
Your control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Its review takes place at Board has an established policy that should enable shareholders least once a year.
Such a system is designed to manage rather to decide whether they wish to continue the Companys existence than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and by putting a continuation vote before the shareholders at every can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against third AGM.
The next such vote will be at the AGM to be held in material misstatement or loss.
The Board also determines the 2013, the last being at the AGM held on 15 December 2010. nature and extent of any risks it is willing to take in order to achieve its strategic objectives.
THE COMPANY SECRETARY The Company Secretary is a corporate secretary.
The appointment The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
evaluating and managing the Companys principal business and The Directors have access to the advice and services of the operational risks, that it has been in place for the year ended 31 Company Secretary through its appointed representative who is August 2011 and up to the date of approval of the annual report responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are and financial statements, and that it is regularly reviewed by the followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied Board.
This process is in accordance with the FRCs Internal with.
Each of the Directors of the Company is entitled to take Control: Revised Guidance for Directors.
independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, in the furtherance of their duties.
The Board is responsible for the design, implementation and maintenance of controls and procedures to safeguard the assets SUPPLY OF INFORMATION of the Company although these tasks have been delegated on a The Board meeting papers are the key source of regular day to day basis to the Manager.
The system extends to information for the Board, the contents of which are determined by operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Clear the Board and contain sufficient information on the financial lines of accountability have been established between the Board condition of the Company.
The Board receives this information in and the Manager and regular reports on controls and compliance due time in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to issues are provided to the Audit Committee and the Board.
carrying out its review, the Audit Committee has had regard to the activities of the Manager, the Managers compliance and risk AIC CODE functions and the independent Auditor.
The Audit Committees and The Board of Fidelity Special Values PLC has considered the Boards review also includes consideration of internal controls and principles and recommendations of the Association of Investment similar reports issued by the Manager and other service providers.
Companies AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide the The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, keeping with most other investment trust companies the Board has addresses governance issues relevant to investment companies decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 31 Corporate Governance Statement Manager, including its internal audit function, provide sufficient DISCLOSURE AND TRANSPARENCY RULES assurance that a sound system of internal control, which As already stated in the second section of this Corporate safeguards shareholders investments and the Companys assets, Government Statement entitled Corporate Governance is maintained.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, Requirements, certain extra information is required to be given.
The Audit Committee meets Because some of it is information which refers to events that have the Managers Head of Internal Audit at least twice a year.
The taken place during the course of the year, it has been placed in Chairman of the Audit Committee has direct access to the the Directors Report on pages 22 to 26.
Managers Head of Internal Audit and vice versa.
The following is a list of that information: WHISTLE-BLOWING PROCEDURE Part of the Managers role in ensuring the provision of a good Information concerning the service of the Directors on the Board service pursuant to the Management Agreement includes the and changes to the Companys Articles of Association ability for employees of Fidelity to raise concerns through a Attendance at Board and Committee meetings workplace concerns escalation policy or whistle-blowing Directors shareholdings procedure.
Fidelity is committed to providing the highest level of Directors and Officers liability insurance service to its customers and to applying the highest standards of Going concern quality, honesty, integrity and probity.
The aim of the policy is to Substantial share interests encourage employees and others working for Fidelity to assist the Share capital Company in tackling fraud, corruption and other malpractice within Share issues the organisation and is setting standards of ethical conduct.
This Share repurchases policy is endorsed accordingly.
Responsibility as an Institutional Shareholder Relations with Shareholders BRIBERY ACT 2010 Environmental, Employee, Social and Community matters The Company is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly.
The Board recognises the benefits this has to reputation and business confidence.
On behalf of the Board The Board, the Investment Manager, the Investment Managers employees and others acting on the Companys behalf, are expected to demonstrate high standards of behaviour when conducting business.
Lynn Ruddick 4 November 2011 The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the implementation and oversight of the Companys procedures for preventing bribery and the governance framework for training, communication, monitoring, reporting and escalation of compliance together with enforcing action as appropriate.
The Board has adopted a zero tolerance policy in this regard.
Fidelity Special Values PLC Annual Report 2011 32
