Corporate Governance Statement Introduction investment and gearing limits within which the Fund The Board has considered the principles set out in Manager has discretion to act, and thus supervises the UK Corporate Governance Code the UK Code the management of the investment portfolio which is and the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC contractually delegated to the Manager.
The Board believes that during the period The Board has the right of veto over the under review the Company has complied with the proappointment of sub-managers recommended by the visions of the UK Code, in so far as they relate to the Fund Manager.
The Board has responsibility for the Companys business apart from the Chairmans memapproval of private equity and unlisted investments bership of the Audit and Management Engagement and all investments in in-house funds managed or Committee.
This committee has responsibilities with advised by the Manager.
regard to the fees charged in respect of services to the There is no chief executive position within Company.
The Chairman led the changes to the fee the Company, as day-to-day management of the basis summarised in note 4 to the accounts and conCompanys affairs has been delegated to the Manager.
tinued to be involved in the review of ancillary charges The following table sets out the number of Board throughout the year.
The Chairman stepped down and committee meetings held and attended during from this committee in November 2011.
The Board is the year under review.
The Board held an Away-Day also adhering to the principles and recommendations meeting in October 2011 to consider strategic issues of the AIC Code.
and also met in closed session on three occasions during the year, without any representation from Articles of association the Manager.
All the Directors attended the Annual The companys articles of association may only be General Meeting.
amended by special resolution at general meetings of Directors attendance shareholders.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee The Board No.
of meetings 8 4 1 The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship 1 S J Fraser 8 3 1 of the Companys affairs and reviews the schedule 2 S Arkle 7 n a n a of matters reserved for its decision, which are R Bone 8 n a 1 categorised under various headings.
These include M W Bunbury 8 4 1 strategy, policy, finance, risk, investment restrictions, S Burley 8 4 n a performance, marketing, appointments, the Board D Clementi 7 n a 1 and public documents.
It has responsibility for all J Hewitt 8 4 n a corporate strategic issues, dividend policy, share 3 C A Keljik 8 4 n a buyback policy and corporate governance matters 2 N Moakes 6 n a n a which are all reviewed regularly.
4 M Ward 3 n a 1 In order to enable them to discharge their 1 Retired from the Audit and Management Engagement responsibilities, all Directors have full and timely Committee on 1 November 2011.
2 Appointed as a Director on 2 March 2011. access to relevant information.
At each meeting 3 Joined the Nomination Committee on 26 January 2012.
4 Retired as a Director on 5 May 2011. the Board reviews the Companys investment performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational nature.
The Board Each Director has signed a terms of appointment monitors compliance with the Companys objectives letter with the Company, in each case including and is responsible for setting asset allocation, one months notice of termination by either party.
These are available for inspection at the Companys Copies of both codes may be found on the respective websites: www.
Investors in New Zealand registered office during normal business hours and should note that the corporate governance rules and principles applicable to the Company in the UK may differ from those of are also available at annual general meetings.
the New Zealand Stock Exchanges Corporate Governance Best Practice Code.
Report and Accounts 2011 27 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors are able to seek independent professional contribution of directors of an investment trust advice at the Companys expense in relation to company, where continuity and experience can add their duties.
No such advice was taken during the significantly to the strength of the board.
In normal year under review.
The Board has direct access circumstances the Directors are expected to serve to company secretarial advice and services of the for a nine year term, but this may be adjusted for Manager which, through the Company Secretary, is reasons of flexibility and continuity.
responsible for ensuring that Board and Committee procedures are followed and applicable regulations Board effectiveness are complied with.
The proceedings at all Board and The 2011 annual appraisal of the Board, the Committees other meetings are fully recorded through a process and the individual Directors was completed by the that allows any Directors concerns to be recorded Chairman in January 2012.
This built on the objectives in the minutes.
The Board has the power to appoint and the critical success factors established and identified or remove the Company Secretary in accordance from the previous years appraisal for which the Chairman with the terms of the Management Agreement.
The was supported by independent consultants, Manchester powers of the Board relating to the buying back of Square Partners.
The process included confidential, the Companys shares are explained on page 18. unattributable, one-to-one interviews between the There also follows a brief explanation of the Boards Chairman and each Director.
The appraisal of the powers to issue shares.
Chairman was covered as part of the process and led separately by the Senior Independent Director.
The Appointments, diversity and succession planning Chairmans report on progress against the objectives, Under the articles of association of the Company, which remain relevant for the current year, was submitted the number of directors on the Board may be no to the Board in January 2012. more than fifteen.
Directors may be appointed by the Company by ordinary resolution or by the Board.
Removal of Directors All new appointments by the Board are subject The Company may by special resolution remove any to election by shareholders at the next AGM and Director before the expiration of his period of office and institutional shareholders are given the opportunity may by ordinary resolution appoint another person who to meet any newly appointed Director if they wish.
is willing to act to be a director in his place.
All the other Directors stand for re-election by shareholders annually.
Any Director automatically ceases to be a Director if: The Board appointed two new non-executive i they give the company a written notice of Directors during the year upon the recommendation resignation, of the Nomination Committee: the final decision with ii they give the company a written offer to resign regard to appointments always rests with the Board.
and the Board resolves to accept this offer, A professional search consultancy was appointed iii all of the other Directors remove them from for the purpose of finding suitable candidates.
An office by notice in writing served upon them, induction process is in place for new appointees iv in the written opinion of a registered medical and all Directors are encouraged to attend relevant practitioner they are or have become physically or training courses and seminars.
mentally incapable of acting as a Director and are The Board believes in the benefits of having a likely to remain so for more than three months, diverse range of skills and backgrounds, including v by reason of a Directors mental health, a court gender and length of service, on its board of makes an order which wholly or partly prevents that Directors.
All appointments will continue to be based director from personally exercising any powers or on merit and therefore the Board is unwilling to rights which that Director would otherwise have, commit to numerical diversity targets.
The Board vi a bankruptcy order is made against them or is also of the view that length of service will not they make any arrangement or composition with necessarily compromise the independence or their creditors generally, 28 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC vii they are prohibited from being a Director by law: or company directors to declare any interest in an viii they are absent from Board meetings for six actual or proposed transaction or arrangement with consecutive months without permission and the the Company.
other Directors resolve that their office should be vacated.
Nomination Committee The role of the Nomination Committee is to review Independence of Directors and make recommendations to the Board with The Board, which is composed solely of independent regard to: non-executive Directors, regularly reviews the i Board structure, size and composition, the independence of its members.
All the Directors balance of knowledge, experience, skill range have been assessed by the Board as remaining and diversity: independent of the Manager and of the Company ii succession planning and tenure policy: itself: none has a past or current connection with iii the criteria for future Board appointments the Manager and each remains independent in and the methods of recruitment, selection, character and judgement with no relationships or appointment and induction: circumstances relating to the Company that are likely iv the appointment of new Directors and the to affect that judgement.
re-appointment of those Directors standing for re-election at annual general meetings: Conflicts of interest v changes in committee membership: A company director has a statutory obligation to vi the attendance and time commitment of the avoid a situation in which he has, or potentially Directors in fulfilling their duties, including the could have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts extent of their other directorships: with the interests of the company a situational vii the question of each Directors independence conflict.
The Board therefore has procedures in prior to publication of the Annual Report and place for the authorisation and review of situational Accounts: conflicts relating to the Directors.
Limits can be viii the authorisation of each Directors situational imposed as appropriate.
conflicts of interests in accordance with the Other than the formal authorisation of the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and the Directors other directorships as situational conflicts, policy and procedures established by the Board no authorisations have been sought.
These in relation to these provisions: and authorisations were reviewed in January 2012, and ix the Directors contract for services and terms of each Director abstained from voting in respect of office as set out in their Letter of Appointment.
All of the Nomination Committees responsibilities The review included Sir Michael Bunburys nonhave been carried out over the course of 2011 and in executive chairmanship of HarbourVest Global January 2012.
HVGPE is The Committees terms of reference are available a Guernsey incorporated closed-end investment on request and can also be found on the Companys company listed on the Specialist Fund Market of the website at www.
Committee London Stock Exchange and Euronext Amsterdam.
membership is listed on pages 12 and 13 and HVGPE is advised by HarbourVest Advisers LP, attendance at meetings on page 27. an affiliate of HarbourVest Partners LLC, which also manages part of the Companys private equity Remuneration Committee portfolio.
Sir Michael Bunbury is not a partner of, As the Board has no executive Directors and no nor does he receive any fees from, HarbourVest employees, and is composed solely of non-executives, Partners LLC.
it does not have a remuneration committee.
Detailed Aside from situational conflicts, the Directors information on the remuneration arrangements for must also comply with the statutory rules requiring the Directors of the Company can be found in the Report and Accounts 2011 29 Corporate Governance Statement continued Directors Remuneration Report on pages 25 and Valuation and existence of investments.
26 and in note 6 on the accounts.
Accuracy and completeness of investment accounting entries.
Audit and Management Engagement Committee Recognition of income from the underlying investThe primary responsibilities of the Audit and ments.
Management Engagement Committee are to Foreign exchange and derivative gains losses.
monitor the integrity of the financial reporting and Accuracy and disclosure of expenses.
statements of the Company, and to oversee the audit Taxation charge and maintenance of section 1158 of the annual and half-yearly accounts and the internal status.
control and risk management processes.
Committee Cash balances and borrowings and calculation of membership is listed on pages 12 and 13 and interest.
its terms of reference can be found on the website Procedures relating to fraud and the prevention of at www.
All the committee material misstatement of the financial statements.
members are independent non-executive Directors.
Jeff Hewitt succeeded Sir Michael Bunbury as PwC confirmed at the meeting that they had no chairman of the committee on 1 November 2011.
Mr reason not to issue an unqualified audit report in Hewitt is a chartered accountant and was for many respect of the financial year ended 31 December years Group Finance Director of Electrocomponents 2011.
The unqualified audit report can be found on plc.
He is also the External Chairman of the Audit page 34. and Risk Committee of the John Lewis Partnership At each of its meetings the committee receives as well as being audit committee chairman of a report from the Managers Head of Internal other listed companies.
The other members of the Audit which include any internal audit and committee have a combination of financial, investment compliance monitoring reports of direct relevance and business experience through the senior posts to the Company.
In February 2012 the committee held throughout their careers.
The committee has received and reviewed the Report referred to direct access to PwC: the Head of Internal Audit of under Internal controls and management of risk the Manager: the Chief Risk Officer of the Manager below and an annual compliance report.
Following and to the Managers group audit committee and a recommendation from the committee, the Board reports its findings to the Board.
The Board retains has concluded that there is no current need for the ultimate responsibility for all aspects relating to external Company to have an internal audit function: all of the financial statements and other significant published Companys management functions are delegated financial information.
to the Manager, which has its own internal audit The committee met on four occasions during the department, and whose controls are monitored by the year with the Managers Head of Trust Accounting, Board.
Head of Internal Audit and the Fund Manager in Specifically, the committee considered, monitored attendance.
PwC attended the majority of the and reviewed the following matters throughout scheduled committee meetings and occasionally the year: met in closed session with the committee.
In carrying The audited results statements, annual and out its responsibilities the committee has considered half-yearly reports and accounts and interim the planning, arrangements and conclusions of the management statements: audit for the period under review.
PwC carried out an The accounting policies of the Company: interim audit for the half-year ended 30 June 2011 The effectiveness of the Companys internal control and in December 2011 the committee considered environment: and approved PwCs plan for the full year audit.
PwC The effectiveness of the audit process and submitted their report to the committee meeting in the independence and objectivity of PwC February 2012 in which they had highlighted the their reappointment, remuneration and terms of following areas of focus: engagement: 30 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC The policy on the engagement of PwC to supply skills and experience of the firm and the audit team.
non-audit services: The appointment has not been put out to tender The need for the Company to have its own internal notwithstanding PwCs tenure over many years as audit function: the committee, from direct observation and indirect The implications of proposed new accounting enquiry of management, remains satisfied that PwC standards and regulatory changes: continue to provide effective independent challenge The implementation of an anti-bribery policy and in carrying out their responsibilities.
Following procedures under the Bribery Act 2010: professional guidelines, the partner rotates after five The receipt of AAF reports or their equivalent from years and this is the third year for the current partner.
the Custodian, the private equity managers and the On the basis of this assessment, the committee has sub-managers and a due diligence report from the recommended the continuing appointment of PwC Companys share registrars: to the Board.
Their performance will continue to be The performance of the Companys third party reviewed annually taking into account all relevant service providers and administrators, and the fees guidance and best practice.
charged in respect of those services including The committee has also reviewed the provision those of the Manager and Custodian: of non-audit services, which cost 21,000 in 2011, Counterparty approval and the Managers dealing and considers them to be cost effective and not to efficiency and associated costs: compromise the independence of PwC.
The nonInvestment restrictions including limits on the audit services include taxation matters, assistance in writing of options and stocklending: analysing and mitigating risk, and the review of the Compliance with the provisions of the trust deed half-yearly results.
The Chairman of the committee is for the 11.25% debenture stock 2014: advised of non-audit work required and a decision to The Companys trade marks and intellectual authorise is taken on a case-by-case basis.
Further property rights: information can be found in note 5 on the accounts.
The ongoing development and maintenance of disaster recovery arrangements to seek to ensure Internal controls and management of risk continuity of business in the event of failure of The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys service providers: systems of internal controls, for reviewing their Directors and Officers Liability insurance: and effectiveness and ensuring that risk management The committees terms of reference.
and control processes are embedded in the dayto-day operations of the Company.
These controls The committee has reviewed, and is satisfied with, aim to ensure that the assets of the Company are the Managers Anti-Fraud, Bribery and Corruption safeguarded, proper accounting records are Strategy and Policy and with the whistleblowing maintained, and the financial information used within policy that has been put in place by the Manager under the business and for publication is reliable.
Control which its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about of the risks identified, covering financial, operational, possible improprieties in financial reporting or other compliance and overall risk management, is exercised matters.
The necessary arrangements are in place for by the Board through regular reports provided by the proportionate and independent investigation of such Manager on investment performance, performance matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
attribution, compliance with agreed investment As part of the review of auditor independence and restrictions, financial analyses, revenue estimates, effectiveness, PwC have confirmed that they are performance of the third party administrators of the independent of the Company and have complied F&C savings plans and on other management issues.
In evaluating PwC, The Managers Internal Audit Department prepares the committee has recognised the necessity for the a control report that provides details of any internal Manager and the Company to use different audit control failure.
A key risk summary is also produced firms and taken into consideration the standing, to help identify the risks to which the Company is Report and Accounts 2011 31 Corporate Governance Statement continued exposed and the controls in place to mitigate them, Relations with shareholders including risks that are not directly the responsibility Shareholder communication is given a high priority.
The Companys principal risks are addition to the annual and half-yearly reports that are set out on pages 17 and 18, with additional available to shareholders, monthly fact sheets and information given in note 26 on the accounts.
general information are available on the Companys The systems of internal controls are designed to website at www.
manage rather than eliminate risk of failure to achieve A regular dialogue is maintained with the Companys business objectives and can only provide reasonable, institutional shareholders and with private client but not absolute, assurance against material misasset managers.
As in previous years, the Chairman statement, or loss or fraud.
contacted the top institutional shareholders, as a The Board has carried out a risk and control result of which email correspondence took place with assessment concurrent with the approval of this a small number of these shareholders.
Reference to report and accounts, including a review of the significant holdings in the Companys ordinary shares Managers risk management infrastructure and can be found under Voting rights and proportional the report on policies and procedures in operation voting on page 19. and tests for the period 1 January to 31 December At annual general meetings, all investors have the 2011 the Report.
This has been prepared by opportunity to question and meet the Chairman, the the Manager for its investment trust clients to the Board and the Fund Manager.
standards of the Institute of Chartered Accountants All beneficial shareholders in the F&C savings in England and Wales Technical Release AAF 01 06. plans have the opportunity to vote using a form of Containing a report from independent external direction and have the right to attend, speak and accountants, the Report sets out the Managers vote at all meetings.
The Manager has stated that the control policies and procedures with respect nominee company will vote the shares held on behalf to the management of its clients investments of planholders who have not returned their voting and maintenance of their financial records.
The directions in proportion to the directions of those effectiveness of these controls is monitored by the who have.
Managers group audit committee, which receives Shareholders wishing to communicate with the regular reports from the Managers Internal Audit Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or any Department.
Procedures are in place to capture other member of the Board may do so by writing and evaluate failings and weaknesses and ensure to the Company, for the attention of the Company that action would be taken to remedy any significant Secretary, at the address set out on page 14 or by issues identified from this monitoring, which would emailing to FCITCoSec@fandc.
No material failings or weaknesses in respect of the Company were identified in the year under review.
By order of the Board for and on behalf of F&C Management Limited Secretary 2 March 2012 32 Foreign & Colonial Investment Trust PLC
