Back to contents Corporate Governance Statement Corporate Governance framework The Group operates within a clear governance framework, which is outlined in the diagram below and set out in the report that follows.
The Groups internal control and risk management framework is described below in the Internal Controls section.
The Board is responsible for: are responsible for constructively Certain responsibilities of the Board are determining the strategic direction of challenging proposals on strategy, delegated to the Board Committees to assist the Group scrutinising the performance of the Board in carrying out its functions and determining risk appetite management, determining levels of to ensure independent oversight of internal monitoring financial, risk and remuneration and for succession control and risk management.
Other nonoperating performance: and planning for the executive directors.
board committees form part of the engaging with shareholders The non-executive directors must also Corporate Governance framework, but are satisfy themselves on the integrity of not formally appointed committees of the The executive directors are directly financial information and that financial Board.
These Committees feedback to the responsible for running the business controls and systems of risk management main Board and Board Committees via an operations.
The non-executive directors are robust.
Hargreaves Lansdown Group plc Board External audit Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Committees Internal audit Executive Committee Non-Board Committees Investment Treasury Interest Rate IT Steering Risk Committee Committee Committee Group Committee Statement of compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code During the year ended 30 June 2011, Hargreaves Lansdown plc confirms it has applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code with the following exceptions: 1.
Composition of the Board including four non-executive directors of following the resignation of Jonathan Davis The Code states that at least half of the whom three were independent, and which at the end of December, the Nominations Board, excluding the Chairman, should benefitted from the presence of the two Committee commenced a search for a comprise independent non-executive founders who are also the largest replacement.
Subject to regulatory approval, directors.
We did not comply throughout the shareholders was a very strong Board.
We we hope to announce the conclusion of this year.
As reported last year, having appointed recognise that challenge from an effective search no later than the AGM which will add Chris Barling on 26 August 2011 we were independent non-executive team is two further independent non-executive satisfied that a Board of eight directors, important to the success of the Group and directors to the Board.
The timeline below indicates the composition of the Board throughout the period: 30.6.
11 Non-Compliant Compliant Non-Compliant One independent non-executive chairman One independent non-executive chairman One independent non-executive chairman Two independent non-executive directors Three independent non-executive Two independent non-executive directors directors Three executive directors One non-independent non-executive One non-independent non-executive directors directors Three executive directors Three executive directors 29 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents 2.
Composition of the Audit and Jonathan Davis retired from the Board Roles and responsibilities of the Board Remuneration Committees as a non-executive director on 31 The Board has overall responsibility for the The Code states that there should be at December 2010. management and performance of the Group, least 3 independent non-executive Stephen Lansdown was appointed as a and ensuring adequate succession planning directors on the Audit and Remuneration non-independent non-executive for senior management.
It sets the strategic Committees.
For the period from 30 June director on 26 August 2010 and direction of the Group, determines the 2010 to 26 August 2010, and from 31 stepped down as an executive director appropriate risk appetite, and ensures that December 2010 we did not comply with the on the same date.
sufficient resources are in place to achieve Code.
The recruitment of the two further Chris Barling was appointed as an the objectives set.
The Board reviews independent non-executive directors to the independent non-executive director on performance, including that of the Board and their appointment to the Audit 26 August 2010. management team and senior executives.
It and Remuneration Committees will bring is the decision-making body for all other us back into compliance.
Chris Barling has become Chairman of matters deemed material to the Group in Private Software Limited, and wholly strategic, financial and reputational terms.
The Companys auditor, Deloitte LLP, is owned subsidiaries, including Actinic The non-executive directors constructively required to review whether the above Software Limited previously director, challenge the management team and statement reflects the Companys and a director of WorriedNow Limited.
supplement the executive directors' compliance with the provisions of the UK Stephen Lansdown has become director of management expertise with a diversity of Corporate Governance Code specified for Pula Limited and Pula Properties Limited.
its review by the Listing Rules and to report There have been no other changes to the if it does not reflect such compliance: no other directorships held by the Board The Directors are also responsible for such report has been made.
More details on our ensuring that obligations to shareholders Board members, including other and other stakeholders are understood and Statement about applying the directorships, are on page 28. met, and that a satisfactory dialogue with principles of the Code shareholders is maintained.
All Directors We have applied the both the main principles Independence of non-executive are equally accountable to our and supporting principles set out in the Code, directors shareholders for the proper stewardship by complying with the Code as reported The Code sets out the circumstances that of our affairs and the success of the above.
Further explanation of how the should be relevant to the Board in Company.
principles and supporting principles have determining whether each non-executive been applied is set out in this Corporate director is independent.
We have given due Except for a formal schedule of matters Governance statement and in the Directors regard to provision B.
1.1 of the UK Corporate reserved for decision by the Board, the Board Remuneration report.
A copy of the Code is Governance Code and the Board has has delegated the day-to-day management publicly available on the Financial concluded that Chris Barling was of the Group to the Chief Executive who is Reporting Councils website at www.
independent on appointment in August supported by the Executive Committee and 2010, and that he and Jonathan Bloomer senior executives.
The Chief Executive and The Board were both independent directors throughout executive directors of the Group are the financial year.
Michael Evans was responsible to the Board for developing Board size, composition and changes independent on appointment as Chairman.
strategy and the profitability and overall during the year Jonathan Bloomer is currently the Senior performance of the Group.
As at 30 June 2011 there were seven Independent Non-Executive Director.
Directors on the Board: the Chairman, two There is a documented schedule of matters other independent non-executive directors, The Board has previously required all nonwhich are reserved for Board decision and one non-independent non-executive executive directors to be independent in approval.
These matters are significant to director and three executive directors.
The their judgement and free from any business the Group as a whole due to their strategic, size and composition of the Board is or other relationship that could interfere financial or reputational implications, and regularly reviewed by the Board and, in with the exercise of objective judgement.
include, but are not limited to, the agreement particular the Nominations Committee, to Although Stephen Lansdown cannot be of strategies, recommendation of dividends, ensure that there is an appropriate and considered to be independent due to being approval of acquisitions and major capital diverse mix of skills and experience.
co-founder and former executive Chairman expenditure.
In addition, it is only the Board of the Group, we believe that his who can appoint and remove Directors and During the year, the following changes appointment as a non-executive Director our Company Secretary.
The Board also has were made: adds significant benefit to the Board and overall responsibility for the Groups system that his wealth of experience more than of internal controls and risk management.
Peter Hargreaves stepped down as Chief offsets his non-independent status.
Risk management arrangements are Executive Officer on 2 September 2010 described below.
taking on the role of Executive Director.
The terms of reference of the non-executive Ian Gorham previously Chief Operating directors are available for inspection at the The roles of Chairman and Officer was appointed as Chief Companys registered office and during the Chief Executive Executive Officer on 2 September 2010.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief 30 Back to contents Executive are clearly defined, separate and meetings separate to those with the every third year.
The Board carried out an approved by the Board.
executive Directors, including meeting with internally facilitated board effectiveness the external auditor and the Head of review in the year.
The Review was led by The Chairman is responsible for the Internal Audit.
the Chairman and covered the effectiveness operation, leadership and governance of of the Board as a whole, its individual the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and Directors Directors and its Committees.
The outcome setting its agenda.
In conjunction with the Under the existing Articles of Association of the review was positive, with no Chief Executive and Company Secretary, all directors have to submit themselves for significant areas for concern.
The main the Chairman plans agenda items and re-election annually if they wish to area given further consideration was the timings for Board meetings.
The Chairman continue serving and are considered by the future structure and size of the Board, and ensures that the membership of the Board Board to be eligible.
All current directors in particular the desired skills and is appropriate to the needs of the business wish to be re-elected and the Board confirms competencies needed to enhance the and that Board committees carry out their that all individual performance reviews Boards existing skill sets.
These were key duties, including reporting back to the demonstrated that the directors continue to selection criteria used during the search for Board.
demonstrate effective performance and new non-executive directors.
The Chief Executive has executive Individual appraisal of each directors responsibilities for the operations, results The Company maintains insurance cover performance is undertaken by either the and strategic development of the Group.
He for up to 2 million for all directors and Chief Executive or Chairman each year and is responsible for the delivery of strategy officers of Group companies against involves meetings with each director on a and leads the executive management team.
liability which may be incurred acting as one-to one basis.
The non-executive directors and officers.
directors, led by the senior independent Board support director, carry out an appraisal of the The Company Secretary is responsible to the Training performance of the Chairman.
The Chief Board for ensuring Board procedures are Our Chairman is responsible for preparing Executives performance was evaluated by followed, applicable rules and regulations and implementing a personalised the Chairman and the non-executive are complied with and that the Board is induction programme for all new Directors, director team with input from the executive advised on governance and relevant to include guidance as to their duties, Directors.
All Directors have access responsibilities and liabilities as a director to the services of the Company Secretary.
We believe that the best Board committees way to learn about a business is to spend In order for Directors to fulfil their duties time within it, and we encourage new This section of the report sets out how the they can also seek independent professional Directors to spend time with our senior Board and its Committees work within the advice, at the Companys expense.
managers and executives in a number of Groups governance framework and business areas and to receive corporate governance guidelines.
Board meetings demonstrations of key operations and The Board convenes at least four times systems where relevant.
Certain responsibilities of the Board are each financial year, and five times in the delegated to the Board Committees to assist last financial year.
Our overall objective is to maintain and the Board in carrying out its functions and enhance professional standards for all our to ensure independent oversight of internal Meetings are held in such a way as to employees.
We believe that these control and risk management.
The three encourage robust and constructive standards are particularly important for all principal Board Committees Audit, challenge and debate which enables the staff who fall under the scope of the Remuneration, and Nomination play an non-executive directors to use their Financial Services Authority Training and essential role in supporting the Board in knowledge and experience to critically Competence rules.
All staff under the fulfilling its responsibilities.
The minutes of review strategies proposed by scope of these rules are required to perform each Board Committee meeting are management.
This approach ensures that certain training during a year.
circulated and noted by the Board.
we act in the long-term best interests of our shareholders.
Every director has access to appropriate The Board Committees all have formal Terms training throughout their appointment as of Reference that have been approved by the Between Board meetings, Directors are director and we regularly assess the Board, and performance of the Committees provided with monthly information packs requirement for director training as part of is assessed annually by the Board.
Each which include detailed commentary and each directors annual appraisal.
Committees terms of reference sets out the analysis.
To ensure that Directors are as specific matters for which delegated fully informed as possible, minutes are Board eectiveness and authority has been given by the Board.
circulated from each Committee, including performance evaluation These terms of reference are reviewed the Executive Committee, and each Board The Code recommends that an evaluation annually and the terms of reference of the meeting includes a report from the of the effectiveness of the Board and its Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees as appropriate.
The Chairman Committees is conducted annually and that Committee are available on the Groups and non-executive directors have also held the process is externally facilitated at least website www.
31 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents A summary of the terms of reference for Composition of the Audit Committee Audit Committee, its terms of reference and each committee is included in the The members of the Audit Committee at 30 expected time commitment by members, committee summaries below.
June 2011 were: and an overview of the Groups business, including the main business and financial Audit Committee Jonathan Bloomer - dynamics and risks.
New Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for Chairman Chartered Accountant members also meet some of the Groups assisting the Board in discharging its appointed 18 September 2006 staff, as appropriate.
On-going training responsibilities for: includes attendance at formal conferences, Chris Barling internal briefings and briefings by external monitoring of the financial reporting appointed 26 August 2010 advisers.
process including the integrity of the annual and interim reports, On an on-going basis, membership of the Meetings preliminary results and any other Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of The Audit Committee meets at least four formal announcements relating to the Committee at regular intervals and any times each year but more frequently when financial performance: recommendations for new appointments required, and met four times during this risk reporting: are made to the Nomination Committee for financial year.
The attendance by each reviewing the Groups internal onward recommendation to the Board.
director is set out in the table on page 34. financial controls and the Groups Appointments are for a period of three The Chairman, Head of Internal Audit, internal control and risk management years and are extendable by no more than Group Compliance Director, Group Finance systems: two additional three year periods.
The Director and Chief Executive are routinely monitoring and reviewing the Audit Committee structure requires the invited to, and attend, the majority of effectiveness of the Groups Internal inclusion of one financially qualified meetings, although the Committee reserves Audit function: member and our Committee Chairman the right to request any of these individuals making recommendations to the currently fulfils this requirement.
The external auditors also Board, for a resolution to be put to the attended all meetings, and periodically the shareholders for their approval in The Board expects the Audit Committee Committee also meets privately with the general meetings: in relation to the members to have an understanding of: external auditor and the Head of Internal appointment of the external auditor Audit.
and the approval of the remuneration the principles of financial reporting and terms of engagement of the including applicable accounting Overview of the actions taken by external auditor: and standards and statements of the Audit Committee to discharge reviewing and monitoring the external recommended practice: its duties: auditors independence and objectivity key aspects of the Groups operations During the 12 months to 30 June 2011 the and the effectiveness of the audit and systems of internal control: Audit Committee has undertaken the process, taking into consideration matters that influence or distort the following key responsibilities: relevant UK professional and presentation of accounts and key regulatory requirements.
figures: reviewed the financial statements in the the principles of, and developments in, 2010 reports and accounts and the The Audit Committee is required to report company law, sector-specific laws and interim report issued in February 2011. its findings to the Board, identifying any other relevant corporate legislation: As part of this review the Committee matters in respect of which it considers the role of internal and external received a report from the external that action or improvement is needed, and auditing and risk management: auditor on its audit of the annual make recommendations as to the steps to the regulatory framework for the reports and accounts and review of the be taken.
Groups businesses: and interim report: environmental and social responsibility received updates from the Risk The Audit Committee has also continued best practices.
Committee and considered the output to monitor our public interest disclosure from the Group-wide process used to Whistleblowing policy which contains The Board is satisfied that all of the identify, evaluate and mitigate risks: details of the process by which employees Committees members have a level of recent reviewed the effectiveness of the can raise, in confidence, complaints on and relevant commercial and financial Groups internal controls and accounting, risk issues, internal controls, knowledge and experience to satisfy the disclosures made in the annual report auditing issues and related matters for provisions of the Code, by virtue of their and accounts on this matter: reporting to the Audit Committee as having held various executive and nonreviewed and agreed the terms of appropriate.
executive roles in investment management engagement of the audit work to be and business management.
The Group undertaken by the external auditors: The Chairman of the Audit Committee will provides an induction programme for new considered a report from the external be available at the Annual General Audit Committee members and on-going auditor on its observations of controls Meeting to answer any questions about training to enable all of the Committee across the Group: the work of the Committee.
members to carry out their duties.
The agreed the fees to be paid to the induction programme covers the role of the external auditor for its audit of the 32 Back to contents 2011 accounts and interim report and Internal Audit Function The performance measurement of the reviewed the confirmation of auditor The Audit Committee is required to assist the Directors and key members of senior independence: Board to fulfil its responsibilities relating to management and the determination of undertaken an evaluation of the the adequacy of the resourcing and plans their annual remuneration package are performance of the Internal Audit of the Internal Audit department.
Having undertaken by the Committee.
The function and reviewed the level and conducted a review of the Internal Audit Committee also ensures that the nature of non-audit activity performed department the Committee is happy with remuneration relationship between the by Internal Audit: its resources and plans.
The previous Head Directors and senior employees of the reviewed the qualification and of Internal Audit resigned on 31 March Company is appropriate.
Any exceptional experience of the Internal Audit 2011, and a replacement has now been remuneration arrangements for senior department so that they can deliver an appointed.
During the intervening period, employees are advised to the Committee.
agreed programme of work: the Compliance Director was responsible undertaken an evaluation of the for the Internal Audit Function.
The Nomination Committee performance of the external auditor: The Nomination Committee leads the process received reports from the Head of Remuneration Committee for Board appointments, re-election and Internal Audit and Group Compliance The Remuneration Committee is responsible succession of directors and the Chairman.
Director on the work undertaken by for the framework or broad policy for the It is responsible for making recommendations Internal Audit and management fair remuneration of the executive directors to the Board concerning the composition responses to proposals made in the of the Company and its subsidiaries as well and skills of the Board including proposed audit reports issued by the function as their performance management.
The appointees to the Board, whether to fill any during the year: policy is determined with due regard to the vacancies that may arise or to change the reviewed the Groups Internal Capital interests of the Company and the number of Board members.
The Committee makes ICAAP report: recommendations to the Board.
No director The Committee is chaired by Jonathan reviewed the Groups Living Will: and plays a part in any discussion about his or Bloomer and its other members at 30 June reviewed its own effectiveness.
The Remuneration 2011 were Michael Evans and Chris Committee will meet at least twice per year Barling.
The Nomination Committee meets External Auditor and is governed by formal Terms of at least twice each year and the Committee The Audit Committee is responsible for the Reference, which are reviewed annually.
met four times during the year.
The development, implementation and attendance by each director is set out in the monitoring of the Groups policy on The Remuneration Committee met five table on page 34. external audit.
The policy assigns times during this financial year.
The oversight responsibility for monitoring the attendance by each director is set out in the We have a formal, rigorous and transparent independence, objectivity and compliance table on page 34.
Chris Barling was procedure for the appointment of new with ethical and regulatory requirements to appointed to the Committee on joining the directors to the Board.
The process involves the Audit Committee, and day to day Board on 26 August 2010.
Jonathan Davis the Nomination Committee interviewing responsibility to the Group Finance left the Committee when he stepped down suitable candidates who are proposed by Director.
The policy states that the external from the Board on 31 December 2010.
The existing Board members, by an external auditor is jointly responsible to the Board Committee is chaired by Jonathan Bloomer search company, or via searches performed and the Audit Committee and that the and its other members at 30 June 2011 by the Company itself.
Consideration will Audit Committee is the primary contact.
were Michael Evans and Chris Barling.
be given to ensure appointees have enough None of the Committee has any personal time available to devote to the role and that The Groups policy on external audit can be financial interest other than as the balance of skills, knowledge and found on the Groups website at shareholders, conflicts of interests arising experience on the Board will be www.
It sets out the categories of from cross-directorships or day-to-day maintained.
When the Committee has non-audit services which the external involvement in running the business.
found a suitable candidate, the Chairman auditor will and will not be allowed to of the Committee will make a proposal to provide to the Group, subject to fide minimis The Committees purpose is to: the whole Board and the appointment is levels and Audit Committee Chairman the responsibility of the whole Board approval.
The level of non-audit fees determine and recommend to the Board following recommendation from the during 2011 was nil 2010: nil.
the remuneration policy for the Committee.
executive Directors of the Company and The tenure of the current external auditor, of the subsidiary companies: During the year the activities of the Deloitte, is 5 years.
The tenure of the ensure the level and structure of Committee have included: current audit partner is 2 years.
Having remuneration is designed to attract, reviewing its terms of reference: conducted a review of the independence retain, and motivate the executive reviewing the requirements for and the effectiveness of the external Directors needed to run the Company potential independent non-executive auditor the Audit Committee has and the Group: and candidates: recommended to the Board that they are remonitor the level and structure of formulating of appropriate succession appointed.
plans: and 33 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents making recommendations to the Board the full Board only.
In particular, the Committee until he left the Group on 2 with regard to the appointment of Executive Committee is responsible to the August 2010, and Stephen Lansdown was directors.
Chief Executive for developing and a member until he became a non-executive monitoring every aspect of the Groups director on 26 August 2010.
In light of our non-compliance with the Code business on a continuing basis, for in respect of the composition of the Board, the developing and implementing business Biographies of the above are available on Committee has recommended the recruitment strategy as agreed by the Board and our website: www.
co. uk investorof a further two non-executive directors.
As ensuring that day-to-day operations are relations.
we have had great success in recruiting from conducted in accordance with the relevant our client base previously, the Committee regulatory and statutory requirements.
The Executive Committee meets at least have again decided it is appropriate to quarterly but more frequently when advertise the positions to a subset of our The Executive Committee is chaired by the required, and met four times during the clients.
An initial mailing of some 6,500 Chief Executive, Ian Gorham, and in his current financial year.
The attendance by clients has resulted in approximately 110 absence by Peter Hargreaves.
During the each director is set out in the table below.
Following the year the committee also comprised the selection criteria laid down by the Group Finance Director, Tracey Taylor, and Risk Committee Committee, and after two rounds of the following: The Risk Committee is chaired by the interviews, we have identified two preferred Nigel Bence Group Compliance Group Compliance Director and also candidates who we are in discussion with to Director comprises the Group Finance Director, potentially appoint in the near future.
Theresa Barry Group Marketing Chief Risk Officer and Head of IT.
The Director Committee reports back to the Board and Other committees Alex Davies Managing Director, the Audit Committee on the management of These committees form part of the Corporate Corporate & Pensions the major risks facing the Group as Governance framework, but are not formally Nick Marson Vantage and Broking assessed against the Groups Risk Appetite.
appointed non-executive committees of the Operations Director: and Board.
The two main Committees are the Ian Hunter Investment Marketing The Company also has a Treasury Executive Committee and the Risk Committee: Director.
Committee, which oversees changes to the treasury management policy, an Executive Committee Michael Evans, Mark Dampier, Lee Investment Committee, which monitors the The Board has delegated full authority to Gardhouse and Stuart Louden are invited investments held in the HL multi-manager the Executive Committee subject to a list of to attend the Executive Committee.
funds, as well as an Interest Rate matters which are reserved for decision by Andrew Christian was a member of the Committee and an IT Steering Group.
Attendance at meetings during the year by members of the Board and each committee Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Executive Meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee meetings meetings meetings meetings Directors Ian Gorham 1 3 3 --- 4 4 Peter Hargreaves 3 4 --- 3 4 Tracey Taylor 4 4 --- 4 4 Michael Evans 4 4 1 1 5 5 4 4 - Jonathan Bloomer 3 4 4 4 4 5 3 4 - Jonathan Davis 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 - Chris Barling 1 3 3 3 3 4 4 3 3 - Stephen Lansdown 4 4 ---- Executive Committee Theresa Barry ---- 3 4 Nigel Bence ---- 3 4 Alex Davies ---- 4 4 Nick Marson ---- 4 4 Ian Hunter ---- 4 4 Andrew Christian 2 ---- 1 1 Where Board meetings have been held for a specic purpose to discuss matters at short notice, all Board members are sent papers and given the opportunity to comment by telephone or email if they are unable to attend at short notice.
In addition to the four scheduled Board meetings during the year, one additional meeting was held to discuss and approve changes to the Companys share schemes.
1 attendance represents number of meetings held since date of appointment 2 attendance represents number of meetings held up until the date of resignation 34 Back to contents Relations with shareholders Internal controls We are committed to maintaining good communications with our shareholders.
Through the monitoring processes set out below, the Board has conducted a We have a programme of communication review of the eectiveness of the system of internal control during the year ended with shareholders based on our financial 30 June 2011. reporting calendar including the interim and annual reports, Interim Management The system of internal control is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the Statements, the AGM and the Investor risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not Relations section of the corporate website absolute assurance as to the eectiveness of the safeguards protecting the business against the risk of material error, loss or fraud.
In that context, the at www.
review, in the opinion of the Board, did not indicate that the system was ineective or unsatisfactory and the Board is not aware of any change to this status up to the In addition to this, the CEO, Group Finance date of approval of this Annual Report.
However, in acknowledgement that the Director and Chairman meet with business and the risks it faces are continually evolving and as part of a process of institutional investors after results continuous improvement, steps are being taken to further embed internal controls announcements and upon request on an and risk management into business operations.
ad-hoc basis during the year.
They, together with the Company Secretary, provide a point of contact for investors who wish to raise queries or concerns.
During the year Terms of External we have actively sought the views of major reference audit investors on our recruitment process for Organisational Internal structure and non-executive directors and have discussed Audit policies remuneration policy.
Jonathan Bloomer, our Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, was also available Group Group Risk to meet key investors.
Compliance Strategy Following dialogue with individual Internal control institutional shareholders, the Chairman, framework Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director ensured the Board was fully Group Management briefed on shareholders' views such that Finance Information any issues or concerns were fully understood and considered by the Board.
Analyst and broker briefings are regularly provided to the Board.
In addition, the Our values Risk Regulatory and culture Committee Groups brokers sought feedback from supervision and Remuneration investors following the 2010 final and monitoring policy 2011 interim results, and this feedback was reported to the Board.
All Directors made themselves available to meet shareholders at our AGM and they value the opportunity of welcoming Internal control framework committees also have clearly defined individual shareholders and other investors The Board is responsible for the Group's terms of reference.
The Board and to communicate directly and address their systems of internal control and risk Committee processes are fundamental to questions.
management and for reviewing their the effectiveness of our internal controls.
The key features of which To ensure compliance with the Code, at all are outlined in the chart above and Our business performance is monitored general meetings separate resolutions are detailed below: closely by the Board and senior proposed on each discrete subject.
management, in particular monitoring of: Resolutions have been passed on a show of Terms of Reference progress towards strategic objectives: hands, and proxy votes for, against and The Board operates within clearly financial performance, within a withheld for each resolution are displayed defined terms of reference, and it framework including forecasting, at the meeting.
Following the AGM, the reserves certain matters for its own financial reporting, reviewing results of voting are published through a consideration and decision.
It has variances against plan and taking Regulatory Information Service and on our established appropriate committees to appropriate management action: and website.
35 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents Organisational structure and policies Group accord with the Turnbull guidance, Group Finance The Board regularly reviews the Group's and are supported by reports from the The Group Finance department manages organisational structure to seek to ensure Internal Audit function which include our financial reporting processes to ensure that clearly defined lines of responsibility focus on significant risks faced by the the information which enables our Board exist, with appropriate delegation of Company.
to discharge its responsibilities is provided authority.
Periodic reviews take place to on a timely basis.
It ensures cost controls ensure that staff of the right calibre are Management information are in place and that the business employed, particularly in key roles.
Roles Detailed packs of key information are efficiently manages its resources.
It also and responsibilities are clearly circulated monthly to our senior produces a financial forecast based on the communicated to each member of staff management and Non-executive Directors.
strategic and operational plans of the within their Apportionment forms.
These This includes key financial and business which is continuously reviewed are reviewed annually and updated if operational performance indicators.
to determine the likely year-end outcome necessary.
and is used to plan and review regulatory Risk Committee capital requirements.
The Board regularly reviews the Group's The Risk Committee reports to the Board policies.
The Group's Treasury function and the Audit Committee on the Group Compliance operates within a well-defined policy management of the major risks facing the Our Compliance function manages designed to manage the Group's liquidity Group as assessed against the Groups relationships with the Group's key arrangements and to manage its exposure Risk Appetite.
regulators alongside identifying major to risks, such as interest rate risk and compliance and regulatory risks.
Remuneration policy Money Laundering Reporting Officer Risk management is imbedded into the MLRO forms part of the Compliance team Our public interest disclosure Apportionment Forms of every employee and is responsible for ensuring we have Whistleblowing policy encourages and awareness and mitigation of the risks suitable anti-money laundering AML employees to raise concerns about faced by the Company are key factors used procedures and controls.
The MLRO is anything that they suspect is fraudulent, to evaluate individual performance.
This also responsible for ensuring adequate corrupt, dangerous or seriously wrong.
policy creates an environment which AML training for all staff.
The MLRO They can raise concerns on a confidential ensures excessive risk taking is not specifically considers the risk of loss basis, enabling proportionate and rewarded.
through financial crime and the controls independent investigation to be in place to mitigate the risk of such loss.
Employees also have the opportunity to invest in regular Save As You Earn share Internal Audit We thoroughly investigate any allegations schemes as we believe that nothing better Our Internal Audit function reports to the of misconduct and irregularity and will encourage employees to look after the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of consider the implications for our control long-term future of the Company than key internal controls.
Due to the nature of our being shareholders themselves.
Similarly, business, Hargreaves Lansdown are exceptional performance by key External audit and subject to attempted fraud on a regular employees and senior managers will be regulatory supervision basis.
Strict processes and controls mean rewarded with the grant of executive share The majority of the activities of the Group, that we are able to identify attacks and awards which we believe will not only including the systems of business control, deal with them appropriately on a timely incentivise but will also assist retention of are subject to supervision by the Financial basis.
We are continually looking at ways key members of staff.
The Group is required of making our clients transactions with us on a regular basis to submit detailed more secure and have dedicated resource Our values and culture prudential and statistical returns covering within our Group Compliance team whose Any system of internal control is all areas of its business and meets focus is on managing client fraud risk.
dependent on the people operating it.
regularly with its supervisors, conducting Our Culture defines what we expect from the relationship in an open and Group Risk Strategy our people.
We pride ourselves on the constructive manner.
The Group Risk Strategy requires senior culture which exists within the Company.
managers to identify, evaluate and We have a one-firm mentality which In addition to the above, the Audit manage risks in their business units.
helps everyone take responsibility for the Committee also receives reports from our Regular meetings are held between whole of the business.
We have a saying external auditors.
department managers and the Chief Risk which says.. success comes from putting Officer to ensure that risk management the client first, Hargreaves Lansdown remains high on the agenda of the second and your department third.
Target dates for resolution of engenders service levels which many issues are continually monitored.
A other companies can only aspire to and summary of significant risks is provided ensures that the requirements of our within the Business Review.
clients are foremost in our employees Risk management processes within the decision making process.
36 Back to contents Directors report other information The Directors report and the year ended 30 June 2011 was 91.9 Exchange.
The Companys authorised and business review million 2010: 61.3 million.
issued share capital during the year and as Pages 1 to 39 inclusive of this Annual at 30 June 2011 is shown in note 21.
The report consist of a Directors report and Dividends are shown in note 10 to the ordinary shares rank pari passu in all business review that has been drawn up financial statements.
In addition to the respects.
Save as agreed at the Annual and presented in accordance with, and in first interim dividend of 4.5 pence per General Meeting of the shareholders, the reliance on, English company law.
The share, we have declared a second final ordinary shares have pre-emption rights in liabilities of the Directors in connection ordinary dividend of 8.41 pence per share, respect of any future issues of ordinary with that Directors report and business taking the total 2011 ordinary dividend to shares to the extent conferred by Section review shall be subject to the limitations 12.91 pence per share.
This total dividend 561 of the Companies Act.
and restrictions provided by the Companies payout equates to 65% 2010: 65% of Act 2006. post-tax profits.
Our policy is not to Restrictions on Transfer of Shares accumulate excess cash going forward and At the time of the flotation of the Company Forward-looking statements we are pleased to declare a special final during May 2007, the then directors of the The Directors report is prepared for the dividend of 5.96 pence per share.
This Company and directors of the subsidiary members of the Company and should not equates to a further 30% 2010: 25% of companies gave undertakings not to offer, be relied upon by any other party or for any post-tax profits.
Any special dividend in sell or contract to sell, pledge or otherwise other purpose.
Where the Directors report future years will depend upon future cash dispose of ordinary shares directly or includes forward-looking statements, these requirements and therefore may vary.
indirectly which were held by them on are made by the Directors in good faith Admission to the main market of the based on the information available to them Client Service London Stock Exchange and not sold as at the time of their approval of this report.
Hargreaves Lansdown aims to ensure that part of the flotation, other than in certain Consequently such statements should be we treat our clients fairly in every aspect of limited circumstances.
The restrictions treated with caution due to the inherent our dealings with them and to provide a have ceased to apply in their entirety uncertainties, including both economic first class service at all times.
Client service following the 2011 results announcement.
and business risk factors, underlying such is central to our corporate culture.
We strive The restrictions in place during the year forward-looking statements and to provide clear information to all our were as follows: information.
clients and aim to ensure that our services Following the results announcement and investment performance meet our for the financial year of the Company Principal Group Activities clients expectations.
Service ending on 30 June 2010 but prior to the Hargreaves Lansdown plc is the parent improvements are designed and targeted Results Announcement for the financial company of a group of companies which appropriately and we aim to ensure that year of the Company ended on 30 June offers a range of investment products, any advice we provide is suitable for our 2011, to such number of Shares as is investment services, financial planning clients.
We never impose unreasonable equal to 25 percent of the total number and advice to private investors and barriers to prevent clients from switching of Locked-in Shares.
advisory services to companies in respect their investments or from making a of group pension schemes.
beneficial owners of shares with of the business activities are contained in information rights the Operational review on pages 17 to 21.
If clients ever feel the need to complain, Beneficial owners of shares who have been our complaints handling team carefully nominated by the registered holder of those The subsidiary undertakings of the Group investigates our clients complaint and shares to receive information rights under during the year are listed in note 15 to the endeavour to provide them with a fair section 146 of the Companies Act 2006 are financial statements.
We benchmark our performance required to direct all communications to subsidiaries, Hargreaves Lansdown Asset in treating clients fairly against statistics the registered holder of their shares rather Management Limited, Hargreaves published annually by the Financial than to the Companys registrar, Equiniti Lansdown Stockbrokers Limited, Ombudsman Service for the industry.
The Registrars, or to the Group directly.
Hargreaves Lansdown Fund Managers results for the 2011 financial year Limited and Hargreaves Lansdown compared to the last figures published by Directors Interests Pensions Direct Limited, are authorised the Ombudsman show that Hargreaves During the period covered by this report, and regulated by the Financial Services Lansdown is achieving excellent results.
no director had any material interest in a Authority.
Complaints have fallen despite an increase contract to which the Company or any of its in client numbers.
subsidiary undertakings was a party other Group Results and Company Dividends than their own service contract, requiring Operating profit for the year ended 30 June Share Capital disclosure under the requirements of the 2011 was 124.4 million 2010: 85.4 The Companys shares are listed on the Companies Act 2006 except in respect of million.
The Group profit after taxation for main market of the London Stock the rental of the office premises at Kendal 37 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction Hargreaves Lansdown plc Report and Financial Statements 2011 Back to contents House as disclosed in note 26 to the Number and % of Number and % of financial statements.
Ordinary Shares Ordinary Shares at 30 June 2011 at 30 June 2010 Non-executive directors The directors who held office at 30 June J Bloomer 15,625 0.01% 15,625 0.01% 2011 had the following interests including beneficial interests in the shares of the C Barling -- Company.
These interests are exclusive of M Evans 15,625 0.01% 15,625 0.01% any interests under Share Options.
Details S Lansdown 95,500,000 20.13% 109,060,843 22.99% of Share Options which have been granted Executive directors to directors as at the date of this report pursuant to employee share schemes are I Gorham -- set out in the Directors Remuneration report.
P Hargreaves 152,717,606 32.20% 152,717,606 32.20% T Taylor 721,441 0.15% 721,441 0.15% Substantial Shareholdings Total 248,970,297 52.49% 262,531,140 55.35% As at 1 September 2011, the Company has not been notified of any changes in shareholdings amounting to more than 3 per cent of the issued share capital of the Company.
Model Code The Company has its own internal dealing rules which extend the FSA Listing Rules Model Code provisions to all employees.
Supplier Payment Policy The Companys policy, which is also applied by the Group, is to settle terms of payment with suppliers when agreeing the terms of each transaction, ensure that suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and abide by the terms of payment.
Trade creditors of the Group at 30 June 2011 were equivalent to 19 2010: 19 days purchases, based on the average daily amount invoiced by suppliers during the year.
Employment Policies Health and welfare Hargreaves Lansdown is committed to providing a safe and healthy environment in which its employees can work.
We use Health and Safety consultants on an ongoing basis to ensure that standards are maintained.
A new policy was released in August 2010, following the move to our new offices, and is available to all staff via our intranet.
Employee consultation Hargreaves Lansdown actively encourages employee involvement and consultation and places emphasis on keeping its employees informed of the Companys activities and financial performance by such means as the employee intranet and publication to all staff of relevant information and corporate announcements.
38 Back to contents Equality and diversity allotment of shares up to a maximum with a low working capital requirement: Hargreaves Lansdown recognises, respects nominal amount of 202,725.50, which indeed, the forecast cash flows show that and values difference and diversity.
We are represented the difference between the the Group will remain highly liquid in the an equal opportunities employer and it is Companys authorised and issued share forthcoming financial year.
our policy to ensure that all job applicants capital at 7 September 2011.
The directors and employees are treated fairly and on do not have any present intention of After reviewing the Groups financial merit regardless of their race, colour, exercising such authority and the authority forecasts including an assessment of nationality, ethnic origin, sex including will expire at the conclusion of the next regulatory and working capital, the gender reassignment, parental, marital or AGM after the passing of the proposed Directors are confident that the Company civil partnership status, disability, religion resolution.
and the Group have adequate financial or belief, sexual orientation, age or trade resources available to continue in union membership.
The resolution enabling the directors to operational existence for the foreseeable allot shares other than to existing future.
The going concern basis has The Group seeks to ensure all employees shareholders in proportion to their continued to be adopted in the preparation and applicants to its businesses are given shareholdings is limited to the allotment of of the financial statements.
equal opportunity in all aspects of shares up to a maximum nominal value of employment to ensure that the Group's 94,863.72, which represents 5% of the Disclosure of information to auditor businesses attract, retain and promote the total ordinary share capital in issue as at 7 Each of the persons who is a director at the best available talent.
All the businesses September 2011. date of approval of this annual report work to embed these principles in all confirms that: aspects of their management practices and Both of these resolutions seek authorities so far as the director is aware, there is to ensure that this is evident to employees which are in accordance with the current no relevant audit information of which in their day-to-day work.
We offer tangible guidelines issued by the Investment the Company's auditor is unaware: and support to our people, which includes Committees of the Association of British the director has taken all the steps that making arrangements for disabled Insurers and the National Association of they ought to have taken as a director, employees including those who may have Pension Funds.
in order to make themselves aware of become disabled during the course of their any relevant audit information and to employment with us.
A full assessment of Deloitte LLP have expressed their establish that the Company's auditor is the individuals needs is undertaken and willingness to continue in office as auditor aware of that information.
reasonable adjustments are made to the and a resolution to reappoint them will be work environment or practices in order to proposed at the forthcoming Annual This confirmation is given and should be assist those with disabilities.
interpreted in accordance with the provisions of s418 of the Companies Act Annual General Meeting Going concern 2006.
At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, the The Directors have assessed, in the light of following two items of special business will current and anticipated economic By order of the Board be tabled: conditions, the Groups ability to continue i Authority to purchase own shares: The as a going concern.
The principal risks that Judy Matthews Company was granted authority at the the Group is challenged with have been set Company Secretary AGM in 2010 to purchase its own out on pages 22 to 24 along with how the 13 September 2011 shares up to an aggregate value of 10% Directors mitigate these risks in the current of the issued nominal capital.
The Groups business authority expires at this years Annual activities, financial position, cash flows, General Meeting and a special liquidity position, together with the factors resolution will be proposed for its likely to affect its future development, renewal.
performance and position are set out in the Business Review.
In addition, note 27 to ii Directors authority to allot shares and the Financial Statements includes the waiver of pre-emption rights: Groups policy on capital management, its Resolutions are to be proposed as exposure to financial risks and its policies special business at the AGM on 26 and processes to manage those risks.
November 2011 to enable the directors to allot unissued shares and, subject to The Group maintains on-going forecasts the limits therein contained, to allot that indicate profitability in 2011 12 and shares for cash other than to existing beyond.
Stress test scenarios are shareholders in proportion to their undertaken, the outcomes of which show shareholdings.
that the Group has adequate capital resources for the foreseeable future even in The resolution enabling directors to allot extreme adverse economic conditions.
The unissued shares will be limited to the Groups business is highly cash generative 39 Financial Statements Governance Performance Review Strategic Review Introduction
