DIReCtoRs RePoRt continued Audit Committee An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all the independent non-executive Directors.
Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of reference which are available on request from the Company and on the Managers website: http: www.
Mr DCP McDougall is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Mr Cazalet to be a member of the Audit Committee as he is considered to be independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
The Committees responsibilities, which were discharged during the year, include: monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the half-yearly and annual financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: reviewing the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control and risk management systems: making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of their engagement: developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services there were no non-audit services during the year : reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the external auditor: reviewing the arrangements in place within HIML whereby their staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters insofar as they may affect the Company: reviewing the terms of the Investment Management Agreement: and considering annually whether there is a need for the Company to have its own internal audit function.
Ernst & Young LLP have been the Companys Auditor since 1994.
Having considered the experience and tenure of the audit director and staff and level of service provided, the Committee remains satisfied with the auditors effectiveness.
The auditor responsible for the audit is rotated every five years and the current lead audit director has been in place for one year.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
The Committee receives confirmation from the Auditor that they have complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements on independence.
The Committee does not believe that there has been any impairment to the Auditors independence.
Relations with shareholders The Board places great importance on communication with shareholders.
The Companys Manager meets regularly with larger shareholders and reports to the Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with the Chairman or any other Director may do so by writing to him at the registered office of the Company which is shown on page 4.
The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for each resolution is announced at the meeting and is published on the Managers website, http: www.
com, subsequent to the meeting.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at least twenty working days.
Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Company from the Managers website.
Corporate governance and stewardship The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the investment manager, HIML.
The Manager votes against resolutions it considers may damage shareholders rights or economic interests.
The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors when selecting and retaining investments and has asked the Manager to take these issues into account as long as the investment objectives are not compromised.
The Manager does not exclude companies from its investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG issues but adopts a positive engagement approach whereby matters are discussed with management with the aim of improving the relevant policies and management systems and enabling the Manager to consider how ESG factors could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be found on the Managers website at http: www.
The Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Conflicts of Interest Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding them, and makes a recommendation to the Board on whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
Board authorisation is given for a period of one year.
Having considered the lists of potential conflicts there were no situations which gave rise to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company.
