DIReCtoRs RePoRt continued Audit nomination Board Committee Committee number of meetings 5 2 1 Julian Cazalet 5 2 1 Clay Brendish 5 2 1 Timothy Curtis 5 2 1 Douglas McDougall 5 2 1 Mr SW Newton was appointed after the year end on 6 January 2012. nomination Committee The Nomination Committee consists of all the Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee also considers whether Directors should be recommended for re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for considering Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making recommendations to the Board on whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
The terms of reference are available on request and on the Managers website: http: www.
During the year, the Nomination Committee initiated the search for an additional Director.
The Committee identified the skills and experience that would strengthen the Board, having due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The overriding priority in appointing new Directors to the Board is to identify the candidate with the best range of skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The Committee considered several high quality candidates and identified Mr Stewart Newton as the preferred candidate due to his extensive investment experience.
Mr Newton was appointed to the Board on 6 January 2012.
Given the quality of the candidates identified, it was not necessary either to appoint external search consultants or use open advertising.
Performance evaluation The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance of the Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its Committees, after inviting each Director and the Chairman to consider and respond to a set of questions.
The appraisal of the Chairman was led by Mr DCP McDougall.
The appraisals and evaluations considered, amongst other criteria, the balance of skills of the Board, training and development requirements, the contribution of individual Directors and the overall effectiveness of the Board and its Committees.
Following this process it was concluded that the performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees continues to be effective and each Director and the Chairman remain committed to the Company.
The Board currently considers that the use of external consultants to facilitate this evaluation is unlikely to be a significant benefit to the process, though the option to do so is kept under review.
A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments was carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were no significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during the year.
Induction and training Training for new Directors is tailored to the particular circumstances of the individual appointee.
Regular briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that could affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors receive other relevant training as necessary.
Remuneration As all the Directors are non-executive there is no requirement for a separate remuneration committee.
Directors fees are considered by the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 31 and 32.
Internal Controls and Risk Management The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys risk management and internal controls systems and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company, in accordance with the guidance Internal Controls: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
