Corporate Governance Introduction The Board The Board recognises the importance of a strong corporate Disclosure under Principle 5 of the AIC Code governance culture that meets the listing requirements.
The Board The Board currently consists of four non-executive Directors.
In has put in place a framework for corporate governance which it accordance with Principle 2 of the AIC Code all of the non-executives believes is appropriate for an investment company.
All Directors are independent of the Investment Adviser.
contribute to the Board discussions and debates.
The Board believes in providing as much transparency for investors as is reasonably The Chairman, Mr Picken, met the independence criteria of the AIC possible.
It should be noted that as an Investment Company, most of Code Principle 1 upon appointment and has continued to meet the Companys day to day responsibilities are delegated to third this condition throughout his term of service.
Although not a parties, the Company has no employees and the Directors are requirement of the AIC Code, in accordance with guidance in non-executive.
Principle 1, the Board has a Senior Independent Director.
Mr Hallam was appointed as Senior Independent Director on 11 February 2010.
AIC Being non-executive Directors, no Director has a service contract with the Company.
The Company is a member of the Association of Investment Companies the AIC and has carefully considered the principles The Articles of Incorporation currently provide that at least one third and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance the of the Directors retire by rotation at each annual general meeting.
If AIC Code and has decided to follow the AICs Corporate their number is not three or a multiple of three, the number nearest Governance Guide for Investment Companies the AIC Guide.
The to but not exceeding one third, shall retire from office.
In accordance AIC Code and AIC Guide were updated in October 2010 to take into with Principle 3 of the AIC Code, all four Directors intend to retire and account the newly issued UK Corporate Governance Code.
offer themselves up for re-election at the forthcoming AGM in July and in order to facilitate this, a small amendment to the Articles On 30 September 2010, the Financial Reporting Council provided the will also be tabled.
AIC with an updated endorsement letter to cover the fifth edition of the AIC Code.
The endorsement confirms that the AIC Code fully The Board believes that long serving Directors should not be meets, for investment company boards, their obligations in relation automatically prevented from forming part of an independent to the UK Corporate Governance Code and paragraph LR9.8.
6 of the majority of the Board upon reaching nine years service.
accordance with Principle 4 of the Code, if a Director has served more than nine years, the Board will consider the issue of independence Guernsey Regulatory Environment carefully on an annual basis as part of the Board self-evaluation and During 2009 there were a number of changes to the regulatory regime will disclose its conclusions in the Directors Reports.
A number of provisions which were contained in the Control of Borrowing Bailiwick of Guernsey Ordinance, 1959 to As the Company was formed in 2006 no Director has yet served for 2003 COBO which governed closed-ended funds were nine years or more.
A Director who retires at an annual general consolidated into the Protection of Investors Bailiwick of Guernsey meeting may, if willing to act, be reappointed.
The Directors are not Law, 1987, as amended the POI Law which governed open-ended subject to automatic re-appointment.
funds and licensees so that the POI Law now governs both openended and closed-ended funds as well as licensees.
The Board believes that the balance of skills, experience, knowledge of the Groups investments and mixed length of service Closed-ended funds are now Category 1 controlled investments on the Board provides for a solid base in which the interest of under the POI Law.
The changes have also codified in the POI Law investors will be served to a high standard.
The Board recommends a number of standard conditions and ongoing notification the re-election of each Director and supporting biographies, requirements imposed on the licensees of funds which were listed including length of service, are disclosed on page 34 of this annual on the funds COBO consent, but were not explicitly set out in COBO.
report, together with a list of other public company directorships for It is intended that the changes will simplify Guernseys investment each Director.
fund regime by categorising all funds whether open-ended or closed-ended as either registered schemes or authorised schemes.
The Board meets at least four times a year and between these formal meetings there is regular contact with the Investment Adviser, the The Directors have determined that the Company will continue as an Secretary and the Companys Joint Brokers.
The Directors are kept Authorised Closed-Ended Investment Scheme.
fully informed of investment and financial controls, and other matters that are relevant to the business of the Company that should be brought to the attention of the Directors.
The Directors also have access, where necessary in the furtherance of their duties, to independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 39 Corporate Governance continued The attendance record of Directors for the year to 31 March 2011 is set out below: Quarterly Management board Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee 4 4 221 Meetings Attended: G Picken 4 n a 221 J Hallam 4 4 221 H Grisius 11 n a n a n a S Evans 4 4 221 C Russell 22111 During the year a further 11 ad-hoc Board Committee meetings For the evaluation of the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director were held to deal with matters substantially of an administrative discussed the results of the questionnaire with the Chairman prior to nature and these were attended by those directors available at the further distribution to the remaining Directors.
These included meetings to discuss the proposed change of ownership of the Investment Adviser.
For the year to 31 March 2012, the Directors are currently proposing engaging an independent third party to carry out this evaluation in As previously mentioned, the Board has a breadth of experience accordance with Principle 7 of the AIC Code.
relevant to the Company, and the Directors believe that any changes to the Boards composition can be managed without undue Delegation of Responsibilities disruption.
With any new Director appointment to the Board an The Board has delegated the following areas of responsibility.
induction process is tailored to ensure that it would be appropriate for the appointee.
Upon any such appointment the new Director The day-to-day administration of the Company has been delegated would be available to meet Shareholders upon request.
to Dexion Capital Guernsey Ltd in its capacity as Company Secretary and Administrator.
The Board considers agenda items laid out in the notice and agenda of meeting which are formally circulated to the Board in advance of The Investment Adviser has two roles, Adviser to the Company and the meeting as part of the Board papers.
Directors may request any Operator of the Groups limited partnership which owns the Groups agenda items to be added that they consider appropriate for underlying investments.
Additionally, each Director is required to inform the Board of any potential or actual conflicts of interest prior to The role as Adviser includes preparing the semi annual valuations, Board discussion.
the statutory accounts, the management accounts, business plans, presenting results and information to shareholders, coordinating all The Board constantly considers the Companys strategy with regard service providers to the Group and giving the Board general advice to market conditions and feedback from shareholders.
investment strategy, which is set out in the Companys latest prospectus, is reviewed regularly with the Investment Adviser.
The role of Operator includes running the partnership and taking direct responsibility for the decisions relating to the day to day The primary focus at Board meetings is a review of investment running of the Groups investment portfolio, the Groups debt performance and associated matters such as marketing investor facilities, swap arrangements, and the sourcing of new investments.
relations, risk management, gearing, general administration and Members of the Investment Advisers asset management team are compliance, peer group information and industry issues.
appointed as directors of the Groups project companies and as part of their role in actively managing the portfolio, they attend board Performance Evaluation meetings and make appropriate decisions.
Material decisions are The Board evaluates its performance and considers the tenure and referred back to the Investment Advisers investment committee for independence of each Director on an annual basis, and believes that consideration and determination.
the mix of skills, experience and length of service are appropriate to the requirements of the Company.
The annual evaluation for the year ended 31 March 2011 has been completed and took the form of questionnaires followed by discussions to identify how the effectiveness of its activities, including its Committees, policies or processes might be improved.
The results of the evaluation process were presented to and discussed by the Board and it was agreed that the current composition of the Board and its Committees reflected a suitable mix of skills and experience, and that the Board, as a whole, and its Committees were functioning effectively.
40 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 Committees of the Board The committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nomination Committee, and the Management Engagement Committee.
Terms of reference for each committee have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman and members of each committee as at 31 March 2011 are as follows: Management Audit Remuneration Nomination Engagement Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr G Picken Mrs S Evans Members Mrs S Evans Mr J Hallam Mrs S Evans Mr J Hallam Mr C Russell Mr G Picken Mr J Hallam Mr G Picken Mrs S Evans Mr C Russell Mr C Russell Audit Committee 0.5m for the year ended 31 March 2011 of which 0.1m related to The Audit Committee has been in operation throughout the year.
The the audit of the Group, 0.2m related to audit of the Groups project Audit Committee, chaired by Mr J Hallam, operates within clearly subsidiaries and other audit related services, and 0.2m was in defined terms of reference and comprises all the Directors except for respect of audit and tax advisory work for project companies in which Mr G Picken.
It met four times in the year to 31 March 2011. the Group has an investment.
The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities Notwithstanding such services the Audit Committee considers KPMG include reviewing the Annual and Interim Accounts, the system of Channel Islands Limited to be independent of the Company and that internal controls, and the terms of appointment of the auditors the provision of such non-audit services is not a threat to the together with their remuneration.
It is also the formal forum through objectivity and independence of the conduct of the audit.
which the auditors report to the Board of Directors and meets at least twice yearly.
The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Nomination Committee Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which the The main terms of reference of the committee are: external auditors are appointed to perform non-audit services and the fees paid to them or their affiliated firms overseas.
regularly review the structure, size and composition required of the Board and make recommendations to the Board with regard The main duties of the Audit Committee are: to any changes including skills, knowledge and experience in accordance with Principle 6 of the AIC Code : considering and recommending to the Board for approval the give full consideration to succession planning for directors contents of the half yearly and annual financial statements and taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the reviewing the external auditors report thereon: Company: and reviewing the scope, results, cost effectiveness, independence be responsible for identifying and nominating for the approval of the and objectivity of the external auditors: Board, candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
reviewing and recommending to the Board for approval the audit and non-audit fees payable to the external auditors and the terms The Nomination Committee has met once in the year to 31 March of their engagement: 2011 and has recommended to the Board that the current composition of the Board remains appropriate.
The Committee has reviewing and approving the external auditors plan for the succession planning on its agenda and has commenced discussions following financial year: over the need, in due course, to recommend further appointments reviewing the appropriateness of the Companys accounting with succession planning in mind.
policies: and ensuring the adequacy of the internal control systems and Remuneration Committee standards.
The terms of reference of the Committee are to determine and agree the Board policy for the remuneration of the directors of the The external auditors and the third party expert valuers are invited to Company, including the approval of any ad-hoc payments in respect attend the Audit Committee meetings at which the annual and of additional corporate work required e. g. for the work involved with interim accounts are considered and at which they have the the C share issue.
opportunity to meet with the Committee without representatives of the Investment Adviser being present.
Remuneration Policy The Remuneration Committee has received independent professional The Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost advice in respect of their roles, responsibilities and fees.
effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to non-audit fees.
Total fees paid amounted to H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 41 Corporate Governance continued All Directors of the Company are non-executive and as such there are: At these meetings and in the subsequent Board meetings, the likely impacts arising from the change of ownership of the Investment No service contracts with the Company: Adviser were considered and advice sought.
Reassurance was sought from the Investment Adviser that it had the appropriate No long-term incentive schemes: and procedures, polices controls, and corporate governance in place, and No options or similar performance incentives.
where it had historically relied on services provided by the HSBC Group, suitable alternatives would be provided.
The Directors remuneration shall: As a result of these deliberations certain changes in favour of the reflect the responsibility, experience, time commitment and Company were agreed, the continuing appointment of the Investment position on the Board: Adviser was found to be in the best interests of the shareholders as a allow the Chairman and Chairman of the Audit Committee to be whole, and the Investment Advisers agreement was amended and remunerated in excess of the remaining board members to reflect signed in March 2011. their increased roles of responsibility and accountability: All Terms of Reference for Committees are available from the be paid quarterly in arrears: Company Secretary upon request.
include remuneration for additional, specific corporate work which shall be carefully considered and only become due and Internal Controls payable on completion of that work: and The Board is responsible for the Companys system of internal control will be reviewed by an independent professional consultant with and for reviewing its effectiveness, and the Board has therefore experience of Investment Companies and their fee structures, at established an ongoing process designed to meet the particular least every three years.
needs of the Company in managing the risks to which it is exposed.
The Remuneration Committee met twice in the period to 31 March The process is based on a risk-based approach to internal control 2011 and engaged independent fee consultants, Trust Associates, to through a matrix which identifies the key functions carried out by the carry out a review of the workload and responsibilities of each Investment Adviser and other key service providers, the various Director and to benchmark these roles with other similar activities undertaken within those functions, the risks associated comparatives and advise on what fee levels are appropriate.
with each activity and the controls employed to minimise those risks.
A residual risk rating is then applied.
The matrix is regularly updated This work concluded in April 2010 with a report from Trust and the Board is provided with regular reports highlighting all Associates, with fee recommendations for the years ending 31 March material changes to the risk ratings and the action which has been, 2011 and 31 March 2012.
The Committee recommended the Trust or is being taken.
Associates proposals for the year to 31 March 2011 and this was approved by the Board, and adopted for the year to 31 March 2011.
By their nature these procedures will provide a reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Committee has recommended that the fees are increased for the coming year again in line with the Trust Associates recommendation At each Board meeting the Board also monitors the Groups and the Board has approved this increase in annual fees payable as investment performance in comparison to its stated objective and it set out in the Directors Report for the year to 31 March 2012.
The reviews the Groups activities since the last Board meeting to ensure Board has decided to seek shareholder approval on these fees at the that the Investment Adviser and the Operator adhere to the agreed AGM on 25 July 2011. investment policy and approved investment guidelines.
Management Engagement Committee Further, at each Board meeting, the Board receives reports from the The terms of reference of this committee are to review the Company Secretary and Administrator in respect of compliance relationships between the Company and its main service providers, matters and duties performed by them on behalf of the Company.
including their performance, compliance with their contracts, and levels of fees paid.
Recommendations from the Committees review The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit function and it are given to the Board for consideration and action.
has decided that the systems and procedures employed by the Investment Adviser and the Secretary, including their own internal The Management Engagement Committee met twice in the period to review processes and the work carried out by the Groups external 31 March 2011, and reviewed the performance of the key service auditors, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of providers to the Group and the Company.
No material weaknesses internal control, which safeguards the Companys assets, is were identified, some recommendations were conveyed to certain maintained.
An internal audit function specific to the Group is providers, and the recommendation to the Board was that the therefore considered unnecessary.
current arrangements are appropriate and provide good quality services and advice to the Company and the Group.
42 H ICL A N N U A L R E P O R T & A C COU N T S 2011 The Board recognises that these control systems can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss, and relies on the operating controls established by both the Company Administrator and the Investment Adviser.
The Investment Adviser prepares both management accounts and updates business forecasts on a quarterly basis, which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities and review its performance.
The Board and the Investment Adviser have agreed clearly defined investment criteria, return targets, risk appetite, and exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including operating performance, cash projections, and investment valuations, are submitted to the Board at each quarterly meeting.
Relations with Shareholders AIC Code Principle 19 The Company welcomes the views of shareholders and places great importance on communication with its shareholders.
The Investment Adviser produces a quarterly factsheet which is available on the Companys website.
Senior members of the Investment Adviser make themselves available at all reasonable times to meet with principal shareholders and key sector analysts.
Feedback from these meetings is provided to the Board on a regular basis.
The Board is also kept fully informed of all relevant market commentary on the Company by the Investment Adviser, the Companys Joint Brokers, and the Companys Financial PR agency.
By way of assisting shareholders to understand our portfolio of investments, we have held successful site visits to two of the Groups investments.
The presentations from these visits are available from the Companys website www.
com In addition, members of the Board met some shareholders at an evening event held in London in September and a lunch in Edinburgh in October, arranged by the Brokers.
It is the Boards intention to continue to meet with shareholders periodically to facilitate open two way communication on the development of the Company.
The Company reports formally to Shareholders twice a year and a proxy voting card for the AGM is sent to shareholders with the Annual Report and accounts.
Results of Extraordinary and Annual General Meetings are announced by the Company on the day of the relevant meeting.
Additionally, the Interim Management Statements and the current information provided to eligible Shareholders on an on-going basis through the Companys website page and newsletter assist in keeping Shareholders informed.
The Secretary and Registrar monitor the voting of the Shareholders and proxy voting is taken into consideration when votes are cast at the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders may contact the Directors via the Company Secretary, whose contact details are found on page 92 of the report and accounts.
