Supplier payment policy.............................................. 253 Former appointments include: Group Finance Dividends and shareholders........................................ 253 Director and Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director, Risk and Regulation.
Co-Chairman of the Corporate Governance Report Counterparty Risk Management Policy Group III: Chairman of the Financial Reporting Councils The statement of corporate governance practices set review of the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control: out on pages 218 to 277 and information a member of the Accounting Standards Board and incorporated by reference constitutes the Corporate the Standards Advisory Council of the International Governance Report of HSBC Holdings.
The reports Accounting Standards Board: served on the Large of Board Committees are contained within the Business Forum on Tax and Competitiveness and the Corporate Governance Report.
Consultative Committee of the Large Business Advisory Board of HM Revenue and Customs: and a former partner in KPMG.
Ceased to be Chairman and a member of the Nomination Committee on 2 December 2011.
Ceased to be a non-executive director of BP p. l. c. on 14 April 2011.
S T Gulliver, 52 Group Chief Executive Skills and experience: a career banker with over 30 years international experience with HSBC: has held a number of key roles in the Groups operations worldwide, including in London, Hong Kong, Tokyo, Kuala Lumpur and the United Arab Emirates: played a leading role in developing and expanding Global Banking and Markets, the wholesale banking division of the Group with operations in over 65 countries and territories.
Appointed to the Board: 2008 218 Current appointments include: Group Chief director of Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Executive and Chairman of The Hongkong and Limited: and Tata Consultancy Services Limited: Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited since Chairman of the ICAC Advisory Committee on 1 January 2011: Chairman of HSBC France: and Corruption: a Hong Kong Deputy to the 11th Chairman of the Group Management Board.
National Peoples Congress of China: a member of the Advisory Board of the Yale School of Former appointments include: Chairman, Europe, Management, Millstein Center of Corporate Middle East and Global Businesses: Chairman of Governance, and Performance at Yale University: a HSBC Bank plc and of HSBC Bank Middle East Senior International Advisor for Foundation Asset Limited: Head of Global Banking and Markets: Management Sweden AB: and a member of the State Co-Head of Global Banking and Markets: Head Bar of California.
of Global Markets: Head of Treasury and Capital Markets in Asia-Pacific.
Ceased to be Deputy Former appointments include: non-executive Chairman of HSBC Trinkaus & Burkhardt AG and director of Bank of Communications Co. Ltd. a member of its Supervisory Board on 7 June 2011: Baoshan Iron and Steel Co. Limited, Johnson and Chairman of HSBC Private Banking Holdings Electric Holdings Limited, and China Telecom Suisse SA on 6 December 2011.
Corporation Limited: and Chairman of the University Grants Committee in Hong Kong.
S A Catz, 50 M K T Cheung, GBS, OBE, 64 Skills and experience: a background in international business leadership, having helped transform Oracle Member of the Group Audit Committee.
into the largest producer of business management Skills and experience: a background in international software and the worlds leading supplier of software business and financial accounting, particularly in for information management.
greater China and the wider Asian economy: retired Appointed to the Board: 2008 from KPMG Hong Kong in 2003 after more than 30 years: awarded the Gold Bauhinia Star by the Current appointments include: President and Hong Kong Government.
Fellow of the Institute of Chief Financial Officer of Oracle Corporation.
Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
Joined Oracle in 1999 and appointed to the board of directors in 2001.
Appointed to the Board: 2009 Former appointments include: Managing Director Current appointments include: non-executive of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
director of Hang Seng Bank Limited: non-executive chairman of the Airport Authority Hong Kong: nonexecutive director of HKR International Limited: L M L Cha, GBS, 62 non-official member of the Executive Council of the Hong Kong SAR: non-executive chairman of the Member of the Corporate Sustainability Committee.
Council of the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology: and a director of The Association of Skills and experience: extensive regulatory and Former Council Members of The Stock Exchange policymaking experience in the finance and of Hong Kong Limited and The Hong Kong securities sector in Hong Kong and mainland China: International Film Festival Society Ltd. formerly Vice Chairman of the China Securities Regulatory Commission, being the first person Former appointments include: non-executive outside mainland China to join the Central director of Sun Hung Kai Properties Limited and Government of the Peoples Republic of China at Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited: vice-ministerial rank: awarded Gold and Silver Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of KPMG Bauhinia Stars by the Hong Kong Government for Hong Kong: and a council member of the Open public service: formerly Deputy Chairman of the University of Hong Kong.
Securities and Futures Commission in Hong Kong: and has worked in the US and Asia.
Appointed to the Board: 1 March 2011 Current appointments include: non-executive Deputy Chairman of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited: non-official member of the Executive Council of Hong Kong SAR: a 219 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Directors Former appointments include: Chairman of J D Coombe, 66 Allianz Global Investors  and Allianz Global Investors Deutschland GmbH: Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and Chairman of the board of management of Allianz member of the Group Risk Committee and Group Global Investors Italia SGR SpA: a member of the Remuneration Committee.
advisory board of Allianz SpA: and a member of the supervisory board of Bayerische Boerse AG.
Skills and experience: a background in international business, financial accounting and the pharmaceutical industry: formerly Chief Financial R A Fairhead, CBE, 50 Officer of GlaxoSmithKline with responsibility for the groups financial operations globally.
Fellow of Chairman of the Group Risk Committee and member the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England of the Group Audit Committee and Nomination and Wales.
Appointed to the Board: 2005 Skills and experience: a background in international Current appointments include: non-executive industry, publishing, finance and general Chairman of Hogg Robinson Group plc: a nonmanagement: formerly Finance Director of Pearson executive director of Home Retail Group plc: and a plc with responsibility for overseeing the day-to-day council member of The Royal Academy of Arts.
running of the finance function and directly responsible for global financial reporting and Former appointments include: executive director control, tax and treasury.
Has a Masters in Business and Chief Financial Officer of GlaxoSmithKline plc: Administration from the Harvard Business School.
non-executive director of GUS plc: a member of the Supervisory Board of Siemens AG: Chairman of The Appointed to the Board: 2004 Hundred Group of Finance Directors: and a member Current appointments include: Chairman, Chief of the Accounting Standards Board.
Executive Officer and a director of Financial Times Group Limited.
A director of Pearson plc and a nonJ Faber, 61 executive director of The Economist Newspaper Limited: and a non-executive member of the board of the UK Governments Cabinet Office.
Member of the Group Risk Committee from 1 March 2012.
Former appointments include: Executive Vice President, Strategy and Group Control of Imperial Skills and experience: a background in banking and Chemical Industries plc: Finance Director of Pearson asset management with significant international plc: and Chairman and a director of Interactive Data experience, having worked in Germany, Tokyo, New Corporation.
York and London: former Chief Executive Officer of Allianz Global Investors AG and a member of the management board of Allianz SE until 31 December A A Flockhart, CBE, 60 2011: 14 years experience with Citigroup Inc. Chairman, Europe, Middle East, Latin America, holding positions in Trading and Project Finance and Commercial Banking as Head of Capital Markets for Europe, North America and Japan.
Has a doctorate from the Skills and experience: a career banker, being an University of Administrative Sciences in Speyer.
emerging markets specialist with over 35 years Appointed to the Board: from 1 March 2012 experience with HSBC in Latin America, the Middle East, US and Asia: honoured with a CBE in Current appointments include: Chairman of Joh recognition of his services to British business and A. Benckiser SARL and Chair of the Investment charitable services and institutions in Mexico.
Joined Board of the Stifterverband for the Deutsche HSBC in 1974.
Wissenschaft: independent director of Deutsche Borse AG, Coty Inc. : a member of the advisory Appointed to the Board: 2008 board of the Siemens Group Pension Board, and the Current appointments include: Chairman of HSBC boards of management of Deutsche Krebshilfe and Bank plc since 1 January 2011 and a director of the European School for Management and HSBC Bank Middle East Limited since 7 July 2011: Technology: and a member of the Berlin Centre for Chairman of HSBC Latin America Holdings UK Corporate Governance, the German Council for Limited: a director of HSBC Bank Australia Limited: Sustainable Development and Allianz Climate and a member of the Group Management Board.
220 Former appointments include: Chairman, Personal Former appointments include: Executive Vice and Commercial Banking: Chief Executive Officer President of Chevron Corporation: a non-executive of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking director of Hanson PLC: Chief Executive Officer of Corporation Limited: a director of HSBC Bank Enterprise Oil plc: and President and Chief China Company Limited and Hang Seng Bank Operating Officer of Amerada Hess Corporation.
Limited, vice-chairman and a director of HSBC Bank Vietnam Limited: Chairman, HSBC Bank J P Lipsky, 65 Malaysia Berhad: Chairman, President and Group Managing Director, Latin America and the Member of the Group Risk Committee from 1 March Caribbean: Chief Executive Officer, Mexico: Senior 2012.
Executive Vice-President, Commercial Banking, HSBC Bank USA, N. A. : Managing Director of The Skills and experience: international experience Saudi British Bank.
having worked in Chile, New York, Washington and London and interacted with financial institutions, central banks and governments in many countries: J W J Hughes-Hallett, SBS, 62 served at the International Monetary Fund as First Deputy Managing Director, Acting Managing Member of the Group Risk Committee and Director from 14 May 2011 and as Special Advisor Nomination Committee.
from 1 September 2011 until retirement on Skills and experience: a background in financial 11 November 2011.
Has a PhD from Stanford accounting and experience of management of a University.
broad range of international businesses, including Appointed to the Board: from 1 March 2012 aviation, insurance, property, shipping, manufacturing and trading in the Far East, UK, US Current appointments include: Distinguished and Australia: awarded the Silver Bauhinia Star by Visiting Scholar, International Economics Program the Hong Kong Government.
Fellow of the Institute at the Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
International Studies, Johns Hopkins University: co-director of the Aspen Institute Program on the Appointed to the Board: 2005 Global Economy: director of the National Bureau of Current appointments include: Chairman of John Economic Research: a member of the advisory board Swire & Sons Limited: non-executive director of of the Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Cathay Pacific Airways Limited and Swire Pacific Research and the Council on Foreign Relations.
Limited: a trustee of the Dulwich Picture Gallery and Former appointments include: Vice Chairman J P the Esme Fairbairn Foundation: a member of The Morgan Investment Bank: director of the American Hong Kong Association and the Governing Board of Council on Germany and the Japan Society: and a the Courtauld Institute of Art.
trustee of the Economic Club of New York.
Former appointments include: non-executive director of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking J R Lomax, 66 Corporation Limited.
Member of the Group Audit Committee and Group W S H Laidlaw, 56 Risk Committee.
Skills and experience: experience in both the public Member of the Group Remuneration Committee.
and private sectors and a deep knowledge of the Skills and experience: significant international operation of the UK government and financial experience, particularly in the energy sector, having system.
had responsibility for businesses in four continents.
Appointed to the Board: 2008 Qualified Solicitor and Masters in Business Administration from INSEAD.
Current appointments include: non-executive director of The Scottish American Investment Appointed to the Board: 2008 Company PLC, Reinsurance Group of America Inc. Current appointments include: Chief Executive Arcus European Infrastructure Fund GP LLP and Officer of Centrica plc: a member of the UK Prime BAA Limited: a director of the Council of Imperial Ministers Business Advisory Group: and the Lead College, London: and President of the Institute of Non-executive Board Member of the Department for Fiscal Studies.
221 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Directors Senior management Former appointments include: Deputy Governor, and Lafarge North America, Inc. Monetary Stability, at the Bank of England and a member of the Monetary Policy Committee: N R N Murthy, CBE, 65 Permanent Secretary at the UK Government Departments for Transport and Work and Pensions Chairman of the Corporate Sustainability and the Welsh Office: and Vice President and Chief Committee.
of Staff to the President of the World Bank.
Skills and experience: experience in information technology, corporate governance and education, I J Mackay, 50 particularly in India: founded Infosys Limited in Group Finance Director India: was its Chief Executive Officer for 21 years: under his leadership Infosys established a global Skills and experience: extensive financial and footprint and was listed on NASDAQ.
international experience, having worked in London, Paris, US and Asia.
Member of the Institute of Appointed to the Board: 2008 Chartered Accountants of Scotland.
Joined HSBC in Current appointments include: Chairman Emeritus 2007. of Infosys Limited: a director of the United Nations Appointed to the Board: 2010 Foundation and Catamaran Management Services Pvt.
Ltd. Current appointments include: member of the Group Management Board.
Former appointments include: former Chief Executive Officer of Infosys Limited: a director of Former appointments include: director of Hang Unilever plc and Unilever n. v. : and a non-executive Seng Bank Limited: Chief Financial Officer, Asia director of DBS Group Holdings Limited, DBS Bank Pacific: and Chief Financial Officer, HSBC North Limited and New Delhi Television Limited.
America Holdings Inc: Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Consumer Finance and Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GE Sir Simon Robertson, 70 Healthcare Global Diagnostic Imaging.
Deputy Chairman and senior independent non-executive Director G Morgan, CM, 66 Chairman of the Nomination Committee.
Member of the Group Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: a background in international corporate advisory with a wealth of experience in Skills and experience: a background in technical, mergers and acquisitions, merchant banking, operational, financial and management positions investment banking and financial markets: honoured leading large international companies in the energy with a knighthood in recognition of his services to and engineering sectors: has been recognised as business: extensive international experience having Canadas most respected Chief Executive Officer in worked in France, Germany, the UK and the US.
a national poll of Chief Executives: a business columnist for Canadas largest national newspaper: Appointed to the Board: 2006. appointed a Member of the Order of Canada for his Current appointments include: non-executive contributions as a business and community leader Chairman of Rolls-Royce Holdings plc since and as a philanthropist.
23 February 2011, which became the holding Appointed to the Board: 2006.
Will retire from the company of the Rolls-Royce group of companies Board with effect from the conclusion of the 2012 on 23 May 2011 as part of a group restructuring.
Chairman of Rolls-Royce Group plc, formerly the holding company of the Rolls-Royce group of Current appointments include: non-executive companies, until 23 May 2011.
The founding Chairman of SNC-Lavalin Group Inc, a member of member of Simon Robertson Associates LLP: a the Board of Trustees of The Fraser Institute and a non-executive director of Berry Bros. & Rudd director of the Manning Centre for Building Limited, The Economist Newspaper Limited and Democracy.
Royal Opera House Covent Garden Limited: a Former appointments include: non-executive partner of NewShore Partners LLP: and a trustee director of HSBC Bank Canada, Founding President, of the Eden Project Trust and of the Royal Opera Chief Executive Officer and Vice Chairman of House Endowment Fund.
EnCana Corporation: and a director of Alcan Inc. 222 Former appointments include: Managing Director Former appointments include: Chairman of of Goldman Sachs International and chairman of Electra Private Equity plc, London International Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Financial Futures and Options Exchange and Gerrard Group plc: a director of Climate Exchange plc: Chairman and a non-executive director of Resolution J L Thornton, 58 plc, a non-executive director of the Financial Services Authority and the Court of The Bank of Chairman of the Group Remuneration Committee.
Skills and experience: experience that bridges Independent non-executive Director developed and developing economies and the public and private sectors: a deep knowledge of financial services and education systems, particularly in Asia.
Secretary During his 23-year career with Goldman Sachs, he played a key role in the firms global development R G Barber, 61 and was Chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia.
Group Company Secretary Appointed to the Board: 2008 Joined HSBC in 1980.
Group Company Secretary Current appointments include: non-executive since 1986 and Company Secretary of HSBC Chairman and a director of HSBC North America Holdings plc since 1990.
Appointed a Group General Holdings Inc. : professor and director of the Global Manager in 2006.
Chairman of the Disclosure Leadership Program at the Tsinghua University Committee.
A member of the Listing Authority School of Economics and Management: Chairman of Advisory Committee of the Financial Services the Brookings Institution Board of Trustees: a nonAuthority and of the Primary Markets Group of executive director of Ford Motor Company, News the London Stock Exchange.
Fellow of the Institute Corporation, Inc. and China Unicom Hong Kong of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Former Limited: a director of National Committee on United HSBC appointments include: Corporation Secretary States-China Relations: a Trustee of Asia Society, of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking China Institute, The China Foreign Affairs Corporation Limited and Company Secretary of University, a member of the Council on Foreign HSBC Bank plc.
Relations and the China Securities Regulatory Commission International Advisory Committee.
Adviser to the Board Former appointments include: non-executive director of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China D J Shaw, 65 Limited and Intel Corporation, Inc. : and President of the Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. An Adviser to the Board since 1998.
A director of HSBC Bank Bermuda Limited, HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA and HSBC Private Sir Brian Williamson, CBE, 67 Bank Suisse SA.
An independent non-executive director of Kowloon Development Company Member of the Nomination Committee.
Limited and Shui On Land Limited.
A solicitor Skills and experience: extensive experience in and formerly a partner in Norton Rose.
money and bond markets, insurance, private equity, futures, options and commodities trading Group Managing Directors internationally: established the London International Financial Futures and Options Exchange and led the A Almeida, 55 Exchanges development of its electronic trading Group Head of Human Resources and Corporate platform: was the first chairman of Resolution plc, Sustainability established to consolidate life assurance business in the UK: and a member of the Guild for International Joined HSBC in 1992.
Former HSBC appointments include: Global Head of Human Resources for Global Appointed to the Board: 2002.
Will retire from the Banking and Markets, Global Private Banking, Board with effect from the conclusion of the 2012 Global Transaction Banking and HSBC Amanah.
Current appointments include: director of NYSE Euronext.
223 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Senior management Board of Directors Directors Terms of appointment Powers S Assaf, 51 S P OSullivan, 56 Chief Executive, Global Banking and Markets Group Chief Operating Officer Joined HSBC in 1994.
A Group Managing Director Joined HSBC in 1980.
A Group Managing Director since 1 January 2011.
A director of HSBC Bank since 1 August 2011.
Former HSBC appointments Egypt S. A. E and a director of HSBC Trinkaus & include: Chief Operating Officer of HSBC Bank Burkhardt AG since 7 June 2011.
Former HSBC Canada: Chairman of HSBC Securities Canada appointments include: Head of Global Markets: and Inc. : and Group Chief Technology and Services Head of Global Markets for Europe, Middle East and Officer.
Ceased to be Chairman of HSBC Trust Africa.
Ceased to be a director of HSBC Global Company UK Limited on 24 March 2011.
Asset Management Limited on 24 June 2011.
Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank plc and Marks and Spencer Financial Services plc on 31 January 2011 and of HFC Bank Limited on R E T Bennett, 60 24 February 2011.
Group General Counsel Joined HSBC in 1979.
A Group Managing Director B Robertson, 57 since 3 May 2011.
A director of HSBC IM Pension Chief Executive, HSBC Bank plc Trust Limited.
Former HSBC appointments include: Group General Manager, Legal & Compliance: and Joined HSBC in 1975.
A Group Managing Director Head of Legal & Compliance, Asia Pacific.
Chairman of HSBC Life UK Limited.
Former HSBC appointments include: Group Chief Risk Officer: Group General Manager, Group Credit A M Keir, 53 and Risk: and Head of Global Banking and Markets Global Head of Commercial Banking for North America.
Former HSBC appointments P A Thurston, 58 include: Group General Manager, Commercial Chief Executive, Retail Banking and Wealth Banking, Europe: and Global Co-Head, Global Management Commercial Banking.
Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank Polska S. A on 30 March 2011 and of Joined HSBC in 1975.
A Group Managing Director HSBC Bank A. S. on 1 April 2011. since 2008.
A director of HSBC Private Banking Holdings Suisse SA since 21 March 2011 and of The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation S A Levey, 48 Limited since 20 April 2011.
Former HSBC Chief Legal Officer appointments include: Chief Executive of HSBC Bank plc and Chairman of HSBC Life UK Joined HSBC on 13 January 2012.
Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank plc Managing Director since 18 January 2012.
Former on 31 December 2011. appointments include: Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence in the US Department of Treasury: Senior Fellow for National Security and P T S Wong, 60 Financial Integrity at the Council on Foreign Chief Executive, The Hongkong and Shanghai Relations: Principal Associate Deputy Attorney Banking Corporation Limited General at the U. S. Department of Justice: Partner at Miller, Cassidy, Larroca & Lewin LLP and Baker Joined HSBC in 2005.
A Group Managing Director Botts LLP.
Appointed chairman of HSBC Bank China Company Limited on 17 June 2011.
Chairman of HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad and Vice M M Moses, 54 Chairman of HSBC Bank Vietnam Ltd. A nonGroup Chief Risk Officer executive director of Hang Seng Bank Limited, Bank of Communications Co. Ltd and Ping An Insurance Joined HSBC in 2005.
A Group Managing Director Group Company of China, Ltd. An independent since December 2010.
A director of HSBC Insurance non-executive director of Cathay Pacific Airways Bermuda Limited.
Ceased to be a director of HSBC Bank include: Chief Financial and Risk Officer, Global Australia Limited on 1 February 2011.
