HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Board committees Corporate Sustainability Committee Internal control 50 years earlier: people are also living longer the close of 2011.
Over the last five years we have percentage of the global population aged 65 years or worked alongside The Climate Group, Earthwatch, older is now estimated to be about 7.5% of the total Smithsonian Tropical Research Institute and WWF population, compared with about 5% 50 years ago.
The Climate Partnership Increasing urbanisation is also a significant trend has created a global community of 2,233 HSBC with over half the worlds population now living in employees, called Climate Champions, who have cities.
The effects of continued population and conducted research in the field and applied this economic growth are reflected in rising atmospheric learning to our business.
The Partnership also CO levels and high commodity prices, and are benefitted from 63,000 days of volunteering HSBC 2 raising concerns over potential resource constraints.
HSBC will continue to play a leading role in shaping In 2011, we donated a total of US$96m to the market response to these challenges, identifying community investment projects 2010: US$108m.
how business can adapt in ways that bring both social and environmental benefits, while providing Employee issues viable economic returns.
In 2011, we continued to research the likely effects that climate change, and Employee engagement describes employees the responses to it, will have on our business and emotional and intellectual commitment to their those of our customers.
For example we published organisation and its success and is critical to the research reports into The World in 2050 and long-term ability of the Group to deliver the highest Scoring Climate Change Risk Which countries quality of financial services.
Our Global People are most vulnerable?
Survey shows that employees value our commitment to sustainable business practices and view us as Operational environmental efficiency being a leader in this regard.
In 2011, 81% of colleagues said they were satisfied with the actions We focus our environmental initiatives primarily on HSBC is taking to embed sustainability e. g. addressing and responding to issues associated with environmental and social issues into the way we climate change, including energy use, water and run our business.
This issue has the potential to affect materially our customers and, by extension, Sustainability risk our long-term success, introducing new risks to business activity.
At the end of 2011, we committed Our approach to managing sustainability risk is to a series of targets stretching through to 2020, detailed in the Appendix to Risk on page 210. which will further reduce HSBCs impact on the environment.
Internal control The Directors are responsible for internal control Community investment in HSBC and for reviewing its effectiveness.
We have a long-standing commitment to the Procedures have been designed for safeguarding communities in which we operate.
Many of our key assets against unauthorised use or disposal: for markets are emerging economies.
Our operations maintaining proper accounting records: and for the bring benefits to our host countries through tax reliability and usefulness of financial information contributions, and to local people and businesses used within the business or for publication.
Such through employment, training, purchasing and procedures are designed to manage and mitigate the investment.
Beyond our core business, we aim to risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can encourage social and economic opportunity through only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance community investment activities.
against material misstatement, errors, losses or fraud.
The procedures also enable HSBC Holdings to Our focus is on education and the environment discharge its obligations under the Handbook of because we believe they are essential building blocks Rules and Guidance issued by the FSA, HSBCs for the development of communities and are lead regulator.
These philanthropic programmes aim to involve employees The key procedures that the Directors have in the work of local NGOs and charities.
Our established are designed to provide effective internal global education programmes focus on helping control within HSBC and accord with the Internal disadvantaged children, promoting financial literacy Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the and environmental education and understanding.
Our Combined Code on corporate governance issued by flagship US$100m environmental programme, the the Financial Reporting Council.
Such procedures HSBC Climate Partnership, came to an end at the for the ongoing identification, evaluation and 240 management of the significant risks faced by HSBC Control Committee GORCC, which reports have been in place throughout the year and up to to the Risk Management Meeting, meets at least 27 February 2012, the date of approval of the Annual quarterly to monitor HSBCs operational risk Report and Accounts 2011.
In the case of companies profile and review the effective implementation acquired during the year, the internal controls in of the Groups operational risk management place are being reviewed against HSBCs framework.
The GORCC receives quarterly benchmarks and integrated into HSBCs processes.
reports on the Groups operational risk profile, including performance against risk appetite, top Key internal control procedures include the and emerging risks, control issues, operational following: risk loss events and key risk indicators.
Delegation of authority within limits set by Disclosure Committee.
Authority to operate the various Committee reviews material public disclosures subsidiaries and responsibilities for financial made by HSBC Holdings for any material performance against plans and for capital errors, misstatements or omissions.
The expenditure are delegated to their respective membership of the Disclosure Committee, chief executive officers within limits set by the which is chaired by the Group Company Board.
Delegation of authority from the Board Secretary, includes the Heads of the Finance, to individuals requires those individuals to Legal, Risk, Compliance, Corporate maintain a clear and appropriate apportionment Communications, Investor Relations and of significant responsibilities and to oversee Internal Audit functions and representatives the establishment and maintenance of systems from the principal regions and global of control appropriate to the business.
The integrity of disclosures is appointment of executives to the most senior underpinned by structures and processes within positions within HSBC requires the approval the Finance and Risk functions that support of the Board.
expert and rigorous analytical review of Group standards.
Functional, operating, financial reporting complemented by certified financial reporting and certain management reviews by Heads of global businesses, global reporting standards are established by global functions and certain legal entities.
function management committees, for Financial reporting.
The Group financial application across the whole of HSBC.
These reporting process for preparing the consolidated are supplemented by operating standards set by Annual Report and Accounts 2011 is controlled functional and local management as required for using documented accounting policies and the type of business and geographical location reporting formats, supported by a chart of of each subsidiary.
accounts with detailed instructions and guidance Risk identification and monitoring.
Systems on reporting requirements, issued by Group and procedures are in place in HSBC to identify, Finance to all reporting entities within the control and report on the major risks including Group in advance of each reporting period end.
credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial The submission of financial information from management, model, reputational, pension, each reporting entity to Group Finance is subject strategic, sustainability and operational risk to certification by the responsible financial including accounting, tax, legal, compliance, officer, and analytical review procedures at fiduciary, information security, security and reporting entity and Group levels.
fraud, systems and people risk.
Exposure to Changes in market conditions practices.
these risks is monitored by risk management Processes are in place to identify new risks committees, asset and liability committees and arising from changes in market conditions executive committees in subsidiaries and, for practices or customer behaviours, which could HSBC as a whole, by the GMB.
Risk expose us to heightened risk of loss or Management Meetings, chaired by the Group reputational damage.
During 2011, attention was Chief Risk Officer, are held in each month focused on: except August to address asset, liability and risk management issues.
The minutes of these embedding further risk appetite and stress meetings are submitted to the GAC, the GRC testing into the business of HSBC through and the Board.
refining processes around risk identification and forward-looking risks: Global Operational Risk and Control Committee.
The Global Operational Risk and the top and emerging risk process prompted 241 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Corporate Governance Operating & Financial Review Overview HSBC HOLDINGS PLC Report of the Directors: Corporate Governance continued Internal control Going concern Employees a number of reviews and special papers on enter into credit and market risk exposures are key risks, which were presented to the Risk delegated with limits to line management of Management Meeting, GRC and Board: Group companies.
The concurrence of the appropriate global function is required, however, managing geopolitical risk and ongoing to credit proposals with specified higher risk instability in the eurozone: characteristics.
Credit and market risks are managing and mitigating the uncertain measured and reported on in subsidiaries and economic risks within major markets aggregated for review of risk concentrations on particularly in the US: a Group-wide basis.
a single name concentration risk process for Reputational risk.
Policies to guide subsidiary HSBCs larger corporate exposures: companies and management at all levels in the conduct of business to safeguard the Groups the Groups global wholesale risk reputation are established by the Board and the aggregation system which has been GMB, subsidiary company boards, Board implemented Group-wide: committees and senior management.
the mitigation of information risks: and Reputational risks can arise from environmental, social or governance issues, as a consequence enhancement of polices and practices of operational risk events or as a result of relevant to the prevention of financial employees acting in a manner inconsistent with crimes.
As a banking group, HSBCs Strategic plans.
Periodic strategic plans are good reputation depends upon the way in which prepared for global businesses, support it conducts its business but it can also be functions and certain geographies within the affected by the way in which clients, to which framework of the Groups strategy.
Rolling it provides financial services, conduct their operating plans, informed by detailed analysis of business or use financial products and services.
risk appetite describing the types and quantum Internal Audit.
The establishment and of risk that we are prepared to take in executing maintenance of appropriate systems of internal our strategy, are prepared and adopted by all control is primarily the responsibility of major HSBC operating companies and set out business management.
The Internal Audit the key business initiatives and the likely function, which is centrally controlled, monitors financial effects of those initiatives.
the effectiveness of internal control structures Governance arrangements.
Governance across the whole of HSBC focusing on the arrangements are in place to provide oversight areas of greatest risk to HSBC as determined of, and advice to the Board on, material riskby a risk-based grading approach.
The Head of related matters including assurance that risk this function reports to the Group Chairman, analytical models are fit for purpose, used the Group Chief Executive, the GAC and the accordingly and complemented by both modelGRC on risk-related matters.
specific and enterprise-wide stress tests that Internal Audit recommendations.
Executive evaluate the impact of severe yet plausible management is responsible for ensuring that events and other unusual circumstances not fully recommendations made by the Internal Audit captured by quantitative models.
function are implemented within an appropriate IT operations.
Centralised functional control and agreed timetable.
Confirmation to this effect is exercised over all IT developments and must be provided to Internal Audit.
Common systems are employed for management must also confirm annually as part similar business processes wherever practicable.
of the internal audit process that offices under their control have taken, or are in the process of Functional management.
Global functional taking, the appropriate actions to deal with all management is responsible for setting policies, significant recommendations made by the procedures and standards for the following external auditor in management letters or by risks: credit, market, liquidity, capital, financial regulators following regulatory inspections.
management, model, reputational, pension strategic, sustainability and operational risk In May 2011, amendments were made to the including accounting, tax, legal, compliance, terms of reference of the GRC and the GAC to fiduciary, information security, security and minimise the overlap between the Committees.
As a fraud, systems and people risk.
Authorities to result, the GAC has non-executive responsibility for 242
