Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Corporate governance statement Richard Burrows Chairman Chairmans introduction At British American Tobacco, we remain committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This is central to the continued strong performance of the business in a manner which is sustainable in the long term and to maintaining the confidence of investors.
For us, good governance is about managing the business effectively and responsibly and in a way which is honest, transparent and shows accountability.
For us, good On the following pages, we set out our approach to governance is governance at British American Tobacco.
We explain how the Board and its Committees are structured, how they operate about managing the and what they have done in the year, as well as how their business effectively effectiveness is evaluated.
There are benefits, we believe, to being transparent.
We are therefore broadly supportive of the and responsibly and in Governments efforts to encourage more effective narrative a way which is honest, reporting and we said as much in our response to its recent consultation in this area.
We try to ensure that our reporting on transparent and shows governance matters is clear, concise and well-structured, that it accountability.
is relevant and accessible to users, and that it facilitates the comparative analysis of the information provided.
We seek to minimise boiler plate by preparing a separate report against the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, which we publish on our www.
com website, although it is of course still important to ensure that this corporate governance statement meets the requirements of the Code.
The quality of our narrative reporting was recognised in 2011, with the Company being awarded first place in the People Reporting and Executive Remuneration Reporting categories for the FTSE 100 in the  Building Public Trust Awards.
Thony Ruys, the Chairman of our Remuneration Committee, discusses our approach to executive remuneration, another topic which has been the subject of much recent debate, in his introduction to the remuneration report.
As a Board, we have ultimate responsibility for the Groups performance and for overseeing the management of risk.
We are keenly aware that the shareholders also look to us to promote the long-term success of the Company and I recognise that, as Chairman, it is my role to provide the leadership to enable it to do so effectively.
This years evaluation of the Board, which for the second year running was facilitated externally, confirmed that the Board continues to meet these obligations.
One aspect of the evaluation which we considered in detail this year was a review of the skills required by the Board and I am delighted to welcome Ann Godbehere to the Board following her appointment in October.
Our search for further nonexecutive appointments continues.
com governance British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 52 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information The Board takes seriously its responsibility for promoting the Compliance statement Groups values and, in particular, for ensuring that everyone The principal governance rules applying to UK companies within the Group is aware of their responsibility not only to act listed on the London Stock Exchange are contained in the UK lawfully, but also to conduct themselves at all times with high Corporate Governance Code adopted in June 2010 the Code.
These values are embodied in The Code is published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC our Standards of Business Conduct, which were updated in and is available from its website www.
September 2011 to ensure that they continue to reflect best business practice and that they are aligned with the provisions This statement reports on how the Company has applied the of the UK Bribery Act, which came into effect in July 2011.
Main Principles of the Code and provides our formal report Corruption causes distortion in markets and harms economic, on compliance with the Codes Provisions.
We have long made it clear The Board considers that this Statement provides the information that it is wholly unacceptable for our companies and employees necessary to enable shareholders to evaluate how the Main to be involved or implicated in any way in corrupt practices, Principles of the Code have been applied, that the Company and we continue to keep our anti-corruption policies and practices has complied with the Provisions of the Code throughout the under review to ensure that they fully reflect this approach.
year and that it has therefore satisfied its obligations under A further area of focus for us in 2011 was a review of our the Code.
arrangements for ensuring the continued independence and objectivity of our external auditors.
We consider that our To the extent that it is not specifically included in this relationship with  is satisfactory but corporate governance statement, the information required it is nevertheless important to guard against complacency.
by section 7.2 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency Rules With support from its Audit Committee, the Board continues is included in the section entitled other statutory and regulatory to satisfy itself as to both their effectiveness and their information and is incorporated herein by reference.
Following the publication of revised guidance In the interests of further transparency, we have again prepared by the Financial Reporting Council, we have taken the a report which summarises the matters addressed in this opportunity to review and update our policy on auditor statement, as appropriate, by reference to each Principle independence and we explain the revised policy in more and Provision of the Code.
The updated report is available detail in the section on audit and accountability.
on the corporate governance section of www.
One of the highlights of 2011 was the reclassification of the shares comprising our secondary listing on the JSE Limited in South Africa as domestic assets, allowing South African institutions to hold a greater number of shares in the Company.
This very positive outcome followed a programme of engagement with the relevant authorities and our institutional investors in South Africa.
As I hope this report demonstrates, good corporate governance continues to be a key focus for the Board and this, combined with our clear and consistent strategy, means that the Company is well equipped to continue returning value to its shareholders.
As we head towards our Annual General Meeting in April, I look forward to meeting with a number of you, both in the run up to the meeting and at the meeting itself, which this year will be held at a new venue, The Banqueting House in Whitehall, London.
Richard Burrows Chairman British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 53 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Corporate governance statement continued Biographical and related information about the Directors, The Board including details of relevant skills and experience, is given The Board is collectively responsible to the Companys on the Board of Directors pages.
shareholders for the long-term success of the Group and for its overall strategic direction, its values and its governance.
It Chairman and Chief Executive provides the leadership necessary for the Group to meet its The Chairman and Chief Executive are responsible for the profitable business objectives within the framework of its internal controls, operation of the Group.
Their roles are separate, with each while also discharging the Companys obligations to its shareholders.
having distinct and clearly defined duties and responsibilities.
The Boards principal responsibilities include: The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, for x Approving the Groups business strategy and ensuring that ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of its role and for an effective management team and the necessary financial facilitating the productive contribution of all Directors.
He sets and human resources are in place for the Group to meet the agenda for Board meetings in consultation with the Chief its objectives.
Executive and the Company Secretary.
He is also responsible for ensuring that the interests of the Companys shareholders are x Agreeing the Group Budget.
safeguarded and that there is effective communication with x Approving the Companys Annual Report and reviewing them.
The Chairman is accountable to the Board for leading the its periodic financial reports.
direction of the Groups corporate and financial strategy and for the overall supervision of the policies governing the conduct of x Declaring an interim dividend and recommending a the Groups business.
The Chief Executive has overall responsibility for the performance x Agreeing the agenda for the Annual General Meeting.
He provides leadership to the Group to x Agreeing Board succession plans and considering the evaluation enable the successful planning and execution of the objectives of the Boards performance over the preceding year.
and strategies agreed by the Board.
He is also responsible for stewardship of the Groups assets and, jointly with the x Reviewing the Companys risk management and internal Chairman, for representation of the Group externally.
Non-Executive Directors x Agreeing the Companys governance framework and The role of the Non-Executive Directors is to help develop approving the Standards of Business Conduct and other strategy and, where appropriate, to provide constructive Group policies.
They are responsible Directors for scrutinising the performance of management in meeting As at the date of this Annual Report, the Company has a Board agreed goals and objectives and for monitoring the reporting of 12 Directors: of performance.
All of the Non-Executive Directors remain available to meet with major investors in order to understand Chairman their views and concerns.
Richard Burrows Senior Independent Director Executive Directors Sir Nicholas Scheele is the Senior Independent Director.
Nicandro Durante Chief Executive He is responsible for leading the review of the Chairmans Ben Stevens Finance Director and Chief Information Officer performance with the other Non-Executive Directors.
When John Daly Chief Operating Officer required, he presides at meetings of the Board and shareholders Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
He serves as intermediary Sir Nicholas Scheele Senior Independent Director for the other Directors where necessary and is available to Karen fide Segundo shareholders should occasion arise where there is a need Ann Godbehere to convey concerns to the Board other than through the Robert Lerwill Chairman or the Chief Executive.
Christine Morin-Postel Dr Gerry Murphy Board composition Kieran Poynter The Board considers that all of the Non-Executive Directors Anthony Ruys are independent, in the sense that that they are free from any business or other relationships which could materially interfere Nicandro Durante, formerly Chief Operating Officer, became with or appear to affect the exercise of their judgement and Chief Executive on 1 March 2011, following Paul Adamss have not previously been involved in the management of retirement from the Board and as Chief Executive on the Group.
Ana Maria Llopis retired from the Board following the conclusion of the Companys Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011.
Ann Godbehere was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director with effect from 3 October 2011.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 54 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Meetings of the Board Balance of Non-Executive Directors 1 The Board held eight meetings in 2011, seven of which were 2 and Executive Directors scheduled and one of which was convened to consider a proposal for the Company to provide a guarantee to the Trustee of the British 1 Chairman 1 American Tobacco UK Pension Fund in respect of the liabilities of 2 Executive Directors 3 certain UK Group companies.
In 2011, the Board decided to reduce 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors 8 the number of its scheduled meetings in future years in order to 3 promote the more efficient use of Directors time while also reducing costs.
Future meetings will be longer to ensure that the full forward calendar of agenda items continues to be addressed Length of tenure of 1 effectively and so that the work of the Board and its Committees is Non-Executive Directors not compromised.
Accordingly, the Board is scheduled to hold six meetings in 2012.
1 0-3 years 2 2 Board meeting attendance 2 3-6 years 3 3 6-9 years 3 Meetings 3 Meetings eligible 4 9 years 0 Name attended to attend Richard Burrows 88 Gender split of Directors 1 Sir Nicholas Scheele 78 1 Paul Adams 11 Nicandro Durante 88 1 Male 9 2 Ben Stevens 88 2 Female 3 John Daly 88 Karen fide Segundo 88 2 Ann Godbehere 22 Nationality 1 Robert Lerwill 78 2 3 Dr Ana Maria Llopis 33 1 Brazilian 1 2 British 4 Christine Morin-Postel 68 6 3 Canadian 1 Dr Gerry Murphy 88 4 Dutch 2 5 Kieran Poynter 78 5 French 1 Anthony Ruys 88 6 Irish 3 3 4 Notes: Board Committees 1.
Paul Adams retired from the Board and as Chief Executive on 28 February 2011.
The Board has established four principal Board Committees, to which it has delegated certain of its responsibilities.
Ann Godbehere was appointed to the Board as a Non-Executive Director Audit Committee, the Corporate Social Responsibility CSR with effect from 3 October 2011.
Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Remuneration 3.
Dr Ana Maria Llopis retired from the Board immediately following the Committee.
The roles, membership and activities of these Companys Annual General Meeting on 28 April 2011.
Committees are described in more detail later in this corporate Those Directors who were absent from one meeting were unable to attend governance statement and, in the case of the Remuneration the ad hoc meeting arranged at short notice.
In addition, Christine MorinCommittee, in the remuneration report.
Each Committee has its Postel was unable to attend one of the scheduled meetings due to a longown terms of reference, which are kept under review and updated standing prior engagement.
regularly to ensure that they remain consistent with best practice.
The Chairman will always seek to obtain consensus at Board The current terms of reference were reviewed in 2010 to ensure meetings but, where necessary, decisions will be taken by majority.
alignment with the UK Corporate Governance Code and, following If any Director has concerns about the running of the Company or adoption by the Board in December 2010, they came into effect on a proposed action which cannot be resolved, such concerns will be 1 January 2011.
They are available on www.
recorded in the Board minutes.
No such concerns arose in 2011.
If In 2011, the Board also established a Corporate Committee required, the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chairman, meet comprising the three Executive Directors, which has responsibility prior to meetings of the Board without the Executive Directors present.
for reviewing Group corporate and governance issues prior to their Both the Executive and the Non-Executive Directors also meet referral for consideration by the Board and its other Committees.
annually, led by the Senior Independent Director and without the Chairman present, in order to appraise the Chairmans performance.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 55 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Corporate governance statement continued Key activities of the Board in 2011 The Board visited the Groups R&D facilities in Southampton and Growth received briefings on the science-based approach being taken The Board kept under review the Groups performance towards the development of potentially reduced-risk products.
throughout 2011, taking into account global economic It requested a detailed annual update on the Groups R&D conditions and the impact of political upheaval, such as the Arab activities.
The Board also monitored developments in relation to Spring uprisings in North Africa and the Middle East, and natural Nicoventures Limited, a company established to focus exclusively disasters, such as the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and the on the development and commercialisation of innovative, floods in Australia.
It considered the impact of foreign exchange regulatory-approved nicotine products.
rate movements, pricing and excise issues and challenges from illicit trade, and kept under review marketing and brand The Board received a briefing on the Groups anti-corruption initiatives in key markets.
It satisfied itself throughout the policies and procedures and the recommended enhancements year that, despite continued difficult trading conditions, following an internal review to ensure continued alignment management remained on track to deliver the strategy.
with best practice and the UK Bribery Act and its associated guidance.
In this context, it approved a revised version of the The Board regularly considered opportunities for growth Groups Standards of Business Conduct, which took effect through strategic acquisitions, overseeing the acquisition of from 1 September 2011.
Protabaco in Colombia and the extension of the Groups shareholding in Chiletabacos in Chile.
It considered postWinning organisation implementation reviews of the acquisitions of Tekel in The Board reviewed succession planning in consultation with Turkey and STK in Denmark.
It considered in detail the skills which will be desirable in relation to future non-executive It regularly reviewed the Groups liquidity, including the appointments, noting the likely importance of entrepreneurial issuance of commercial paper and adherence to its financing and science-based skills, experience in relation to the Far principles, and continued to satisfy itself that management East and skills relating to the use of new media in a was making sufficient provision in this regard.
It kept under review the it kept under review the implications of a possible default steps being undertaken to identify further non-executive in the Eurozone and the impact of such an event on the appointments and considered and approved the Committees Groups financing.
recommendation to appoint Ann Godbehere to the Board Productivity as a Non-Executive Director.
The Board continued to oversee initiatives aimed at managing The Board considered the issue of board diversity, the costs, increasing efficiencies and leveraging the Groups global recommendations made by Lord Davies in his report entitled reach.
It noted the progress being made in the programmes Women on Boards and the FRCs consultation on proposed established to develop the Groups revised Operating Model consequential changes to the UK Corporate Governance and to implement a single IT operating system throughout the Code.
It approved the Chairmans Statement on Board Group, which are anticipated to deliver significant cost savings Diversity prepared in accordance with Lord Daviess in future years.
recommendations and published on www.
The Board continued to receive regular updates on the key The Board also reviewed proposed appointments at Management regulatory issues facing the Group, focusing on pack space Board level see key activities of the Nominations Committee appropriation, product regulation and retail display bans.
It and approved the creation of two new posts on the monitored, in particular, developments in connection with the Management Board, namely Group Scientific Director proposed introduction of plain packaging in Australia, the and Group Business Development Director, reflecting proposed UK retail display ban and the EU Products Directive.
the importance to the Group of these areas.
meetings in 2011 nine in 2010, including two three-day Management Board meetings held off-site, primarily to consider strategic matters.
The Management Board has responsibility for overseeing the In addition, one further meeting was held to consider longer implementation by the Groups operating subsidiaries of the term challenges and opportunities.
The Management Board policies and strategy set by the Main Board, and for creating the is scheduled to hold 11 meetings in 2012, including the two framework for their successful day-to-day operation.
Members of the Management Board Management Board is chaired by the Chief Executive and its are invited to attend meetings of the Board from time to time, other members are the Finance Director, the Chief Operating in particular when the Groups strategy and Budget are Officer and the 12 senior Group executives, whose names under discussion.
appear on the Management Board pages.
It held 11 scheduled British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 56 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Groups regional audit and CSR committees.
From 2012, it is Conflicts of interest proposed that such meetings will take place in the Groups UK The Board has formal procedures for managing compliance with head office, to facilitate the efficient use of management time.
the conflicts of interest provisions of the Companies Act 2006.
The The Non-Executive Directors will each be invited to accompany Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to authorise a Regional Director on a scheduled market visit in order to situational conflicts.
Directors are required to give advance notice of ensure that they continue to receive regular exposure to the any conflict issues to the Company Secretary, and these are Groups business on the ground.
In this regard, market visits to considered either at the next Board meeting or, if the timing Australia, Colombia, Spain and Turkey are currently planned requires it, at a meeting of the Boards Conflicts Committee.
Board is notified at its next meeting of any matters authorised by the Committee.
In February each year, the Board reviews all The Chairman meets separately with each Non-Executive previously authorised situational conflicts, considering each one Director in October each year in order to discuss their individual afresh.
Directors are excluded from the quorum and the vote in training needs, development plans and the pattern of their respect of any matters in which they have an interest.
Following the outcome of the Board evaluation for 2010 see below, these meetings have been incorporated During 2011, a number of conflicts were notified to the Company within the formal annual review process for the proposed in accordance with these procedures.
All matters authorised by the re-election of Non-Executive Directors.
Board and the Conflicts Committee were recorded in the register of interests maintained by the Company Secretary.
They included the Following her appointment, Ann Godbehere attended induction consideration, prior to her appointment to the Board, of Ann briefings covering the Groups strategy, its organisational Godbeheres other directorships, including her positions on the structure and its business functions and activities, including its boards of UBS AG, the Companys corporate broker and a provider statutory reporting cycle and financing principles, research and of other financial and advisory services to Group companies, and development activities, information technology strategy and legal Prudential plc, a potential supplier of services to Group companies.
She also attended sessions addressing corporate governance, the Groups internal control and risk In addition, a potential conflict of interest for Christine Morinmanagement framework and the role of the external auditors.
Postel arose during 2011 in respect of the Groups exposure to Her induction briefings are continuing, and she is due to receive clean-up costs for pollution in the Lower Fox River, Wisconsin.
a briefing on environmental health and safety issues and to visit Group companies have potential direct or indirect causes of the Groups factory in Bayreuth, Germany.
action against French company Sequana SA in relation to dividend payments made to Sequana SA by a former subsidiary The full Board received briefings on a number of legal and of it, which subsidiary the Group believes provides an indemnity regulatory developments, including the outcome of Lord to it in relation to the clean-up costs.
Ms Morin-Postel is a nonDaviess review of gender equality on the boards of UK listed executive director of a shareholder in Sequana SA.
To date, she companies, the governments consultation on narrative has absented herself from any Board or Audit Committee reporting delivered by an external presenter and meetings of the Company when the Fox River matter has been developments in relation to the Bribery Act 2010. discussed.
She stood down from the Audit Committee with effect from 21 February 2012 and will continue to absent The Board and its Committees receive high quality, up-to-date herself from Board discussion of the matter in the future.
information for review in good time ahead of each meeting, and the Company Secretary, under the direction of the Chairman, ensures good information flows within the Board and its Information and professional Committees and between the Non-Executive Directors and development senior management.
She is also responsible for advising the All Directors receive induction on joining the Board, covering their Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The duties and responsibilities as directors.
Non-Executive Directors also appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter receive a full programme of briefings on all areas of the Companys for the Board.
In accordance with the recommendations arising business from the Executive Directors, members of the from the 2010 Board evaluation see below, a direct reporting Management Board, the Company Secretary and other senior executives, and they may request such further information as they line for the Company Secretary to the Chairman was established consider necessary.
The expected time commitment from Nonwith effect from October 2010.
Executive Directors for their induction has been formalised in the All Directors have access to the advice and services of the standard letter of appointment following the outcome of the Board Company Secretary and a procedure is in place for them to evaluation for 2010 see below and visits to an overseas factory take independent professional advice at the Companys location and the Group Research & Development Centre in expense should this be required.
Southampton are specified as required elements of the induction.
All Directors receive briefings designed to update their skills and knowledge on a regular basis, for example in relation to the business and on legal and regulatory requirements, and by visits to company sites.
Non-Executive Directors have historically also made use of the opportunity to attend meetings of the British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 57 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Corporate governance statement continued John Daly, who had joined the Board after completion of the Evaluation of Board performance 2010 evaluation, was interviewed by Simon Osborne.
All other Following the comprehensive report and findings which Directors were sent a transcript of their 2010 discussion and resulted from the 2010 Board Evaluation see below, the Board asked to update their comments with their thoughts on the once again appointed Simon Osborne and Geoffrey Shepheard progress of the Board over the preceding year.
Each Director from the Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators was required to give an assessment ranging from Poor through ICSA to conduct a follow up Board and Committee evaluation to Excellent on each of the core issues.
This also included a more detailed peer-based evaluation of the personal effectiveness of each Director.
In addition, each Director assessed themself, and all the other Directors both Executive and Non-Executive and the Chairman The key areas for the review were based on the topics which against a number of personal effectiveness criteria, including had been discussed the previous year and included: awareness of the Group strategy, ability to think strategically x the role of the Board, its responsibilities and those and challenge constructively, level of commitment and of its Committees: preparedness, communication and listening skills, and contribution to decision-making.
The Chairman was also x how the Board oversees risk, business conduct and assessed on his ability to create the conditions for overall corporate governance: Board effectiveness and for setting the tone at the top.
x the arrangements for, and effectiveness of, Board meetings: The facilitators collated and analysed the results from each x the support and training provided to the Board: element of the evaluation and prepared separate reports, summarising key points and including non-attributable x Board composition, range of skills required, succession comments given in individual responses.
The Board and planning and effectiveness of the Chairman, Senior Director Reports were initially discussed with the Chairman.
Independent Director and Committee Chairmen: The Board report was then presented by ICSA at a Board x how the Board works together and its engagement with meeting.
Each Director received a copy of the report on his or shareholders: and her own effectiveness and those reports on individual performances were discussed by the Chairman with each x outcomes and achievements, including how the Board is Director as appropriate.
The Chairmans performance was perceived externally.
discussed initially with the Senior Independent Director before he provided feedback to the Chairman.
The Board evaluation for 2012 will be facilitated by the Company Secretary and it is anticipated that in the future it will be facilitated externally at least once every three years.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 58 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Evaluation of Board performance x Implement a Board software solution to facilitate secure Update on 2010 objectives electronic delivery of papers: A secure electronic delivery Throughout 2011, the Board monitored progress towards system was introduced in September 2011 as an interim achievement of the specific action points arising from its first measure.
Following a formal tender process, it is expected externally facilitated evaluation.
Details are set out below.
that the Blueprint Boardpad 2 software will be implemented x Carry out a review of the size and composition of the by April 2012.
Remuneration Committee: At least one additional Outcome of 2011 evaluation meeting has been scheduled in 2012 and a revised Board performance: The 2011 evaluation showed that the forward agenda has been established.
For the time being, Board continues to be effective.
The assessments showed that all independent Non-Executive Directors will continue to the Board is rated highly in each category, with only marginal be members of the Committee.
Further details of the variations from the previous years ratings.
It was considered review are provided in the remuneration report.
that the Board had discharged its role and responsibilities x The Remuneration Committee to receive a formal effectively and that, during the year, it had focused particularly report following the annual appraisal of each member on longer-term strategic issues, such as opportunities for of the Management Board: In February 2011, the Chief speedier growth, the threats from increased illicit trade Executive provided a full update to the Committee on the and the challenges posed by further regulation.
The Boards performance of each member of the Management Board.
continuing focus on succession was highlighted by the This process will be repeated annually.
smooth transition between the retiring Chief Executive, Paul Adams, and his successor, Nicandro Durante, and x Each Committee to review the 2010 reports specific also by the appointment of Ann Godbehere in October 2011. comments relating to its activities as well as any generally applicable action points: These reviews have been carried The Boards working relationship with its four principal out and, as a result, each Committee has updated its forward Committees was considered to have improved during the year.
calendar of specific agenda items and considered its role and The CSR Committee has benefitted from a revised schedule of responsibilities, for example with regard to risk oversight.
meetings and the Remuneration Committee has agreed that it x Review the process for the proposed re-election of will hold at least one additional meeting in 2012.
Directors: A formal two-stage process was introduced in With regard to the spread of skills, background and experience February 2011.
This involves a discussion between the on the Board, the evaluation confirmed that the current Chairman and each Non-Executive Director in October Directors backgrounds provide a good mix from both FMCG each year and formal consideration by the Nominations and financial companies.
During 2011, the Board identified a Committee in the following February, with each Director number of additional skills which would also be beneficial to being absent from the meeting while his or her own the Company, including science-based skills, experience in position is discussed.
relation to the Far East and skills relating to the use of new x Establish a direct reporting line for the Company media in a consumer-facing business.
Secretary to the Chairman in relation to Board matters: Director Evaluations: The Chairman has discussed each This was introduced with effect from October 2010. report with the Director concerned and the Senior Independent x The Nominations Committee to have particular regard to a Director has met with the Chairman to discuss his report with persons ability to influence outcomes when considering him.
Development plans have been agreed and opportunities non-executive appointments: An ability to influence and for Board training and development will be reviewed in 2012. provide constructive challenge has always been a key 2011 Action Plan: The outstanding action points from 2010 requirement.
This point was re-emphasised with the search will be fully implemented during 2012, including the firms engaged in 2011 to find further non-executive directors introduction of new Board software and implementation and in the role specification which was prepared.
of the revised calendar for meetings of the Remuneration x Review the calendar of standard Board and Committee Committee.
In addition, the Board agreed to review the agenda items: The Board and each of the Committees time allowed in the Board calendar for training and personal have reviewed and updated the standard calendar of development purposes.
agenda items and also regularly reflect on the balance between pre-read and presentation at their meetings.
x Review the induction arrangements for non-executive directors: These arrangements are reviewed with every new appointment and the time commitment expected for the induction is now specified in the appointment letter.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 59 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Corporate governance statement continued Shareholder engagement During 2011, a wide range of business and corporate governance issues, were discussed with, or raised by, Relations with shareholders institutional investors as part of the regular investor relations The Board maintains a dialogue with shareholders directed programme.
These included the Companys overall towards ensuring a mutual understanding of objectives.
Its performance, how the Chairman had settled into his role, the primary contact, facilitated by the Head of Investor Relations, is reinstatement of the share buy-back programme, regulatory through the Executive Directors, but the Chairman also contacts developments, pricing issues and the outlook generally major shareholders periodically and in advance of the Annual for the industry.
General Meeting each year in order to understand their views on the Company and to ensure that their views are communicated In addition, a focused schedule of meetings with key institutional to the Board as a whole.
In addition, the Senior Independent shareholders was undertaken by the Chairman in advance of the Director and the other Non-Executive Directors are available Annual General Meeting in April 2011, with discussions covering to meet with major shareholders in order to understand their the Companys performance and governance generally.
These views and any concerns which they may have.
included issues such as succession planning and Board evaluation, executive remuneration, Board diversity, the litigation A full programme of engagement with investors and analysts, and regulatory environment, external auditors fees, the both in the UK and overseas, is undertaken each year by the reinstatement of the share buy-back programme, and the Head of Investor Relations, often accompanied by one or more consultation in late 2010 early 2011 in relation to proposed of the Executive Directors and members of the Management changes to the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan.
Board, including presentations, roadshows and a bi-annual Investor event involving detailed presentations on the In October 2011, the National Treasury of South Africa Companys strategy and performance.
Investor presentations confirmed the reclassification of all inward listed shares on the are published on www.
com and results presentations JSE Limited JSE, including those comprising the Companys are available by webcast.
There is a debt micro site on secondary listing on the JSE, as domestic assets.
com for debt investors, which includes granting of that listing on the JSE in October 2008, the comprehensive bondholder information on credit ratings, Company had maintained a programme of engagement with debt facilities, outstanding bonds and maturity profiles.
the JSE and the South African Reserve Bank SARB, as well as its institutional investors in South Africa, to encourage the easing At least twice a year, the Head of Investor Relations presents a of the prudential limits restrictions on the ownership of shares in report to the Board on investor relations generally, identifying non-South African companies.
Since December 2011, the the key issues raised by institutional shareholders.
In addition, Companys ordinary shares are now principally included in the the Board receives a report at each of its meetings on any South African ALSI40 Index and the SWIX Index.
The combined changes to the holdings of the Companys main institutional effect of these changes on the Companys secondary listing is shareholders.
Specific issues raised by individual institutions likely to be positive, as they potentially allow South African are also reported to the Board, as appropriate.
institutional investors to hold a greater number of shares in the Company.
The programme of engagement with investors and analysts for 2011 included an investor event held in Hampshire on 17 18 May, involving presentations by all members of the Management Board, including the Executive Directors, and other senior managers covering a range of topics, including the Group strategy, industry landscape and opportunities, financial performance, consumer engagement and the innovations pipeline and regional challenges.
Roadshows were also held in a number of locations including Europe, Japan, Hong Kong, South Africa and North America.
The Company also responded to issues raised in correspondence from shareholders, including providing clarification to an institutional shareholder on questions raised in relation to the Companys relationship with its external auditors, the level of non-audit fees and also regarding the level and treatment of directors benefits.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 60 Corporate governance Business review Financial statements Other information Annual General Meeting The Companys ordinary shares are also traded on NYSE Amex The Annual General Meeting will be held at The Banqueting Equities in the form of American Depositary Receipts ADRs House, Whitehall, London SW1A 2ER at 11.30am on 26 April under the symbol BTI with a CUSIP number 110448107.
Details of the business to be proposed at the meeting are ADR represents two of the Companys ordinary shares and contained in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is at 31 December 2011, 38,750,804 ADRs were outstanding, sent to all shareholders and is also published on www.
Citibank, N. A. continues to act as depositary for the ADR programme.
The Annual General Meeting provides a useful opportunity for shareholder engagement and, in particular, for the Chairman The Company has unlisted trading privileges for the ADR to explain the Companys progress and receive questions from programme and none of its securities are listed on any United investors.
The chairmen of the Audit, CSR, and Remuneration States securities exchange or registered pursuant to the Committees are normally available at the Annual General securities laws of the United States.
As a result, the Company is Meeting to take any relevant questions and all other Directors subject to neither the NYSE Amex Equities listing standards nor attend, unless illness or another pressing commitment the corporate governance rules under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act precludes them from doing so.
All Directors at the time of 2002.
Nevertheless, the Board has chosen, in the interests attended the Annual General Meeting in April 2011, with of good governance, to make a voluntary statement explaining the exception of Dr Gerry Murphy, who was unable to the principal differences and common areas between the attend due to a long-standing commitment overseas.
Companys corporate governance practices and those that would be required if the Company were subject to those rules.
The Company provides for the vote on each resolution to be The updated statement will be available on the corporate by poll rather than by show of hands.
This provides for greater governance section of www.
com from the date of transparency and allows the votes of all shareholders to be publication of the Annual Report.
counted, including those cast by proxy.
The Chairman announces the provisional voting results at the Meeting, and Significant shareholders the final results are announced on the same day through the At 31 December 2011, the following substantial interests 3 per Regulatory News Service and on www.
The Company cent or more in the Companys ordinary share capital voting has in recent years appointed an independent assessor to securities had been notified to the Company in accordance scrutinise the Annual General Meeting and to produce a report with section 5.1.
2 of the Disclosure Rules and Transparency of the meeting, covering the proxy voting process, attendance Rules.
As at 22 February 2012, the Company had not received and an audit of the poll procedures.
The report in 2011 notification either of any change in the interests below or that confirmed the adequacy, accuracy and fairness of the proxy any other person holds 3 per cent or more of its ordinary shares.
process and the voting procedures and systems.
The Company Number of % of issued does not intend to appoint an independent assessor for the ordinary shares share capital 2012 Annual General Meeting.
It will implement the same BlackRock, Inc. 132,891,526 6.75 procedures used previously.
84,303,670 4.28 Stock market listings Legal & General Group plc 79,243,066 4.02 The ordinary shares of the Company as British American Tobacco p. l. c. have been listed on the Official List and traded Note: on the main market of the London Stock Exchange for listed The percentage of issued share capital excludes treasury shares.
securities since 8 September 1998 Share Code: BATS and ISIN: GB0002875804.
This is classified as a premium listing.
The share registrar is Computershare Investor Services PLC.
Since 28 October 2008, the Companys ordinary shares have had a secondary listing on the JSE Limited in South Africa JSE, under the abbreviated name BATS and the trading code BTI.
As at 31 December 2011, 215,049,297 ordinary shares of the Company being 10.61 per cent of the Companys issued ordinary share capital excluding treasury shares were on its South African branch register for which Computershare Investor Services Pty Ltd are share registrars.
British American Tobacco Annual Report 2011 61
