ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 61 ICAP plc Annual Report 2011 63 133 134 Our workplace sense of staff, customer and supplier involvement in Charity Day and, over 41 It is the nature of ICAP, and our people, to innovate and adapt to a the past 18 years, we have donated 76.6 million to more than 1,000 constantly changing market and regulatory environment.
We do this with a charities worldwide.
This has contributed greatly to alleviating suffering and commitment to achieving and maintaining high standards in the workplace.
improving the lives of thousands of people.
A large percentage of the This commitment is underpinned by policies on equal opportunities, charities supported are proposed by our staff in each of our offices around harassment and discrimination, to which all employees are required to the world covering a whole spectrum of causes, including medical adhere and which are regularly monitored and enforced.
research, education, crime prevention, the developing world, conservation and children.
ICAP is committed to employment policies that provide and promote equal employment and advancement opportunities and to providing an In December 2010 we successfully raised 12.1 million $19 million in one environment that ensures tolerance and respect for all employees.
This was only made possible by the incredible efforts of our customers, policy is that no employee, contract or temporary worker will be treated staff, suppliers and supporters and everyone giving 100%.
less favourably, victimised or harassed on the grounds of their disability, Suppliers gender, marital or civil partnership status, race, nationality, colour, ethnicity, We rely on a number of key suppliers to help us carry out our business.
We religion or similar philosophical belief, sexual orientation, age, or any other have put in place procedures to ensure that purchasing decisions balance class protected by applicable law.
cost against other factors including service quality, global reach and In a number of locations, for example the UK and the US, there has been resilience.
increasingly active promotion of diversity initiatives.
These include a Environment Diversity Council in the US, which arranges presentations by prominent The Groups environmental policy to minimise its carbon footprint has been people from minority groups, and the activities of the ICAP Mutual Interest approved by the board and is owned by the Group Finance Director.
Networks which is the umbrella framework in the UK for a range of affinity networks such as Womens ICAP Network and Family and Dependants The Groups environment impact is relatively low, in common with other Network.
These groups also arrange presentations and information sessions service orientated businesses.
The key sources of greenhouse gases arise on subjects of interest to the network membership with the overall aim of from the running of its network of offices worldwide and the travel encouraging a more diverse and inclusive environment in ICAP.
The recent expansion of the Groups emerging markets businesses has inevitably resulted in a small increase in travel but The Group recognises the importance of effective internal communication we have managed to offset this rise through a number of initiatives including in promoting employee engagement and uses a variety of methods, the introduction of more efficient lighting and air conditioning in some of including messages from the Group Chief Executive Officer and ICAPs our offices, the purchase, where possible, of electricity from renewable global intranet, to keep staff informed about developments in the business, sources, the recycling of waste and, when moving offices, focusing policies and procedures and training and career advancement opportunities on more environmentally friendly buildings, as well as the use of video in a timely manner.
The Groups remuneration policy is performance based and is structured to In March 2011, the Group completed the move of its staff based in be both consistent with, and to promote, effective risk management in Singapore from five separate locations into a new state-of-the-art facility respect of ICAPs activities.
Further details of the remuneration policy, now at Marina Bay.
In addition to providing strong commercial benefits of applicable to the Group, are provided in the remuneration report set out on co-locating staff covering voice broking, electronic broking and post trade pages 53 to 60. risk, it is expected that this move will result in a reduction in the Groups Health and safety carbon footprint.
ICAP has a health and safety policy which is approved by the board and As in previous years, the Group worked with Carbon Neutral Limited, an owned by the Group Chief Operating Officer.
Regional health and safety environmental consultancy, to estimate the residual emissions of the Group committees oversee structures for policy compliance.
All managers have a in terms of carbon dioxide equivalents.
Worldwide, we estimate that the responsibility for ensuring a healthy and safe working environment.
The Group emits the equivalent of 20.6 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide or great majority of ICAP employees work in an office environment and, as 4.4 tonnes per employee 2010 3.5 tonnes per annum.
This years such, there are no significant areas of risk to report.
emissions estimate includes the amount of transmission and distribution of Charity Day electricity, adding 1.9 thousand tonnes to our emissions estimate.
We have Corporate philanthropy and charitable giving have always been an also included offices in Latin America, which have not previously been important part of ICAPs corporate culture and ICAPs global annual Charity included in the calculation, adding 3.2 thousand tonnes of carbon dioxide to Day has played a special role in employee motivation since its inception in our emissions estimate.
Considering these new elements, the Groups 1993. emissions estimate is comparable to that of last year.
Charity Day is an annual event held each December when the Group Over time, however, we would expect that the growth of our business into donates a whole days revenue to a selection of charities worldwide.
Instead new markets and the consequential establishment of new offices will add to of the revenue going directly to the broker commission pool, on Charity Day the Groups carbon footprint.
Where it is not possible to reduce the the revenue goes directly to many worthy causes.
footprint, ICAP purchases Certificates of Emission Reduction CER under the United Nations sponsored Clean Development Mechanism.
Our vision for Charity Day is that we give something meaningful back to the global community in which we are privileged to live and work.
Charity Day for us is a collaborative effort.
It is a day when all of us, across all our offices, together with our customers, give 100% to charity.
The money we raise on this day literally changes the lives of thousands of people.
There is a huge Based on World Business Council for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute Protocols, relevant Scope 3 activities mainly business travel and commuting have been included as recommended by these organisations.
Using only Scope 1 and 2 emissions minimum recommended reporting level would reduce ICAPs reported emissions by approximately 80%.
The total figure is after excluding 9.5 tonnes 2010 8.1 tonnes of electricity produced from renewable sources.
