48 Directors report continued The Company purchased 1,993,415 of its own shares during the period under review.
Following these purchases, and as at 12 May 2011, the Company had an unexpired authority to repurchase shares up to a maximum of 63,471,213 ordinary shares of 10p each.
All changes in share capital are detailed in note 20 to the financial statements.
The ICAP and Garban Trusts hold ordinary shares which may be used to satisfy options and awards granted under the Companys share plans.
The voting rights of ordinary shares held in the ICAP and Garban Trusts are exercisable by the trustees in accordance with their fiduciary duties.
The right to receive dividends has been waived in respect of the shares held in the ICAP and Garban Trusts.
As at 31 March 2011, share awards and options existed over 12,643,150 of the Companys ordinary shares in relation to employee share awards and option schemes.
Of this figure, 4,684,896 are awards and options over existing shares which are held in employee share trusts.
The remainder are expected to be satisfied by either new issues of shares or by Treasury Shares.
Changes in options and awards under the various schemes are detailed in note 22 to the financial statements.
The rules of the Companys share plans contain provisions which may cause options and awards granted to employees under the schemes to vest on a change of control.
Substantial shareholdings As at 12 May 2011, the last practicable date prior to publication, the Company had been notified of the following interests of 3% or more in its issued ordinary share capital: Percentage of voting rights Total interest in Indirect Direct Total ordinary shares % % % Mr and Mrs M Spencer, together with INFBV and INCAP Overseas B. V. 108,302,480 15.91 0.49 16.40 Newton Investment Management Limited 52,546,074 7.96 7.96 FIL Limited 33,972,106 5.14 5.14 BlackRock, Inc 32,388,112 0.08 4.82 4.90 Schroders plc 32,243,080 4.89 4.89 AXA SA 29,749,171 3.72 0.79 4.51 TIAA-CREF Investment Management, LLC and Teachers Advisors, Inc 26,393,754 3.99 3.99 Legal & General Group plc 19,850,242 3.01 3.01 Mr and Mrs M Spencer own approximately 55.10% of IPGL which in turn owns 100% of INFBV, which in turn owns 100% of INCAP Overseas B. V. Accordingly, Mr and Mrs M Spencer are deemed to be interested in all the shares in ICAP plc held by INFBV and INCAP Overseas B. V. totalling 105,069,560.
A trust fund of which their children are beneficiaries holds a further 50,000 shares and 1,647,914 shares are held by EES Trustees International Limited as trustee of the ICAP Trust.
The shares held in the ICAP Trust include basic awards to Michael Spencer under the BSMP.
Michael Spencer has an interest in a further 2,832 share options under the SAYE scheme.
Michael Spencer holds 1,532,174 shares in his own name.
The Company has been notified by IPGL that, as part of normal corporate borrowing facilities, a total of 59,319,560 ICAP shares registered in the name of INFBV and 45,750,000 ICAP shares registered in the name of INCAP Overseas B. V. are included in a package of assets charged pursuant to a loan facility agreement originally dated 6 October 2008 and subsequently amended between IPGL, INFBV, certain other subsidiaries of IPGL and HSBC Bank Plc.
Mr M Spencer has notified the Company that security has been granted in favour of HSBC Private Bank UK Limited over 996,800 ICAP shares held by him personally.
Internal control, risk management and financial reporting The board is responsible for reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control system which management is responsible for maintaining.
Details of the Groups system of internal control, including its control over financial reporting, are set out in the business review on page 39 and are incorporated into the directors report by reference.
The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and associates.
Internal control procedures for joint ventures and associates rests with the senior management of these operations and the Company seeks to monitor such investments and exert influence through board representation.
The boards review of the effectiveness of the system of internal control in those entities is consequently less comprehensive than in its directly-owned subsidiaries.
Internal controls are designed to manage rather than eliminate risks and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
ICAP in ten Business review Governance Financial statements Information for shareholders 01 15 17 41 43 61 ICAP plc Annual Report 2011 63 133 134 Creditor payment policy The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are 49 The Company does not have any trade creditors and statements on Group sufficient to show and explain the Companys and the Groups transactions and operating companies payments are contained within their own financial disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the statements.
Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the remuneration report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as Related party transactions regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are Details of related party transactions are set out in note 29 to the financial also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and statements.
hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and Charitable donations other irregularities.
During the year the Group donated 13.2 million 2010 11.5 million to The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys charitable organisations globally, of which 5.7 million 2010 5 million website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of was donated to charitable organisations based in the UK.
Of this figure, financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12.1 million was raised on Charity Day, of which 4.6 million was donated to UK-based charities.
The balance of 1.1 million comprised small Directors statement pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules donations, including donations to disaster funds, during the period.
Further The directors are also required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of information about Charity Day can be found on page 41 of the business the FSA to include a management report containing a fair review of the review and on the Groups website, www.
business and a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the Company and the Group.
Political donations No political donations were made during the year 2010 nil.
Each of the directors, whose name and function is listed in the directors profiles, confirms that, to the best of their knowledge and belief: Employee involvement Details are given in the business review on page 41. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position Disability policy and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the Details are given in the business review on page 41. consolidation taken as a whole: and Events after the balance sheet date the management report disclosures are contained in the business review Details of events after the balance sheet date are set out in the business and include a fair review of the development and performance of the review on page 31 and in note 30 to the financial statements.
business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included Auditors and the disclosure of information to auditors in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the So far as each person who was a director at the date of approving this report principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by Going concern the auditors in connection with preparing their report, of which the auditors The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its are unaware.
Each director has taken all the steps that he is obliged to take as future development, performance and position are set out in the business a director in order to make him aware of any relevant audit information and review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flow, liquidity position, to establish that the auditors are aware of that information.
facilities and borrowing position are described in the business review and  LLP were re-appointed auditors to the Company notes 7 and 8 to the financial statements provide further detail on the on 14 July 2010.
Resolutions to re-appoint  LLP Groups borrowings and management of financial risks.
The business review and to authorise the directors to set their remuneration will be proposed at includes an analysis of the key risks facing the Group and the Groups the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Note 6 to the financial statements approach to risk management.
sets out details of the auditors remuneration.
After reviewing the Groups annual budget, liquidity requirements, plans and Statement of directors responsibilities for the Annual Report financing arrangements, the directors are satisfied that the Company and The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the the Group have adequate resources to continue to operate for the remuneration report and the financial statements in accordance with foreseeable future and confirm that the Company and the Group are going applicable law and regulations.
For this reason they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing these financial statements.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors have elected to prepare the Annual general meeting Company and Group financial statements in accordance with International The thirteenth annual general meeting of the Company will be held on Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the EU.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the law the directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are annual general meeting are set out in the notice of annual general meeting satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the sent to all shareholders.
The notice is sent to shareholders at least 20 Company and the Group and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
working days before the meeting and details of proxy votes for and against each resolution, together with votes withheld, are made available after the In preparing these financial statements, the directors are required to: vote has been dealt with on a show of hands.
select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: By order of the board make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Deborah Abrehart state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the EU have been followed, Group Company Secretary subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial ICAP plc statements: and 2 Broadgate London prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is EC2M 7UR inappropriate to presume that the Company and the Group will continue in Company number 3611426 business.
18 May 2011 50 Corporate governance The governance section details how the Company has applied the principles The following table sets out the number of meetings of the board attended set out in section 1 of the Combined Code and includes additional by directors in office at 31 March 2011: disclosures as to how the Company has complied with the detailed Total possible Meetings provisions of the Combined Code.
attendance attended Charles Gregson 6 6 During the year, the Company complied with the provisions of the Combined Code with two exceptions.
Following the retirement of James Michael Spencer 6 6 McNulty in September 2010, a senior independent director has yet to be John Nixon 6 6 appointed.
Given the changes to the board this past year, it was agreed that no immediate appointment of a replacement would be made.
For this Iain Torrens appointed 18 November 2010 2 2 reason we did not have a senior independent director for the full duration of Mark Yallop 6 6 the year in compliance with Combined Code provision A.
The Chairman remained available for consultation with shareholders.
Hsieh Fu Hua appointed 1 January 2011 2 2 Combined Code provision A.
6.1 requires an annual performance review of Diane Schueneman appointed 14 July 2010 4 4 the board and its committees.
A full, externally facilitated board evaluation John Sievwright 6 6 is underway.
However, following the changes to the board, the evaluation Robert Standing appointed 14 July 2010 4 4 is taking place later than usual and the results of this evaluation will be available later in the year.
Role of the board The Combined Code is publicly available at www.
A schedule of matters specifically reserved to the board for decision and approval includes the Groups long-term objectives and commercial Composition of the board strategy, significant acquisitions, disposals and investments, the Groups As at 31 March 2011, the board comprised a non-executive Chairman, annual and half-year reports, interim management statements, any four executive directors, including the Group Chief Executive Officer, and significant change in accounting policies or practices, any interim dividend four independent non-executive directors.
and recommendation of the final dividend, the annual operating and capital During the year, the planned succession to the board of non-executive expenditure budgets, any changes to the Companys capital structure or its directors and an executive director presented the opportunity to refresh status as a listed company, risk management strategy and treasury policy.
skills and expertise to strengthen the boards overall ability to focus on the There is a clear division between the role of the Chairman, who is delivery of strategy, good governance and shareholder value.
responsible for the leadership of the board and for ensuring effective Following an evaluation of the skills and experience sought, the board communication with shareholders, and the Group Chief Executive Officer, appointed leadership advisory firm Heidrick & Struggles to undertake this who is responsible for leading and managing the business.
Subsequently, as a result of this search, Diane Schueneman and As well as appropriate training and briefings, all directors have access to the Robert Standing were appointed non-executive directors on 14 July 2010. advice and services of the group company secretary who is responsible for Hsieh Fu Hua, who is based in Singapore, was appointed a non-executive ensuring that board procedures and applicable rules are observed.
Iain Torrens succeeded Matthew Lester as an may also obtain independent professional advice in respect of their duties to executive director and Group Finance Director on 18 November 2010 in the board and to its committees at the Companys expense.
The Company line with the succession plan.
With their range of skills and expertise, these maintains liability insurance for its directors and officers.
appointments bring new perspective and balance to the board.
Board meetings Six board meetings were scheduled during the year, one of which was dedicated to a strategic review.
Between each scheduled meeting, the board convened by conference call to receive trading reports and updates on current issues.
The Chairman, in consultation with the executive directors and the group company secretary, sets the agenda for board meetings.
All directors receive comprehensive documentation prior to each meeting on the matters to be discussed to enable them to exercise their judgement in the discharge of their duties.
GEMG members and certain senior executives attend meetings by invitation to present on their areas of expertise.
During the year, such presentations included the Americas voice broking business and the Brazilian business.
