CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTRODUCTION This Corporate Governance statement forms part of the Directors Report.
The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide as issued in October 2010.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specic relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the UK Corporate Governance Code, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, except as set out below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and as explained in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
THE BOARD Composition At the date of this report, the Board consists of six non-executive directors including the Chairman.
Mr Bernays and Mr Niven were appointed as directors of the Company upon its incorporation.
Dr Arnott was appointed as a director by the Board on 8 January 2002.
Mr Berry was appointed by the Board on 1 October 2007.
Mrs Le Blan and Mr Rickett were appointed on 27 January 2011.
All the directors have served during the entire period since their appointment.
Mr Bernays is Chairman of the Company.
Mrs Le Blan has been appointed as the Boards senior independent director.
The Board believes that during the year ended 31 December 2011 its composition was appropriate for an investment company of its nature and size.
Mr Brown stood down as a director at the Annual General Meeting held in May 2011 and Dr Arnott will stand down at the next Annual General Meeting.
As noted above, two new directors were appointed during the year ended 31 December 2011.
All the directors are independent of the investment manager.
The directors have a broad range of relevant experience to meet the Companys requirements and their biographies are given below.
Richard Bernays Chairman Mr Bernays is chairman of Gartmore Global Trust plc and Throgmorton Trust plc and a director of Charter Pan-European Trust plc.
Mr Bernays retired in March 2001 from the post of chief executive of Old Mutual International after 30 years in the 22 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED financial services industry.
Following a number of years in advertising, Richard Bernays joined Mercury Asset Management in 1971 and was responsible for the establishment and development of its unit trust arm from 1975 to 1985.
He was vice chairman of Mercury Asset Management from 1987 to 1991 when he left to become chief executive of Hill Samuel Asset Management.
He joined Old Mutual International in 1998.
He is also a director of WNS Group, a New York Stock Exchange listed company.
Dr Robert Arnott Following a D. Phil.
in geology he joined Shell International in 1983 and worked in exploration and as an economist for Shell Expro.
In 1991 he joined Hoare Govett as an oil analyst, and subsequently worked for UBS Warburg, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley Dean Witter.
In October 2000 he joined HSBC Investment Bank plc as head of Global Energy Equity Research.
In December 2001 Dr Arnott joined the Oxford Institute for Energy Studies where he is currently a Senior Research Adviser.
Dr Arnott has written two books on the valuation of oil and gas companies.
He is also a director of Petroceltic International PLC and Spring Energy AS.
Charles Berry Mr Berry is chairman of Drax Group plc.
He is also a non-executive director of the Securities Trust of Scotland plc and a non-executive director and chairman designate of Senior plc.
He is a past chairman of eaga plc, Thus Group plc and from 1999 to 2005 he was a Director of Scottish Power plc.
Prior to joining ScottishPower in 1991, he was Group Development Director of Norwest Holst, a subsidiary of Compagnie Gnral des Eaux, and prior to that held management positions within subsidiaries of Pilkington plc.
He holds a BSc First Class Hons in Electrical Engineering from the University of Glasgow and a Masters Degree in Management from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
Julia Le Blan Mrs Le Blan is a chartered accountant and has worked in the financial services industry for over 30 years.
She retired from Deloitte in 2009, where she had been a Tax Partner since 1990.
During that time, she acted as tax adviser to international financial institutions, including clients in banking, securities and fund management and she led the mergers and acquisitions function for financial services tax.
She was also the rms expert on the taxation of investment trust companies.
Mrs Le Blan is also a non-executive director of Investors Capital Trust plc.
Keith Niven Mr Niven retired from Schroder Investment Management Limited SIM in October 2001.
He joined Schroders in 1973 and was appointed a director of SIM, its fund management arm, in 1985.
Mr Niven held a number of posts in SIM, becoming joint vice chairman in 2000.
He is nonexecutive chairman of Matrix Income & Growth VCT PLC and a non-executive director of Schroder Income Growth Fund plc.
Mr Niven is also an investment adviser to the Rolls Royce Pension Fund.
William Rickett Mr Rickett, C. B was Director General, Energy in the Department of Energy & Climate Change and Chairman of the Governing Board of the International Energy Agency until October 2009.
He had previously been a Director General in the Department for Transport and in the Cabinet Ofce.
He started his civil service career in the Department of Energy in 1975 and, among other things, led the team privatising the electricity industry from 1987 to 1990.
He was Private Secretary to the Prime Minister from 1981 to 1983 and also spent two periods on secondment to the private sector.
He is now a Director of Cambridge Economic Policy Associates Ltd, Eggborough Power Ltd, Helius Energy plc and the National Renewable Energy Centre Ltd.
The Board does not believe that the service tenure of non-executive directors should be strictly limited to nine years.
The Board recognises the benets to the Company of having longer serving directors together with progressive refreshment of the Board.
Mr Bernays, Dr Arnott and Mr Niven 23 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED were appointed shortly before the Companys shares were listed on the London Stock Exchange in February 2002.
The Board does not believe that the current length of service affects the independence of those directors and believes that they provide an appropriate level of experience and ability to the Company.
Mr Berry was appointed in October 2007.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, upon the recommendation of the nominations committee, the Board appointed Mrs Le Blan and Mr Rickett as directors to the Company.
A new director search was conducted with the assistance of a third party recruitment consultant.
The process included a careful consideration of the future requirements of the Company and the necessary skills and experience required from prospective directors.
Dr Arnott will retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and not put himself forward for re-election.
In line with the AIC Code, the Board has decided that each director should be subject to annual re-election by shareholders, although this is not required by the Companys Articles of Association.
All of the directors with the exception of Dr Arnott will stand for re-election.
The Board recommends all the directors for re-election for the reasons highlighted above and in the performance appraisal section of this report.
The directors have appointment letters which do not state any specic term.
They are subject to re-election by shareholders at a maximum interval of three years.
Copies of the directors appointment letters are available on request from the Company Secretary.
A policy of insurance against directors and ofcers liabilities is maintained by the Company.
A procedure has been adopted for directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
There were five full Board meetings during the year ended 31 December 2011.
Mr Bernays, Mr Berry, Mrs Le Blan, Mr Niven and Mr Rickett attended all the meetings.
Dr Arnott attended four meetings.
In addition, there were two Board meetings to deal with the purchase of the Companys own shares and three Board sub-committee meetings to deal with the formal approval of documents.
BOARD COMMITTEES The Board decides upon the membership and chairmanship of its committees.
Audit Committee All the directors except the Chairman of the Company are members of this committee.
The Audit Committee meets formally at least twice a year for the purpose, amongst other things, of considering the appointment, independence and objectivity, and remuneration of the auditor and to review the annual accounts and half-yearly financial report.
Where non-audit services are provided by the auditor, full consideration of the financial and other implications on the independence of the auditor arising from any such engagement are considered before proceeding.
The Audit Committee has considered the non-audit work of the auditor this year and does not consider that this compromises its independence.
Non-audit work consisted of tax assurance in preparing the Companys corporation tax return.
24 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Mr Niven is chairman of the Audit Committee.
Mr Niven will stand down as chairman of the Audit Committee at the next Annual General Meeting and Mrs Le Blan will be appointed in his place.
The Audit Committee has formal written terms of reference and copies of these are available on request from the Company Secretary.
All members of the audit committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee has considered the need for an internal audit function and considers that this is not appropriate given the nature and circumstances of the Company.
Following a rotation during the year, the audit partner at Ernst & Young responsible for the audit is Julian Young.
There were two Audit Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2011.
Mr Niven, Mr Berry, Mrs Le Blan and Mr Rickett attended both meetings.
Dr Arnott attended one meeting.
Remuneration Committee All the directors are members of this committee.
The Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee was renamed the Remuneration Committee during the year.
The Remuneration Committee has been established to meet formally on at least an annual basis to consider the fees of the non-executive directors and of other suppliers of services to the Company.
Dr Arnott is the chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Rickett will replace Dr Arnott as chairman of the Remuneration Committee upon Dr Arnotts retirement as a director at the next Annual General Meeting.
The Remuneration Committee has formal terms of reference and copies of these are available on request from the Company Secretary.
A directors remuneration report is included on page 29 of these financial statements.
There was one meeting of the Remuneration Committee during the year ended 31 December 2011.
The meeting was attended by all the committee members.
Management Engagement Committee All the directors are members of this committee.
The Management Engagement Committee has been established to conduct a formal annual review of the Manager assessing investment and other performance, the level and method of the Managers remuneration and the continued appointment of the Manager as investment manager to the Company.
Mr Bernays is chairman of the Management Engagement Committee.
The first meeting of the Management Engagement Committee was in March 2012.
This meeting was attended by all the committee members.
The duties of this committee were previously performed by the Remuneration and Management Engagement Committee.
Nominations Committee All the directors are members of this committee.
The Nominations Committee has been established for the purpose of identifying and putting forward candidates for the ofce of director of the Company.
The Nominations Committee meets as and when required.
Mr Bernays is chairman of the Nominations Committee.
The Nominations Committee considers job specications and will assess whether candidates have the necessary skills and time available to devote to the job.
The Companys policy is that the Board should have a broad range of skills and diversity.
25 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED There was one meeting of the Nominations Committee during the year ended 31 December 2011.
PERFORMANCE APPRAISAL A formal annual performance appraisal process is performed on the Board, the committees, the individual directors and the Companys main service providers.
The most recent Board appraisal was performed by a third party and is summarised below.
The external evaluation of the Board was commenced prior to the year end and the process was completed in March 2012.
The evaluation was conducted by Egon Zehnder International.
The results of the evaluation demonstrated that the Board has a number of strengths and that the directors bring a broad range of skills to the Company.
The Board believes that the external review has been beneficial and has provided the directors with useful feedback on how to further enhance Board effectiveness.
INTERNAL CONTROL The AIC Code requires the Board to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls.
The Board recognises its ultimate responsibility for the Companys system of internal controls and for monitoring its effectiveness.
The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can provide only reasonable assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has undertaken a review of the aspects covered by the guidance and has identied risk management controls in the key areas of business objectives, accounting, compliance, operations and secretarial as being matters of particular importance upon which it requires reports.
The Board believes that the existing arrangements, set out below, represent an appropriate framework to meet the internal control requirements.
By these procedures the directors have kept under review the effectiveness of the internal control system throughout the year and up to the date of this report.
The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, the management of the investment portfolio, the custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets, the registration services and the accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of these contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration of the quality and cost of services offered, including the financial control systems in operation in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
Financial aspects of internal control The directors are responsible for the internal financial control systems of the Company and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These aim to ensure the maintenance of proper accounting records, the reliability of the financial information upon which business decisions are made and which is used for publication and that the assets of the Company are safeguarded.
As stated above, the Board has contractually delegated to external agencies the services the Company requires, but they are fully informed of the internal control framework established by the Manager and the Administrator to provide reasonable assurance on the effectiveness of internal financial controls.
The key procedures include monthly production of management accounts and NAV calculations, monitoring of performance at regular Board meetings, supervision by directors of the valuation of securities, segregation of the administrative function from that of securities and cash custody and of both from investment management, maintenance of appropriate insurance and adherence to physical and computer security procedures.
In addition, the Board keeps under its own direct 26 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED control all material payments out of the Company other than for investment purposes.
Payment of management and administration fees is authorised only by directors after they have studied the financial data upon which those fees are based.
The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the accounts is on page 31 and a Statement of Going Concern is on pages 20 and 21.
The Report of the Independent Auditors is on pages 32 and 33.
Other aspects of internal control The Board holds at least four regular meetings each year, plus additional meetings as required.
Between these meetings there is regular contact with the Manager and the Administrator.
The Manager reports in writing to the Board on operational and compliance issues prior to each meeting, and otherwise as necessary.
The Manager reports directly to the Audit Committee concerning the internal controls applicable to the Managers dealing, investment and general ofce procedures.
Directors receive and consider regular monthly reports from the Administrator, giving full details of all holdings in the portfolio and of all transactions and of all aspects of the financial position of the Company.
The Administrator reports separately in writing to the Board concerning risks and internal control matters within its purview, including internal financial control procedures and secretarial matters.
Additional ad hoc reports are received as required and directors have access at all times to the advice and services of the Corporate Company Secretary, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
This contact with the Manager and the Administrator enables the Board to monitor the Companys progress towards its objectives and encompasses an analysis of the risks involved.
These matters are assessed on an ongoing basis through the year and again, formally, at year end.
SHAREHOLDER RELATIONS The Company welcomes all shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting and seeks to provide twenty working days notice of that meeting.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the AGM and any item not of an entirely routine nature is explained in the Directors Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The Manager has a programme of meetings with shareholders and reports back to the Board on its findings.
The Board also welcomes feedback from the shareholders directly to them.
EXERCISE OF VOTING POWERS The Company and the Manager believe that proxy voting is a key component in the ongoing dialogue with investee companies.
As such, voting is an important aspect of the Managers investment process.
The Company and the Manager support the UK Stewardship Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in July 2010.
The Manager has published its proxy voting policy and statement of compliance with the principles of best practice of the Stewardship Code on its website.
27 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY The Company has no staff, premises, manufacturing or other operations.
The Company only invests in companies which contribute to the cleaner or more efficient delivery of basic services of energy, water and waste.
The Managers core expertise is within the environmental sector and the Manager takes a close interest in ensuring effective governance of investee companies.
The Company and the Manager believe that a thorough understanding of environmental, social and governance issues is likely to enhance perspectives on both the opportunities and risks offered by individual investments.
The Managers detailed policy on environmental, social and governance issues can be found on its website www.
28 IMPAX ENVIRONMENTAL MARKETS PLC Job No.
: 10884 Proof Event: 4 Park Communications Ltd Alpine Way London E6 6LA Customer: Impax Project Title: Annual Report T: 020 7055 6500 F: 020 7055 6600
