Annual Report & Accounts 2011 65 Our business 01-07 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio 42-56 Corporate governance Governance Accounts 85-119 The Group recognises, and is committed to, the highest standards Each non executive director has an appointment letter with the of corporate governance.
Throughout the year ended 31 March Company and their appointments are reviewed periodically.
2011, the Group complied with the provisions of the Financial The principal matters considered by the Board during the reporting Council FRC Combined Code on Corporate year included: Governance the Code.
In May 2010 the FRC issued a new the Group strategic plan, budget and financial resources: edition of the Code, the UK Corporate Governance Code, which review of the Compliance policies: applies to financial years beginning on or after 29 June 2010 and therefore will begin to apply to the Company from the beginning of regular review of the investment portfolio and any areas the 2012 financial year.
A copy of the Code and the UK Corporate of concern: Governance Code is publicly available on the Financial Reporting communication of our financial results for the interim and Councils website www.
year end: review of current compensation structures: The Boards responsibilities and processes independence of non executive directors: and The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the overall management of the Group.
The Boards main roles are to provide corporate responsibility initiatives and performance.
leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed and to executive directors: ensure that the necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company to meet its objectives and thus increase the development and recommendation of strategic plans for shareholder value.
consideration by the Board that reflect the longer term: objectives and priorities established by the Board: There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for Board approval, which include: implementation of the strategies and policies of the Group as determined by the Board: approval of the Groups overall business strategy, planning and monitoring of operating and financial results against plans annual budget: and budgets: assessment of internal controls and risk management: monitoring the quality of the investment process: and approval of the Groups half year and annual financial statements developing and implementing risk management systems.
and dividend policy: presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Companys position and prospects to the shareholders through The Chairman of the Board, Justin Dowley, leads the Board in the Chairmans statement, the Managing Directors review, the the determination of its strategy and in achieving its objectives.
Business review, the Financial review and the financial The Chairman is responsible for organising the business statements: of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
appointments to the Board and Executive Committee: The Chairman has no involvement in the day to day business capital expenditure decisions: and of the Group.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution of non executive directors and ensures that there is effective changes in employee incentive schemes.
communication with the Groups shareholders.
At each Board meeting there is a full financial and business review The Chairman was considered independent at the date of his which includes the comparison of performance to date against the appointment as Chairman.
Boards previously approved annual budget.
The Chief Executive Officer, Christophe Evain has direct Each Board member receives a comprehensive Board pack at charge of the Group on a day to day basis and is accountable least five days prior to each meeting which incorporates a formal to the Board for the financial and operational performance of the agenda together with supporting papers for items to be discussed Group.
The Chief Executive is supported in his role by a committee at the meeting.
Further information is obtained by the Board from called the Executive Committee which support him in carrying out the executive directors and other relevant members of senior the responsibilities delegated to him by the Board.
management, as the Board, particularly its non executive directors, The Committee comprises the four executive directors and is considers appropriate.
The Committee meets on a regular All directors have access to the advice and services of the basis to consider operational matters and the implementation Company Secretary and may take independent professional advice of the Groups strategy with no one director being able to at the Companys expense in the furtherance of their duties.
significantly affect the running of the Company without consulting The appointment removal of the Company Secretary would be his colleagues.
In accordance with the Code and the UK Corporate The Board appreciates the importance of the continued Governance Code the Board adopted a formal division of professional development of the directors.
responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO, with the The non executive directors, at least annually, hold meetings intention to establish a clear division of responsibilities between in the absence of the executive directors and, separately, in the the running of the Board and the executive responsibility for the absence of the Chairman.
running of the Companys business.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 66 Corporate governance continued Senior Independent Director Board performance Kevin Parry holds the position of Senior Independent Director of the In line with the effective governance requirements of the Combined Company.
In accordance with the Code and the UK Corporate Code, the Board reviews its own performance annually using a Governance Code, any shareholder concerns not resolved through predetermined template designed as a tool to facilitate the the usual mechanisms for investor communication can be conveyed evaluation process.
to the Senior Independent Director.
The assessment covers the functioning of the Board as a whole, the functioning of the Executive Committee, the evaluation Board of directors of individual directors and includes a review of the effectiveness As at 31 March 2011, the Board comprised four executive directors, of the Board committees.
The Board considers the results of the an independent non executive Chairman and four non executive performance evaluation when making its recommendations directors of whom all four are independent.
The non executive regarding the re-election of directors.
directors are as follows: The Board does not consider it necessary to employ the services of an external third party to conduct the evaluation Justin Dowley was appointed a non executive director in process.
The employment of the services of such an external party February 2006, and non executive Chairman in July 2010. will be kept under review annually.
A review was performed during James Nelson was appointed a non executive director in May the year and the Board concluded that its performance and that 2001.
He has been a non executive director of the Company for of its Committees, Chairman and directors were satisfactory.
over nine-years and, following a rigorous review in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the directors have Election and re-election of directors concluded that he continues to provide effective challenge both The Companys current Articles of Association provide that a within and outside Board meetings.
The Board considers him director appointed by the Board shall retire at the Annual General to be independent in character and judgement.
Meeting following his appointment and that at each Annual General Jean-Daniel Camus was appointed a non executive director Meeting of the Company one-third of the directors must retire by in March 2007. rotation.
Whilst the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code will only begin to apply to the Company from the beginning Kevin Parry was appointed as a non executive director of the 2011 financial year, the Board has decided that in in June 2009. accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, each of the Peter Gibbs was appointed as a non executive director directors will retire and offer himself for re-election at this years in March 2010.
The non executive directors are considered to be of the appropriate In relation to the directors who are standing for re-election the calibre and experience to bring significant influence to bear on the Chairman is satisfied that, following formal performance evaluation, Boards decision making process.
each director continues to be effective and demonstrates The Board meets at least six times a year with additional commitment to his role.
James Nelson has been a non executive meetings being held as required.
director of the Company for over nine-years and, following a The table below shows the number of Board and Committee rigorous review in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance meetings held during the year and the attendance record of Code, the directors have concluded that he continues to provide individual directors.
effective challenge both within and outside Board meetings.
The Board considers all of its non executive directors to be Board and Committee meetings independent in character and judgement.
Audit and Remuneration Nomination Risk Board Committee Committee Committee Conflicts of Interest Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with Total meetings held 7 4 5 1 the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the Tom Attwood 7 3 directors to authorise conflicts of interest and the Board has Jean-Daniel Camus 7 3 5 1 adopted a policy and effective procedures on managing and, Justin Dowley 7 3 and 1 5 1 where appropriate, approving potential conflicts of interest.
Christophe Evain 7 4 1 Peter Gibbs 7 4 5 1 Board Committees Philip Keller 7 4 5 The Board is supported in its decisions by four principal Franois fide Mitry 7 4 5 Committees, which are described below.
The Terms of Reference James Nelson 7 4 5 1 of each of the Board Committees together with the directors service agreements, the terms and conditions of appointment of Kevin Parry 7 4 5 1 non executive directors and directors' deeds of indemnity are John Manser 1 1 available for inspection at the Companys registered office during Attended these meetings but is not on the Committee.
Each Committee has access to such external advice as it may consider appropriate.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 67 Our business 01-07 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance Accounts 85-119 Audit and Risk Committee monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the The Audit and Risk Committee consists of four independent non Company, including its annual and half-yearly reports, interim executive directors, these being Kevin Parry Chairman of the management statements, and any other formal announcement Committee, Jean-Daniel Camus, Peter Gibbs and James Nelson.
relating to its financial performance, reviewing significant financial The executive directors and Chairman of the Board are not reporting issues and judgments which they contain.
members of the Audit and Risk Committee but are normally invited During the year the Audit and Risk Committee: to attend.
Deloitte LLP, the Companys auditor, is also invited to attend and has direct access to committee members.
The Board reviewed and recommended to the Board the accounting is satisfied that the Chairman has recent and relevant financial disclosures comprised in the interim and annual financial experience as do other members of the Committee.
statements of the Group and reviewed the scope of the external audit plan and audit findings: The Committee meets regularly, at least four times a year, and is evaluated the independence and objectivity of the external auditor responsible for: and the effectiveness of the audit process: selecting and recommending the appointment of the external met with the external auditor in the absence of management: auditor to the Board, approving their terms of reference and fees: Reviewed procedures for Anti-Money Laundering and the reviewing the performance of the external auditor and ensuring MLRO report: appropriate rotation of audit partner: reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control environment of acting as a forum for discussion of internal control issues and the Group: giving input to the Boards review of the Companys internal reviewed the Risk Management of and Operational Control over control and risk management systems and procedures: the Funds under Management: reviewing the independence of the external auditor and the reviewed Treasury Committee activity: reviewed regulatory relationship between audit and non audit work performed by the developments and their impact on the Group and external auditor.
Procedures are in place to ensure that all significant non audit work performed by the auditor is approved in reviewed and approved the updated ICAAP.
advance by the Committee and they assess whether such Remuneration Committee appointments impair, or appear to impair, the auditors judgement The Remuneration Committee consists of five non executive or independence.
The Audit and Risk Committee also undertakes directors, these being James Nelson Chairman of the Committee, an annual evaluation to assess the independence and objectivity Jean-Daniel Camus, Justin Dowley, Peter Gibbs and Kevin Parry.
of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process, Executive directors are not members of the Remuneration taking into consideration relevant professional and regulatory Committee but are normally invited to attend.
The results of the evaluation were last reported to supports the Board in determining the level of remuneration of the the Board in September 2010.
An analysis of fees paid to Deloitte Chairman in his absence and reviews the remuneration policy LLP is shown in note 9 on page 98: applicable to senior management.
Further details regarding reviewing the annual and interim accounts before they are remuneration policy and payments made can be found in the presented to the Board, in particular any significant issues arising Report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 71 to 83. from the audit: accounting policies and clarity of disclosures: Nominations Committee compliance with applicable accounting and legal standards: The Nominations Committee consists of five non executive issues regarding a significant element of judgement: and the directors, these being Justin Dowley Chairman of the Committee, statements on internal controls and business risk assessment: Jean-Daniel Camus, Peter Gibbs, Kevin Parry and James Nelson.
and The Committee is responsible for considering the composition reviewing the provisioning policy for the investment portfolio on of the Board to ensure that the balance of its membership as a six monthly basis: and reviewing and approving the Companys between Executive and non executive directors is appropriate.
whistleblowing policy: Appointments of Executive and non executive directors are made as reviewing the Companys procedures for detecting fraud and for necessary as a result of discussions by the Committee and are handling, in confidence, allegations from whistleblowers and to subject to full Board approval and election or re-election at a general ensure these procedures allow proportionate and independent meeting of the shareholders.
investigation of such matters and appropriate follow up action: Prior to any appointment to the Board, the Nominations reviewing managements and the internal risks reports on the Committee considers the balance of skills, experience, effectiveness of systems for internal financial control, financial independence and knowledge appropriate to determine the reporting and risk management, including non-financial risk requirements and necessary capabilities of the role.
In addition, management: and any new director normally meets all existing directors prior to appointment.
Intermediate Capital Group plc 68 Corporate governance continued Executive Committee Internal control The Executive Committee comprises the four Managing directors The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys internal of ICG, each of whom has a specific area of responsibility.
control system and reviews its effectiveness at least annually.
The Executive Committee has general responsibility for ICGs Such a system of control is in place to give reasonable, but not resources, determining strategy, financial and operational control absolute, assurance that assets are safeguarded, transactions and managing the business worldwide.
Christophe Evain is Chief are authorised and recorded properly and that material errors Executive Officer and in addition to his strategic and operational and irregularities are prevented or would be detected within a remit he chairs the Companys Investment Committees in his role timely period.
as the Chief Investment Officer.
Tom Attwood chairs the Executive Through the regular meetings of the Board and the schedule Committee and focuses on credit funds, Philip Keller is Chief of matters reserved to the Board or its duly authorised Committees, Financial Officer and is responsible for finance and infrastructure, the Board aims to maintain full and effective control over appropriate and Franois fide Mitry is responsible for the mezzanine and minority strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues.
has put in place an organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority.
Relationships with shareholders The Board annually considers and approves a strategic plan and The Company recognises the importance of communication with its budget.
In addition there are established procedures and processes shareholders, which it achieves through interim and annual reports in place for the making and monitoring of investments and the and the AGM.
The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer and the planning and controlling of expenditure.
The Board also receives Chairmen of the Remuneration, Audit and Nominations Committees regular reports from the Executive Committee on the Companys will be available to answer shareholders questions at the AGM.
operational and financial performance, measured against the The numbers of proxy votes lodged in connection with the annual budget as well as regulatory and compliance matters.
Companys AGM are announced following the conclusion of the The Company has in place arrangements whereby employees may relevant meeting.
raise matters of concern in confidence about possible improprieties The Board is happy to enter into a dialogue with institutional in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
shareholders based on a mutual understanding of objectives, The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, subject to its duties regarding equal treatment of shareholders but has decided that because of the nature of the current internal and the dissemination of inside information.
The Chief Executive, control system and size of the Company it cannot be justified at Chief Financial Officer and Chairman meet institutional shareholders present.
The Board will review this decision next year.
In addition on a regular basis.
The Board as a whole is kept fully informed of to the regular Risk reports discussed at the Audit and Risk the views and concerns of the major shareholders.
When requested Committees meetings, the Board undertook a formal annual to do so, non executive directors will attend meetings with assessment of the risk management and control arrangements in major shareholders.
order to form a view on the overall effectiveness of the system of internal control.
The Board also authorised the Executive Committee to undertake external reviews of the emerging risks, where required, with a view to assist the growth of the Companys business.
The rationale for the system of internal control is to maximise effectiveness for the commercial management of the business and to provide the Board with regular and effective reporting on the identified significant risk factors.
The Board is responsible for determining strategies and policies for risk control, and management is responsible for implementing such strategies and policies.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 69 Our business 01-07 Business review 08-41 Funds and portfolio 42-56 Governance Accounts 85-119 The Board confirms that an ongoing process for identifying, Going concern statement evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks has operated The Financial review on pages 26 to 32 describes the financial throughout the year and that, up to the date of the approval of the position of the Group: its cash flows, liquidity position and directors report and financial statements, the Board continues to borrowing facilities together with its objectives, factors likely to affect apply the procedures necessary to comply with the requirements of its future development and policies and processes for managing its the Turnbull Committee guidelines Internal Control Guidance for capital.
The Groups financial risk management objectives and its Directors on the Combined Code.
exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk are described in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 33 to 37 and The key elements of this process are: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities are core values, Company standards and controls which together described in note 31 on pages 111 to 117.
The Group continually comprise the Companys high level principles and controls, with monitors its debt profile and looks to refinance senior facilities a which all staff are expected to comply: substantial period before they mature.
Having reviewed the Groups budget and business plan and, taking into account reasonable manuals of procedures, compliance and policies applicable to all downside sensitivity, the directors believe that the Group has business units: adequate financial resources to continue in operational existence for the identification of the major business risks facing the Company the foreseeable future and accordingly they continue to adopt the and the development of appropriate policies for the management going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board recognises that the internal control system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives: the employment of experienced and professional staff of the highest calibre both by recruitment and promotion to fulfil allotted responsibilities: strategic risks are considered by both the Board and the Executive Committee in the context of an agreed strategic framework.
A strategy paper and plan are produced annually to address the strategic challenges of the Group and these are approved by the Board: a detailed financial plan is developed for the year ahead and comprehensive monthly reports covering actual and planned performance are provided to the Board by the Groups finance function: regular treasury reports are made to the Board which analyse the funding requirements of the Company, track liquidity and monitor the Companys compliance to its interest and exchange rate policies: a compliance and legal function whose role is to monitor and report to the Board on the Companys regulatory compliance: a well defined procedure governing the approval, monitoring and sale of investments incorporating appropriate levels of authority and post investment reviews: and regular reports are made on the Companys fund management activities including new fundraising, conflicts of interest and portfolio performance.
