DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe Other governance and statutory disclosures Business review Interests in voting rights The Companies Act 2006 requires the Company to set out in Information provided to the Company pursuant to the UK Listing the Directors Report a fair review of the business of the Group Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules DTRs is published during the financial year ended 30 June 2011 including an analysis on a Regulatory Information Service and on the Companys website.
of the position of the Group at the end of the financial year, and As at 28 July 2011, the Company had been notified under DTR5 of the a description of the principal risks and uncertainties facing the following significant holdings of voting rights in its shares.
Group known as a Business Review.
The purpose of the Business Amount Percent Review is to enable shareholders to assess how the Directors have Identity of person or group owned of class performed their duty under section 172 of the Companies Act 2006. i News UK Nominees Limited 686,021,700 39.14 The information that fulfils the Business Review requirements can Capital Research and Management ii be found in the following sections of the Directors Report.
Company 90,751,601 5.18 ii BlackRock, Inc. 87,559,067 4.99 Chief executive Officers statement on pages 4 to 5 ii The Capital Group Companies, Inc. 55,977,854 3.10 Performance KPIs on pages 6 to 7 i Direct holding which is subject to restrictions on its voting rights please see Voting rights below.
Review of the business on pages 8 to 17 ii Indirect holding.
Financial and operating review on pages 29 to 35 At 28 July 2011, 39.14% of the Companys shares are held by News Principal risks and uncertainties that face the Group are UK Nominees Limited, a company incorporated under the laws of described on pages 24 to 28 england and Wales which is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Significant trends that could have a material effect on the News Corporation.
As a result of Rupert Murdochs ability to appoint performance of the Group are described on pages 34 to 35 certain members of the Board of Directors of the corporate trustee of the Murdoch Family Trust, which beneficially owns less than 1% of People matters on pages 22 to 23 News Corporations Class A Common Stock and 38.4% of its Class B Community and environmental matters on pages 18 to 22.
Common Stock, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to be a beneficial owner of the shares beneficially owned by the Murdoch Family Trust.
Pages 4 to 58 inclusive together with the sections incorporated by Rupert Murdoch, however, disclaims any beneficial ownership of reference consist of a Directors Report that has been drawn up those shares.
Also, Rupert Murdoch beneficially owns less than 1% of and presented in accordance with and in reliance upon applicable english company law and the liabilities of the Directors in connection News Corporations Class A Common Stock and an additional 1.3% of its Class B Common Stock.
Thus, Rupert Murdoch may be deemed to with that report shall be subject to the limitations and restrictions beneficially own in the aggregate less than 1% of News Corporations provided by the law.
Class A Common Stock and 39.7% of its Class B Common Stock.
principal activities The employee Share Ownership Plan eSOP was established to British Sky Broadcasting Group plc is the holding company of the satisfy awards made to participants of the Companys employee British Sky Broadcasting group of companies.
The Groups principal share plans.
The trustees of the eSOP have waived the right to activities are detailed in the Review of the business on pages 8 to 17. dividends payable in respect of the shares held by it, except to the extent of 0.0001% of the dividend payable on each share.
At 30 results and dividends June 2011, the eSOP had an interest in 13,832,609 of the Companys The profit for the year ended 30 June 2011 was 810 million ordinary shares.
The Trustees, who are independent of the Company, 2010: 878 million.
The Directors recommend a final dividend for have full discretion on how they vote the ordinary shares held by the the year ended 30 June 2011 of 14.54 pence per ordinary share eSOP.
which, together with the interim dividend of 8.74 pence paid to shareholders on 21 April 2011, will make a total dividend for the year Voting rights of 23.28 pence 2010: 19.40 pence.
Subject to approval at the AGM, The Companys articles of association provide that subject to any the final dividend will be paid on 9 December 2011 to shareholders rights or restrictions attached to any shares, on a show of hands appearing on the register at the close of business on 18 November every member present in person or by proxy shall have one vote, and 2011. on a poll every member shall have one vote for every share of which he is a holder.
On a poll, votes may be given either personally or by Share capital proxy or in the case of a corporate member by a duly authorised The Companys issued ordinary share capital at 30 June 2011 representative.
comprised one class of ordinary shares.
All of the issued ordinary A shareholder entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting may shares are fully paid and rank equally in all respects.
Further details appoint one or more proxies to attend and vote instead of him.
of the Companys share capital is disclosed in notes 26 and 27 to the If a member appoints more than one proxy he must specify the consolidated financial statements.
number of shares which each proxy is entitled to exercise rights over.
A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company.
Holders of the Companys ordinary shares do not have cumulative voting AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 46 Book 1. indb 46 12 10 11 20:47:03 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe rights.
A voting agreement dated 21 September 2005 was entered Board of Directors into between the Company, BSkyB Holdco Inc, News Corporation The names and biographical details of the Directors of the and News UK Nominees Limited which became unconditional on Company are given on pages 36 to 37.
There were no changes to 4 November 2005 and caps News UK Nominees Limiteds voting the Board of Directors during the financial year.
rights at any general meeting at 37.19%.
The provisions of the The Directors interests in the ordinary shares and options voting agreement cease to apply on the first to occur of a number of the Company are disclosed within the report on Directors of circumstances which include the date on which a general offer remuneration on pages 49 to 58. is made by an independent person as defined in the voting agreement for the ordinary share capital of the Company.
Appointment and retirement of Directors restrictions on transfer of securities The Directors may from time to time appoint one or more Directors.
Any such Director shall hold office only until the There are no specific restrictions on the transfer of securities in next AGM and shall then be eligible for reappointment by the the Company, which is governed by the articles of association and Companys shareholders.
The Companys current articles of prevailing legislation, nor is the Company aware of any agreements association state that one-third of the Directors must retire by between holders of securities that may result in restrictions on rotation each year.
Any Director who has served more than three the transfer of securities or that may result in restrictions on three-year terms other than those holding an executive position voting rights.
is subject to annual reappointment.
Variation of rights At the Companys 2011 AGM all current executive and NonSubject to the Companies Act 2006, rights attached to any class executive Directors will retire.
It is the intention that Allan Leighton of shares may be varied with the consent in writing of the holders and David evans will not seek reappointment but all the other of three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of the executive Directors and Non-executive Directors will offer class or with the sanction of a special resolution passed at a themselves for reappointment in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of separate general meeting of the shareholders.
Directors powers in relation to the Company issuing Significant agreements and buying back its own shares Details of any significant agreements that take effect, alter or The Directors were granted authority at the 2010 AGM to allot terminate on a change of control of the Company, are disclosed in relevant securities up to a nominal amount of 289,000,000. the review of the business on pages 16 and 17.
This authority will apply until the conclusion of this years AGM.
payment policy An ordinary resolution to renew the Directors authority will be proposed at the 2011 AGM.
A special resolution will also The policy of the Group is to agree terms of payment with be proposed to renew the Directors powers to make nonsuppliers prior to entering into a contractual relationship.
In the pre-emptive issues for cash in connection with rights issues and absence of a specific agreement, it is the policy of the Group to otherwise up to a nominal amount of 43,500,000. pay suppliers in accordance with its standard payment terms of 45 days.
The Group had below 45 days purchases outstanding at On 28 July 2011, the Board agreed to seek the necessary approvals 30 June 2011 2010: below 45 days, based on the total amount to return 750 million of capital to shareholders via a share invoiced by non programme trade suppliers during the year ended buy-back programme.
Shareholder approvals will be sought at 30 June 2011.
Programme creditors include significant balances the Companys AGM on 29 November 2011.
The Company has which are not yet contractually due.
In respect of amounts both entered into an agreement with News Corporation under which, contractually due and invoiced, the outstanding number of days following any market purchases of shares by the Company, News purchases is below 45 days 2010: below 45 days.
Corporation will sell to the Company sufficient shares to maintain its percentage shareholding at the same level as applied prior to Financial instruments those market purchases.
The price payable to News Corporation Details of the Groups use of financial instruments, together with will be the price payable by the Company in respect of the information on our financial risk management objectives and relevant market purchases.
The agreement is conditional on the policies, and our exposure to financial risks can be found in note 25 appropriate shareholder approvals being granted.
The effect of to the consolidated financial statements.
the agreement is to provide that there will be no change in News Corporations economic or voting interests in the Company as a Charitable contributions and community and result of the share buy-back programme.
environmental activities Articles of association The Bigger Picture Review, which does not form part of the Annual Report, will be made available online in October 2011, and The Companys articles of association may only be amended by will provide further information on the Groups commitment to special resolution at a general meeting of shareholders.
corporate responsibility, including community and environmental activities see www.
An overview of the Groups Bigger Picture approach, including community AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 47 Book 1. indb 47 12 10 11 20:47:03 DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe Other governance and statutory disclosures continued and environmental activities is also provided in the review of the Disclosure of information to auditors business on pages 18 to 22.
In accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies During the financial year the Group gave a total of 4,254,379 Act 2006, each of the persons who are Directors of the Company at 2010: 3,840,454 in charitable donations in the form of cash.
the date of approval of this report confirms that: These donations were for the purpose of supporting Bigger Picture so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit activities focusing on responsibility, environment, sport and arts.
information as defined in the Companies Act 2006 of which the Responsibility: as a responsible business Sky wants to play Companys auditor is unaware: and its part in the communities where it operates and where its the Director has taken all the steps that he she ought to employees live and work.
The Group gave a total of 301,856 have taken as a Director to make himself herself aware of any to support community activities during the year.
This figure relevant audit information as defined and to establish that the includes matched employee fundraising activities and matched Companys auditor is aware of that information.
payroll giving: Auditors environment: the Group gave a total of 1,175,655 to activities that help protect the environment and tackle climate change Deloitte LLP, the auditors of the Company, have expressed their through charitable donations to organisations such as WWF and willingness to continue in office.
A resolution to reappoint them as Global Action Plan: the Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
Arts: the Group gave 862,514 to activities which make the arts more accessible through charitable donations to organisations Annual General meeting such as Artichoke and english National Ballet: and The notice convening the AGM, to be held at The Queen elizabeth II Sport: the Group gave 1,914,354 to encourage participation Conference Centre, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3ee in sport through donations to organisations such as the Youth on 29 November 2011 at 11.00am, is available for download from the Sport Trust and British Cycling.
Companys corporate website at www.
The Groups total community investment cash, time and management costs will be published in the Bigger Picture Review referred to above.
political contributions Political contributions of the Group in the UK during 2011 amounted By order of the Board, to nil 2010: 3,800.
Dave Gormley Company Secretary Going concern 28 July 2011 The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the review of the business on pages 8 to 17.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows and liquidity position are described in the financial and operating review on pages 29 to 35.
In addition, notes 23, 24 and 25 to the consolidated financial statements include details of the Groups treasury activities, long term funding arrangements, financial instruments and hedging activities and exposure to financial risk.
As set out above, the Group has sufficient financial resources which, together with internally generated cash flows, will continue to provide sufficient sources of liquidity to fund its current operations, including its contractual and commercial commitments as set out on pages 102 to 103, its approved capital expenditure and any proposed dividends, and the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully, despite the current economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors have formed the judgment, at the time of approving the consolidated financial statements, that there is a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, the Directors continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 48 Book 1. indb 48 12 10 11 20:47:03
