DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe Corporate governance report The Company is committed to maintaining high standards of executive Directors are not allowed to take on the chairmanship corporate governance in its management of the Group and when of a FTSe 100 company, but are allowed to take up one external accounting to shareholders.
The management of the Company non-executive FTSe 100 appointment and retain any payments in values an effective long-term outlook and sees itself as responsible respect of such appointments.
to the wider range of stakeholders, whilst being accountable for the The roles of the Chairman and CeO are separate and have been so pursuit of its objectives for the benefit of the Companys members since the Companys shares were admitted to listing in 1994.
full schedule of matters reserved for decision making by the The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 the Code took effect Board, can be found on the Companys corporate website at from 29 June 2010, replacing the Combined Code on Corporate www.
Governance 2008 the Combined Code as the standard of good the Chairman governance practice in the UK.
The Financial Services Authority The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its requires listed companies to disclose whether they have complied effectiveness on all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
This with the provisions of the Code throughout the financial year.
includes ensuring, via the Company Secretary, that the Directors The Board considers that the Company complied with the Code receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The duties of the for the whole of the year ended 30 June 2011.
In respect of Code Chairman include the following: provision B.
7.1 all executive and Non-executive Directors will retire to encourage and ensure effective communication with and offer themselves for reappointment from the 2011 AGM of the shareholders, and ensure shareholder views are communicated Company in compliance with the Code.
to the Board as a whole: This section of the Annual Report along with the report on Directors to facilitate a structure to allow the effective contribution of all remuneration on pages 49 to 58 and other governance and Directors, and of Non-executive Directors in particular: statutory disclosures on pages 46 to 48 provide details of how the Company has applied the main principles of the Code during the to create an environment which engenders constructive year ended 30 June 2011.
Further information on the Code is publicly relations between executive and Non-executive Directors: available on the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
to organise the business of the Board so that it can be carried the Board out effectively and efficiently: The Board currently comprises fourteen Directors, made up of two to lead the Board in discussions regarding the Companys executive Directors and twelve Non-executive Directors.
A majority strategy and in the achievement of its objectives: of eight Non-executive Directors are determined to be independent to ensure Board committees are properly established, by the Board.
The Independent Non-executive Directors bring a composed and operated: and wide range of experience and expertise to the Groups affairs, and to enhance the Companys public standing and image overall.
carry significant weight in the Boards decisions.
The Independent Non-executive Directors provide a strong independent element and Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director a foundation for good corporate governance.
Biographies of each The Board has appointed one Non-executive Director, Nicholas of the Directors are set out on pages 36 to 37 and identify those Ferguson, to act as Senior Independent Director and Deputy Directors who are, in the view of the Board, independent within the Chairman.
Nicholas Ferguson has met with institutional meaning of the Code.
shareholders and representative bodies during the year and is Prior to appointment, and on an annual basis, each board member available to assist shareholders in resolving concerns should receives and completes a questionnaire to determine factors that alternative channels be inappropriate.
may affect independence according to best practice statements the Chief executive officer contained within the Code.
The responses to the questionnaire assist the Board in ascertaining whether a director is independent The CeO is responsible for the daily operation of the Company, in character and judgment, and whether there are relationships or advancing long-term shareholder value, supported by the circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, management team.
He is accountable and responsible to the the Directors judgment.
Board for the management and operation of the Company.
He is also involved in the management of the social and environmental The Company recognises that all Directors are equally and responsibilities of the Company.
The duties of the CeO include the collectively accountable under the law for the proper stewardship of the Companys affairs.
The Company maintains a directors and following: officers liability insurance policy which meets defence costs when to be responsible and accountable to the Board for the the Director is not proved to have acted fraudulently.
management and operation of the Group: Additionally, the Companys articles of association allow the to prepare and implement plans and programmes for the Company to indemnify the Directors and deeds of indemnity have attainment of approved objectives and to recommend such been issued to all the Directors of the Company.
plans and programmes to the Board as appropriate: AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 38 Book 1. indb 38 12 10 11 20:47:02 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe to provide leadership in the Groups commitment to attaining Non-executive Directors letters of appointment do not contain high business standards generally: a notice period.
The letters of appointment are available for inspection at the Companys registered office address during to create the conditions within the Group for the efficient normal business hours.
operation of all business units: All of the Non-executive Directors are required to devote as much to establish and maintain relationships with shareholders and time as is necessary for the proper performance of their duties.
potential shareholders, and major external bodies: The Non-executive Directors provide independent challenge, an to keep the Board informed on all matters of material objective outlook and a diversity of experience, which enables importance: and them to hold management to account for the performance of to chair meetings of the executive Committee.
the Company, and also assist management in the development of strategy and the long term plans for the direction of the Company.
non-executive Directors the Company Secretary The dates on which the Non-executive Directors initial service agreements letters of appointment commenced are as follows: The Company Secretary is available to advise all Directors and is responsible for ensuring the Board is supplied with all necessary Commencement date information in a reliable, timely manner.
The Company Secretary David Devoe 15 December 1994 ensures good communication between the Board, Board David evans 21 September 2001 committees and senior management.
He facilitates Directors Nicholas Ferguson 15 June 2004 induction and training.
Andrew Higginson 1 September 2004 Allan Leighton 15 October 1999 news Corporation proposal Thomas Mockridge 10 February 2009 Following an approach by News Corporation on 10 June 2010 James Murdoch 7 December 2007 relating to a possible offer for the entire issued share capital of Jacques Nasser 8 November 2002 the Company that it does not already own, the Board passed a Dame Gail Rebuck 8 November 2002 resolution to appoint a committee comprising the Independent Daniel Rimer 7 April 2008 Directors and the executive Directors the Offer Committee Arthur Siskind 19 November 1991 with authority to exercise all powers of the Board in relation to a Lord Wilson of Dinton 13 February 2003 possible offer and any matters relevant to the Proposal.
On 13 July 2011 News Corporation announced that it no longer intended to At the Companys 2011 AGM all Non-executive Directors will retire.
make an offer for the entire issued share capital of the Company It is the intention that Allan Leighton and David evans will not seek and the Offer Committee was subsequently disbanded on 28 July reappointment but all the other Non-executive Directors will offer 2011.
The Offer Committee was chaired by Nicholas Ferguson.
themselves for reappointment in accordance with provision B.
7.1 of During the period of the Proposal arrangements were put in place the Code.
to regulate the attendance of Directors connected with News Corporation at meetings of the Board or any committee of the Board and receipt of information relating to the Company by those Directors that were deemed relevant to the Proposal.
This ensured that there was a clear separation of those matters that were reserved for discussion and determination by the Board and those that were reserved for discussion and determination by the Offer Committee, ensuring that all matters relevant to the Proposal including matters relating to the future prospects or strategy of the Company were dealt with by the Offer Committee.
The Offer Committee met on 12 occasions during the year.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 39 Book 1. indb 39 12 10 11 20:47:02 DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe Corporate governance report continued approval of the interim and final results: Board practices approval of any dividend policy: The Board met four times during the year.
Attendance of the current Directors at Board meetings and committee members at meetings changes relating to the Groups capital structure, including of the committees on which they served during the year is set out in reductions of capital and share buy-backs: the table below: the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement Corporate or any series of related commitments or arrangements which, Governance The whether budgeted or unbudgeted, involves or could reasonably and Bigger involve, the payment or receipt by the Group of amounts equal Board Audit Remuneration Nominations Picture to or in excess of 100 million in aggregate value: Number of meetings held in year 4 4 4 2 2 the entering into by the Group of a commitment or arrangement Director or any series of related commitments or arrangements with James Murdoch, News Corporation, any of its subsidiaries, or a related party iv v Chairman 4 1 which involves, or could reasonably involve, the payment or Jeremy Darroch, CeO 4 receipt by the Group of amounts equal to or in excess of Andrew Griffith, CFO 4 25 million in aggregate value: David Devoe 4 approval of resolutions to be put forward to shareholders at a i vi David evans 3 3 i ii general meeting: Nicholas Ferguson 4 4 2 iii Andrew Higginson 4 4 changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board, iii vii Allan Leighton 3 3 following, if applicable, recommendations from any committee to Thomas Mockridge 4 which the Board delegates consideration of such issues: i viii Jacques Nasser 3 3 appointment and removal of the Chairman of the Board and the iii iv Dame Gail Rebuck 4 4 2 CeO: and i Daniel Rimer 4 4 ii Arthur Siskind 4 2 determining the independence of Non-executive Directors.
ii iv Lord Wilson of Dinton 4 2 2 The Board has also delegated specific responsibilities to Board notes: committees, notably the Audit, Remuneration, Corporate i Remuneration Committee member.
Governance and Nominations and The Bigger Picture committees, ii Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee member.
Directors receive Board and committee papers several days in advance of Board and committee meetings.
In iii Audit Committee member.
addition, the Board members have access to external professional iv The Bigger Picture Committee member.
advice at the Companys expense.
v James Murdoch was unable to attend a meeting of The Bigger Picture Committee due to a prior business engagement.
A committee of senior management generally meets on a weekly basis to allow prompt discussion of relevant business issues.
It vi David Evans was unable to attend a Board meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting due to illness.
is chaired by the CeO and comprises the CFO and other senior vii Allan Leighton was unable to attend a Board meeting and an Audit Committee executives from within the Group.
meeting due to a prior business engagement.
Director induction and training viii Jacques Nasser was unable to attend a Board meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting due to a meeting of the BHP Billiton Board, of which he is Following appointment to the Board, all new Directors receive an Chairman.
induction tailored to their individual requirements.
The induction process involves meeting with all of the Companys executive Due to the frequency of the Offer Committee meetings the Board did not meet as often as originally planned during the period under Directors and Senior executives.
This facilitates their understanding of the Group and the key drivers of the business performance.
Directors are also provided with copies of the Companys corporate In accordance with best practice, the independent Non-executive governance practices and procedures.
Directors of the Board held separate meetings during the year.
Directors regularly receive additional information from the Company The Senior Independent Director acts as an intermediary for the between Board meetings including a monthly report updating the Independent Non-executive Directors when necessary.
Directors on the performance of the Group.
During the financial Board role year under review the monthly report was restricted to members A schedule of matters reserved for the full Boards determination of the Offer Committee.
Where appropriate additional training and and or approval is in place, which includes: updates on particular issues are arranged.
approval of the annual budget and any changes to it: Board evaluation a major change in the nature, scope or scale of the business of The performance of the Board is central to the Companys success.
the Group: An evaluation of the Board, its committees and individual Directors AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 40 Book 1. indb 40 12 10 11 20:47:02 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe is undertaken on an annual basis to ensure that governance best Directors remuneration.
The Remuneration Committee Chairman practice standards are achieved and upheld.
reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
During the year, the Directors carried out a full evaluation of the James Murdoch and David Devoe have a standing invitation performance of the Board, its committees and individual Directors, to attend meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
Their attendance at these meetings is as observers only and in a nonwhich was led by the Chairman of the Corporate Governance and Nominations Committee CGN Committee.
received an evaluation framework and was interviewed by the The report on Directors remuneration can be found on pages 49 Chairman of the CGN Committee.
The Directors were required to to 58.
The report on Directors remuneration will be put forward provide full, open and honest feedback in respect of their views for an advisory shareholder vote at the 2011 AGM.
on Board and committee effectiveness and the performance of Corporate Governance and nominations Committee the Directors.
The evaluation of the Chairmans contribution to the running of the Board was assessed by the Independent NonThe CGN Committee is chaired by Lord Wilson of Dinton and its executive Directors.
other members are Nicholas Ferguson and Arthur Siskind.
The majority of the members of the CGN Committee are Independent A selection of some of the items the evaluation framework sought Non-executive Directors in compliance with the Code.
The views on included: Chairman reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
Its main the effectiveness of the Board: duties include: the mix of skills and experience on the Board: the identification and nomination, for approval by the Board, of the development of the Companys strategy: candidates to fill Board vacancies as they arise: the effectiveness of Board processes and procedures: the drafting of requirements for a particular appointment to the Board, taking into consideration the present balance of the links between the Board and the business: skills, knowledge and experience on the Board: the performance of the Boards committees: the regular review of the structure, size and composition of each Directors own performance: and the Board and to recommend any changes to the Board or the performance of other Directors.
succession planning: On completion of the evaluation process, the Chairman of the CGN the provision of a formal letter of appointment, setting out Committee provided a performance report to the CGN Committee.
clearly what is expected of new appointees to the Board, in The findings were debated and presented to the Board.
Following terms of time commitment, term of office and committee this years review, the CGN Committee and the Board have service as well as their duties and liabilities as a Director, confirmed that the Board and its committees operate effectively including details of the Companys corporate governance and all Directors standing for reappointment at the forthcoming policies and directors and officers liability insurance cover: AGM continued to perform effectively and demonstrate and commitment to their roles.
the monitoring of the Companys compliance with applicable The CGN Committee has noted the Code requirement that boards Corporate Governance Codes and other similar requirements.
should be externally facilitated at least every three years and The CGN Committee led the evaluation of the Board that was will take this into consideration when planning future Board completed during the year as discussed earlier in this report.
The CGN Committee assists the Board by keeping the composition Board Committees of the Board under review.
The CGN Committee also keeps under review the Boards balance of skills, knowledge, experience and Terms of reference for the governance of the Board committees length of service.
can be found on the Companys corporate website.
Following the recent withdrawal of the News Corporation Proposal remuneration Committee the CGN Committee will review the composition of the Board and The members of the Remuneration Committee are Nicholas recommend appropriate changes to strengthen the Board and its Ferguson Chairman, David evans, Jacques Nasser and Daniel committees.
Diversity of experience and outlook will be considered Rimer, all of whom the Board considers Independent Nonand a thorough and transparent appointment process will be put executive Directors within the meaning of the provisions in place to ensure that the Board is appropriately strengthened.
The Remuneration Committee has clearly The CGN Committee has noted the recommendations of the defined terms of reference, meets at least twice a year, and takes Davies Report and will take their recommendations into account advice from the CeO and independent consultants as appropriate when considering future Board appointments.
Following publication of the annual report, The CGN Committee also reviewed the independence of the Nonmeetings and round-table discussions are arranged between executive Directors and recommended to the Board that there be the Remuneration Committee and institutional shareholders no changes to the independent status of the current Independent to discuss remuneration policy and aspects of the report on Non-executive Directors.
The Non-executive Directors who are AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 41 Book 1. indb 41 12 10 11 20:47:02 DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe Corporate governance report continued considered by the Board to be independent are clearly identified defined terms of reference as laid down by the Board.
The Boards criteria for determining whether Audit Committee is chaired by Andrew Higginson and the other a Non-executive Director is independent are set out in the members are Allan Leighton and Dame Gail Rebuck.
The CFO Memorandum on Corporate Governance which can be found on the and representatives from the external auditor and the internal Companys corporate website.
The CGN Committees review took audit department attend meetings at the request of the Audit into consideration the fact that Allan Leighton and David evans have Committee.
The CeO and other business and finance executives served on the Board for more than nine years and it is the intention attend meetings from time to time.
The Audit Committee Chairman that Allan Leighton and David evans will retire at the Companys reports regularly to the Board on its activities.
The CGN Committees review also took into consideration David Devoe and Arthur Siskind have a standing invitation to the fact that by 29 November 2011 Jacques Nasser and Dame Gail attend meetings of the Audit Committee.
Their attendance at these Rebuck will have served on the Board for nine years.
1.1 meetings is as observers only and in a non-voting capacity.
The of the Code suggests that serving more than nine years could Audit Committees duties include: be relevant to the determination of a Non-executive Directors making recommendations to the Board in relation to the independence.
The CGN Committee concluded that Mr. Nasser appointment, reappointment and removal of the external and Dame Gail Rebuck continued to demonstrate the essential auditor and discussing with the external auditor the nature, characteristics of independence expected by the Board and that scope and fees for the external auditors work: there are no relationships or circumstances that are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgment.
reviewing and making recommendations to the Board regarding the approval, or any amendment to, the quarterly, half year and The Board is putting in place an orderly programme for replacing annual financial statements of the Group: members of the Board of Directors as they retire.
reviewing the Groups significant accounting policies: the Bigger picture Committee reviewing the Groups systems of internal control: The Bigger Picture Committee manages the Companys corporate responsibility and community engagement programme which the reviewing the Groups treasury policies: Company has named The Bigger Picture.
recommending the appointment of the Groups Director of The Bigger Picture Committee is chaired by Dame Gail Rebuck, and Internal Audit: its other members are Lord Wilson of Dinton and James Murdoch.
reviewing the audit plan and findings of the Groups internal The Chairman of the Bigger Picture Committee reports regularly audit function: to the Board on its activities.
The main duties of the Bigger Picture monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups Committee include: internal audit function: reviewing and approving the Bigger Picture strategy: approving all non-audit services provided by the Groups reviewing the reputational risk register and assigning clear external auditor in accordance with the Groups policy: roles and responsibilities for ensuring effective mitigation of monitoring the Groups whistle-blowing policy: identified risks: News UK Nominees Limited, a subsidiary of News Corporation, seeking external stakeholders views on the Bigger Picture is a major shareholder in the Group.
The Audit Committee strategy and performance: receives, on a quarterly basis, a schedule of all transactions reviewing and approving the annual reporting of Bigger Picture between companies within the News Corporation Group and activities: the Group, and any other related party transactions, showing all monitoring progress in achieving Bigger Picture objectives and transactions which have been entered into during the year and key performance indicators: which cumulatively exceed 100,000 in value: ensuring the resources and skills are available to implement the Audit Committee approval is required for the entering into by the Bigger Picture strategy: and Group of a commitment or arrangement or any series of related commitments or arrangements with News Corporation or any providing the Board with an overview of the social, environmental of its subsidiaries, or any other related party which involves or and ethical impacts of the Companys activities and how they could reasonably involve the payment or receipt by the Group of are being managed.
amounts equal to or in excess of 10 million, but not exceeding An overview of the Companys corporate responsibility policies, 25 million in aggregate value with News Corporation.
Any activities and Bigger Picture approach is provided on pages 18 transaction in excess of 25 million in aggregate value must to 22 of the Directors report Business review Corporate be submitted to the Audit Committee and, if approved by the responsibility.
Audit Committee, must also be submitted to the full Board for approval.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee members have considerable financial and The Audit Committee, which consists exclusively of Independent business experience and the Board considers that the membership Non-executive Directors in compliance with the Code, has clearly AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 42 Book 1. indb 42 12 10 11 20:47:03 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe as a whole has sufficient recent and relevant financial experience The Audit Committee also received updates from finance to discharge its functions.
In addition, the Board has determined departments across the Group, the Chief Technology Officer, the that each member of the Audit Committee has sufficient Chairman of the Data Governance Committee and the Group Head accounting or related financial management expertise as required of Health and Safety during the year.
by the UK Listing Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The external auditors have attended all meetings of the The Audit Committee met four times during the financial year.
Audit Committee during the year.
The Director: Audit and Risk Meeting agendas were organised around the Companys financial Management has direct access to the Committee Chairman and reporting cycle and items covered were as follows: the external audit partner.
Financial management and reporting Internal control and risk management received regular updates from the CFO on the financial The Directors have overall responsibility for establishing and performance and financial management of the Group: maintaining the Groups systems of internal control and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
These systems reviewed the Companys Annual Report, half-yearly results and are designed to manage, and where possible eliminate, the risk of interim management statements: failure to achieve business objectives and to provide reasonable, reviewed the Groups accounting policies: and but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing received quarterly reports from the treasury function on the the significant risks faced by the Group has been established, in funding, liquidity and operational capabilities of the Group and accordance with the revised guidance on internal control issued compliance with treasury policies.
by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
This process Internal control has been in place for the year ended 30 June 2011 and up to the date on which the financial statements were approved.
During considered the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls over financial reporting: the period under review no significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
reviewed the internal audit departments resources and annual audit plan: The Audit Committee, on behalf of the Board, considers the effectiveness of the operation of the Groups systems of internal reviewed quarterly reports from internal audit on the results control and risk management during the year and this review of its audit work and managements implementation of its has been carried out for the year ended 30 June 2011 and up to recommendations: the date on which the financial statements were approved.
This received quarterly updates from internal audit on the status of review relates to the Company and its subsidiaries and does Senior Accounting Officer SAO certification work to ensure not extend to joint ventures.
The Audit Committee meets on at SAO compliance: and least a quarterly basis with the Groups Director: Audit and Risk Management and the external auditors.
evaluated the effectiveness of the internal audit department.
There is a comprehensive budgeting and forecasting process, and external Audit matters the annual budget, which is regularly reviewed and updated, is received regular reports from the external auditor: approved by the Board.
Performance is monitored against budget through weekly and monthly reporting cycles.
During the financial reviewed and approved the 2010 11 audit work plan: year under review monthly reports on performance were provided received regular updates on the use of non-audit services to the members of the Offer Committee and the Group reports to provided by the external auditor and ensured that all fees shareholders each quarter.
were approved in accordance with the Groups policy: In respect of Group financial reporting, the Group finance team reviewed the effectiveness and independence of the external is responsible for preparing the Group financial statements and auditor: and there are well established controls over the financial reporting approved the re-appointment, remuneration and engagement process.
These are also documented in line with the requirements letter of the external auditor.
of the SAO legislation and the controls are reviewed and signed off to confirm their continuous operation by the control owners other twice a year and are independently tested by the internal audit reviewed quarterly security updates which include whistleteam.
The results of the SAO testing are reported to the Audit blowing: Committee on a quarterly basis.
reviewed quarterly related party transactions reports: There are risk registers which identify the risks faced by the Group and these are consolidated into a Group Risk Register.
The reviewed the Groups Risk Register: and registers detail the controls that manage the risks and, where reviewed the Groups preparation and approach to the Bribery necessary, the action plans to mitigate the risk exposure.
The Act 2010. business develops the action plans and the internal audit team monitor their implementation.
The Audit Committee formally AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 43 Book 1. indb 43 12 10 11 20:47:03 DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe Corporate governance report continued reviews the Group Risk Register twice a year and there is a rolling and professional requirements and the objectivity of the audit programme where senior executives from the business present their engagement partner and audit staff is not impaired.
The Groups principal risks and uncertainties The Audit Committee was satisfied throughout the year that the are detailed in the Business Review.
objectivity and independence of Deloitte LLP was not in any way impaired by either the nature of the non-audit related services The internal audit team provides objective assurance as to the effectiveness of the Groups systems of internal control and risk undertaken during the year, the level of non-audit fees charged, management to the Groups operating management and to the or any other facts or circumstances.
Services provided during the Audit Committee.
year were approved by the Audit Committee.
An analysis of auditor remuneration is disclosed in note 7 to the consolidated financial Disclosure controls and procedures statements.
The Company maintains disclosure controls, procedures and The appointment of Deloitte LLP as the Groups external auditor systems that are designed to ensure that information required incumbents since 2002 is kept under review.
The Audit Committee to be disclosed as part of the Companys UK listing obligations is has approved the external auditors remuneration and terms of accumulated and communicated to management, including the CeO engagement and is fully satisfied with the performance, objectivity and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required and independence of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee has disclosures.
recommended that a resolution to reappoint the external auditor The Company has established a Disclosure Committee.
The as the Companys statutory auditors be proposed at the Companys committee is chaired by the Company Secretary and its members forthcoming AGM.
The external auditor is required to rotate the consist of senior managers from group finance, legal and investor audit partner responsible for the engagement every five years.
It has responsibility for considering the materiality of current lead partner started his term of office in relation to the information including inside information and, on a timely basis, 2010 11 financial year.
determination of the disclosure and treatment of such information.
Conflicts of Interest The Disclosure Committee also has responsibility for overseeing the process for the formal review of the contents of the Companys Under UK company law, all Directors must seek authorisation before Annual Report.
taking up any position with another company that conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the Companys interests.
The Companys Changes in internal controls articles of association contain provisions to allow the Directors No change in the Groups internal control over financial reporting to authorise situations of potential conflicts of interest so that a has occurred during the year ended 30 June 2011 that has materially Director is not in breach of his duty under company law.
All existing affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups external appointments for each Director have been authorised by internal control over financial reporting.
the Board and each authorisation is set out in a Conflicts Register.
Directors are required to notify the Board of potential conflicts so use of external auditor that they can be considered, and if appropriate, authorised by the The Group has a policy on the provision by the external auditor Board.
In addition the CGN Committee conducts an annual review of of audit and non-audit services, which categorises such services Directors conflicts and reports its findings to the Board.
between: The CGN Committee reviewed the Boards conflicts during the those services which the auditor is not permitted to provide: financial year and concluded that conflicts had been appropriately authorised and that the process for authorisation is operating those services which are acceptable for the auditor to provide effectively.
The CGN Committee and the Board will continue to and the provision of which has been pre-approved by the Audit monitor and review potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
Committee: and those services for which the specific approval of the Audit Data Governance Committee is required before the auditor is permitted to provide The Data Governance Committee the DG Committee reports to the service.
the Audit Committee and a committee of senior management, which The policy defines the types of services falling under each category is chaired by the Group Director of Business Performance.
The DG and sets out the criteria which need to be met and the internal Committee has the role of ensuring that appropriate procedures and controls are in place to ensure that the Group processes approval mechanisms required to be completed prior to any engagement.
An analysis of all services provided by the external personal data in accordance with Data Protection laws, and that auditor is reviewed by the Audit Committee on a quarterly basis.
individuals are able to exercise their rights under such laws.
A set of policies has been updated and further developed under the For the year ended 30 June 2011, the Audit Committee has DG Committee to outline and promote consistent standards and discussed the matter of audit independence with Deloitte LLP, practices in the collection and use of personal data across the the Groups external auditor, and has received and reviewed Group.
The policies also set out the responsibilities of employees in confirmation in writing that, in Deloitte LLPs professional judgment, managing personal data and the escalation process to be followed, Deloitte LLP is independent within the meaning of all UK regulatory should employees become aware of any breach of policy.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 44 Book 1. indb 44 12 10 11 20:47:03 Business review Financial review Governance Financial statements Shareholder information Glossary of terms DIReCTORS RePORT GOveRNANCe Communication with shareholders Directors responsibilities Presentations and webcasts on the development of the The responsibilities of the Directors are set out on page 59. business are available to all shareholders on the Companys corporate website.
The Company also uses email alerts and actively promotes downloading of all reports enhancing speed and equality of shareholder communication.
The Company has taken full advantage of the provisions within the Companies Act 2006 allowing the website to be used as the primary means of communication with shareholders where they have not requested hard copy documentation.
The shareholder information section on pages 122 to 123 contains further details on electronic shareholder communications together with more general information of interest to shareholders which is also included on the Companys corporate website.
The Company is committed to maintaining and improving dialogue with shareholders in order to ensure that the objectives of both the Group and the shareholders are understood.
A programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, fund managers and analysts takes place each year.
The Company also makes presentations to analysts and investors around the time of the half-year and full-year results announcement: conference calls are held with analysts and investors following the announcement of the first quarter and third quarter results, and on occasion, following the announcement of the fourth quarter results, and presentations are made during the year to many existing or potential shareholders.
During the year, in particular following the proposal from News Corporation, various members of the Board, including the Senior Independent Director, met with institutional shareholders and representative bodies, reinforcing the continuation of open dialogue and discussion of strategy between the Board and its shareholders.
Non-executive Directors are offered the opportunity to attend meetings with major shareholders and are expected to attend if required.
The Board views the AGM as an opportunity to communicate with private investors and sets aside time at these meetings for shareholders to ask questions of the Board.
At the AGM, the Chairman provides a brief summary of the Companys activities for the previous year to the shareholders.
All resolutions at the 2010 AGM were voted by way of an electronic poll.
This follows best practice and allows the Company to count all votes rather than just those of shareholders attending the meeting.
As recommended by the Code, all resolutions were voted separately and the voting results, which included all votes cast for, against and those withheld, together with all proxies lodged prior to the meeting, were indicated at the meeting and the final results were released to the London Stock exchange as soon as practicable after the meeting.
The announcement was also made available on the Companys corporate website.
As in previous years, the proxy form and the announcement of the voting results made it clear that a vote withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against the resolution.
AnnuAl report 2011 BRITISH SKY BROADCASTING GROUP PLC 45 Book 1. indb 45 12 10 11 20:47:03
