Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement Whats in this section 41 Introduction to the corporate 45 Report on the Nomination Committee governance statement 45 Report on the Remuneration Committee 41 Statement of compliance with the 46 Report on the Audit and Risk Committee Governance Code 49 Internal control and risk management 41 Governance framework 50 Environmental, social and governance 41 The Board matters 44 Relations with shareholders 51 Share capital information 44 Report on the Executive Committee 52 Responsibilities and disclosure 44 Report on the Disclosure Committee Christopher Rodrigues, Chairman The Board believes that good corporate governance at all levels within the Group is fundamental to the success of the business.
Our business model carries particular risks inherent in a business operating in emerging markets and effective governance and Board oversight is a crucial control.
My primary role as Chairman is to provide leadership to the Board and to provide the right environment to enable the directors and the Board as a whole to perform effectively to promote the success of the Company for the benefit of its shareholders.
In doing so we take account of the interests of our customers, suppliers, the communities in which we operate and other interested stakeholders.
Good corporate governance is not an end in itself: good corporate governance is fundamental to the success of the business as it establishes a clear framework and ensures decisions are made at the appropriate level and that there is accountability.
I am pleased to report that the Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Governance Code throughout 2011.
The corporate governance statement provides the detail of how good corporate governance has operated within the Group in 2011.
At the annual general meeting AGM held in 2011, for the first time all the directors stood for re-election to ensure compliance with the provisions of the Governance Code.
For the second year running, in accordance with best practice, the Board evaluation was facilitated by an independent third party.
Other key topics covered are: the governance framework: the work of the Board and Committees: diversity: relations with shareholders: internal control and risk management: and environmental, social and governance matters.
During the year we have considered the report of Lord Davies on diversity.
We fully support diversity both at Board level and throughout the organisation.
Our commitment is to diversity in its broadest sense rather than simply in the context of gender.
Given that our corporate office is in the UK but our businesses are across Central Europe and Mexico, we believe that diversity of nationality is also an important factor.
The Board remains committed to ensuring it has a diverse composition and complies with the proposed changes to the Governance Code.
You will find more detail on all these topics in the corporate governance statement.
40 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Introduction to the corporate governance statement This constitutes the corporate governance statement pursuant to Rule 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
It explains how the Company applied the main principles set out in Sections A-E of the Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC and dated June 2010 in the financial year ended on 31 December 2011.
The Governance Code is available on the FRCs website at www.
Statement of compliance with the Governance Code The Board is of the opinion that the Company complied with all the provisions of the Governance Code throughout 2011.
Governance framework Board Executive Disclosure Nomination Remuneration Audit and Risk Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Key Management Committees Credit Risk Group Safety International Legal Risk Advisory Treasury Sustainability Tax Committee Committee Committee Group Committee Steering Committee Committee The Board Members and attendance The Board leads and controls the Company.
There were eight meetings on scheduled days and one additional meeting.
The members and their attendance at Board meetings in 2011 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 9 9 David Broadbent Finance Director 9 7 Charles Gregson non-executive director 9 9 Tony Hales non-executive director 9 9 John Harnett Chief Executive Officer 9 9 Edyta Kurek non-executive director 9 7 John Lorimer non-executive director 9 8 Nicholas Page non-executive director 9 9 Mr Broadbent missed two meetings as he was on a study sabbatical at Harvard Business School.
Ms Kurek missed two meetings due to other business commitments.
Mr Lorimer missed one meeting due to another business commitment.
Gerard Ryan was appointed to the Board on 17 January 2012 as Chief Executive Officer Designate.
He will become Chief Executive Officer following John Harnett leaving the Board on 31 March 2012.
Charles Gregson will leave the Board on 9 May 2012 when his final term ends.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Governance 41 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Matters reserved to the Board The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
These include: Group strategy and risk appetite: approval of results: approval of budgets: approval of dividends: approval of major transactions: treasury policies: Board appointments: health and safety and environmental policy: corporate governance: annual review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control: approval of directors conflicts of interest: and certain credit policies: namely policies in respect of repeat lending, provisioning, write-off and material changes to product structure and pricing.
The Board has approved a statement of the division of responsibilities between the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer and the Senior Independent Director.
The Chairman is responsible for chairing Board meetings and monitoring their effectiveness, and chairing the AGM and Nomination Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for developing and implementing the strategy agreed by the Board and for all executive matters apart from those reserved to the Board and the Board Committees and will delegate accordingly.
The Senior Independent Director, is available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Finance Director has failed to address or for whom such contact is inappropriate.
There are five principal Board Committees.
Their written terms of reference are available on the Companys website www.
co. uk and from the Company Secretary.
Chairman The Chairman is also Chairman of VisitBritain and a non-executive director of Ladbrokes plc.
There were no changes to his significant commitments in 2011.
Non-executive directors The independent non-executive directors have been appointed for a fixed period of three years, subject to re-election by shareholders.
The initial period may be extended for a further period.
Their letters of appointment may be inspected at the Companys registered office and are available from the Company Secretary.
Each of the non-executive directors, with the exception of Charles Gregson, has been formally determined by the Board to be independent for the purposes of the Code.
Re-election of directors Under the Companys Articles of Association, each director must offer himself herself for re-election every three years.
After nine years a director, other than an executive director, must offer himself herself for re-election annually.
A director who is initially appointed by the Board is subject to election at the next AGM.
Gerard Ryan will stand for election at the next AGM in line with this policy.
The Company has decided that in accordance with best corporate governance practice all directors, other than those who are leaving, will offer themselves for re-election again this year.
Details of the directors, including the reasons for proposing their election re-election, are contained in the Chairmans letter to shareholders which will accompany the Notice of AGM.
42 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Terms of non-executive directors The outstanding terms of office of the non-executive directors are shown below: 2012 2013 May Feb May June Charles Edyta John Tony Hales Gregson Kurek Lorimer Nicholas Page Final First First Second term ends term ends term ends term ends Policy on other Board appointments The Board has approved a policy on other directorships: any request for an exception to this is considered on its merits.
An executive director will be permitted to hold one non-executive directorship and to retain the fees from that appointment provided that the Board considers this will not adversely affect his her executive responsibilities.
The Companys policy is that the Chairman and the non-executive directors should have sufficient time to fulfil their duties, including chairing a Board Committee as appropriate.
A non-executive director should not hold more than four other material non-executive directorships.
If he she holds an executive role in another FTSE 350 company, he she should not hold more than two other material non-executive directorships.
Company Secretary and independent advice All directors are able to consult with the Company Secretary.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to the Board Committees other than the Disclosure Committee of which the Assistant Company Secretary is Secretary.
There is a formal procedure by which any director may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense relating to the performance of his her duties.
Meetings Eight Board meetings and a strategy retreat are scheduled for 2012.
A detailed agenda and a pack of Board papers are made available electronically to each director a week before each meeting so he she has sufficient time to review them.
Additional meetings are convened if required and there is contact between meetings where necessary.
The Chairman has held a number of sessions with the non-executive directors without executive directors present, and the non-executive directors have met without the Chairman.
Board performance evaluation As part of its best practice approach to corporate governance the Board engaged an external consultant, Professor Stuart Timperley, to carry out the Board performance evaluation for 2010.
He has no other connection with the Company.
For 2011 it was decided that Professor Timperley should hold further follow-up meetings with Board members.
Additionally, members of the Board would complete a questionnaire: the results of this were collated by the Company Secretary.
The Board performance evaluation was discussed at the February 2012 Board meeting.
The Board formally considered diversity as part of the evaluation and concluded that diversity in its widest sense was desirable.
A number of action points to further improve the efficiency of Board meetings would be incorporated into a plan.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Governance 43 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Training The Companys policy is to provide appropriate training to directors, taking into account their individual qualifications and experience, including environmental, social and governance training as appropriate.
From time to time the Company arranges presentations for the Board on topical subjects following Board meetings.
For example, in May 2011 a presentation on the Bribery Act 2010 was given to the Board.
The Company Secretary maintains a register of training for each director which is reviewed by the Board annually.
The register was last reviewed by the Board at its meeting in January 2012.
A comprehensive individually tailored induction plan is prepared for new directors.
Relations with shareholders The executive directors meet with institutional shareholders on a regular basis.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director also meet with shareholders from time to time.
The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that appropriate channels of communication are established between the executive directors and shareholders and for ensuring that the views of shareholders are made known to the entire Board.
Independent reviews of shareholder views are commissioned at least annually and the Board receives regular updates on investor relations.
The Board seeks to present the Companys position and prospects clearly.
The Annual Report and Financial Statements, circulars and announcements made by the Company to the London Stock Exchange are posted on the Companys website www.
Shareholders, whatever the size of their shareholding, are able to express their views via email or telephone contact with the Investor Relations Manager.
The Company gives at least 20 working days notice of the AGM.
Its policy is that the Chairman of each of the Board Committees will be available to answer questions from shareholders and there is an opportunity for shareholders to ask questions on each resolution proposed.
Details of proxy votes are made available to shareholders and other interested parties by means of an announcement to the London Stock Exchange and on the Companys website.
Report on the Executive Committee Throughout 2011, this Committee consisted of John Harnett Chairman, David Broadbent and Fred Forfar.
Its remit is to: deal with matters which primarily relate to the day-to-day running of the Group: and deal with those matters specifically reserved to it for decision.
It met frequently in 2011 to process a wide range of matters, often of a technical nature.
Gerard Ryan became a member of the Committee on 17 January 2012.
Report on the Disclosure Committee Throughout 2011, this Committee consisted of John Harnett Chairman, David Broadbent and Rosamond Marshall Smith.
Its remit is to: ensure that the Companys obligations pursuant to the Disclosure and Transparency Rules and the Listing Rules of the FSA are discharged: maintain appropriate policies and procedures to ensure compliance: and approve certain announcements in relation to inside information.
It met 12 times in 2011, sometimes at short notice to consider whether an announcement to the London Stock Exchange was required.
44 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Report on the Nomination Committee Members and attendance The members and their attendance at Committee meetings in 2011 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Christopher Rodrigues Chairman 6 6 Tony Hales 6 6 John Harnett 6 6 Edyta Kurek 6 5 John Lorimer 6 6 Nicholas Page 6 6 Ms Kurek missed one meeting due to another business commitment.
Further details of the members, including their qualifications, are set out in the section Our Board and Committees.
Remit Its remit is to: assist the Board in the process of the selection and appointment of any new director and to recommend the appointment to the Board: and keep under review the size, structure and composition of the Board and succession.
Work in 2011 The Committee has kept the size, structure and composition of the Board under review, including consideration of the Board structure and succession.
It oversaw the recruitment process which led to the appointment of Gerard Ryan on 17 January 2012.
This included agreement of the job specification, the appointment of search consultants, consideration of candidates and recommendation of the favoured candidate to the Board.
The Committee fully supports diversity in the Board and takes this into account in its work.
It has introduced a new policy whereby search consultants are requested, where practical and appropriate, to ensure that at least 50% of the long list of candidates is female.
Report on the Remuneration Committee Members and attendance The members and their attendance at Committee meetings in 2011 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Tony Hales Chairman 5 5 John Lorimer 5 4 Nicholas Page 5 5 Mr Lorimer was absent from one meeting as he was on holiday.
Remit Its remit is to: consider the framework of executive remuneration and make recommendations to the Board: determine the specific remuneration packages and conditions of service of the Chairman, the executive directors, the Senior Management Group and the Company Secretary: and determine the policy approve awards under the Companys equity incentive schemes.
Full details of the work of the Remuneration Committee are contained in the Directors Remuneration Report, which also contains details of the Companys equity incentive schemes.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Governance 45 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Report on the Audit and Risk Committee Members and attendance The members and their attendance at Committee meetings in 2011 were as follows: Number of Number Name meetings attended Nicholas Page Chairman 6 6 Tony Hales 6 6 John Lorimer 6 6 In addition to the members, at the invitation of the Committee, meetings are attended by both the internal audit firm and the external auditor as required and by the Finance Director and the Head of Compliance and Risk.
Country Managers or heads of function regularly present to the Committee on an aspect of the business.
The Committee also meets from time to time with the internal audit firm and the external auditor without an executive director or member of the Companys senior management being present.
The Head of Compliance and Risk reports directly to the Chairman of the Committee, which ensures that his her independence from the management and operation of the business is maintained.
The Chairman of the Committee, Nicholas Page, has a degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics and is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
The Chairman is regarded as having relevant and recent experience for the purposes of the Governance Code.
Remit Its remit is to: make recommendations to the Board, for the Board to put to shareholders in general meeting in relation to the appointment of the external auditor, and in relation to the internal audit firm, and to approve their terms of appointment: review and monitor the objectivity of the external auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company and the formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: keep under review the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including operational and compliance controls and risk management: keep under review the Group risk register and to consider the most important risks facing the Group and their mitigation: and keep under review the Groups whistleblowing policy.
46 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Work in 2011 Two of the meetings each year are focused solely on risk.
These are normally attended by the Chairman and the executive directors.
The remaining meetings cover audit-related matters and the other areas within the remit of the Committee.
There is a co-sourced internal audit operation, with internal audit functions established in all the businesses under the direction of the Head of Compliance and Risk, and an internal audit firm performing special projects and such work as will allow them to report to the Committee on internal controls.
Internal audit work is carried out by the local audit teams.
The internal audit firm reviews the work of the internal audit function in order to provide assurance on the operation of internal controls for the purpose of the Governance Code and to carry out separate pieces of work on specific risk areas.
At the end of 2010 the Committee decided that, as the external auditor  LLP PwC had carried out the first three external audits and would complete a fourth, it was appropriate for there to be a formal tender for the position of external auditor.
This was concluded in mid-March 2011.
There was also a formal tender for the position of internal audit firm, which was then held by Ernst & Young.
A full tender process was carried out for both positions.
The process was managed by the Committee which made a recommendation to the Board in respect of each position, which the Board accepted.
The Board proposed the appointment of Deloitte LLP Deloitte as external auditor at the 2011 AGM.
As a result Deloitte was appointed to the position of external auditor and PwC was appointed as the internal audit firm.
Both appointments took effect from the date of the AGM on 11 May 2011.
During 2011 the Committee also: reviewed an internal audit activity report at each audit-focused meeting and considered a number of reports from the internal audit functions on specific areas of the business: considered a report by PwC on the results of its audit work February and considered a review by Deloitte of the financial information in the half-year report July : received a presentation from Deloitte on the audit strategy for the 2011 audit and agreed this December : agreed the internal audit plan for 2012 this provides broad coverage of the business activities and includes reviews in each of the countries, together with the key corporate functions in the UK December : reviewed comprehensively the Group risk register on two occasions and kept under review the principal risks facing the Group and plans and measures to mitigate the impact of these risks: received presentations on different areas of the business from senior managers: the topics were Group corporate affairs, collections and arrears management, tax risk, non-financial data assurance, and IT: and considered the internal controls risks and reported to the Board.
In 2011 the following reviews were carried out by the internal audit firm: a review of the effectiveness of the internal audit functions in the countries: a review of IT projects implementation: a risk management review: and a credit systems review.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Governance 47 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Independence of auditor The Committee ensures that the external auditor is, and is perceived to be, independent and has taken various steps to seek to ensure that this is, and remains, the case.
The Committee considers a statement of independence from the external auditor once each year.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the appointment of employees from the auditor to positions within the various Group finance departments.
This regulates the employment of key members of the audit engagement team as Finance Director or in certain other senior Group finance roles.
The Committee has adopted a policy on the use of the external auditor for non-audit work: the award of non-audit work to the auditor is managed in order to ensure that the auditor is able to conduct an independent audit and is perceived to be independent by the Groups shareholders and stakeholders: the performance of non-audit work by the auditor is minimised, requires the prior approval of the Head of Compliance and Risk and such work is awarded only when, by virtue of knowledge, skills or experience, the auditor is clearly to be preferred over alternative suppliers: the Group maintains an active relationship with at least two other professional accounting firms: no information technology, remuneration, recruitment, valuation or general consultancy work may be awarded to the auditor without the prior approval of the Chairman of the Committee, such approval to be given only in exceptional circumstances: the Chairman of the Committee must approve in advance any single award of non-audit work with an aggregate cost of 30,000 or more: the auditor may not perform internal audit work: the external auditor will normally be used for audit-related services specified as such in the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors: and the Committee keeps under review the non-audit work carried out by the auditor.
Fees paid to the external auditor in 2011 are set out in note 4 of the notes to the Financial Statements.
The non-audit services carried out by PwC up to 11 May 2011 were as follows: Fee Work carried out 000 Tax services 29 General accounting advice 5 Other 5 Total 39 The non-audit services carried out by Deloitte in 2011 were as follows: Fee Work carried out 000 Tax services 27 General accounting advice 10 Other 6 Total 43 An additional 48,000 was incurred prior to the appointment of Deloitte as auditor.
Appointment of auditor A resolution to reappoint Deloitte as auditor will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
At its February 2012 meeting, the Committee recommended the reappointment of Deloitte to the Board.
48 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Internal control and risk management Risk management process The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Any system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board has approved a Risk Appetite Statement.
This sets out Group risks, the Groups risk appetite and the principal actions undertaken to mitigate the impact of each risk.
The Board approves a detailed budget each year usually in December for the year ahead.
It also approves outline projections for the subsequent four years.
Actual performance against budget is monitored in detail regularly and reported monthly for review by the directors.
The Board requires its subsidiaries to operate in accordance with corporate policies and to certify compliance with these policies on an annual basis or, where a matter of non-compliance has been identified, to state the exception and the reason for it.
The Risk Advisory Group, which consists of the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, the Finance Director, the Group Legal Director and the Head of Compliance and Risk, meets four times a year.
It reports to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Twice a year it considers the risk assessments and risk registers produced in each country and updates the Group risk register and principal risks.
It considers areas of specific risk and particular issues.
The Audit and Risk Committee considers the Group risk register and the nature and extent of the risks facing the Group.
It reviews the principal risks and the framework to manage and mitigate such risks and reports to the Board on a regular basis.
The Audit and Risk Committee keeps under review the adequacy of internal financial controls in conjunction with the Head of Compliance and Risk and the internal audit firm and reports to the Board regularly.
The operation of internal financial controls is further monitored, including a procedure by which operating companies certify compliance quarterly.
The Consolidated Financial Statements for the Group are prepared by aggregating submissions from each statutory entity.
Prior to submission to the Group reporting team, the individual country submissions are reviewed and approved by the Finance Director of the relevant country.
Once the submissions have been aggregated and consolidation adjustments made to remove intercompany transactions, the consolidated result is reviewed by the Finance Director.
The results are compared to the budget and prior year figures and any significant variances are clarified.
Checklists are completed by each statutory entity and by the Group reporting team to confirm that all required controls, such as key reconciliations, have been performed and reviewed.
The Financial Statements, which are agreed directly to the consolidation of the Group results, are prepared by the Group reporting team and reviewed by the Finance Director.
The supporting notes to the Financial Statements, which cannot all be agreed directly to the consolidation, are prepared by aggregating submission templates from each market and combining this with central information where applicable.
The Financial Statements and all supporting notes are reviewed and approved by the Group Head of Finance and the Finance Director: these are signed by the Chief Executive Officer and the Finance Director.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Governance 49 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued Review of effectiveness In accordance with the Guidance on Audit Committees issued by the FRC in 2010, the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups framework of internal controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems, during 2011.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group was in place throughout 2011 and up to 29 February 2012.
The Board also, where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been or are being taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of the effectiveness of internal control.
Environmental, social and governance matters During the year, the Company and its subsidiaries made donations of 55,823 for UK charitable purposes.
Community investment across the Group totalled 1,172,572 in cash, employee time, management costs and in-kind contributions to charitable and community investment organisations.
A further 105,394 was raised through leverage including fundraising and matched funding.
The Groups community data is reported in line with the London Benchmarking Group methodology and is independently assured by the Corporate Citizenship Company.
No political donations were made.
The Board takes regular account of the significance of environmental, social and governance ESG matters to the Group and has identified and assessed the significance of ESG risks to the Companys short and long-term value as part of the risk management process.
It recognises that a proactive programme of reputation management through a range of progressive, responsible business initiatives adds to the sustainable long-term value of the Company.
Responsibility for this area rests with the Chief Executive Officer, who chairs the Sustainability Steering Committee which sets guidance, provides direction and oversees policies and progress to ensure that the Company is a leader in its approach to ESG matters.
Key ESG issues for the business that impact upon its stakeholders are: public perception and ensuring work with communities is relevant: social and financial exclusion: health and safety: business ethics in emerging markets: and attracting and retaining skilled and well-motivated labour.
Adequate information is received by the Board to make an assessment of key ESG issues.
Corporate affairs activity, health and safety and people management issues were all discussed at Board meetings in 2011.
The Board formally reviews a sustainability report at least once a year.
Details of training for directors are set out in the training section of this corporate governance statement.
The Board is committed to diversity both at Board level and throughout the organisation.
This commitment is to diversity in its broadest sense rather than simply in the context of gender.
Given that the corporate office is in the UK but the businesses are across Central Europe and Mexico, diversity of nationality is regarded as an important factor.
The Board remains committed to ensuring it has a diverse composition.
However, it is not considered appropriate to set formal targets in respect of gender.
The Company collects data in respect of the number of women at different levels and thus will be able to keep the position under review.
As at 31 December 2011 the percentage of women employees at different levels within the Group was as follows: Level % of women Group Board 13 Level immediately below the Group Board 12 Senior management level 22 Middle management level 29 Junior management level 34 Group as a whole 47 Note: Agents in Hungary who are employees, unlike the position in the other markets have been excluded.
50 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance The Group attaches great importance to the health and safety of its employees, agents and other people who may be affected by its activities.
The Board has approved a policy and a framework for health and safety and introduced the international health and safety standard OHSAS 18001 across all businesses with the aim of full accreditation by the end of 2013.
It has established a Group Safety Committee which is chaired by the Group Development Director.
This Committee reports annually to the Board by means of a written report.
Each subsidiary board is responsible for the issue and implementation of its own health and safety policy as it affects the subsidiary companys day-to-day responsibility for health and safety.
Health and safety is considered regularly at board meetings within the Group.
There is a range of appropriate corporate standards, policies and governance structures covering all operations.
Compliance with corporate policies is confirmed formally by means of a self-certification process once a year and is reported to the Board.
Community investment and environmental data are externally verified.
The environmental management system is also subject to an annual independent internal audit against the requirements of ISO 14001.
The Group achieved independent external assurance against the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 for selected Key Performance Indicators.
Further details are in the Independent assurance report on page 71.
The Remuneration Committee is able to consider performance on ESG issues when setting the remuneration of executive directors and, where relevant, ESG matters are incorporated into the performance management systems and remuneration incentives of local business management.
When setting incentives, the Remuneration Committee takes account of all implications, including the need to avoid inadvertently motivating inappropriate behaviour, and the Head of Compliance and Risk review incentives from a risk perspective.
In 2011, the executive directors were given specific objectives relating to ESG issues for the purposes of the annual bonus scheme: these related to leadership and succession planning.
Details of the bonus scheme are set out in the bonus section of the statement of the Companys policy on directors remuneration in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Full information on specific ESG matters, and how these are managed, can be found in the Sustainability section of the Companys website www.
Share capital information On 31 December 2011, there were 257,217,888 ordinary shares of 10 pence each in issue.
No shares were issued during the year.
The ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange and can be held in certificated or uncertificated form.
The full rights and obligations attaching to the Companys ordinary shares, in addition to those conferred on their holders by law, are set out in the Companys Articles of Association, a copy of which can be viewed on the Companys website or obtained by writing to the Company Secretary or from Companies House in the UK.
A summary of those rights and obligations can be found below.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive the Companys Annual Report and Financial Statements, to attend and speak at general meetings of the Company, to appoint proxies and to exercise voting rights.
The directors are responsible for the management of the Company and may exercise all the powers of the Company, subject to the provisions of the relevant statutes and the Companys Articles of Association.
For example, the Articles of Association contain specific provisions and restrictions regarding the Companys powers to borrow money: provisions relating to the appointment of directors, subject to subsequent shareholder approval: delegation of powers to a director or committees: and, subject to certain exceptions, a director shall not vote on or be counted in a quorum in relation to any resolution of the Board in respect of any contract in which he she has an interest which he she knows is material.
Changes to the Articles of Association must be approved by the shareholders in accordance with the legislation in force from time to time.
co. uk annualreport Directors Report: Governance 51 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Corporate governance statement continued There are no restrictions on voting rights except as set out in the Articles of Association in circumstances where the shareholder has not complied with a statutory notice or paid up what is due on the shares.
There are no restrictions on the transfer including requirements for prior approval of any transfers or limitations on the holding of ordinary shares subject to the fact that the Board may refuse to register the transfer of: a partly-paid share: an uncertificated share in the circumstances set out in the Uncertificated Securities Regulations 2001: and a certificated share if a duly executed transfer is not provided together with any necessary document of authority.
There are no known arrangements under which financial rights are held by a person other than the holder of the shares.
Shares to be acquired through the Companys share plans rank pari passu with the shares in issue and have no special rights.
The Company operates an employee trust with an independent trustee, Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, to hold shares pending employees becoming entitled to them under the Companys share incentive plans.
On 31 December 2011, the trustee held 3,637,743 shares in the Company.
The trust waives its dividend entitlement and abstains from voting the shares at general meetings.
The Company does not have any agreements with any director or employee that would provide compensation for loss of office or employment resulting from a takeover.
The Company is not party to any significant agreements that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control following a takeover bid, apart from: its bank facility agreements which provide for a negotiation period following a change of control of the Company and the ability of a lender to cancel its commitment and for outstanding amounts to become due and payable: its Euro Medium Term Note programme which entitles any holder of a Note to require the Company to redeem such holders Notes if there is a change of control of the Company and, following such change of control, the Notes are downgraded: its Polish Medium Term Note programme which entitles any holder of a Note to require the issuer to redeem such holders Notes if there is a change of control of the Company and following such change of control the Euro Medium Term Notes are then downgraded or if no such Notes are then outstanding, in certain other circumstances : and provisions in the Companys share incentive plans may cause awards granted to directors and employees to vest on a takeover.
The Euro Medium Term Note programme was established in 2010.
The following Notes listed on the London Stock Exchange have been issued under the programme: Euro 225 million Notes issued in August 2010 with a five-year term and an 11.5% coupon: Romanian lei 36.5 million issued in February 2011 with a three-year term and a 12.0% coupon.
Under the Polish Medium Term Note programme a subsidiary company, IPF Investments Polska Sp.
z o. o. issued 200 million Polish zloty Notes which are listed on the Warsaw Stock Exchange: they mature on 30 June 2015 and the coupon is a floating rate of six-month WIBOR plus a margin of 750 basis points.
Responsibilities and disclosure Annual Report and Financial Statements The Company presents its own Annual Report and its Consolidated Annual Report as a single Annual Report.
Directors responsibilities in relation to the Financial Statements The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and Financial Statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
52 International Personal Finance plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 IPF01 005 | AR 2011 | 07 03 2012 | Proof 8 Directors Report: Governance Company law requires the directors to prepare Financial Statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group Financial Statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the Parent Company Financial Statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the directors must not approve the Financial Statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the Financial Statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the UK governing the preparation and dissemination of Financial Statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement This statement is given pursuant to Rule 4 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
It is given by each of the directors: namely, Christopher Rodrigues, Chairman: John Harnett, Chief Executive Officer: David Broadbent, Finance Director: Gerard Ryan, Chief Executive Officer Designate : Charles Gregson, non-executive director: Tony Hales, non-executive director: Edyta Kurek, non-executive director: John Lorimer, non-executive director: and Nicholas Page, non-executive director.
To the best of each directors knowledge: a the Financial Statements, prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and b the management report contained in this report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Disclosure of information to the auditor In the case of each person who is a director at the date of this report, it is confirmed that, so far as the director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditor is unaware: and he she has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a director in order to make himself herself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditor is aware of that information.
