International Public Partnerships Limited Audit Committee Report The Audit Committee comprises the independent non executive Directors and is chaired by Mr. R Dorey.
The Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters in respect of which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations as to the steps to be taken.
The Committee meets at least twice a year.
The duties of the Audit Committee in discharging its responsibilities include reviewing the Annual Report and Financial Statements and the Interim Report and Financial Statements, the system of internal controls and the terms of appointment of the auditors together with their remuneration.
It is also the forum through which the auditors report to the Board of Directors is reviewed by the Committee.
The objectivity of the auditors is reviewed by the Audit Committee which also reviews the terms under which the external auditors may be appointed to perform non-audit services.
The Audit Committee reviews the scope and results of the audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the auditors, with particular regard to any non-audit work that the auditor may undertake.
Following a request for proposals prepared by the Audit Committee in October 2010, a recommendation was made to the Board to appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups auditors for the 2011 year.
The difficult decision to change auditors was not taken lightly by the Board and was prompted largely for the following reasons: Maintaining high levels of governance Length of tenure in position One auditor for the entire group Financial efficiencies The Board receives copies of the minutes of the Audit Committee Meetings.
The Audit Committee has met four times from the period 1 January 2011 to date.
Matters considered at these meetings include but were not limited to: review of the 2010 Annual Report and Financial Statements, review of the 2011 Half Year Financial Report, review of the audit plan and timetable for the preparation of the 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements, review of the 2011 Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the committee.
Approval This report was approved by the Audit Committee and signed on its behalf by: Chairman of the Audit Committee 18 April 2012 53
