International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report Corporate Governance Policy As a Company with a Premium listing on the London Stock Exchange, it is required to comply or explain in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code as revised by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 and amended in October 2011 the UK Code.
It is also the Companys policy to comply with best practice on good corporate governance that is applicable to investment companies.
The Board of the Company has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in the UK Code and the UKLA Listing Rules, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to investment companies.
The AIC Code provides a comply or explain code of corporate governance designed especially for the needs of investment companies.
The Company is a member of the AIC.
The Company has reviewed its compliance with the AIC Code October 2010 and includes in this report any instances where it is not in full compliance.
The Financial Reporting Council has confirmed that so far as investment companies are concerned it considers that companies who comply with the AIC Code will be treated as meeting their obligations under the UK Code and Listing Rules.
The Board has determined that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which the Financial Reporting Council has confirmed should meet the Companys obligations in relation to the Combined Code and relevant UKLA Listing Rules will provide more appropriate information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with all the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of the Combined Code, except as noted out below.
The UK Code includes provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive annual re-election of all directors executive directors remuneration the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons given in the AIC Guide, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of the Company, being an externally advised investment company.
The Company has therefore, in line with the AIC Guide, not reported further in respect of these provisions.
However, the firm does has procured an independent annual controls and processes review.
Board Structure The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors, whose biographies, on page 37 to 39, demonstrate a breadth of investment and business experience.
As the Chairman of the Board is an independent non-executive and there are no executive directors, the Board considers it unnecessary to appoint a senior independent Director.
47 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued Name Position Independent Date Appointed Keith Dorrian Non-Executive Chairman Yes 2 August 2006 Rupert Dorey Non-Executive Director Yes 2 August 2006 Chairman Audit Committee Giles Frost Non-Executive Director No 2 August 2006 Carol Goodwin Non-Executive Director Yes 19 February 2007 Chairman Management Engagement Committee John Whittle Non-Executive Director Yes 6 August 2009 The Board consists solely of non-executive Directors and is chaired by Mr. K Dorrian.
One third of the Directors retire by rotation at every AGM will therefore be subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
All other Directors are considered by the Board to be independent of the Companys investment advisor.
Any Directors appointed to the Board since the previous AGM also retire and stand for re-election.
The Chairman and the independent directors take the lead in any discussions relating to the appointment or reappointment of directors taking into account the expertise of the candidates and their independence.
The Board meets at least four times a year and in addition there is regular contact between the Board, the Investment Advisor and the Administrator and the Board requires to be supplied in a timely manner with information by the Investment Advisor, the Company Secretary and other advisors in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Management Engagement Committee which is a sub-committee of the Board regularly reviews the performance of the Investment Advisor and the Companys other advisors and major service suppliers to ensure that performance is satisfactory and in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relative appointments.
In accordance with its usual practice an evaluation of the performance of individual Directors and the Chairman was carried out during the year which concluded that the Board is performing satisfactorily in the six areas reviewed: Board composition and meeting process, Board information, training, Board dynamics, Board accountability and effectiveness and the performance of the Chairman.
The Board is committed to maintaining the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and experience among its members to ensure strong leadership of the Company.
When appointing Board members, its priority will always be one of meritocracy, but will be influenced by the strong desire to maintain board diversity, including gender.
The Board currently has one female director, out of its five members, which has been the gender ratio almost since inception of the Company.
New Directors receive an induction from the Administrator and the Investment Advisor on joining the Board, and in consultation with the Chairman all Directors are entitled to receive other relevant ongoing training as necessary.
The Board will consider the need for an externally facilitated evaluation of the Board at least every three years.
No external valuation has been undertaken during the year.
48 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued The Company has no executive directors or employees.
All matters, including strategy, investment and dividend policies, gearing and corporate governance procedures are reserved for approval by the Board of Directors.
The Board currently meets at least quarterly and receives full information on the Companys investment performance, assets, liabilities and other relevant information in advance of Board meetings.
Board Tenure and Re-election No member of the Board has served for longer than 6 years to date.
As such no issue has arisen to be considered by the Board with respect to long tenure.
When and if any director shall have been in office or on re-election would at the end of that term of office for more than 9 years the Company will consider further on this matter as to whether there is any risk that such director might reasonably be deemed to have lost independence through such long service.
The Board does not consider it appropriate or necessary for all directors to be re-elected annually.
As such, Rupert Dorey will retire in 2012 as a result of the retirement by rotation provisions in the Articles of Association and Giles Frost will also retire as a result of the UKLA Listing Rules and both will stand for re-election.
Meeting Attendance Records The table below lists Directors attendance at meetings during the year, to the date of this report.
Directors Quarterly Ad-hoc Audit Committee Management Board Board max 4 Engagement max 4 max 10 Committee max 1 1 K Dorrian 3 6 3 0 R Dorey 4 9 4 1 2 3 G Frost 4 1 max 1 n a n a C Goodwin 4 10 4 1 J Whittle 4 9 4 1 1 Keith Dorian absent for part of the year for health reasons.
2 Mr. G Frost is not a member of the Audit Committee or Management Engagement Committee.
3 Mr. G Frost does not attend Ad-hoc Board Meetings as a director where recommendations from the Investment Advisor are under consideration.
Committees of the Board The AIC Code and UK Code requires the Company to consider appointing a nomination or remuneration committee.
The Board has not deemed this necessary as the Company has no executive directors or employees and, being comprised wholly of non-executive Directors: the whole Board considers these matters.
The Boards Audit Committee is responsible for the appointment of auditors and the review of the Companys accounting and financial affairs.
This includes responsibility for reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in any formal announcements, including the companys financial statements.
The Audit Committee also reviews internal audit activities of the Investment Advisor, on which it relies see detail within Internal Control and Financial Reporting below.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr Dorey and is comprised of the full Board with the exception of Mr Frost.
As a consequence the Company Chairman is a member of the Audit Committee, which the Board believes is appropriate as Mr Dorrian brings significant independent expertise in investment trusts and finance to the Committee which it believes is beneficial for the Committee.
The Committee considers reports from the auditor, the Investment Manager and the Administrator.
The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee include monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and appropriateness of its accounting policies, reviewing the effectiveness of the internal control systems and making recommendations to the Board regarding the appointment, independence and remuneration of the 49 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued auditor.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the objectivity and effectiveness of the audit process, with particular regard to terms under which the auditor is appointed to perform non-audit services.
During the year, the Companys auditor was involved in non-audit work in relation to the independent control process review and received fees of 43,938 in respect of this 2010 nil.
Shareholders have the opportunity at each Annual General Meeting to vote on the election of the auditor for the forthcoming year.
The Boards Management Engagement Committee was established to provide a formal mechanism for the review of the performance of the Companys advisors including its Investment Advisor.
It carries out this review through consideration of a number of objective and subjective criteria and through a review of the terms and conditions of the advisors appointment with the aim of evaluating performance, identifying any weaknesses and ensuring value for money for the Companys shareholders.
Directors Duties and Responsibilities The Directors have adopted a set of Reserved Powers, which establish the key purpose of the Board and detail its major duties.
These duties cover the following areas of responsibility: Statutory obligations and public disclosure Approval of investment decisions Strategic matters and financial reporting Board composition and accountability to shareholders Risk assessment and management, including reporting, compliance, monitoring, governance and control Other matters having material effects on the Company These Reserved Powers of the Board have been adopted by the Directors to demonstrate clearly the seriousness with which the Board takes its fiduciary responsibilities and as an ongoing means of measuring and monitoring the effectiveness of its actions.
The Boards Reserved Powers document is available upon request.
The Directors are responsible for the overall management and direction of the affairs of the Company.
The Company has no executive Directors or employees.
Under the Investment Advisory Agreement, Amber Fund Management Limited acts as Investment Advisor to the Company to review and monitor investments and advise the Company in relation to strategic management of the investment portfolio.
Details of the Investment Advisors relationship with the Company are provided in note 40 of the financial statements.
In March 2012, the Management Engagement Committee formally reviewed the performance of its advisors for the financial year ended 31 December 2011.
In particular, the service provided by the Investment Advisor was reviewed with respect to performance in origination, asset management, financial and internal control, monitoring and reporting.
Overall, the Committee confirmed its satisfaction with the services provided by the Investment Advisor.
In accordance with its normal practice it will continue to hold discussions relating to the future strategy of the Company with the Investment Advisor and regular formal and informal discussions are held on this subject.
The Directors confirm that they believe that it is in shareholders best interest to continue the appointment of Amber Fund Management Limited as the Companys Investment Advisor.
Heritage International Fund Managers Limited acts as Administrator and Company Secretary and is responsible to the Board under the terms of the Administration Agreement.
The Administrator is also responsible for ensuring compliance with the Rules and Regulations of Guernsey Law, London Stock Exchange listing requirements, money laundering regulation and observation of the Reserved Powers of the Board and in this respect the Board receives detailed quarterly reports.
The Management Engagement Committee also formally reviewed the performance of the Administrator and Company Secretary for the 50 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued financial year ended 31 December 2011 and again confirm that they believe that it is in shareholders best interest to continue the appointment of Heritage International Fund Managers Limited as the Companys Administrator and Company Secretary.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that it adheres to applicable legislation, rules and regulations under Guernsey Law and from the Guernsey Financial Services Commission and the London Stock Exchange.
Individual Directors may, at the expense of the Company, seek independent professional advice on any matter that concerns them in the furtherance of their duties.
The Company maintains appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against its Directors on an ongoing basis and the Company has maintained appropriate Directors Liability Insurance cover throughout the period.
The Board monitors the Companys share price and Net Asset Value and regularly considers ways in which future share price performance may be enhanced including by implementing marketing and investor relations activities, appropriate management of share price premium discount and the relative positioning and performance of the company to its competitors.
The Board is also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
Internal Control, Risk Management and Financial Reporting The Directors acknowledge that they are responsible for establishing and maintaining the Companys system of internal control and reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control systems are designed to manage rather than eliminate the failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements or loss.
The Directors review all controls including operations, compliance and risk management.
The key procedures which have been established to provide internal control are: Investment advisory services are provided by Amber Fund Management Limited AFML.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall investment policy and monitors the action of the Investment Advisor and Operator at regular Board meetings.
The Board has also delegated administration and company secretarial services to Heritage International Fund Managers Limited Heritage : however it retains accountability for all delegated functions.
The Board considers the process for identifying, evaluating and managing any significant risks faced by the Company on an on-going basis.
It ensures that effective controls are in place to mitigate these risks and that a satisfactory compliance regime exists to ensure all local and international laws and regulations are upheld.
In light of recent market volatility and economic turmoil, particular attention has been given to the effectiveness of controls to monitor liquidity risk, asset values, counterparty exposure and credit availability.
The Non-Executive Directors of the Company clearly define the duties and responsibilities of their agents and advisors and appointments are made by the Board after due and careful consideration.
The Board monitors the ongoing performance of such agents and advisors.
AFML and Heritage maintain their own systems of internal control, on which they report to the Board.
The Company, in common with other investment companies, does not have an internal audit function.
The Board has considered the need for an internal audit function, but because of the internal control systems in place at AFML and Heritage, has decided to place reliance on their systems and internal control procedures.
The Board has, however, commissioned independent internal controls and processes reviews and reporting by Ernst & Young to the Board to ensure strong internal systems of control continues to be maintained, as an alternative to requiring a fully resourced internal audit function.
Such reviews are performed on a rolling annual cycle focussing on different areas in the business including, operations, finance, compliance and origination activity for example.
During the year Ernst & Young reviewed internal controls and processes in relation to UK asset management activities.
51 International Public Partnerships Limited Corporate Governance Report continued The systems are designed to ensure effectiveness and efficient operation, internal control and compliance with laws and regulations.
In establishing the systems of internal control, regard is paid to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of costs being incurred and costs of control.
It follows therefore that the systems of internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss.
The Group ensures that transactions and balances are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that information is appropriately reviewed and reconciled as part of the reporting process.
The use of a standard reporting process by entities in the Group ensures that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the consolidated financial statements Relations with Shareholders The Board welcomes shareholders views and places great importance on communication with shareholders.
It has responsibility for communication with the investor base and is directly involved in major communications and announcements.
The Board receives regular reports on the views of shareholders and the Chairman and other Directors are available to meet shareholders if required.
The Investment Advisor meets with major shareholders on a regular basis and reports to the Board on these meetings.
Any issues of concern including on corporate governance or strategy can be addressed by any shareholder by writing to the Company at its registered address see page 3.
The Annual General Meeting of the Company provides a forum for shareholders to meet and discuss issues with the Directors and with the Investment Advisor of the Company.
To promote a clear understanding of the Company, its objectives and financial results, the Board aims to ensure that information relating to the Company is disclosed in a timely manner.
