Corporate governance continued Composition of the board: Following the resignation of GMT Howe on 31 December 2010, less than half the board, excluding the chairman, comprised independent non-executive directors.
However, the appointment of OC Dickson with effect from 31 March 2011, means that the board is now compliant with this provision.
UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 Although not applicable to the current reporting period, Investec has also complied with the majority of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010.
Areas of non-compliance include the independence of the chairman and the board composition as noted above.
King III King III distinguishes between statutory provisions, voluntary principles and recommended practices.
The King III Report provides best practice recommendations, whereas the King III Code provides the principles that all entities should apply.
The majority of the principles of King III are being applied and is evidenced in the various sections of this report.
Prior to the March 2010 year end we undertook a detailed exercise to benchmark Investecs practices against the principles required under King III, and in order to demonstrate that the principles are being applied, we included a schedule referencing the relevant principles to sections in the 2010 report.
The 2011 schedule referencing the relevant principles to sections in the 2011 report can be found on the Investec website.
The following principles of King III are currently not being applied by Investec: The board should elect a chairman of the board who is an independent non-executive director Refer to the explanation under London Combined Code 2008 above Companies should disclose the remuneration of certain senior executives We do disclose the remuneration of the executive directors and the groups remuneration process in the remuneration report on pages 253 to 274.
We have not applied the recommended practice to disclose the salaries of the three most highly paid employees who are not directors Sustainability reporting and disclosure should be independently assured We do not believe that this is necessary given the nature of our business and level of sustainability reporting required The audit committees have overseen the integrated report, including sustainability disclosures, which have been veri ed by the Internal Audit division.
Financial reporting and going concern The directors are required to con rm that they are satis ed that the group, as well as Investec plc and Investec Limited individually, have adequate resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future.
The assumptions underlying the going concern statement are discussed at the time of the approval of the annual financial statements by the board and these include: Budgeting and forecasts Pro tability Capital Liquidity.
In addition, the directors are responsible for monitoring and reviewing the preparation, integrity and reliability of the Investec plc and Investec Limited combined financial statements, accounting policies and the information contained in the annual report.
In undertaking this responsibility, the directors are supported by an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the signi cant risks Investec faces in preparing the financial and other information contained in this annual report.
This process was in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and financial statements.
The process is implemented by management and independently monitored for effectiveness by the audit, risk and other sub-committees of the board, which are referred to on pages 225 to 231.
The signi cant risks we face include risks owing from the instability in the global financial market and the recent global economic environment that could affect Investecs businesses, earnings and financial condition.
218 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Our financial statements are prepared on a going concern basis, taking into consideration: The groups strategy and prevailing market conditions and business environment Nature and complexity of our business Risks we assume, and their management and mitigation Key business and control processes in operation Credit rating and access to capital Needs of all our stakeholders Operational soundness Accounting policies adopted Corporate governance practices Desire to provide relevant and clear disclosures Operation of board committee support structures.
The board is of the opinion, based on its knowledge of the group, key processes in operation and speci c enquiries, that there are adequate resources to support the group as a going concern for the foreseeable future.
Further information on our liquidity and capital position is provided on pages 177 to 188 and pages 195 to 207.
Furthermore, the board is of the opinion that the groups risk management processes and the systems of internal control are effective.
Board of directors In terms of the DLC arrangements, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited are identical and the group is managed as a uni ed economic enterprise.
The board seeks to exercise leadership, integrity and judgement in pursuit of strategic goals and objectives, to achieve long-term sustainability, growth and prosperity.
The board is accountable for the performance and affairs of Investec.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership for the group within a framework of prudent and effective controls which allows risks to be assessed and managed.
The board recently adopted a board charter, which provides a framework of how the boards operate as well as the type of decisions to be taken by the board and which should be delegated to management.
The board framework also deals with composition and meeting procedures.
The Investec board: Approves the groups strategy Ensures that the group complies with the applicable laws and considers adherence to non-binding rules and standards Is responsible for the governance of risk, including that of information technology IT Acts as focal point for, and custodian of, corporate governance Provides effective leadership on an ethical foundation Ensures the group is, and is seen to be, a responsible corporate citizen.
The board meets its objectives by reviewing and guiding corporate strategy, setting the groups values and standards, promoting high standards of corporate governance, approving key policies and objectives, ensuring that obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met, understanding the key risks we face, determining our risk tolerance and approving and reviewing the processes in operation to mitigate risk from materialising, including the approval of the terms of reference of key supporting board committees.
Certain matters are speci cally reserved for the board.
To achieve its objectives, the board may delegate certain of its duties and functions to various board committees, group forums or the CEO, without abdicating its own responsibilities: The board has formally fide ned and documented, by way of terms of reference, the authority it has delegated to the various board committees and group forums 219 In ful lling its responsibilities, the board is supported by management in implementing the plans and strategies approved by the board.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Furthermore, directly or through its sub-committees, the Investec board: Assesses the quantitative and qualitative aspects of Investecs performance through a comprehensive system of financial and nonfinancial monitoring involving an annual budget process, detailed monthly reporting, regular review of forecasts and regular management strategic and operational updates Approves annual budgets, capital plans, projections and business plans Monitors our compliance with relevant laws, regulations and codes of business practice Ensures there are processes in place enabling complete, timely, relevant, accurate and accessible risk disclosure to stakeholders and monitors our communication with all stakeholders and disclosures made to ensure transparent and effective communication Identi es and monitors key risk areas and key performance indicators Reviews processes and procedures to ensure the effectiveness of our internal systems of control Ensures we adopt sustainable business practices, including our social and environmental activities Assisted by the audit committee, ensures appropriate IT governance processes are in place, the implementation of which management is responsible for, and ensuring that the process is aligned to the performance and sustainability objectives of the board Monitors and evaluates signi cant IT investments and expenditure Ensures information assets are managed effectively Ensures the appropriate risk governance processes, including IT, are in place including continual risk monitoring by management, determines the levels of risk tolerance and that risk assessments are performed on a continual basis Ensures the integrity of the companys integrated report, which includes sustainability reporting Ensures the induction of, and ongoing training and development of, directors Evaluates the performance of senior management and considers succession planning.
Composition, structure and process Membership At the end of the year under review, the Investec board, excluding the chairman, comprised four executive directors and 12 non-executive directors.
As set out below, the board concluded that the majority i. e. eight of the non-executive directors, excluding the chairman, are independent in terms of the London Combined Code and King III.
Biographical details of the directors are set out on pages 282 to 284.
The names of the directors at the date of this report, the year of their appointment and their independence status are set out in the table below.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the entire board will offer itself for re-election at the 2011 annual general meeting.
Board changes during the past year: Bradley Fried was appointed as a non-executive director on 1 April 2010 Perry Crosthwaite was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 18 June 2010 Sir Chips Keswick retired as a non-executive director and senior independent director on 13 August 2010 Sir David Prosser was appointed as senior independent director on 13 August 2010 Alan Tapnack retired as an executive director on 15 December 2010 Hendrik du Toit was appointed as an executive director on 15 December 2010 Geoffrey Howe resigned as an independent non-executive director on 31 December 2010 Olivia Dickson was appointed as an independent non-executive director on 31 March 2011 Following the announcement published on 18 February 2011, Hugh Herman will retire from the board on 17 November 2011 and he will be replaced by Fani Titi and Sir David Prosser as joint chairmen.
220 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Retiring and Date of appointment seeking reInvestec plc Investec Limited Independent Last elected election in 2011 Executive directors S Koseff chief executive of cer 26 June 2002 6 October 1986 No 2009 Yes B Kantor managing director 26 June 2002 8 June 1987 No 2008 Yes GR Burger group risk and finance director 3 July 2002 3 July 2002 No 2010 Yes HJ du Toit 15 December 2010 15 December 2010 No Yes Non-executive directors HS Herman chairman 26 June 2002 1 January 1994 No 2010 Yes SE Abrahams 26 June 2002 21 October 1996 Yes 2010 Yes GFO Alford 26 June 2002 26 June 2002 Yes 2010 Yes CA Carolus 18 March 2005 18 March 2005 Yes 2008 Yes PKO Crosthwaite 18 June 2010 18 June 2010 Yes 2010 Yes OC Dickson 31 March 2011 31 March 2011 Yes Yes B Fried 1 April 2010 1 April 2010 No 2010 Yes H Fukuda OBE 21 July 2003 21 July 2003 Yes 2008 Yes IR Kantor 26 June 2002 30 July 1980 No 2010 Yes MP Malungani 26 June 2002 26 June 2002 No 2008 Yes Sir David Prosser senior independent director 23 March 2006 23 March 2006 Yes 2009 Yes PRS Thomas 26 June 2002 29 June 1981 Yes 2010 Yes F Titi 30 January 2004 30 January 2004 No 2010 Yes F Titi is independent for Investec Limited but not for Investec plc.
Independence For the period 31 December 2010 to 30 March 2011, following the resignation of Geoffrey Howe, Investecs board did not meet the requirement set out in principle A.
3.2 of the London Combined Code that at least half of the board excluding the chairman are independent.
The board, on the recommendation of the nominations and directors affairs committee, approved the appointment of Olivia Dickson with effect from 31 March 2011.
Accordingly, as at 31 March 2011, the board is compliant with the requirement that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, comprises independent non-executive directors.
During this period, the board was, however, compliant with chapter 2, principle 2.18 of King III in that the majority of non-executive directors were independent.
A summary of the factors the board uses to determine the independence of directors is detailed below.
Chairman The chairman of the board is not considered to be independent as described under the governance requirements above.
Following the announcement published on 18 February 2011, Hugh Herman will retire from the board on 17 November 2011 and be replaced by Fani Titi and Sir David Prosser as joint chairmen.
Fani will not be regarded as independent, in terms of the UK Corporate Governance Code, as explained below.
Relationships and associations Peter Malungani is the chairman of Peu Group Proprietary Limited Peu and Peu has a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment transaction concluded in 2003 in light of South Africas Financial Sector Charter.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Peter could not be considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code and King III Fani Titi resigned as board member and chairman of Tiso Group Limited Tiso during March 2008.
Tiso has a material relationship with Investec Limited as a result of the empowerment transaction concluded in 2003 in light of South Africas Financial Sector Charter.
In line with the independence requirements of King III, the board of Investec Limited concluded that for purposes of his appointment to Investec Limited and subsidiary boards, where applicable, he is now considered to be independent as it has been three years since his relationship with Tiso ended.
In line with the independence requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which requires a five year break in the 221 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued relationship with Tiso, the board of Investec plc concluded that for purposes of Fanis appointment to Investec plc and subsidiary boards, where applicable, he could not be considered independent Ian Kantor is the brother of Bernard Kantor, Investecs managing director.
Ian was also previously CEO of Investec.
Accordingly, the board concluded that Ian could not be considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code and King III Bradley Fried resigned as CEO of Investec Bank plc and an employee of Investec during March 2010.
The board soon thereafter appointed Bradley as a non-executive director due to his speci c business skills, knowledge and experience in the group which is valuable to the organisation.
As Bradley has been an employee of Investec within the previous five years, the board concluded that he could not be considered independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code and King III.
Despite the board concluding that Peter, Fani, Ian and Bradley cannot be considered independent for the reasons explained above, the board is of the view that their skills, knowledge, experience and attributes are nonetheless valuable to the organisation and believe they do and will use their independent judgement when making decisions that affect the organisation and stakeholders.
Attendance at risk management meetings Sam Abrahams, Fani Titi and Peter Thomas regularly attend, by invitation, certain credit committees of the Investec group.
The board considers their attendance at these committees to be bene cial in terms of developing an understanding of the day-to-day issues facing the business.
This further allows Sam to discharge his responsibilities more effectively as chairman of the Investec plc and Investec Limited audit committees and Fani to discharge his responsibilities more effectively as chairman of Investec Bank Limited.
The board concluded that Sam, Fani and Peter retain independence of character and judgement.
Tenure The board does not believe that any current non-executive director has served on the board for a period which could materially interfere with their ability to act in Investecs best interests.
Accordingly, the board has concluded that George Alford, Peter Thomas and Sam Abrahams, despite having been directors of Investec for nine years or more, retain both financial independence and independence of character and judgement.
The board does not believe that any director who has served for more than nine years is not independent by virtue of the period of service.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, one third of the directors are required to retire by rotation.
Furthermore, all those directors serving for longer than nine years are required to stand for annual re-election.
In addition, the UK Corporate Governance Code recommends that all directors of FTSE 350 companies are subject to annual re-election.
Accordingly, going forward, all members of the board will offer themselves for annual re-election, in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Notwithstanding the guidelines set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and King lll, the board is of the view that the non-executive directors are independent of management and promote the interests of stakeholders.
The balance of executive and non-executive directors is such that there is a clear division of responsibility to ensure a balance of power, such that no one individual or group can dominate board processes or have unfettered powers of decision making.
The board believes that it functions effectively and evaluates its performance annually.
Skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of directors The board considers that the skills, knowledge, experience and attributes of the directors as a whole are appropriate for their responsibilities and our activities.
The directors bring a range of skills to the board including: International business and operational experience Understanding of the economics of the sectors in which we operate Knowledge of the regulatory environments in which we operate Financial, accounting, legal and banking experience and knowledge.
The skills and experience pro le of the board and its committees are regularly reviewed by the DLC nominations and directors affairs committee, to ensure an appropriate and relevant composition from a governance, succession and effectiveness perspective.
Board and directors performance evaluation The board, its committees and individual directors performance is formally evaluated annually based on recognised codes of corporate governance and covers areas of the boards processes and responsibilities, according to leading practice.
The performance evaluation process takes place both informally, through personal observations and discussions, and or in the form of evaluation questionnaires.
The results are incorporated into a matrix which is considered and discussed by the board.
The chairman holds regular one-on-one meetings with each director to discuss the results of the formal and informal evaluations and, in particular, to seek comments on strengths and developmental areas of the members, the chairman and the board as a whole.
Individual 222 training and development needs are discussed with each board member and any requests for training are communicated to the company secretaries for implementation.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Terms of appointment On appointment, non-executive directors are provided with a letter of appointment.
The letter sets out, among other things, duties, responsibilities and expected time commitments, details of our policy Directors ongoing on obtaining independent advice and, where appropriate, details of the board committees of which training and the non-executive director is a member.
We have an insurance policy that insures directors against liabilities they may incur in carrying out their duties.
development is Ongoing training and development a standing board On appointment, directors are provided with an induction pack and participate in an induction agenda item, programme tailored to their needs, including meeting with business unit and central services heads to including updates ensure they become familiar with business operations, senior management, our business environment on various training and internal controls, policies, processes and systems for managing risk.
and development Directors ongoing training and development is a standing board agenda item, including updates initiatives.
on various training and development initiatives.
Board members receive regular formal presentations on regulatory and governance matters as well as on the business and support functions.
Regular interactive workshops are arranged between directors and the heads of risk management, control functions and business units.
Company secretaries liaise with directors to source relevant seminars and conferences which directors could attend, funded by Investec.
Following the boards and directors performance evaluation process, any training needs are communicated to the company secretaries who ensure these needs are addressed.
During the period under review there were a number of director workshops arranged outside board meetings.
Independent advice Through the senior independent director or the company secretaries, individual directors are entitled to seek professional independent advice on matters related to the exercise of their duties and responsibilities at the expense of Investec.
No such advice was sought during the 2011 financial year.
Remuneration Details of the directors remuneration and remuneration process are set out in the remuneration report on pages 253 to 274.
Chairman and chief executive offi cer The roles of chairman and chief executive of cer are distinct and separate with a clear, documented division of responsibilities that has been approved by the board.
The chairman leads the board and is responsible for ensuring that the board receives accurate, timely and clear information to ensure that directors can perform their duties effectively.
Details of the chairmans external directorships are set out on page 282.
The board does not consider that the chairmans external commitments interfere with his performance and responsibilities to Investec.
The board is satis ed that the chairman makes suf cient time available to serve Investec effectively.
The board has not appointed a deputy chairman.
Senior independent director Sir David Prosser was appointed senior independent director on 13 August 2010 following the retirement of Sir Chips Keswick.
He is available to address any concerns or questions from shareholders and non-executive directors.
Company secretaries David Miller is the company secretary of Investec plc and Benita Coetsee is the company secretary of Investec Limited.
They are responsible for the ow of information to the board and its committees and for ensuring compliance with board procedures.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretaries, whose appointment and removal are a board matter.
Les Penfold is the global head of company secretarial and coordinates and drives the secretarial functions and is responsible for all board governance matters.
223 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Board meetings The combined boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited meet jointly at least six times annually.
Three board meetings were held in the UK and three in South Africa, in line with the requirements of our DLC structure.
Furthermore, the boards of Investec plc and Investec Limited held one additional meeting each in the UK and South Africa respectively.
The chairman is responsible for setting the agenda for each meeting, in consultation with the chief executive of cer and the company secretaries.
Comprehensive information packs on matters to be considered by the board are provided to directors in advance of the meetings.
The non-executive directors met during the period under review in the absence of the executive directors and the senior independent director met with the non-executive directors in the absence of the chairman during the year.
Details of directors attendance at board meetings: Number of meetings Number of meetings Investec plc and Investec Limited board held during the year attended during the year Independent Executive directors S Koseff chief executive of cer 6 6 B Kantor managing director 6 5 66 GR Burger group risk and finance director 63 A Tapnack HJ du Toit 6 2 Non-executive directors HS Herman chairman 6 6 No SE Abrahams 6 6 Yes GFO Alford 6 5 Yes CA Carolus 6 6 Yes PKO Crosthwaite 6 5 Yes OC Dickson 6 Yes B Fried 6 6 No H Fukuda OBE 6 6 Yes GMT Howe 6 2 Yes IR Kantor 6 6 No Sir Chips Keswick 6 1 Yes MP Malungani 6 6 No Sir David Prosser senior independent director 6 6 Yes PRS Thomas 6 6 Yes F Titi 6 6 No F Titi is independent for Investec Limited but not for Investec plc.
Board resignations retirements during the reporting period: Sir Chips Keswick retired on 13 August 2010 Alan Tapnack retired on 15 December 2010 Geoffrey Howe resigned on 31 December 2010.
Board appointments during the reporting period: Bradley Fried was appointed on 1 April 2010 Perry Crosthwaite was appointed on 18 June 2010 Hendrik du Toit was appointed on 15 December 2010 Olivia Dickson was appointed on 31 March 2011.
The number of meetings held during the year excludes the special board meetings held on 21 April 2010, 17 June 2010 and 21 June 2010.
224 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Board committees In exercising control of the group, the directors are empowered to delegate to various board and executive committees.
The committees have speci c terms of reference, appropriately skilled members and access to specialist advice when necessary.
Below is an overview of the various committees composition and responsibilities.
The full terms of reference are available on our website.
Investec plc and Investec Limited board of directors DLC Three nomination Five NEDs executives Four Five Four Board risk Six and three DLC audit seven times per indepentimes per and capital times per directors indepencommittee NEDs four annum dent NEDs annum committee annum affairs dent indepencommittee dent Responsibilities, inter alia, include: Responsibilities, inter alia, include: Responsibilities, inter alia, include: Identi cation and nomination of board Review and oversight of combined Monitoring and implementation of risk candidates reports, financial statements and management policies and procedures integrated report Determining and evaluating Review of the adequacy of the risk the adequacy, ef ciency and External and internal audit oversight management structure and processes appropriateness of the groups Compliance oversight Ratifying exposure limits for market, corporate governance counterparty and credit risk Monitoring the effectiveness of the Reviewing board composition and systems of internal financial control Monitoring of liquidity and operational recommending changes risks.
Reviewing any matters affecting the Succession planning and financial safety of the DLC group.
Investec DLC Four plc and Seven Five Four DLC Executive  times per indepentimes per capital risk review ration dent Limited annum dent NEDs annum committee forum committee NEDs audit committees Capital planning, Measuring, Responsibilities, inter alia, include: Audit and compliance allocation and monitoring and implementation forums Determining, developing and structuring, mitigation of agreeing the executive directors and performance enterprise wide management remuneration framework measurement, risk.
Ensuring appropriate incentives to investment encourage enhanced performance decisions and in contribution to the success of capital based the group and alignment with the incentivisation.
corporate objectives and business strategy.
Three executives Three executives one independent and senior NED management At least Weekly quarterly 225 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued The following table indicates board representation on the committees: NominaInvestec Investec tion and Board IndepenDLC plc Limited Remunedirectors risk and Members dent Audit Audit Audit ration affairs capital HS Herman No Chair SE Abrahams Yes Chair Chair Chair GFO Alford Yes Chair CA Carolus Yes PKO Crosthwaite Yes OC Dickson Yes B Fried No H Fukuda OBE Yes Attendee IR Kantor No MP Malungani No Sir David Prosser senior independent director Yes PRS Thomas Yes F Titi No F Titi is independent for Investec Limited but not for Investec plc.
Audit committees In terms of Investecs DLC structure, the board has mandated authority to the Investec plc audit committee and the Investec Limited audit committee to be the audit committees for those respective companies and their subsidiaries.
A DLC audit committee, which is a combined audit committee of Investec plc and Investec Limited, has responsibility to the board for matters common to both Investec plc and Investec Limited.
The audit committees comply with all legal and regulatory requirements, as required under both UK and SA legislation and apply the corporate governance principles for audit committees as required by both the London Combined Code and King III.
Role and responsibilities The responsibilities of the audit committees include: Reviewing and making recommendations for the boards approval of Investecs combined and individual company reports and financial statements and other published or released financial reporting documents or statements Reviewing the appropriateness of the combined groups and individual companies accounting policies and their application Overseeing the external audit process in the review of reports and accounts Considering the external audit scope: both attest and non-attest fees: and audit findings Reviewing internal audit plans, reports, capacity and capability, and the reliance by the external auditors on the work and findings of Internal Audit Focusing on our compliance with legal requirements, accounting standards and the relevant listing requirements Overseeing integrated reporting Ensuring that the finance functions of both Investec Limited and its subsidiaries and Investec plc and its subsidiaries are adequately skilled, resourced and experienced as well as ensuring that the group finance director has appropriate expertise and experience Ensuring the effectiveness of the groups internal financial controls and that no material weaknesses in financial control have been identi ed Ensuring that the external auditors of both Investec Limited and Investec plc are independent.
The audit committees are required to report to the board and shareholders on how they have discharged their duties.
Refer to the annexure 226 on pages 248 to 250 for a report on the following: 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Audit committees formal terms of reference that have been approved by the board, and whether the committees have satis ed their responsibilities for the year in compliance with their terms of reference How the audit committees have ful lled their duties Whether or not the audit committees considered and recommended the internal audit charter for approval by the board Description of the working relationship with the head of Internal Audit chief audit executive Information about any other responsibilities assigned to the audit committee by the board Whether the audit committees complied with their legal, regulatory or other responsibilities Whether or not the audit committees recommended the integrated report to the board for approval.
Membership and attendance All audit committee members are required to meet predetermined skills, competency and experience requirements.
We believe the audit committees have the necessary expertise to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Attendance by members at audit committee meetings: DLC Investec plc Investec Limited audit committee audit committee audit committee Number of Number of Number of Number of meetings Number of meetings Number of meetings Members meetings attended meetings attended meetings attended SE Abrahams chairman 4 4 4 4 4 4 GFO Alford 4 4 4 4 4 4 OC Dickson 4 4 4 GMT Howe 4 4 4 1 4 1 Sir Chips Keswick 4 2 4 1 4 1 Sir David Prosser 4 4 4 4 4 4 PRS Thomas 4 4 4 4 4 4 CB Tshili n a n a n a n a 4 4 Board resignations retirements during the reporting period: Sir Chips Keswick retired on 13 August 2010 GMT Howe resigned on 31 December 2010.
Board appointments during the reporting period: OC Dickson was appointed on 31 March 2011.
CB Tshili is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on this committee.
Busi is the group finance director of Peu Group Limited.
Audit sub-committees Audit sub-committees for Investec plc and Investec Limited, and other regulated subsidiaries, have been established.
These allow senior managers of the business units, who do not attend the main Investec plc and Investec Limited audit committee meetings, to meet with the risk and control functions and to provide input on the risk and control environment of the business units.
Members of the Investec plc and Investec Limited audit committees are entitled to attend these meetings and, as a general rule, at least one non-executive member does so.
Audit and compliance implementation forums Audit and compliance implementation forums have been established for Investec plc and Investec Limited and their principal operating subsidiaries.
Each audit and compliance implementation forum is attended by key executives and heads of risk and control functions.
Nonexecutive directors have an open invitation to attend.
These forums monitor and report on the implementation of recommendations and other matters that the relevant audit committee or audit sub-committee consider important.
They facilitate the timely understanding and escalation of, and reaction to, risk and control matters that require a response from management.
The forums are key to enhancing risk and control consciousness and the associated control environment of the group.
The forums support and provide important insight to the audit committees.
227 Essentially, the forums act as a lter, enabling the audit committees to concentrate their efforts on matters of appropriate materiality.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued DLC remuneration committee Role and responsibilities Details of the role and responsibilities of the remuneration committee are set out in the remuneration report on pages 265 and 266.
Membership and attendance Attendance by members at remuneration committee meetings: Number of meetings Number of meetings Members held during the year attended during the year GFO Alford chairman 7 7 PKO Crosthwaite 7 1 OC Dickson 7 GMT Howe 74 Sir Chips Keswick 72 Sir David Prosser 77 Board resignations retirements during the reporting period: Sir Chips Keswick retired on 13 August 2010 GMT Howe resigned on 31 December 2010.
Board appointments during the reporting period: PKO Crosthwaite was appointed to the remuneration committee on 2 February 2011 and has attended the only meeting held since his appointment OC Dickson was appointed on 31 March 2011.
Additional meetings are held throughout the year when necessary.
DLC nominations and directors affairs committee The nominations and directors affairs committee NOMDAC has combined the duties of a nominations committee as well as that of a directors affairs committee as required under section 64B of the South African Banks Act.
Role and responsibilities The NOMDAC is responsible for, among other things: Identifying and nominating the approval of board candidates to ll board vacancies as and when they arise Determining and evaluating the adequacy, ef ciency and appropriateness of the corporate governance structure and practices of the group Establishing and maintaining a board directorship continuity programme Regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition including the skills, knowledge and experience of the boards and board committees compared with their current positions and making recommendations to the boards regarding any changes Nominating successors to the key positions in Investec Limited and Investec plc and all their major subsidiaries, in order to ensure that a management succession plan is in place.
During the period under review the committee dealt with the following issues: Identi cation and nomination of suitable candidates for the boards approval to ll the vacancies arising from the retirement of Sir Chips Keswick, Alan Tapnack and Geoffrey Howe Succession planning In consultation with Heidrick & Struggles, an external search consultancy, the identi cation and nomination of candidates to ll the role of chairman of the board 228 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Board committee membership Executive management structure King III Impact of the new South African Companies Act of 2008, as amended, on matters relating to corporate governance The UK Corporate Governance Code and related governance developments Board and director evaluation process Conducted a review, in light of best practice developments, of the non-executive directors letters of appointment.
The committees terms of reference are available on our website.
Membership and attendance Attendance by members at NOMDAC meetings: Number of meetings Number of meetings Members held during the year attended during the year HS Herman chairman 4 4 SE Abrahams 44 Sir Chips Keswick 41 Sir David Prosser 4 2 KXT Socikwa 43 F Titi 44 PRS Thomas 44 Sir Chips Keswick retired on 13 August 2010.
Sir David Prosser was appointed to the committee on 7 September 2010.
KXT Socikwa is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interest on this committee.
Board risk and capital committee The board risk and capital committee BRCC is the appointed board committee to meet the requirements of the UK and SA regulators for the board of directors of a bank to appoint a risk and capital management committee.
The purpose of the BRCC is to determine, under delegated authority from and as a sub-committee of the board, the categories of risk, speci c risks and the extent of such risks which the group on a consolidated basis, and its banks on a solo basis, should undertake.
Role and responsibilities The committee will ensure that: All decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout Investec The risk management structure is adequate, with suf cient resources and budget, and exceptions are reported to the board Exposure limits for market, counterparty and credit risk are rati ed: liquidity and operational risk are also monitored There is an ongoing process of risk and control identi cation, particularly for any changes to business objectives and the bases of measuring risk There is suf cient capital in relation to existing and potential risks to the organisation.
The BRCC fide fines the processes by which internal financial control, risk and capital management are assumed and monitored.
The group Risk Management division provides the expertise, processes and techniques from which the processes can be built and monitored daily.
229 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued A number of committees are dedicated to aspects of risk management and report directly to the board and the BRCC.
These include the DLC capital committee, executive risk review forum, asset and liability committees, group credit committees, group market risk forum, group deal forum, operational risk committees forums and group legal risk forum.
Membership and attendance Attendance by members at BRCC meetings: Number of meetings Number of meetings Members held during the year attended during the year Executives S Koseff chairman 77 GR Burger group risk and finance director 7 7 B Kantor managing director 7 5 A Tapnack 7 Non-executives SE Abrahams 77 GFO Alford 76 B Fried 7 GMT Howe 73 Sir Chips Keswick 7 MP Malungani 73 Sir David Prosser senior independent director 7 1 KXT Socikwa 76 PRS Thomas 76 F Titi 77 Board resignations retirements during the reporting period: Sir Chips Keswick retired on 13 August 2010 A Tapnack retired on 15 December 2010 GMT Howe resigned on 31 December 2010.
Board appointments during the reporting period: B Fried was appointed to the BRCC on 2 February 2011 Sir David Prosser was appointed to the BRCC on 2 February 2011.
KXT Socikwa is a non-executive director of Investec Bank Limited, a major subsidiary of Investec Limited, and represents its interests on this committee.
Executive risk review forum The executive risk review forum ERRF is mandated by the BRCC to be the ERRF of Investec plc and Investec Limited and their subsidiaries, as regards enterprise wide risk and its measurement, monitoring and mitigation.
The purpose of the ERRF is to supplement the BRCC.
It assists in determining the categories of risk, the speci c risks and the extent of such risks which the group should undertake.
Role and responsibilities The ERRF: Evaluates the most signi cant risks Investec faces in the ordinary course of business Reviews the risk models including, but not limited to, credit models which need to be incorporated appropriately into the allocation of capital 230 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Ensures that limits are adhered to and that agreed recommendations to mitigate risk are implemented Acts as agent of the board to ensure that all decisions of the board on risk management policies and procedures are implemented and monitored throughout the group Ensures the group-wide risk management structure is adequately resourced and has an appropriate budget Provides regular reports to the board focusing on effectiveness of the control framework Provides regular reports on group-wide adherence to regulatory requirements and advises on how changes to regulatory requirements will affect us Ensures that there is an ongoing process of risk and control identi cation, particularly in line with any changes to business objectives, such as the commencement of a new trading area or product stream.
Meetings take place every Friday except on BRCC dates.
DLC capital committee The DLC capital committee is mandated by the BRCC to be the capital committee of Investec plc and Investec Limited and their subsidiaries, as regards capital allocation and structuring, performance measurement, investment decisions and capital based incentivisation.
Role and responsibilities The DLC capital committee is responsible for: Determining the DLC groups capital requirements Reviewing capital adequacy submissions to be made to regulators Considering the ongoing requirements and consequences of Basel III and other regulatory requirements and their impacts on regulatory capital requirements Reviewing the risk models which need to be incorporated appropriately into the allocation of capital Considering, determining and approving capital issues relating to any corporate structuring for acquisitions Monitoring the capital positions and returns on internal capital of each business unit Submission of capital recommendations to the board risk and capital committee.
Meetings take place at least quarterly.
Management and succession planning Global business unit heads, geographic management and the heads of central and group service functions are appointed by executive management and endorsed by the board, based on the skills and experience deemed necessary to perform the required function.
In general, managers do not have xed term employment contracts and there are no employment contracts with managers for a term of more than three years.
Our management structure, reporting lines and the division of responsibilities are built around a geographic, divisional and functional network, as depicted on page 55.
Each strategic business unit has an executive management committee and is responsible for taking and implementing operational decisions, managing risk and aligning divisional objectives with the group strategy and vision.
Matters of succession are considered regularly by the NOMDAC.
Decision making is spread to encourage and develop an experienced pool of talent.
231 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Internal control Risks and controls are reviewed and monitored regularly for relevance and effectiveness.
The BRCC and audit committees assist the board in this regard.
Sound risk management practices are promoted by the group risk management function, which is independent of operational management.
The board recognises its responsibility for the overall risk and control framework and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Internal control is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, signi cant risks faced.
It is recognised that such a system provides reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material error, omission, misstatement or loss.
This is achieved within the group through a combination of risk identi cation, evaluation and monitoring processes, appropriate decision and oversight forums, and assurance and control functions such as group risk management, internal audit and compliance.
These ongoing processes, which comply with the Turnbull guidance, were in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
Internal Audit reports any control recommendations to senior management, group Risk Management and the relevant audit committee.
Appropriate processes, including review by the audit and compliance implementation forums, ensure that timely corrective action is taken on matters raised by Internal Audit.
Signi cant risks are reviewed regularly by the ERRF and by the BRCC.
Material incidents and losses and signi cant breaches of systems and controls are reported to the board risk and capital committee and the audit committees.
Reports from the audit committees, BRCC and risk and control functions are reviewed at each board meeting.
Certain statutory duties with respect to directors con icts of interest are in force under the UK Companies Act 2006 and the South African Companies Act, as amended.
In accordance with these Acts and the Articles of Association, the board may authorise any matter that otherwise may involve the directors breaching their duty to avoid con icts of interest.
The board has adopted a procedure, as set out in the Articles, that includes a requirement for directors to submit, in writing, disclosures detailing any actual or potential con ict for consideration and, if considered appropriate, approval.
Internal fi financial controls Internal financial controls are based on established policies and procedures.
Management is responsible for implementing internal financial controls, ensuring that personnel are suitably quali ed, that appropriate segregation exists between duties, and that there is suitable independent review.
These areas are monitored by the board through the audit committees and are independently assessed by Internal Audit and Compliance.
Processes are in place to monitor internal control effectiveness, identify and report material breakdowns, and ensure that timely and appropriate corrective action is taken.
Group Finance and Investor Relations coordinate, review and comment on the monthly financial and regulatory reports, and facilitate the interim and annual financial reporting process, including the independent audit process.
Risk management The board is responsible for the total process of risk management and the systems of internal control.
A number of committees and forums assist in this regard.
Senior management is responsible for identifying risks and implementing appropriate mitigation processes and controls within their businesses.
The independent group risk management functions, accountable to the board, are responsible for establishing, reviewing and monitoring the process of risk management.
Group Risk Management reports regularly to the BRCC and the ERRF.
Risk management is discussed in more detail on pages 111 to 210.
Internal audit Each signi cant jurisdiction has an Internal Audit presence that is appropriate for the size, nature and extent of business conducted.
Smaller geographies are supported by the Internal Audit teams of the Investec plc and Investec Limited groups.
A risk-based audit approach is followed and the audit committee approves annual audit plans.
Heads of Internal Audit report to the chairmen of the relevant audit committees and to the head of Corporate Governance and Compliance.
For further details on the internal audit function, see page 211.
External audit Investecs external auditors are Ernst & Young LLP and Ernst & Young Inc, at a DLC level.
Ernst & Young Inc. and KPMG Inc. are joint auditors 232 of the Investec Limited silo.
The independence of the external auditors is reviewed by the audit committees each year.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance The audit committees meet with the external auditors to review the scope of the external audit, budgets, the extent of non-audit services rendered and all other audit matters.
The external auditors are invited to attend audit committee meetings and have access to the chairman of each audit committee.
Recommendations on the rotation of auditors, as laid out in the UK Auditing Practices Board Ethical Standard 3 as well as Directive 6 2008 of the South African Banks Act, were adhered to during the year under review.
Non-audit services are dealt with in terms of an agreed policy which states that: External audit rms will have internal standards and processes to monitor and maintain their independence and these must be presented to the audit committees on an annual basis.
These will be considered based on the explicit exclusions contained in existing rules and guidelines Safeguards must be in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and independence in the conduct of the audit, resulting from the provision of non-audit services by the external auditors.
Total audit fees paid to all auditors for the year ended were 11.7 million 2010: 8.6 million, of which 3.0 million 2010: 1.8 million related to the provision of non-audit services.
Compliance Compliance ensures that Investec continuously complies with existing and emerging regulation impacting on its operations.
We recognise our responsibility to conduct business in accordance with the laws and regulations in the countries and areas in which we operate.
The compliance function is supported by group Compliance and compliance of cers in the business units.
For further details on the compliance function, see pages 212 to 215.
Regulation and supervision Investec is subject to external regulation and supervision by various supervisory authorities in each of the jurisdictions in which we operate, the main ones being the Banking Supervision Department BSD of the South African Reserve Bank SARB, the UK Financial Services Authority FSA and the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority APRA.
Some of our businesses are subject to supervision by the South African Financial Services Board, South African National Credit Regulator and the South African Financial Intelligence Centre.
The SARB is the lead supervisor of the combined Investec group, comprising Investec plc and Investec Limited.
SARB is the supervisor of Investec Limited, while the FSA is the supervisor of Investec plc.
We strive to establish and maintain open and active dialogue with regulators and supervisors.
Processes are in place to respond proactively and pragmatically to emerging issues and we report regularly to regulators and supervisory bodies.
Where appropriate, we participate in industry committees and discussion groups to maintain and enhance the regulatory environment in which we operate.
Communication, public disclosure obligations and stakeholder relations The board recognises that effective communication is integral in building stakeholder value and is committed to providing meaningful, transparent, timely and accurate financial and nonfinancial information to primary stakeholders, as fide ned below.
The purpose is to help these stakeholders make meaningful assessments and informed investment decisions about the group.
We endeavour to present a balanced and understandable assessment of our position by addressing material matters of signi cant interest and concern.
We seek to highlight the key risks to which we consider ourselves exposed and our responses to minimise the impact of these risks.
Another objective is to show a balance between the positive and negative aspects of our activities in order to achieve a comprehensive and fair account of our performance.
Our primary stakeholders include employees, shareholders, government, regulatory bodies, clients, depositors, suppliers, rating agencies, the media, communities and industry equity and debt analysts.
The board appreciates the importance of ensuring an appropriate balance in meeting the diverse needs and expectations of all our stakeholders and building lasting relationships with them.
As a requirement of our DLC structure, we comply with the disclosure obligations contained in the applicable listing rules of the UKLA and JSE and other exchanges on which our shares are listed and with any public disclosure obligations as required by the FSA and SARB.
We also recognise that from time to time we may be required to adhere to public disclosure obligations in other countries where we have operations, for example Australia.
The Investor Relations division has day-to-day responsibility for ensuring appropriate communication with stakeholders and, together with the 233 Company Secretarial division, ensures that we meet our public disclosure obligations.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued We have a board approved policy statement in place to ensure that we comply with all relevant public disclosure obligations and uphold the boards communication and disclosure philosophy.
The processes we have adopted to ensure that we comply with all public disclosure obligations are set out below: Signi cant announcements are released directly to the market primarily via the services offered by the London and Johannesburg stock exchanges, and also via the services offered by the other exchanges where our shares are listed.
In terms of our DLC structure, announcements are released almost simultaneously on all exchanges, thereby ensuring fair treatment of all stakeholders.
Copies of these announcements are placed on our website as soon as possible following con rmation of release on the relevant exchanges, but within 24 hours at the latest, and are kept on the website for several years We maintain a comprehensive investor relations website, which ensures that all stakeholders readily have access to historical and current information We host at least four investor presentations a year: two before we enter a closed period and on the day we release interim and year-end results.
Investor presentations are broadcast live via video conference from our of ces in the UK and South Africa.
In addition, we publish two interim management statements i. e. quarterly updates as required in terms of the UKLA listing rules.
Stakeholders are noti ed of these events via the stock exchange news or regulatory information services and are welcome to attend and engage with executive and non-executive directors.
Stakeholders also have the option of using a live telephone conference facility or accessing the audio webcasts of the presentation via our website.
Occasionally, we are invited to attend external third party investor conferences at which we present our financial and operational performance Regular contact is maintained with major stakeholders through a comprehensive investor relations programme, which includes meetings with executive management, investor road shows and presentations to the investment community, communication by email, regular telephone conferences and liaison with private shareholders in response to their enquiries.
Investor Relations reports back regularly to the operating divisions, the group executive and the board on matters and concerns raised by stakeholders.
Copies of analyst, rating agency and other relevant reports are also circulated to the board Our communication policy focuses on ensuring that all employees worldwide are informed of business developments and activities.
In this regard a number of channels are used, including our quarterly magazine Impact, comprehensive intranet sites and staff updates hosted by the executive All shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting and to raise issues and participate in discussions on items included in the notice of the meeting.
The meeting enables the board to communicate with shareholders and for shareholders to ask questions in person.
The chairmen of the audit, remuneration and nomination and directors affairs committees, as well as the senior independent director, attend the meeting to respond to relevant questions.
All valid proxy appointments are recorded and counted and, at general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast is available to all shareholders.
We propose a separate resolution on each substantially separate issue and do not bundle resolutions together inappropriately.
All resolutions are determined on a poll.
Shareholders are requested to approve our report and accounts and our remuneration report.
The outcome of the voting on the items of business are released on the stock exchange news services or regulatory information and posted on our website after the meeting.
During the year, the chief executive of cer, the group managing director and other members of executive management continued to meet with shareholders in the UK, Europe and South Africa, to understand their issues and concerns and discuss matters relating to our activities and performance.
No new material or price sensitive information is provided at such meetings.
Non-executive directors and the senior independent director are available and will attend meetings if requested and, as mentioned above, feedback on any issues or concerns raised by investors is provided to the board.
The chairman and the non-executive directors are committed to communicating with shareholder representative bodies, to help develop a balanced understanding of their issues and concerns.
We will continue to engage these bodies so as to remain informed of emerging governance issues.
During the year we commissioned a stakeholder engagement exercise involving a number of our stakeholders in the UK, South Africa and Australia.
The focus of this exercise was to solicit the views of a cross-section of stakeholders regarding the business implications of environmental, social and governance issues, and to assess their perceptions regarding Investecs performance and communication on these issues.
Dealings in securities Dealings in securities are subject to the Personal Account Dealing policy that has been in operation for a number of years.
The policy is based on regulatory guidance and industry practice and is updated to ensure compliance with applicable regulations and industry good practice.
234 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance The policy is designed to discourage speculative trading and highlights the potential con icts of interest between the interests of employees and the Investec group or any of its clients, shareholders or potential shareholders.
The UKs disclosure and transparency rules requires us to disclose transactions in shares and related securities by all persons discharging management responsibilities and their connected persons.
These include directors and senior executives of the group.
The UK and South African Companies Acts require directors to disclose any direct or indirect material interest they have in contracts, including proposed contracts, which are of signi cance to the companys business.
Directors are required to make these disclosures at board meetings, and all disclosures made are recorded in the minutes of that meeting.
Directors dealings The remuneration report, as set out on pages 253 to 274, contains details of Investec shares held by directors.
Directors dealings in the securities of Investec plc and Investec Limited are subject to a policy based on regulatory requirements and governance best practice.
All directors dealings require the prior approval of the Compliance division and the chairman or, in the chairmans absence, Sir David Prosser as the senior independent director or Sam Abrahams as the chairman of the audit committees.
All dealings of persons discharging management responsibilities require approval by line management, the Compliance division and the chairman.
Values and code of conduct We have a strong organisational culture of entrenched values, which forms the cornerstone of our behaviour towards all stakeholders.
These values are embodied in a written statement of values, which serves as our code of ethics, and is continually reinforced.
We view all employees as the custodians of ethical behaviour, which is reinforced through internal processes, policies and procedures.
As such all new employees are invited, and are strongly encouraged, to attend an induction process at which our philosophies, values, culture, risk management and compliance procedures are explained and discussed.
Our Organisation Development team plays an important role in facilitating the understanding and ongoing practice of our values, philosophies and culture.
In addition to our values, acceptable business practices are communicated through the Human Resources practices manual, available on the intranet.
We continually strive to conduct our business with uncompromising integrity and fairness, so as to promote trust and con dence in the banking industry.
Sustainable business practices We have an acute awareness of the need for durability and longevity, across all our businesses, and an ingrained understanding of the practices that underpin sustainability.
Our approach to sustainability is documented throughout this integrated report and further detail can be found on our website.
The King Code recommends that a company integrates financial and nonfinancial reporting.
It is for this reason that Investec has chosen not to present a separate sustainability report this year.
This integrated annual report to stakeholders re ects how economic, social and environmental issues have impacted on our business strategy and, in turn how these are considered when making business decisions.
The sustainability information in this report aims to present a balanced analysis of the groups sustainability performance in relation to issues that are relevant and material to Investec and its stakeholders.
We have been assisted in this regard by the Global Reporting Initiatives GRI G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and an index of these indicators together with our response to each of them can be found on page 274.
We have self-assessed our reporting to be Application Level B.
Certain elements of the sustainability information in this report have been veri ed by the group Internal Audit division.
A copy of their assurance statement can be found on page 236.
235 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Managing sustainable development The global economic and financial crisis has forced businesses to focus on the challenges of what it Investecs means to be a sustainable business, especially in the financial services industry.
Investecs sustainability efforts are based on the recognition that we are a specialist bank and asset manager driven by our approach to commitment to our culture and values.
sustainability is Investecs approach to sustainability is divided into the areas of pro t, people and planet.
Our divided into the endeavours to pursue sustainable pro ts include having a positive impact on each of the societies in areas of pro t, which our business activities operate.
We aim to do this by enriching communities through education and entrepreneurship and embracing diversity while constantly striving to reduce the overall size of our people and planet.
Our philosophy seeks to align the interests of shareholders and stakeholders over time, and provides the individual business units and regions with a basis from which to determine their own approach.
The groups philosophy is not intended to be mutually exclusive, nor exhaustive, but allows us to concentrate, for now, on key focus areas.
Deliberately not driven on a top-down basis, the centre maintains responsibility for oversight, direction, coordination and integration of our sustainability efforts while the individual business units provide the principal drivers behind our activities, in a manner that best makes sense to each.
The King Code in South Africa advocates that a sustainable companys strategy aligns to its economic, social and environmental performance.
We are aware that although not all aspects of our strategy are uniformly tested against sustainability objectives, we believe that working towards this goal presents an opportunity to drive value in the business.
Peter Thomas, a non-executive director on Investecs board, is responsible for all issues pertaining to sustainability.
We also have sustainability representatives in each of the major geographies in which we operate.
We have a global sustainability forum that meets quarterly to discuss any issues and developments related to sustainability in each of our areas of operation.
The forum has representation from all business units including central functions as well as senior management.
Feedback on relevant sustainability issues is also provided to board members at each board meeting.
Assurance Our Internal Audit division has performed a limited review of certain elements of the sustainability information included in this report.
A copy of their statement is included below.
Internal audit Investec Internal Audit performed a limited review of the quantitative and qualitative sustainability information disclosed on pages 236 to 247 of this report.
The scope of our work was agreed with management and based on the result thereof, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that: The qualitative sustainability information is not a fair statement of Investecs corporate responsibility initiatives The quantitative sustainability information is signi cantly misstated.
236 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Employee report In assuming responsibility for our human capital we seek to promote sustainability through: Our people are Competitive remuneration and reward, and advice for each employee critical to the Specialised learning programmes for young talent continued success Measures to ensure the health and well-being of employees of our business and to our overall Managing performance through regular reviews, learning and development sustainability efforts.
Succession planning and business continuity Resourcing and intake that takes into account a diverse workforce Facilitating an understanding of HR policies and procedures, to allow for guidance and opportunity among staff.
Our internal people activities involve dedicated divisions such as Human Resources HR and Organisation Development OD which serve to supplement the ongoing people focus of our individual business units.
The HR teams are mandated to attract, develop and retain talent who can perform in a manner consistent with our culture and values.
OD acts to strengthen the culture of the business, ensure its values are lived, build capability and contribute to the long-term sustainability of the organisation.
The HR division participates with local and international HR forums, to ensure ongoing development of HR best practice in the group and the alignment of HR strategy with business strategy.
As our operating jurisdictions have different legal and regulatory requirements, our various HR functions operate independently of one another, while at all times adhering to the group philosophical approach.
Promoting equity and diversity in the workplace Our promotion of equal opportunity and workplace diversity is not merely a social responsibility, but a means of ensuring that we foster a culture of diversity in the belief that this brings business advantage.
We have a number of policies and work practices to prevent any direct or indirect unfair discrimination against employees on the grounds of race, gender, marital status, age, religious belief, language, sexual orientation, pregnancy or disability, and to eliminate unfair discrimination.
We have a diversity equal opportunities policy which applies to all our operations.
A list of all our policies can be found on our website.
Employment equity in South Africa Each division has individual employment equity targets to which their recruitment process is aligned.
Divisions are monitored and measured against these targets by the executive and are required to account for their progress in relation to the broad based black economic empowerment scorecard.
In South Africa, where the pool of talent available to the financial services industry is particularly small, this can frustrate diversity efforts.
Thus, the recruitment of black, female and disabled employees remains key to our employment equity strategy.
Further information on the employment equity statistics of our South African business are available on our website.
Employee development and training As part of our commitment to attracting and retaining high calibre individuals, we invest signi cantly in a number of opportunities for developing and training employees.
We offer learning processes which we design and develop based on strategic intent, common company-wide themes, team and individual needs.
We work with business leaders, understanding their objectives and visions, assessing team and individual capabilities to achieve strategic goals.
237 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Our leadership development programmes develop current and future leaders of the group.
The programmes provide a practical platform for individuals to develop leadership skills through experiential learning.
Each programme has a speci c focus around diversity and encompasses the groups commitment to lead, innovate and grow within a changing environment.
2011 is the first year we have collected this information for our Mauritius business.
238 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Health and safety A group wide formal health and safety programme identi es and manages all health and safety risks, and carries out regular safety audits.
It is overseen by a health and safety committee that meets quarterly to review health and safety concerns.
The group spent 607.2 thousand 2010: 322.6 thousand on health and safety issues during the year.
Investecs HIV AIDS policy and management forum extends to all permanent employees in South Africa.
Implemented by the HIV AIDS management forum, with representatives from different divisions, this strategy offers workplace-related programmes and interventions, including voluntary counselling and testing, preventative and awareness programmes, and monitoring and feedback of programmes in place.
Further detail on health and safety issues as well as our HIV AIDS programme can be found on our website.
Remuneration Our remuneration strategy is based on the philosophy that employees are innovative, entrepreneurial and work in an environment that encourages and fosters extraordinary performance.
We reward employees as individuals for the value they add through payment of an industry competitive annual package, a variable performance reward and employee ownership in the form of share incentive scheme participation.
Further information is provided on pages 253 to 274.
Staff share schemes In line with our philosophy of employee ownership, the staff share schemes provide all employees, at all levels of the organisation, with the opportunity to participate in our long-term growth.
We continue to ensure that staff across all gender and race groups participate in the staff share schemes, with all new recruits being allocated nil cost options.
As at 31 March 2011, management and staff held an effective interest in the group of approximately 15%.
Further information is provided on pages 260 to 263.
Retrenchment policy Where it becomes necessary for Investec to terminate employment based on operational requirements, the procedure to be followed will be in accordance with local regulatory requirements.
We conduct consultation as prescribed by local legislation during which we attempt to nd a suitable alternative position for the affected employee.
Freedom of association We fully support employees right to freedom of association.
There is no representative trade union for Investec and we are not aware of any employees who are part of a trade union.
The culture of Investec promotes engagement and direct dialogue with employees and it is this culture which has, to date, ensured that employee relations in the group have been managed successfully without formal employee representation and collective agreements.
In South Africa we would comply with the relevant union recognition procedure set out in the Trade Union and Labour Relations Consolidation Act 1992 if we received a valid request.
We would comply with the Information and Consultation of Employees Regulations 2004, if we received a valid request for a staff representative committee.
In the UK and Australia, the group is also aware of freedom of association rights, for example, as contained in the EU Charter Article 12 and in the EU Convention Article 11.
Our UK operation does not currently operate collective bargaining and does not currently have an employee representation body.
Human rights We do not have a formal human rights policy but adhere to the relevant laws in all our jurisdictions.
In South Africa, we adhere to all legislation including the Constitution and the Bill of Rights.
It is not a UK practice to have an of cial human rights policy but all our policies together provide a thorough guarantee of human rights.
Australia does not yet have a Bill of Rights or equivalent legislation.
There are two bills at present which seek to implement the legislative elements of Australias Human Rights Framework announced by the government in April 2010.
The framework outlines a range of measures to protect and promote human rights in Australia, and re ects the key recommendations of the report of the national human rights consultation committee 30 September 2009.
Discrimination There has been no recorded incidence of discrimination in any of our businesses.
239 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Corporate social investment report We have placed strong historical emphasis on education and entrepreneurship as key areas of active Our external social investment focus, while also supporting other causes, albeit more passively.
Empowering disadvantaged communities and facilitating socio-economic growth and upliftment remains our stated people activities objective.
involve the work In keeping with our business model of independent, highly autonomous business units, supported by of our Corporate a strong centre, there is no single overriding approach to social investment within the group, although Social Investment clear commonalities exist.
Each of the regions has pursued social investment as deemed appropriate to their circumstances and where they are in the evolution of their business.
CSI divisions, which strive to be UK and Europe agents for positive The UK social investment programme plays a key role in the ful lment of one of Investecs core values, change in the that of making an unsel sh contribution to society.
It champions sustainable social investment by: socio-economic Building dedicated charitable partnerships arena in each Engaging all Investec employees in making a positive difference of our operating geographies.
Harnessing our diverse resources and collective talent.
Key developments during the period: Investec was a nalist in the education category at the 2010 Lord Mayors Dragon Awards.
These awards recognise the contributions made by companies to their local communities We are currently undertaking a review of the progress we have made with our social development programme over the last two years.
This will allow us to set targets for the next two years.
We would like to achieve a 50% sign-up rate for volunteers by March 2012 We are supporting three projects initiated by the Bromley by Bow Centre, an internationally renowned charity which has earned a reputation as a dynamic social business that has transformed its community in East London over the last 25 years We run a mentoring programme for 50 students from Morpeth school and have also funded their outward bound initiative Investec provided funding for the development of a new market garden enterprise at the Newham City farm, which will provide jobs and a stable income stream to many poverty stricken individuals.
Our volunteers are involved in transforming the farm, as well as supporting a variety of other projects such as sports sessions for young people, and by hosting educational workshops and fun days 35 runners signed up to participate in the 2010 London marathon and raised a total of 57 313 for various charities.
South Africa and Mauritius Our approach to CSI focuses on education and entrepreneurship.
Wherever possible, we seek to collaborate with partners, so as to leverage resources and expertise and help ensure enduring impact and long-term sustainability for our projects.
In all cases, we look to clear indications that projects are enduring, sustainable and replicable where appropriate and are guided by strategic intent, rather than philanthropic well-meaning.
Key developments during the period: We spent R38.4 million on meaningful social development related causes.
80% of this was spent on speci c projects related to education and entrepreneurship and the remaining 20% was allocated towards a variety of philanthropic donations 240 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Promaths, a partnership between Investec and Kutlwanong Maths and Science Centre, offers extra Maths and Science lessons to grade 10, 11 and 12 learners.
The object of Promaths support for secondary schools is to improve learners performance in Maths thereby facilitating entrance into tertiary learning institutions.
The 2010 results were once again very satisfactory The Oppidan Press, an independent student newspaper operating as part of Rhodes University, together with Investecs Social Investment division partnered, for the first time in 2010, on an initiative known as the Investec Rhodes Top 100.
This is a student leadership awards programme aimed at encouraging and acknowledging excellent performance and leadership qualities among students at Rhodes University.
The awards cover various areas including: arts, culture and media: sports: community engagement: academic excellence and dean of students leadership We are a co-sponsor, through the Field Band Foundation, of two eld bands, one based in Alexandra and the other in Soweto.
The eld bands provide a valuable opportunity for young people to learn essential life skills while at the same time learning to play a musical instrument.
Some members of the bands were privileged enough to participate in the opening and closing ceremonies of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.
We are supporting the establishment of the Field Band Foundation Academy based in Eshowe, Kwa-Zulu Natal Investec supports the township debating league TDL, an initiative started by students at the University of Cape Town UCT.
The league was formed in order to provide an opportunity for township schools to participate in debating at the same level as other schools more established on the debating platform.
The TDL pairs students from the UCT Debating Union with a township school.
The students coach the learners in the world school debating style.
The TDL coordinates debating tournaments where the debators can test their skills in a competitive environment In an effort to raise internal awareness of our social investment initiatives, we hosted a series of lunchtime discussions with staff members at our various of ces in South Africa.
The aim of the discussions was to give staff members a sense of our approach and activities in the social development space.
We will continue this initiative during 2011 Over 200 employees from our Capital Markets division planted trees over four days in the Kaalfontein township near Midrand.
This is the same site where the project and infrastructure team funded an energy ef cient low cost housing project Group Risk, Compliance and Internal Audit are actively involved in projects with two creches in Diepsloot, Johannesburg The Mauritius of ce contributed MUR3.1 million to a number of corporate social investment projects.
Australia After a formal sustainability review during the year, we formed the Investec Foundation, which aims to help address some of the social challenges faced in Australia.
This initiative, together with our continued support of initiatives we have been involved with for a number of years, forms the basis of our social investment activities.
We believe we are responsible for improving and strengthening the local communities in which we operate.
Our emphasis is around education and entrepreneurship: creating opportunities for young Australians from less privileged and challenged environments to build a sustainable future for themselves.
To create a positive social impact, the Investec Foundation focuses on a small number of philanthropic giving and volunteering efforts.
We partner with local, entrepreneurial organisations that perform remarkable work in the elds of preventative health, welfare and educational programmes.
241 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Group CSI spend 2011 2010 For the year to 31 March UK and Europe Asset Management 250594 87347 Wealth and Investment 28901 Property Activities 1500 Private Banking 73165 315448 Investment Banking 10541 21415 Capital Markets 82917 22594 Group Services and Other Activities 871820 1013321 Total 1319438 1460125 South Africa Asset Management 163373 36765 Wealth and Investment 53984 Property Activities 14522 14089 Private Banking 50964 181649 Investment Banking 3886 Capital Markets 17410 24437 Group Services and Other Activities 3136945 1999099 Total 3437198 2259925 Mauritius 65 704 30 179 Australia Property Activities 6134 Private Banking 94050 84560 Investment Banking 22490 16948 Capital Markets 34758 19942 Group Services and Other Activities 47025 22203 Total 204457 143653 Total group CSI spend 5026797 3893882 Operating profi t 434406000 432258000 Total group CSI spend as a % of operating profi t 1.16% 0.90% The 2010 UK and Europe numbers have been restated in order to accommodate a change in reporting format.
Before goodwill, acquired intangibles, non-operating items, taxation and after non-controlling interests.
Further information on our CSI activities can be found on our website.
242 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Information technology and procurement report Information technology IT We continue to make signi cant investment in IT systems which allows us to bene t from technological innovation, improve our ability to meet a diverse range of business needs and in certain cases offer more environmentally friendly solutions.
Key developments in IT during the period: We invested in telepresence solutions in our Sandton, Cape Town and two London of ces.
The face-to-face experience provided by this solution negates, in many cases, the need for international travel, resulting in improved energy and time ef ciency.
This initiative will be extended to our other of ces during the next year We installed new video conferencing VC units and upgraded the existing landscape in all our of ces which has resulted in a greater adoption of this technology to facilitate meetings.
The availability of VC capabilities has signi cantly reduced the requirement for both local and international travel which will positively impacted CO emissions, while at the same time enhancing the ef ciency of meetings 2 We recently introduced of ce communications server OCS to Investec.
The desk-to-desk video conferencing capability of this product reduces the contention on the existing VC landscape, allowing for better utilisation of the multi-person VC rooms The convergence of voice, video and data facilitates mobile computing.
The infrastructure that has been put in place enables a far more mobile workforce.
This exibility enables full and partial work-from-home scenarios with the associated reduction in travel or off peak travel arrangements We consolidated printers through an output management initiative.
The consideration here was to enhance user ef ciency and exibility while reducing wastage.
Printer con gurations were adjusted and the default printer driver is mono duplex, i. e. black and white double sided printing.
Functionality such as the auto deletion of print jobs not released by the user within 24 hours and deletion of print jobs from the front panel of the devices ensure minimal paper wastage A shared services model was introduced to maximise the bene ts of virtualisation.
Some of the bene ts include: effective use of computing resources: consolidation of platforms and bene ts of rightsizing platforms: improved deployment and decommissioning times: lower energy usage and a decreased data centre footprint We introduced a new storage platform that makes use of ash memory solid-state storage and offers a number of advantages over electro-mechanical storage Kensington Mortgages introduced thin client technology which offers an average energy savings of up to 50% compared to a standard desktop PC The IT division continues to investigate new technologies to reduce emissions and this year saw the piloting of a new lightweight computer terminal in terms of energy consumption, which may eventually replace all desktop computers All Blackberry devices are recycled onsite and the funds generated from this are put towards our social investment fund.
Cost remains the primary consideration when planning new IT initiatives.
While certain business units have the capability to increase spend, others continue to remain cautious which calls for a blended group approach when implementing new IT projects.
We have invested in a signi cant number of monitoring tools which will enable us to measure key indicators and provide suf cient management information to make informed strategic decisions rather than rushed tactical ones.
The lack of IT skills in South Africa continues to be a challenge.
We have a joint operating model with the UK team where we leverage off a more advanced skills pool speci cally in the network and infra areas.
Procurement We recognise the potential for our procurement and supply chain practices to be agents for change in respect of the different aspects of sustainability.
We have begun to engineer, in select industries, changed outcomes across economic, social and environmental fronts.
In the UK we made additions to our procurement policy to incorporate both green and corporate social responsible aspects.
We have incorporated evaluation criteria into all of our procurement documentation to allow us to measure and demonstrate our intent to procure effectively without compromising the environment.
In South Africa, our procurement practices seek to accord with the black economic empowerment BEE requirements of the Department of Trade and Industrys Codes of Good Practice DTI Codes and we have an established process for monitoring and measuring our broad-based BEE procurement efforts.
Environmentally responsible partners are key to the procurement process and we focus on sustainability criteria when contracting with potential and existing vendors.
Our largest suppliers of PCs and server equipment subscribe to an electronic code of 243 conduct which assists in monitoring compliance across several areas such as environmental impact, labour, health and safety.
We always consider the Energy Star endorsement before purchasing equipment.
2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Environmental report As a niched, specialist, knowledge-based financial services organisation, with a limited physical presence, the direct environmental and social impacts of Investecs daily operations are limited.
That said, the planet dimension of our activities is based on a growing understanding of the risks to our business represented by climate change and global warming, and the need to reduce our environmental footprint by becoming more energy ef cient.
We also continue to explore areas within the environmental arena where new commercial opportunities may reside.
This is more relevant for some business units than others.
Our initial group wide internal focus has been on creating awareness and encouraging behavioural change in recognition of our environmental responsibilities.
There is also scope to integrate sustainability principles into the management of our daily operations.
During the year under review, we continued to make progress in this regard, with a speci c focus on behavioural enhancements regarding the environment.
Recent developments: UK and Europe This year saw the introduction of the mandatory emissions trading scheme, the Carbon Reduction Commitment Energy Ef ciency Scheme.
This scheme was launched to aid the UK government in reaching its energy reduction targets, as set out in the Climate Change Act 2006, of 34% by 2030 and 80% by 2050 on 1990 baseline.
Allen Zimbler is the senior of cer responsible for this scheme at Investec We are nearing the completion of our environmental management systems for our Gresham Street building.
The system is based around the ISO14001 certi cation We signed up our Gresham Street building for the 10:10 campaign.
This is a UK wide campaign which encourages individuals and organisations to reduce CO2 emissions by 10% by 2010.
We surpassed the target and reduced our electricity consumption by 11% and our gas emissions by 22% for the period In December 2010 after a re-tendering process, we appointed a new waste management company to look after our waste needs and to fully engage with our waste minimisation programme We launched KeepCup, a reusable alternative to the disposable coffee cup, aiming to decrease disposable coffee cup usage by 20%.
Within the first month of launch, our disposable cup usage reduced by 50% or 9 000 units.
This initiative was followed by the introduction of the mug-hug, a reusable silicone lid that sits on top of a ceramic mug to allow the mug to be safely used as a take-away cup Investec was awarded second prize for the fourth year running in the City of Londons Clean City Awards Scheme.
These awards recognise city businesses who manage their waste through recycling Team Green, our team of environmental champions, continue to roll out environmental initiatives and engage with staff to foster and maintain environmentally positive behaviour.
For the year to 31 March Unit 2011 2010 Energy Electrical energy consumption Kilowatt hours kwh 12 107 289 11 773 498 Gas consumption Kilowatt hours kwh 2 957 040 4 288 162 Water Water consumption Kilolitres 17 169 14 692 Material Paper consumption Tonnes 62.90 182.00 Paper recycled Kilograms kg 236 800 174 134 We have been unable to source information on brochure paper used for the period under review.
South Africa In early 2010, we commissioned an analysis of the risks and opportunities of climate change for the South African business.
Senior management at Investec were consulted extensively regarding their perceptions of how climate change does or could possibly impact their business both positively and negatively.
Investec was also benchmarked with organisations in South Africa and abroad in terms of our performance with these particular issues.
It was found that we are on par with major South African financial institutions in terms of our efforts.
The greatest risk to Investec lies in its lending activities, where climate change will negatively impact on the ability of certain debtors to service their financial commitments.
This financial liability might arise from the physical impact of climate change on economic operations: on regulatory changes that place additional financial burden on companies and industries: on less obvious risks such as the inability to acquire insurance due to perceived excessive exposure to physical climate change.
Opportunities arising include the potential 244 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance to develop new products and financial instruments that carry a speci c climate change focus, as well as the potential to stimulate and bene t from the growth of new industries that will arise in response to climate change.
These findings have been communicated to our management team and a number of recommendations are under consideration as part of the strategic review of our sustainability approach We hosted a post-Cancun breakfast at the beginning of February 2011, creating a platform for discussion on climate change and the potential implications for business and society at large With COP17 taking place in Durban at the end of 2011, we have hosted initial discussions, together with the National Business Institute NBI, for businesses to help them identify potential roles they can play in contributing to making the event a success A number of of ces focused on reducing energy usage by tting retro t lighting in their buildings.
This will be carried out in our Cape Town and Pretoria of ces during the coming year and we have budgeted R2.0 million for this exercise We held a water awareness campaign to coincide with UN Water Week in March 2011.
This initiative was also carried out in our London of ce We are in the early stages of developing an automated system to capture data relating to our operational impacts and we hope to have this implemented by the end of this year.
For the year to 31 March Unit 2011 2010 Energy Electrical energy consumption Kilowatt hours kwh 27 210 368 31 338 810 Gas consumption Kilowatt hours kwh 105 033 125 644 Diesel consumption Kilowatt hours kwh 51 606 47 119 Water Water consumption Kilolitres 132 611 203 246 Material Paper consumption Tonnes 209.48 202.21 Paper recycled Kilograms kg 135 828 116 738 2010 diesel consumption restated because conversion rate changed.
2010 Sandton and Cape Town gures restated.
2011 information includes bottled water purchased.
2010 gure restated to include Port Elizabeth paper consumption.
This information was not previously available.
Mauritius This is the first year that we are reporting on these indicators for our Mauritius of ce.
For the year to 31 March Unit 2011 Energy Electrical energy consumption Kilowatt hours kwh 176 410 Gas consumption Kilowatt hours kwh n a # Water Water consumption Kilolitres 0.4 Material Paper consumption Tonnes 61.77 Paper recycled Kilograms kg # Bottled water only.
At present we are not in a position to record recycled paper in this of ce.
245 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Australia We continue to monitor our carbon emissions performance and ways in which we can reduce our footprint We introduced a new bin system to make it easier for staff to recycle.
For the year to 31 March Unit 2011 2010 Energy Electrical energy consumption Kilowatt hours kwh 959 968 1 075 537 Gas consumption Kilowatt hours kwh n a n a Water Water consumption Kilolitres Material Paper consumption Tonnes 34.84 28.07 Paper recycled Kilograms kg 21 480 22 255 We are unable to provide reliable data on water consumption for the year largely due to shared of ce space.
Summary of Investecs carbon footprint 31 March 31 March CO metric tonnes 2011 2010 2 UK and Europe Emissions per full-time employee 8.00 9.17 2 Emissions per m of ce space 0.57 0.59 South Africa Emissions per full-time employee 11.19 12.30 2 Emissions per m of ce space 0.46 0.50 Australia Emissions per full-time employee 6.44 7.65 2 Emissions per m of ce space 0.39 0.41 Group Emissions per full-time employee 10.10 11.34 2 Emissions per m of ce space 0.47 0.51 Australia did not conduct a carbon footprint exercise for the year under review.
The gures disclosed represent an average of the past two years.
31 March 31 March Carbon coverage 2011 2010 % employees covered 77% 83% % of ce space covered 93% 91% Further information on our environmental initiatives can be found on our website.
246 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Global Reporting Initiative GRI Index Investecs 2011 integrated report is based on the G3.1 guidelines Reference in Investec GRI element Comment 2011 annual reports Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the executive Overview of the year 1.2 Key risks and opportunities Overview of the year Risk and governance Profi le 2.1 2.10 General organisational details Corporate information Overview of the year Report parameters 3.1 3.11 Report scope and boundaries 3.12 3.13 Pro le of the report, including No external assurance has been provided on the integrated Throughout the implementation of GRI principles report.
Certain elements of the sustainability information have integrated annual report and external assurance been reviewed by our Internal Audit division.
Governance, commitment and engagement 4.1 4.3 Investec structure and governance Risk and governance 4.4 4.10 Overarching policies and Risk and governance management systems 4.11 4.12 Commitment to external initiatives Risk and governance Divisional review 4.13 Memberships in associations Due to the fact that we operate in a number of geographies, our memberships are extensive and the list exhaustive.
We have however listed the main memberships per geography on our website.
4.14 4.17 Stakeholder engagement Overview of the year Risk and governance Economic performance indicators EC 1 4 Economic value generated and The direct impacts on a financial services company are limited.
Overview of the year distributed, climate change Divisional review Financial statements EC 5 7 Market presence In place but not publicly available.
EC 8 9 Indirect impacts Risk and governance Environmental performance indicators EN 1 2 Material use Due to the nature of our activities, the direct environmental Risk and governance impacts associated with the management of our business are comparatively minor.
EN 3 7 Energy use Risk and governance EN 8 10 Total water use Risk and governance EN 11 15 Biodiversity Due to the nature of our activities, the direct environmental impacts associated with the management of our business are comparatively minor.
EN 16 and 25 Emissions, ef uent and waste Risk and governance EN 26 27 Environmental impact of products Not applicable to our industry.
services EN 28 Compliance Risk and governance EN 29 Transport Risk and governance EN 30 Overall Not disclosed.
Social performance indicators Labour practices and decent work LA 1 3: LA15 Employment Risk and governance Website LA 4 5 Labour management relations LA 6 9 Occupational health and safety LA 10 12 Training and education LA 13 14 Diversity and equal opportunity Human rights HR 1 11 Policies with respect to the Risk and governance promotion of human rights Website Society SO 1 8 Policies to manage impacts Risk and governance on communities, to address Website bribery and corruption, political Directors report contributions and anti-competitive 247 behaviour Product responsibility PR 1 9 Not applicable to a financial services company 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued Annexure to corporate governance section Audit committees report to shareholders The board Introduction recognises the This report to the board and shareholders, on how the audit committees have discharged their duties, important role has been prepared in accordance with good governance principles.
of the audit Background committees as In terms of Investecs DLC structure, the board has mandated authority to the Investec plc audit part of the risk committee and the Investec Limited audit committee to be the audit committees for those respective management companies and their subsidiaries with each having their own regulatory requirements to meet.
A DLC audit committee which is a combined audit committee of Investec plc and Investec Limited has and corporate responsibility to the board for matters common to both Investec plc and Investec Limited, and, in governance particular, the combined group financial statements and results.
processes and The audit committees comply with all legal and regulatory requirements as necessary under both UK procedures of the and South African legislation and listings rules, and apply the corporate governance principles for audit Investec group.
committees as required by both the UK Corporate Governance Code and King III.
External auditors from both the UK and South Africa are represented and ensure that all accounting principles and standards, as required, are complied with when preparing the combined group financial statements.
The board has approved terms of reference for the audit committees which can be found on the Investec website.
All responsibilities are covered in the audit committees terms of reference.
The composition and membership, attendance at meetings and a summary of the role and responsibilities of the audit committees is summarised on pages 226 to 228 of this report.
The board recognises the important role of the audit committees as part of the risk management and corporate governance processes and procedures of the Investec group.
In this regard the audit committees have oversight of: Financial reporting risks Internal financial risks Fraud and IT risks as they relate to financial reporting.
Summary of conclusions reached by the audit committees for the year ended 31 March 2011 Following a review and meeting the requirements of each of the terms of reference, the individual and combined audit committees are satis ed that: The finance functions of both Investec plc and its subsidiaries and Investec Limited and its subsidiaries are adequately skilled, resourced and experienced The group finance director, GR Burger, has the appropriate expertise and experience to meet the responsibilities of the position The groups internal financial controls are effective and no material weaknesses in financial control have been identi ed The external auditors of both Investec plc and Investec Limited are, and remain, independent.
In ful lling their duties, the audit committees have: Reviewed and discussed the audited annual financial statements with the external auditors, the chief executive of cer and the finance director Reviewed the adjustments resulting from external audit queries and accepted the unadjusted audit differences as they were not material Reviewed the quality of the financial reporting and disclosures 248 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Received and considered reports from the internal auditors Reviewed and overseen the integrated reporting process Considered and approved the annual internal audit plan.
The audit committees recommended the adoption of the integrated report to the board.
In this regard the audit committees: Considered all facts and risks that may impact on the integrity of the integrated report Reviewed and commented on the financial statements included in the integrated report Reviewed the disclosure of sustainability issues in the integrated report to ensure they are reliable and do not con ict with the financial information Reviewed the need to engage an external assurance provider on material sustainability issues, but recommended to the board that it was not necessary to engage an external assurance provider as Internal Audit was speci cally tasked to provide a rigorous overview of the sustainability issues Engaged the external auditors to provide assurance on the integrated report.
The board subsequently approved the integrated report, including the financial statements, which will be open for approval at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
The following ow chart depicts the Investec group audit committees structure and ambit of activities: Audit committees structure Audit commitees of Investec plc and Investec Limited DLC audit committee External auditors Internal auditors Finance Audit sub-committees Planning budget Planning budget Accounting policies Distil only major issues to Con ict independence Resources Annual financial statements audit committees Attest and non-attest fees Annual audit plan Half-year results Audit compliance Reports to regulators Charter Year-end results implementation forum Management letter Execution Production of audited financial High level reports Quality of earnings overs and Reporting statements of companies and unders schedule Special ad hoc work subsidiaries Information technology Appointment re-appointment Review of high level reports Accounting for one-off Status Internal controls transactions Major risks Compliance Sustainability report Accounting updates and Change control Planning budget conventions IFRS Capacity management Operational risk Resources Basel Security Fundamental internal controls High level reporting of Reconciliations Staf ng Fraud and loss statistics non-compliance Regulatory reports Projects Insurance coverage Monitoring of special projects Representation letters Governance Corporate governance Regulatory matters SA Banks Act requirements Current risk review Tax Disaster recovery and Chief executive of cer High level only business continuity Managing director Key staff issues Financial director 249 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Corporate governance continued For each audit committee and audit sub-committee meeting a comprehensive meeting pack is prepared with written reports received from the finance, internal audit, operational risk, compliance and IT functions.
Representatives from these functions attend the meetings by invitation and present on the signi cant matters included in their reports.
Reports on the risk and control environment of all business units and principal operating subsidiaries are made to one of the audit subcommittees, with matters of major issues being escalated to the audit committees.
At audit sub-committees, senior managers of the business units meet with the risk and control functions and provide input on the risk and control environment of the business units.
The audit and compliance implementation forums monitor and report on the implementation of recommendations and other matters that the relevant audit committee or audit sub-committee consider important and facilitate the timely understanding and escalation of, and response to, risk and control matters that require a response from management.
At each audit committee meeting, the group chief executive of cer, group managing director and group finance director provide an in-depth assessment of their current risk related concerns and the procedures introduced by management to control or mitigate these risks.
The audit committees have approved the Internal Audit charter and annual audit plan.
The heads of Internal Audit for both Investec plc and Investec Limited have free access to the chairman of the audit committees or any member of the audit committees and they attend all audit committee meetings by invitation.
Key risks addressed during the year under review During the year under review, the following key risks were debated at all audit committee meetings: The process and procedures undertaken by senior management to review the impairment provisions and valuation techniques adopted in arriving at the carrying values of financial instruments, investments, etc The adequacy and appropriateness of liquidity throughout the groups operations The implementation of measures taken to further enhance group IT governance Adherence to key regulatory issues facing the group via strict compliance and the result of ongoing compliance monitoring procedures.
Speci c emphasis was placed on processes to implement the new Companies Act in South Africa Assessing the internal control weaknesses identi ed by the assurance providers and ensuring appropriate steps taken within prescribed and speci ed time limits to mitigate and remedy such weaknesses.
The chairman of the audit committees also met with representatives of various shareholder representative bodies during the year.
SE Abrahams Chairman, Audit Committees 15 June 2011 250 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Risk and governance Remuneration t t t t t t iiii o o o o o r eport p p p p p p p p p p p o o o o o o o o o o o o o o o Remuneration report Statement from the chairman of the board remuneration committee In current This remuneration report was prepared by the remuneration committee and approved by the board.
times banking The board believes that a properly constituted and effective remuneration committee is key to businesses have improving the link between pay and performance.
The committee consists entirely of non-executive directors, and executive directors are not involved in determining their own remuneration packages.
to address multiple This report describes our remuneration policy and directors remuneration for the 2011 financial year.
audiences and manage the Overview of the year discontinuity Remuneration in banks has continued to be discussed widely by regulators, politicians and the public.
caused by new As both a public company and a group of regulated entities we continue to monitor and take account of these debates.
requirements within the context of a Following on from the prior years initial review of changing remuneration requirements in the different jurisdictions in which we operate, the committee has continued to direct much of its time and efforts on consistent longthe practical implementation of and or the approach to be adopted with respect to such requirements term approach.
The announcements made by the European Commission and subsequently by the Financial Services Authority FSA provided an outline of the remuneration requirements and recommended practices which should be applied in our UK regulated entities.
, who have wide experience in this eld, were appointed as Investec Bank plcs corporate advisers to assist us in assessing our positioning and approach going forward in this regard.
The resultant approach has been presented to the FSA.
The committee has also consulted its independent advisers Hewitt New Bridge Street.
We remain comfortable that Investecs long standing fundamental remuneration philosophies are consistent with these requirements.
Our overall remuneration philosophy and practices have remained largely unchanged from the previous year.
However, there continue to be changes at the level of operational implementation to re ect these requirements.
Thus, for example, while we retain a single overriding group process for determining individual remuneration across the whole group, our delivery mechanisms for the non-banking businesses of asset management and wealth management run to different timetables.
Looking forward, the treatment of code staff as agreed with the FSA will require mechanisms that differ from those applied to non-code staff.
We recognise the tensions underlying having a one group philosophy and multiple remuneration systems running with different criteria and timetables, but this is the inevitable consequence of the increased interest of a number of parties in remuneration matters which were until now largely only the concern of shareholders.
In current times banking businesses have to address multiple audiences and manage the discontinuity caused by new requirements within the context of a consistent long-term approach.
Where we see outcomes for individuals that seem to be unfair when compared with their peers in the industry, we will continue to use discretionary payments to regularise these situations.
Overall remuneration will continue to be managed within our long established economic value added EVA system.
The committee continues to consider remuneration policies and packages of the executive directors, persons discharging managerial responsibilities, a number of other senior and high paid employees across the group, while paying speci c attention to the rewards allocated to employees within the Internal Audit, Compliance and Risk divisions.
Talent management and the retention of senior management and executives remained key items on our agenda during the year.
We are conscious of the need to constantly refresh the means of incentivising our staff in order to meet the pressures of competition in our labour markets within the context of a much changed global landscape.
253 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Remuneration report Remuneration report continued Remuneration in context Details of our remuneration philosophies, practices and programmes can be found later in this report.
In summary, we continue to recognise that banking groups, like other rms, have to divide the return from their enterprises between the suppliers of capital and labour and the societies in which they do business, the latter through taxation and corporate social responsibility activities.
Our global remuneration philosophy seeks to maintain an appropriate balance between the interests of these stakeholders, and is closely aligned to our core values and philosophies which include risk consciousness: meritocracy: material employee ownership: and an unsel sh contribution to colleagues, clients and society.
We recognise that there is a degree of public anger about the absolute levels of pay to bankers.
Our approach is to pay individuals from pools of income generated by the different business units and to monitor the overall share of our staff in the economic return of the company.
Our effective corporate tax rate has averaged 21% over the past nine years, while our gross compensation ratio remains within its long-term range of 35% to 42%.
Personal tax deduction, payroll taxes and national insurance mean that a substantial portion of the gross compensation ratio is also paid to the tax authorities.
Our payments to shareholders remain within our stated dividend policies.
The outcome of this approach over the period since March 2003 post our listing in London is a compound annual growth rate of 27% in executive directors remuneration including bonuses, a return for total compensation for employees of 15% and a total shareholder return of 24% refer to pages 264 and 265 for further information.
We note that while many competitors had fallen to our level of gross compensation ratio in the prior year, several have increased the ratio again signi cantly this year.
We remain within our normal range albeit at a slightly higher level than last year, re ecting the better operating performance of certain of our businesses.
We continue to encourage our employees to be shareholders and thus also derive bene ts from the organisation through the returns on their shareholdings.
The proportion of shares owned directly and indirectly by employees is approximately 15%.
Remuneration and effective risk management Risk management is embedded in the organisational culture from the initiation of transactional activity through to the monitoring of adherence to mandates and limits.
The board risk and capital committee determines the categories of risk, the speci c types of risks and the extent of such risks which the group should undertake, as well as the mitigation of risks and overall capital management and allocation process.
This is executed via a number of forums and internal processes on a day-to-day basis, with risk functions that are both embedded in business units as well as subject to oversight by independent central risk functions.
We have, for over 10 years, applied a variable performance reward model which is closely linked to business pro t performance using a realised EVA model against pre-determined targets above risk and capital weighted returns.
Independent risk committees approve all limits and risk exposures.
In terms of the EVA structure, capital is allocated based on risk and therefore the higher the risk, the higher the capital allocation and the higher the hurdle return rate required.
This model, which has remained largely unchanged for several years, ensures that risk and capital management form the basis for key processes at both a group and transaction level thus balancing the rewards between all stakeholders.
The remuneration of the various risk and compliance managers of the group, as well as the group executive, are not linked to speci c performance, based on a formula, but on the overall performance of the group taking into consideration financial performance, compliance with culture and values and numerous other qualitative factors set out later in this report.
Year in review In addition to the information provided above, key points to note for the period under review include: Investecs recurring revenue base and operational diversity have continued to support pro tability across its core geographies.
Core capital and liquidity ratios remain sound and the group has reported attributable earnings of 327.9 million 2010: 309.7 million.
Further information on our risk management indicators, policies and procedures and the groups performance can be found on pages 38 to 52 and pages 111 to 115 The total staff compensation to operating income ratio is 40.7% 2010:36.1% 37.5 million of the current years variable remuneration for the Specialist Banking businesses has been paid in the form of share awards and deferred representing 24.6% of the remuneration expense for the year Non-executive directors will receive a modest increase in their fees in the forthcoming year, roughly in line with in ation Our total shareholder return was negative 8.5% for Investec plc in Pounds Sterling and negative 12.6% for Investec Limited in Rands.
This compares to a return of 23.3% for the FTSE 350 General Finance Index and a return of 7.4% for the FTSE 100 Index.
Investec plc was included as a new entrant to the FTSE 100 index in March 2010.
Since listing on the London Stock Exchange in 2002, Investec plc has outperformed the FTSE 350 General Finance Index and the FTSE 100 Index see graph on page 267 254 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Remuneration report Executive directors hold 1.3% and 2.7% of the issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively.
Non-executive directors hold 1.0% and 1.6% of the issued share capital of Investec plc and Investec Limited respectively see table on page 271 Looking forward Investec plc issued 2.6 million ordinary shares and Investec Limited issued 0.1 million ordinary The remuneration shares to the staff share schemes during the year.
committee will continue to ensure that reward Composition and operation of the committee packages remain The volume of activity remained high during the year re ecting the changing regulatory context appropriately competitive, and social and market interest in remuneration.
As well as internal meetings, committee members provide an incentive for attended a range of industry and other group meetings on remuneration in order to understand the performance, and take wider context in which we operate.
due regard of our culture, During the year Geoffrey Howe and Sir Chips Keswick resigned from the board and the committee, values, philosophies, and I would like to pay tribute to their robust and thoughtful contribution to our deliberations.
We have business strategy, appointed two new members to the committee in Perry Crosthwaite and Olivia Dickson both of whom risk management and have served on, and or chaired, remuneration committees elsewhere in the financial services sector.
The Their professional specialities of corporate broking and securities add to the particular skills on the committee will keep the committee.
Looking forward we have decided that Sir David Prosser will cease to be a member of existing remuneration the committee, upon assuming his wider responsibilities as joint chairman of Investec in November arrangements, as 2011 although, like the current Investec chairman Hugh Herman, he will continue to be free to attend discussed in this report, meetings if he wishes.
While the majority of the committee will be newly appointed, the intention is that under review during I should continue to chair the committee and provide a degree of continuity and corporate memory.
the 2012 financial We have been ably supported in our work by the internal support teams led by the Company Secretariat year, particularly taking with Human Resource, Staff Share Scheme division and line management input.
Recommendations cognisance of any from the executive which are considered by the committee have already been through a rigorous additional regulatory and process in separate business unit and group panels.
Our external support is led by Hewitt New market driven remuneration Bridge Street as our formal independent advisers, whom we reappointed during the year, and where reform proposals.
appropriate, we obtain legal advice from Linklaters, one of the groups legal advisers.
In addition, as Where appropriate, we mentioned  were appointed as corporate advisers to Investec Bank plc with will continue to consult respect to the implementation of the FSA Remuneration Code.
shareholders and While the committee continues to meet without executive directors present we did hold a speci c shareholder bodies on meeting with the CEO, MD and FD to discuss the implications of the changing remuneration landscape.
any signi cant proposed The group chairman also attended this and some other meetings.
We remain determined to continue changes in remuneration to strike the appropriate balance between executive managements need for operational exibility policy.
and the committees responsibility for overall control of the policy and oversight of its implementation.
The committee unanimously We thank the executives and internal teams for their support and assistance in allowing the committee recommends that you vote to operate ef ciently and meet its mandate and objectives.
to approve this report at Signed on behalf of the board the 2011 annual general meeting.
George Alford Chairman Remuneration committee 15 June 2011 255 2011 Investec integrated annual report | Remuneration report
