Corporate Governance Annual Report 11 front end final tp A&R design 3 16 03 2012 17:17 Page 33 entered in the Register of Members as the holder, recognise a The rules relating to the appointment and replacement of Directors are renunciation by the allottee in favour of some other person and may set out in the Articles of Association, under which the minimum accord to any allottee of a share a right to effect such renunciation number of Directors must be no less than two and this number may upon and subject to such terms and conditions as the Directors may be increased or reduced by ordinary resolution.
Transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form The Board can appoint any person to be a Director and any person so are effected by means of the CREST system.
appointed must stand for re-election at the next Annual General The Directors may refuse to register a transfer of certificated shares Meeting.
The Articles of Association require each Director to stand for that are not fully paid provided that the refusal does not prevent re-election at least once every three years.
The Company has elected dealings in that class of shares from taking place on an open and to adopt the UK Corporate Governance Code June 2010 proper basis.
The Directors may also refuse to register an allotment or requirement that all Directors should stand for re-election annually.
transfer of shares whether fully-paid or not in favour of more than four Accordingly, all Directors will retire at the forthcoming Annual General persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or Meeting and, being eligible, will offer themselves for re-election.
transfer they must within two months after the date on which the letter The service contract for Mr Howe is subject to a six-month notice of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company send to the period.
The service contracts for Lord Leach and Messrs Harvey, allottee or transferee a notice of the refusal.
Keswick, MacAndrew and Paynter are subject to a three-month notice The Directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer provision.
The service contracts for Mr Burke, Mr Drummond Brady, unless the instrument of transfer is in respect of only one class of Mr Mawson and Mrs Wade are subject to a notice period of one year.
share and when submitted for registration is accompanied by the Each year the Board conducts a review of its performance as a Board relevant share certificates and such other evidence as the Directors both collectively and as individuals and identifies areas where it can may reasonably require.
The Board performance evaluation for 2011 Subject to statutes and applicable CREST rules, the Directors may was undertaken by means of individual questionnaires that were determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form summarised and discussed by the Board or the relevant committee.
and that title to such shares may be transferred by means of the The outcome of this process for the Board resulted in recommended CREST system or that shares of any class should cease to be so held changes in three key areas, namely an increase in the focus on risk and transferred.
issues, improvement in the Board paper production and distribution A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, process and a greater attention to setting and monitoring board or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of objectives for the year.
Following review, the Board is satisfied that it continues to operate effectively and constructively, with the necessary balance of expertise, Relationship with Jardine Matheson Group experience, independence and knowledge of the business in order to During the year, the Group continued to have a number of armsdeliver long-term shareholder value.
length trading links with Jardine Matheson Group companies, as set The non-executive directors, led by the senior independent director, out in note 33 on page 102. also carried out a performance evaluation of the Chairman during this On 15th September 2011, Jardine Matheson Holdings Limited period.
Jardine Matheson and the Independent Directors of JLT announced Full details of directors remuneration and interests are shown in the that they had reached agreement on the terms of a unanimously Remuneration Report.
Directors are not required to hold any shares of recommended partial cash offer pursuant to which Jardine Matheson, the Company by way of qualification.
through its direct wholly-owned subsidiary JMH Investments Limited At the date of this report the Board is comprised of four executive JMHI, would offer to acquire 21,734,665 JLT shares, representing directors and six non-executive directors including the Chairman.
approximately 10% of the issued ordinary share capital of JLT the Partial Offer.
Board Diversity The Partial Offer was for a cash consideration of 765 pence per JLT JLT supports the recommendation in the Code that Boards should share, which represented a 23.6% premium to the share price on 14th consider the benefits of diversity, including gender, when making September 2011.
The full terms and conditions of the Partial Offer and Board appointments.
Our aim as regards the composition of the Board the procedures for approval and acceptance of the Partial Offer were is that we should have a balance of skills, experience, independence set out in an offer document from Jardine Matheson dated 23rd and knowledge to enable each Director and the Board as a whole to September 2011. discharge their duties and responsibilities effectively.
For us, the issue On 7th November 2011, Jardine Matheson announced that all of the of gender is one aspect of this broader issue of diversity.
While we conditions to the Partial Offer had been satisfied or waived and, agree that it is entirely appropriate that we should seek to have a accordingly, the Partial Offer was declared unconditional in all respects diverse membership on our Board, we do not believe that this can at that date.
sensibly be addressed by establishing quotas or targets.
Continuing to select the best candidate, irrespective of background, is paramount.
Accordingly, with effect from 7th November 2011, the interest of Jardine Matheson and JMHI in JLT shares increased from Directors interests and potential conflicts 65,966,789 shares to 87,701,454 shares, representing 40.23% of the During the period, no director had any material interest in a contract, issued capital of JLT at that date.
Settlement of the Partial Offer was disclosable pursuant to Section 175 Companies Act 2006, to which effected by Jardine Matheson on 15th November 2011. the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings was a party.
The Board Following the changes made to the Companys Articles at the 2008 Appointment and replacement of Directors Annual General Meeting and the subsequent introduction of Section Apart from Mark Drummond Brady, who was appointed a Director on 175 of the Companies Act 2006 on 1st October 2008 which gave 1st March 2011, the Directors shown on pages 30 and 31 served Boards the statutory power to authorise conflicts of interest, formal throughout the year.
Jardine Lloyd Thompson Group plc Annual Report 2011 33
