REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE FOR SUSTAINABLE & RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Introduction The Committee for Sustainable & Responsible Business is chaired by the Chairman and comprises: Gavin Patterson, Chief Executive BT Retail: Larry Stone, President Group Public and Government Affairs: and Alex Wilson, Group Human Resources Director: three nonexecutive directors: Clay Brendish, Phil Hodkinson and Jasmine Whitbread and three independent members: Lord Hastings, Baroness Jay and Dame Ellen MacArthur.
Jonathon Porritt, chair of BTs external Leadership Advisory Panel the Panel of external sustainability experts, which provides advice on corporate responsibility CR issues, attends one meeting per year.
Committee role With input and recommendations from executive management and advice from the Panel, the Committee sets the CR business strategy for the BT group globally including wholly owned subsidiaries for approval by the Board.
The Committee reviews and agrees plans and targets, evaluates performance, oversees a culture of transparency and stakeholder accountability and distributes, within the approved budget, funding to support the strategy.
Committee activities The Committee aims to ensure that BTs sustainable and responsible business practices are applied throughout the business, minimising any CR risks to BTs operations and reputation and maximising the opportunities to help create a better future.
It encourages innovation and the development of new communications services to help create a more sustainable future for customers, employees and communities in the UK and around the world.
The Committee met four times in the 2011 financial year and reviewed: the CR strategy and key performance indicators: community and charity support programmes: the development of BTs volunteering and sustainability skills programmes: activities supporting BTs environment and climate change programmes: and proposals relating to the development of BTs low carbon economy ICT solutions.
The Committee made visits to a number of organisations in the 2011 financial year, including NSPCC, Childline, Cancer Research UK, ICAN, The Communication Trust and the Pennies Foundation.
The Committee has close links with the Panel.
Jonathon Porritt attended the December meeting of the Committee.
Gavin Patterson attends Panel meetings.
