REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE services.
In order to safeguard the independence and objectivity of Introduction the external auditors, the Board has determined policies as to what During the year the Committee undertook the annual review of its non-audit services can be provided by the external auditors and the terms of reference.
The review focused primarily on extending the approval processes related to them.
Under those policies, work of a Committees role in relation to assurance and oversight of risk consultancy nature is not to be offered to the external auditors management within the group.
Following this review the unless there are clear efficiencies and value-added benets to the Committee was re-named the Audit & Risk Committee to company.
The overall policies and processes to implement them emphasise its strengthened role in relation to risk.
were reviewed and appropriately modied in the light of the The Audit & Risk Committee is chaired by Phil Hodkinson.
The other provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act relating to non-audit services members are Clay Brendish, Patricia Hewitt, Nick Rose and Carl that external auditors may not perform.
They are all independent non-executive directors.
With the Committee monitors the extent of non-audit services being exception of Nick Rose who joined the Committee on 14 April 2011, performed by the external auditors and approves any services not they were all members of the Committee throughout the 2011 included on the list of services the Committee has pre-approved financial year.
The Board considers that the Committees members before the work is undertaken.
It also monitors the level of nonhave broad commercial knowledge and extensive business audit fees paid to the auditors.
Details of non-audit services carried leadership experience, having held between them various prior out by the external auditors are in note 7 in the Notes to the roles in major business, Government, financial management, consolidated financial statements on page 114. treasury and financial function supervision and that this constitutes The Audit & Risk Committee reviews BTs published financial results, a broad and suitable mix of business and financial experience.
The the Annual Report & Form 20-F and other published information Board has reviewed membership of the Committee and is satisfied for statutory and regulatory compliance.
It reports its views to the that it includes members, Phil Hodkinson and Nick Rose, who have Board to assist it in its approval of the results announcements and recent and relevant financial experience as required for the the Annual Report & Form 20-F. provisions of the Code and that they constitute audit committee financial experts for the purposes of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee also reviews the disclosures made by the Chief The Committee met six times during the financial year: in April, Executive and Group Finance Director during the certication May, July, September, November and January and the Chairman of process for the Annual Report about the design and operation of the Committee reported on the discussions at the next Board internal controls or weaknesses in the controls, including any fraud meeting.
involving management or other employees who have a significant role in the companys financial controls.
The Board, as required by The Group Finance Director, Company Secretary, Director Internal UK law, takes responsibility for all disclosures in the Annual Report.
Audit and Director Group Financial Control although not members of the Audit & Risk Committee, attend meetings with the The Audit & Risk Committee reviews internal audit and its agreement of the Chairman of the Committee.
The external relationship with the external auditors, including plans and auditors normally attend meetings, although they are not present performance: and monitors, reviews and reports on risk when the Committee discusses their performance and or management processes and the standards of risk management and remuneration.
The Committee members meet regularly with the internal control, including the processes and procedures for external and internal auditors without management being present.
ensuring that material business risks, including risks relating to IT The papers and minutes of the Audit & Risk Committee meetings security, fraud and related matters, are properly identied and are also sent to directors who are not members of the Committee.
Additionally the Committee reviews on behalf of the Board the groups risk prole, endorses a programme of testing of the risk mitigations and controls that underpin the groups Committee role assessment of residual risk and reviews the groups current risk The Committees terms of reference are available from the Company exposure and capability to identify new risks.
Secretary and are posted on our website at www.
The Committee recommends the The Committee reviews promptly all material reports on the appointment and reappointment of the external auditors and company from the internal auditors and ensures that appropriate considers their resignation or dismissal, recommending to the action is taken on issues arising from such reports, including Board appropriate action to appoint new auditors.
monitoring managements responsiveness to the findings and  LLP have been the companys auditors for recommendations of the internal auditors.
Having reviewed the independence and effectiveness The Audit & Risk Committee reviews the processes for dealing with of the external auditors, the Committee has not considered it complaints received by the company regarding accounting, internal necessary to date to require them to tender for the audit.
The accounting controls or auditing matters and the condential, external auditors are required to rotate the lead partner every five anonymous submission by employees of concerns regarding years, and other partners that are responsible for the group and questionable accounting or auditing matters whistleblowing subsidiary audits every seven years.
The lead partner currently procedures, ensuring arrangements are in place for the responsible for BTs audit is completing his second year.
The proportionate, independent investigation and appropriate follow Committee discusses with the auditors the scope of their audits up of such matters.
The effectiveness of the whistleblowing before they commence, reviews the results and considers the process as a whole and oversight of any complaints relating to formal reports of the auditors and reports the results of those governance matters is now reviewed by the Nominating & reviews to the Board.
The Committee reviews the auditors Governance Committee in line with its extended terms of reference.
performance each year by gathering feedback from Committee members and senior management, and by considering reports on During the 2011 financial year, the Committee placed particular the audit rms own internal quality control procedures and emphasis on reviewing major contract management and assessment of independence.
No contractual obligations exist that accounting, and the management of risk.
restrict the groups choice of external audit rm.
Following the review of the Committees terms of reference, each As a result of regulatory or similar requirements, it may be Line of Business and internal service unit Chief Executive will attend necessary to employ the external auditors for certain non-audit meetings to discuss the key risks in their part of the business and BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 65 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE the actions that are being taken to address them.
The annual The Committee also discussed the planning, conduct and meeting schedule has also changed to include an additional conclusions of the external audit as it proceeded as explained meeting which will focus solely on risk and the Group Chief below.
Executive will attend to discuss the groups enterprise-wide risk The Committee approved the auditors group audit plan after management processes, the top risks facing the group as a whole discussion with them.
The auditors explained the programme of and the groups risk appetite.
Following this session, the Committee work they planned to undertake to ensure that the identied risks will submit their conclusions and any recommendations to the did not lead to a material misstatement of the financial statements.
Risk management is also given special attention by the Where they thought it would be effective to do so, this work Committee, devoting a significant proportion of their time to risk at included the evaluation and testing of the groups own internal the July and January meetings.
They also explained where they planned to obtain direct external evidence and were using experts to assist with their audit.
Committee activities The Committee discussed these issues with them again at the time The Committee regularly reviews with the Director Internal Audit of their review of the half-year summary financial statements and and appropriate executives, the implementation and effectiveness again at the conclusion of their audit of the financial statements for of key operational and functional change and remedial the year.
As they concluded the audit, they explained: programmes.
The Committee also sets time aside at each meeting to seek the views of the internal and external auditors in the the work they had done to test managements assumptions and estimates and how they had satisfied themselves that these were absence of management.
reasonable: During 2011 the Audit & Risk Committees business included they had reviewed the groups application of its accounting consideration of the following: policies: and Month Consideration the results of their testing of the controls and other procedures carried out in the major overseas locations and the issues they April BT Global Services major contract review had found there.
Review of the internal control requirements under the Code including risk management processes The auditors also reported to the Committee the misstatements Sarbanes-Oxley Act update that they had found in the course of their work and the Committee Draft Annual Report & Form 20-F 2010 confirmed that there were no such material items remaining Going concern considerations.
unadjusted in the financial statements.
May Review of external audit and non-audit fees The Committee evaluated its performance and processes by inviting The Annual Report & Form 20-F 2010, full year Committee members, key executives and the external auditors to results, announcement and related formal complete questionnaires.
The results showed that the Committee statements continued to be effective in terms of both behaviours and Corporation tax provisions Review of the internal control requirements under processes.
Sarbanes-Oxley Annual report on the performance of Internal Audit Internal Audit year end Corporate Summary Report Annual update on whistleblowing, litigation trends and major litigation report External auditors report.
July BTs risk management framework BT Security and Anti-Trust update First quarter results, announcement and related formal statements External auditors report September Review of external auditors effectiveness.
November Review of fees for audit and non-audit services Half year results, announcement and related formal statements Going concern assessment External audit plan BT Global Services major contracts review Internal Audit Half-Year Performance Report Review of internal control requirements under the Code and Sarbanes-Oxley Annual review of Committee terms of reference External auditors report January Internal Audit report Risk management review update Audit Committee effectiveness Sarbanes-Oxley update Third quarter results, announcement and related formal statements External auditors report Annual review of accounting policies BT Innovate & Design risk update.
