REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS REPORT OF THE NOMINATING & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE the appointment of Carl Symon be extended for one year Introduction following the expiry of a nine year term and having reviewed his During the year it was agreed that the Committee should be independence renamed the Nominating & Governance Committee and, in addition the continuation of the Chairman in his role, having served for to its existing remit, examine governance and compliance issues.
It three years, following a review of his performance as part of the was also agreed that five regional governance committees RGCs Board evaluation.
would be established as sub-committees of the Committee.
All appointments are subject to automatic termination in the event The Nominating & Governance Committee is chaired by the of a director not being re-elected by shareholders at the AGM.
The other members are Tony Ball, Clay Brendish, Eric Daniels, Patricia Hewitt and Phil Hodkinson.
Governance and compliance Five of its six members are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee receives regular reports on the effectiveness of and Although he is not independent, the Board believes that Sir Michael compliance with, BTs governance policies, reviews the corporate Rake, as Chairman of the Board, is the most appropriate person to governance and decision making structure and processes chair the Committee.
He would not participate in the selection and throughout the group, including the regional approach to appointment of his successor.
The Company Secretary and, where governance.
It reviews the processes for, and effectiveness of, the appropriate, at the invitation of the Chairman, the Chief Executive whistleblowing procedures within BT and adopted a code of ethics attend the Committees meetings.
for BTs Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and senior finance managers as required by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee Committee role monitors corporate governance developments around the world The Committees terms of reference are available from the Company and their impact on the business.
It reviews the policy on where BT Secretary and are posted on our website at www.
does business, the training and communication of governance and The Nominating & Governance Committee ensures an appropriate compliance, and the approach to appointments on subsidiaries and balance of experience and abilities on the Board, reviews the size and associated companies and conicts of interest.
composition of the Board and recommends any proposed changes to The Committee: the Board.
recommended the formation of five RGCs namely: UK and It also determines and reviews BTs governance policies including Republic of Ireland: US and Canada: Latin America: Europe, corporate governance, ethics, business principles, international Middle East and Africa: and AsiaPac and agreed their terms of trading regulation issues and data protection.
The Committee met reference: four times during the 2011 financial year.
received a first report in relation to the establishment of each RGC: received a summary of the roll-out of BTs ethics adequate Committee activities procedures programme: and Nominating reviewed the new whistleblowing procedures and condential The Committee keeps under review the need to refresh the Board, hotline.
prepares a description of the specic experience and skills needed The minutes of the Nominating & Governance Committee meetings for an appointment, considers candidates who are put forward by are sent, at their request, to directors who are not members of the the directors and external consultants, and recommends to the Committee, where appropriate to do so.
Board the appointments of all directors after having met shortlisted candidates.
It makes recommendations to the Board on Board evaluation whether to reappoint non-executive directors at the end of terms of A review was carried out in March and April 2010 by the Chairman ofce.
It also reviews the time required from the Senior Independent and Company Secretary through a questionnaire and discussion and Director and other non-executive directors to carry out their duties the results were discussed by the Board.
A number of actions were and advises the Board on succession planning for the positions of implemented to address the points raised, namely: the Chairman, Deputy Chairman and or Senior Independent Director, Chief Executive and all other Board appointments.
a review was undertaken of the composition of the Board and its Committees.
A number of changes have been proposed which The Committee reviewed the make-up and size of the Board and its have been implemented: committees, the overall governance framework, considered a proposal for the annual re-election of all directors and the appointment of the remit of the Audit & Risk Committee has been extended to external facilitators to carry out the next Board evaluation.
cover greater focus on risk management: and regular updates and training have been provided to the Board The Committee recommended: which have covered areas such as the UK Bribery Act 2010 and the appointment of both Patricia Hewitt and Eric Daniels be governance developments, and updates on particular areas of extended for three years following the expiry of their respective BTs business operations.
initial three year terms Following the Board evaluation, the Chairman reviewed the the appointment of Nick Rose as a non-executive director to performance of each director and his own performance was reviewed strengthen the Board capability in the assessment of audit and by the Senior Independent Director in face-to-face meetings.
risk issues, as he had held senior executive positions in various The Committee agreed that the next annual Board evaluation industries would be carried out using an external facilitator.
Boardroom the appointment of Jasmine Whitbread as a non-executive Review have been appointed and have begun a series of interviews director to bring valuable experience to the Board on corporate which will lead to a report for discussion by the Board and an responsibility, an area where she has held senior positions both in agreed set of actions.
the UK and globally A separate survey about Audit & Risk Committee effectiveness was also carried out and the outcome of the survey is in that Committees report.
BT GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT & FORM 20-F 2011 67 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS
