Directors Report continued Recommendation information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their The Board considers that resolutions 9 to 11 are likely to responsibilities.
promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The The Board has procedures in place to deal with potential Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of conflicts of interest and, following the introduction of the the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own Bribery Act 2010, has adopted appropriate procedures beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 57,913 shares designed to prevent bribery.
It confirms that the procedures representing approximately 0.1% of the existing issued share have operated effectively during the year under review.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and at the Corporate Governance Statement Companys expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the advice and services of the Company Compliance Secretary, JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring adherence to Board procedures and compliance with The Company is committed to high standards of corporate applicable rules and regulations.
This statement, together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 34, indicates how the Board Composition Company has applied the principles of good governance of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, chaired by Corporate Governance the AIC Code, which complements the Hamish Buchan, all of whom are considered to be independent UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of of the Companys Manager.
The Directors have a breadth of 1 best practice for investment trusts.
investment knowledge, business and financial skills and experience relevant to the Companys business and brief The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 20 corporate governance and considers that the Company has and 21. complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, insofar as they are relevant to the Companys A review of Board composition and balance is included as part business, and the AIC Code throughout the year under review.
of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether Role of the Board a senior independent director should be appointed and has concluded that, as the Board is comprised entirely of A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
However, the sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This Chairman of the Audit Committee, James Fox, is available to includes management of the Companys assets within the shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved guidelines established by the Board from time to time and the through discussion with the Chairman.
provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved Tenure for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual includes determination and monitoring of the Companys General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of investment objectives and policy and its future strategic Association, it is required that they be appointed by direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, shareholders.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried appointment and removal of third party service providers, out each year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for review of key investment and financial data and the Companys the Director to seek reappointment.
The Board does not corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election but, when making a The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and recommendation, the Board will take into account the ongoing additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely 1 Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC Code may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk 28 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code, including Board Committees the need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Nomination & Remuneration Committee Company has adopted corporate governance best practice and The Nomination & Remuneration Committee, chaired by all Directors will stand for annual reappointment from 2012 Hamish Buchan, consists of all of the Directors and meets at onwards.
least annually to ensure that the Board has an appropriate The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set balance of skills and experience to carry out its fiduciary duties out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are and to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment available for inspection on request at the Companys registered when necessary.
The appointment process takes account of the office and at the AGM.
benefits of diversity, including gender.
Hamish Buchan retires as Chairman and Director at the AGM The Committee conducts an annual performance evaluation of and Sarah Bates is designated as his successor.
the Board, its committees and individual Directors to ensure that all Directors have devoted sufficient time and contributed Induction and Training adequately to the work of the Board and its Committees.
The evaluation of the Board considers the balance of experience, On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide skills, independence, corporate knowledge, its diversity, all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter, regular including gender, and how it works together.
Questionnaires, briefings are provided on changes in law and regulatory drawn up by the Board, with the assistance of JPMAM and a requirements that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors firm of independent consultants, are completed by each are encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering Director.
The responses are collated and then discussed by the issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
The evaluation of all Directors is led by the reviews of the Directors training needs are carried out by the Chairman who also meets individually with each Director.
The Board by means of the evaluation process described below.
Audit Committee Chairman leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
Meetings and Committees The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to recommendations to the Board as and when required.
Details of membership of committees are shown with the Directors profiles on pages 20 and 21.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee, chaired by James Fox and comprising The table below details the number of Board and Committee four of the Directors, meets at least twice each year.
Hamish meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there Buchan, as Chairman of the Company, is not a member of the were five Board meetings, including a private meeting of the Committee and attends by invitation only.
The members of the Directors to evaluate the Manager.
In addition, two Audit Committee consider that they have the requisite skills and Committee meetings and a meeting of the Nomination & experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Committee.
The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Nomination & Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and Audit Remuneration the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Board Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Code.
It reviews the terms of the management agreement, Director Attended Attended Attended examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems and receives information from the Managers 1 Hamish Buchan 52 1 compliance department.
It also reviews the scope and results Sarah Bates 52 1 of the external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors, Kate Bolsover 52 1 including the provision of non-audit services and the period of James Fox 52 1 service held by the senior statutory auditor.
Representatives of James Williams 52 1 the Companys auditors attend the Committee meeting at 1 Attended by invitation of the committee.
which the draft annual report and accounts are considered.
JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 29 Directors Report continued There are no contractual restrictions on the choice of the questions via the Companys website or write to the Company Committee as to external auditors.
The current tenure of the Secretary at the address shown on page 65. external auditor dates from 10th August 2006.
Any decision to Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be open the external audit to tender is taken on the published on the Company website shortly after the Annual recommendation of the Audit Committee.
statement on the Companys system of internal control is set out below.
Internal Control Terms of Reference The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys Both the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and the system of internal control and to report to shareholders that Audit Committee have written terms of reference which define they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, clearly their respective responsibilities, copies of which are which the Board has identified to include business, financial, available on the Companys website and for inspection on operational, compliance and risk management.
request at the Companys registered office and at the AGM.
The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of Relations with Shareholders internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the financial information used within the business, or published, Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to understanding of the Companys activities and performance manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve and reports formally to shareholders four times a year by way business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, of the Annual Report and Accounts, the Half Year Report and but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material two Interim Management Statements.
This is supplemented by misstatement or loss.
the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided to the Company by All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged, to JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls person to meet with shareholders and answer questions.
In established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys addition, a presentation is given by one of the New York based business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for members of the investment management team who reviews identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced the Companys performance.
During the year the investment by the Company see Principal Risks on pages 24 to 25.
The management team, JPMAM and the Companys brokers hold Company does not have an internal audit function of its own, regular discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM which made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors reports any material failings or weaknesses.
This arrangement make themselves available as and when required to address is kept under annual review.
The key elements designed to shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through provide effective internal control are as follows: the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 65.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in the Board of key investment and financial data, including time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise transactions and performance comparisons.
questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit 30 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a Corporate Governance, Voting Policy and Corporate Social manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services Responsibility Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on Management Systems The Managers system of internal corporate governance, voting policy and social and control includes organisational agreements which clearly environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control the Board: procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs Corporate Governance Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate Board.
governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of the board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These Companys system of internal control by monitoring the analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement operation of the key operating controls of the Manager and activity.
its associates as follows: Proxy Voting the Board, through the Audit Committee, reviews the terms JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would of the management agreement and receives regular manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and reports from JPMAMs Compliance department: diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what the Board reviews a report, which is also independently will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, reviewed, on the internal controls and the operations of we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank: and invested.
the Directors review every six months an independent Stewardship Engagement report on the internal controls and the operations of JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as JPMAM.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system managers should: of internal control for the year ended 31st December 2011, and to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: During the course of its review of the system of internal control, disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
monitor their investee companies: Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: not been considered appropriate.
be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 31 Directors Report continued have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock and selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is also report to clients.
a signatory to the Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its investments and supports signatory to the Equator Principles on managing social and its principles as best practice.
We believe that regular contact with the environmental risk in project finance.
companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded clients.
from JPMAMs website: Social & Environmental http: www.
co. uk Institutional JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible  CorporateGovernance, which also sets out its manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked By order of the Board with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and Andrew Norman, for and on behalf of environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
This analysis J. P. Morgan Asset Management UK Limited, is then used to identify outliers which require further engagement.
Secretary 23rd March 2012 JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of 32 JPMorgan American Investment Trust plc.
