Directors Report continued Tender Price as defined in the Tender Offer Circular dated 16th Recommendation December 2011 which accompanies these Annual Reports and The Board considers that resolutions 11 to 14 are likely to Accounts 2011 the Tender Offer Circular.
For the purposes of promote the success of the Company and are in the best calculating the Tender Price of the First Conditional Tender interests of the Company and its Shareholders as a whole.
The Offer, the Calculation Date is expected to be a date in August Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of 2012, and for the Second Conditional Tender Offer, it is the resolutions as they intend to do, where voting rights are expected to be a date in February 2012.
The final date will be exercisable, in respect of their own beneficial holdings which set by the Directors and will be set out in a circular to be sent to amount in aggregate to 82,081 Ordinary shares representing Shareholders in relation to the relevant Conditional Tender approximately 0.05% of the voting rights of the Company.
Offer provided the Board determines to implement the relevant Conditional Tender Offer.
Corporate Governance Statement The First Conditional Tender Offer may be implemented by the Compliance Board, if the Companys Ordinary shares have traded at an average daily discount based on the last traded price of the The Company is committed to high standards of Corporate Companys Shares on each relevant day of more than 9 per Governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of cent.
to NAV over the six month period ending 31st March 2012.
Directors Responsibilities on page 33, indicates how the Company has applied the principles of good governance of the The Second Conditional Tender Offer may be implemented by Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Board, if the Companys Ordinary shares have traded at an 2010 the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code average daily discount based on the last traded price of the 1 of Corporate Governance the AIC Code, which complements Companys Ordinary shares on each relevant day of more than the UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework 9 per cent.
to NAV over the six month period ending of best practice for investment trusts.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of In order to implement each Conditional Tender Offer, Cenkos corporate governance and considers that the Company has Securities will, as principal, purchase the Ordinary shares complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate tendered at the relevant Tender Price and, following Governance Code and with the AIC Code, throughout the year completion of these purchases, will sell the relevant Ordinary under review.
shares on to the Company at the same price by way of an onmarket transaction.
The terms and conditions upon which it is Section 992 Companies Act 2006 intended that each Conditional Tender Offer would be implemented would be substantially the same as those set out The following disclosures are made in accordance with in the Tender Offer Circular.
Shareholders should note that each Conditional Tender Offer is Capital Structure entirely discretionary and that they should place no The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside expectation or reliance on the Board exercising such discretion front cover of this report.
in respect of Ordinary shares or as to the number of Ordinary Voting Rights in the Companys shares shares which may be the subject of each Conditional Tender As at 19th December 2011 being the latest business day prior Offer.
to the publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting capital consists of 167,230,701 Ordinary shares, carrying one on pages 62 to 65.
Repurchases will be made at the discretion vote each and 11,709,950 Subscription shares with no voting of the Board and will only be made in the market at prices rights.
Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are below the prevailing NAV per share, thereby enhancing the 167,230,701.
NAV of the remaining shares as and when market conditions are appropriate.
1 Copies of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AIC code may be found on the respective organisations websites: www.
co. uk 26 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital At the date of this report, the following had declared a structure, appointment and removal of third party service notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: providers, review of key investment and financial data and the Companys Corporate Governance and risk control Number of arrangements.
Shareholders voting rights % The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and City of London Investment additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely Management Co. Ltd. 47,077,392 28.2 information is provided to the Board to enable it to function 1 JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited 16,725,612 10.0 effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their 1,2 JPMorgan Chase Nominees 12,215,273 7.3 responsibilities.
Sarasin & Partners LLP 8,168,100 4.9 There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Lazard Asset Management 7,703,250 4.6 professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
Legal & General Investment This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the Management Ltd. 6,364,023 3.8 advice and services of the Secretary, JPMAM, which is BAE System Pension Funds Investment responsible to the Board for ensuring adherence to Board Management Ltd. 5,462,500 3.3 procedures and compliance with applicable rules and 1 Non-beneficial.
2 Held on behalf of JPMAM ISA and Share Plan participants.
The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of Board Composition Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and The Board, chaired by James Long, consists of six powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Board as independent.
Following the retirement of Alun Companies Act 2006.
Evans at the forthcoming AGM, the Board will consist of five There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities non-executive Directors.
The Chairmans independence was in the Company: no special rights with regard to control assessed upon his appointment and annually thereafter.
The attached to securities: no agreements between holders of Directors have a breadth of investment knowledge, business securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: no and financial skills and experience relevant to the Companys agreements which the Company is party to that affect its business and brief biographical details of each Director are control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between set out on pages 17 and 18. the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for A review of Board composition and balance is included as part loss of office.
of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of Role of the Board which may be found below.
Alun Evans, the Senior Independent Director, leads the evaluation of the performance A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM of the Chairman and is available to shareholders if they have sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the includes management of the Companys assets and the Chairman.
provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration, and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved Tenure for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision has previously been Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual approved.
This includes determination and monitoring of the General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Companys investment objectives and policy and its future Association, it is required that they be elected by Shareholders.
JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 27 Directors Report continued Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for a term of three Audit Nomination Board Committee Strategy Committee years.
Subject to the performance evaluation carried out each Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings year, the Board will agree whether it is appropriate for the Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself necessarily disqualifies a Director Alun Evans 92 12 from seeking re-election but, when making a recommendation, Ronald Gould 82 1 1 the Board will take into account the ongoing requirements of James Long 92 12 the UK Corporate Governance Code, including the need to James Strachan8 2 1 2 refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Board has adopted corporate governance best practice and all Directors will stand Andrew Sykes 82 12 1 for annual reappointment from 2011 onwards.
The terms and Linda Yueh 1 1 1 conditions of Directors appointments are set out in formal 1 Dr Yueh was appointed to the Board on 1st July 2011. letters of appointment, copies of which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and at Training and Appraisal the Annual General Meeting.
On appointment, the Manager provides all Directors with The Nomination Committee, having considered their induction training.
Thereafter, regular briefings are provided qualifications, performance and contribution to the Board and on changes in regulatory requirements that affect the its Committees, confirms that Messrs Long, Gould, Strachan Company and Directors.
Directors are encouraged to attend and Sykes continue to be effective and demonstrate industry and other seminars covering issues and developments commitment to the role.
Notwithstanding the fact that Mr Long relevant to investment trusts.
As part of the Boards annual has served on the Board for more than nine years, his fellow evaluation process the Chairman reviews with each Director Directors believe that he remains independent in character and their training and development needs.
judgement, and accordingly the Board recommends to shareholders that all the above Directors be re-elected.
The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, of its Furthermore, having been appointed during the year, on own performance and that of its Committees and individual 1st July 2011, Dr Yueh will stand for election at the forthcoming Directors.
External consultants may be used from time to Annual General Meeting.
The Board recommends her time and indeed were used in 2010 with respect to the appointment.
For the current year, questionnaires were completed by each Director.
The responses were Meetings and Committees discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation of individual Directors is led by the Chairman, and the Senior Independent The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to Director leads the evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
Details of membership of Committees are shown The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its own with the Directors profiles on pages 17 and 18.
The Chairman of performance and that of its Committees.
the Board may attend the Audit Committee at the invitation of its Chairman.
Board Committee During the year there were nine Board meetings, plus a Nomination Committee separate meeting devoted to strategy, two Audit Committee The Nomination Committee, chaired by James Long, consists of meetings and two Nomination Committee meetings.
all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that The table below details the number of Board and Committee the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience meetings attended by each Director.
to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose 28 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
A variety which will be put to Shareholders at the forthcoming Annual of sources, including external search consultants, may be used General Meeting.
to ensure that a wide range of candidates is considered.
The The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal Board engaged the services of a recruitment consultancy with control is set out below.
regard to the appointment of Dr Linda Yueh.
Terms of Reference On an annual basis each Director submits a list of potential Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have conflicts of interest for approval.
These are considered written terms of reference which define clearly their respective carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding responsibilities, copies of which are available for inspection on them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved for a period request at the Companys registered office and at the of one year.
The Nomination Committee resolved that there Companys Annual General Meeting.
were no actual or indirect interests of a Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company, which arose Relations with Shareholders during the year.
The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the The Nomination Committee also reviews the levels of Company.
It aims to provide Shareholders with a full remuneration of the Directors taking into account both boards understanding of the Companys activities and performance of other trusts and corporate salaries to ensure that high and report formally to shareholders quarterly each year by way quality people are attracted and retained.
of the Annual Report & Accounts, the Half Year Report and two Audit Committee Interim Management Statements.
This is supplemented by the The Audit Committee, chaired by Andrew Sykes, consists of all daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of the Directors other than the Chairman and meets at least twice net asset value of the Companys shares.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that All Shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and responsibilities of the Committee.
representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the Shareholders and answer their questions.
In addition, a Manager in relation to the Half Year Report and Annual presentation is usually given by the investment managers who Report & Accounts and the Companys compliance with the review the Companys performance.
During the year the UK Corporate Governance Code 2010.
It examines the Companys brokers, the investment managers and JPMAM hold effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, regular discussions with larger Shareholders.
The Directors are receives information from the Managers compliance made fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors department and also reviews the scope and results of the make themselves available as and when required to address external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and Shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through objectivity of the external auditors.
In the Directors opinion the the Secretary whose details are shown on page 69.
The Companys Annual Report & Accounts is published in time The Audit Committee also has a primary responsibility for to give Shareholders at least 20 working days notice of the making recommendations to the Board on the re-appointment Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise and removal of external auditors.
Representatives of the questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit Companys Auditors attended the Audit Committee meeting at questions via the Companys website or write to the Secretary which the draft Annual Report & Accounts are considered.
at the address shown on page 69.
Having reviewed the performance of the external auditors, the Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual re-appointment.
The Board supported this recommendation General Meeting.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 29 Directors Report continued Internal Control compliance department which regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
The UK Corporate Governance Code 2010 requires the Directors, at least annually, to review the effectiveness of Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the the Companys system of internal control and to report to Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the Shareholders that they have done so.
review of all controls, which the Board has identified as The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, including business, financial, operational, compliance and risk keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system management.
of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys reviews the terms of the management agreement and assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that receives regular reports from JPMAMs compliance financial information used within the business, or published, department: is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve reviews the report on the internal controls and the business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material is itself independently reviewed: and mis-statement or loss.
reviews every six months an independent report on the Since investment management, custody of assets and all internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
administrative services are provided to the Company by By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by Companys system of internal control for the year ended JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls 30th September 2011, and to the date of approval of this established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys Annual Report & Accounts.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced During the course of its review of the system of internal by the Company see Principal Risks on pages 21 and 22.
This control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any process has been in place for the year under review and up to failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be the date of the approval of the Annual Report & Accounts, and significant.
it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Company does not have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the Corporate Governance and Voting Policy internal audit department of JPMAM.
This arrangement is kept The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on The key elements designed to provide effective internal corporate governance, voting policy and social and control are as follows: environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by the Board.
Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by the Board of key investment and financial data, including Corporate Governance management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment transactions and performance comparisons.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in Management Agreement Evaluation and appointment of a which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate manager and custodian regulated by the Financial Services governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure Authority FSA, whose responsibilities are clearly defined in and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the a written agreement.
board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These Management Systems The Managers system of internal analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement control includes organisational agreements which clearly activity.
define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs 30 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Proxy Voting Social & Environmental JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and Stewardship Engagement environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock managers should: selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach to how we implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is also publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory stewardship responsibilities to their clients: to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk in disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: project finance.
monitor their investee companies: JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: available on request from the Company Secretary or can be be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
This also have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: sets out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship and Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting report to clients.
JPMAM endorses and complies with the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is By order of the Board central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance Alison Vincent, for and on behalf of of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 20th December 2011 JPMorgan Asian Investment Trust plc.
