exercised at all then the Subscription shares would represent review of key investment and financial data and the Companys 18.5% of the Companys issued Ordinary share capital.
corporate governance and risk control arrangements.
The full text of the resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and on pages 58 and 59.
Repurchases of Ordinary shares will be additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely made at the discretion of the Board and will only be made in information is provided to the Board to enable it to function the market at prices below the prevailing NAV per share, effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining shares as and responsibilities.
when market conditions are appropriate.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
Recommendation This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the The Board considers that resolutions 10 to 13 are likely to advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is promote the success of the Company and are in the best responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of complied with.
the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own Board Composition beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 20,484 The Board, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of five Ordinary shares representing approximately 0.02% of the non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the voting rights of the Company.
Board as independent of the Companys Manager, including the Chairman.
The Directors have a breadth of investment Corporate Governance knowledge, business and financial skills and experience Compliance relevant to the Companys business and brief biographical The Company is committed to high standards of corporate details of each Director are set out on pages 17 and 18. governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Directors Responsibilities on page 31, indicates how the of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of Company has applied the principles of good governance of the which may be found below.
The Senior Independent Director Financial Reporting Council UK Corporate Governance Code leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is the UK Corporate Governance Code and the AICs Code of available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, which complements resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
the UK Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
Anatole Kaletsky is a founding partner and chief economist of Gavekal Research, whose clients include JPMorgan.
The Board The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level does not believe this connection influences Mr Kaletskys of corporate governance and considers that the Company has independence as a Director of the Company.
complied with the best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code and of the AIC Code throughout the year Tenure under review.
Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual Role of the Board General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM Association, it is required that they be appointed by sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for This includes management of the Companys assets and the a term of three years.
Subject to the performance evaluation provision of accounting, company secretarial, administrative carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it is and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters The Board does not believe that length of service in itself reserved to the Board for decision has been approved.
This necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment includes determination and monitoring of the Companys but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take into investment objectives and policy and its future strategic account the ongoing requirements of the UK Corporate direction, gearing policy, management of the capital structure, Governance Code, including the need to refresh the Board and appointment and removal of third party service providers, its Committees.
The Board has adopted corporate governance JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25 Directors Report continued best practice and all Directors will stand for annual own performance and that of its Committees.
The Board will, in reappointment from 2011 onwards.
due course, ensure that it complies with the requirement under the UK Corporate Governance Code, that evaluations be The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set externally facilitated at least every three years.
out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are available for inspection on request at the Companys registered Board Committees office and at the Annual General Meeting.
Nomination Committee The Board recommends the reappointment of all Directors.
The Nomination Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that Meetings and Committees the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and experience The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose committees.
All Directors are members of the committees, suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
A variety with the exception of the Chairman who attends the Audit of sources, including the use of external search consultants, Committee by invitation.
may be used to ensure that a wide range of candidates are considered.
The table below details the number of Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director.
During the year, there On an annual basis each Director submits a list of potential were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings, a conflicts of interest for approval at the Nomination Committee Management Engagement Committee meeting, a Nomination meeting.
These are considered carefully, taking into account Committee meeting and a Remuneration Committee meeting.
the circumstances surrounding them, and, if considered appropriate, are approved.
Following the introduction of The Management Bribery Act 2010, the Board has adopted appropriate Audit Engagement Remuneration Nomination procedures designed to prevent bribery.
Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Director Attended Attended Attended Attended Attended The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted David Gamble 41 1 1 sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board.
Anatole Kaletsky 52 1 1 1 Nigel Kenny5 2 1 1 1 Remuneration Committee Percy Mistry5 2 1 1 1 The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Alan Saunders, 1 Alan Saunders 52 1 1 1 consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to review the levels of remuneration of the Chairman, the Chairman of the 1 Ceased to be a member of the Audit Committee on 30th October 2009, Mr Saunders now Audit Committee, the Senior Independent Director and other attends by invitation.
Directors, taking into account both boards of other investment Training and Appraisal trusts and corporate salaries generally to ensure that high quality people are attracted and retained.
The Manager and Company Secretary provide all Directors with induction training on appointment.
Thereafter, regular Audit Committee briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements The Audit Committee, chaired by Nigel Kenny and whose that affect the Company and Directors.
Directors are membership is set out on pages 17 and 18, meets at least twice encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering each year.
The members of the Audit Committee consider that issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
As part they have the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the of the Board evaluation process the Chairman reviews with responsibilities of the Committee.
At least one member of the each Director their training and development needs.
Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board has agreed procedures for the formal evaluation of The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the the Manager, its own performance and of that of its committees Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and and individual Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Board, are completed by each Director.
It reviews the terms of the management agreement and collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation examines the effectiveness of the Companys internal control of individual Directors is led by the Chairman and the Senior systems, receives information from the Managers Compliance Independent Director leads the evaluation of the Chairmans department and also reviews the scope and results of the performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its 26 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence who reviews the Companys performance.
The Companys and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee brokers, the Investment Manager and JPMAM hold regular has reviewed the independence and objectivity of the auditors discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made and is satisfied that the auditors are independent.
The Audit fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make Committee also has the primary responsibility for making themselves available as and when required to address recommendations to the Board on the reappointment and the shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through removal of external auditors.
Representatives of the Companys the Secretary whose details are shown on page 65. auditors attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in draft annual report and accounts are considered.
Having time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of reviewed the performance of the external auditors, the the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise Committee considered it appropriate to recommend their questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation questions via the Companys website or write to the Company which will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming Annual Secretary at the address shown on page 65.
The Board reviews and approves any non-audit services provided by the independent auditors and Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be assesses the impact of any non-audit work on the ability of the published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual auditor to remain independent.
The only non-audit work General Meeting.
carried out by the auditors this year was in relation to their subsidiary companys work on the Companys tax return in Section 992 Companies Act 2006 Pakistan.
The Board has resolved that such non-audit work The following disclosures are made in accordance with does not impact on the independence of the auditors.
The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal Capital Structure control is set out below.
The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside Management Engagement Committee front cover of this report.
The Management Engagement Committee, chaired by Alan Voting Rights in the Companys shares Saunders, consists of all of the Directors and meets annually to Details of the voting rights in the Companys shares as at the review the performance of the Manager.
date of this report are given in note 16 to the Notice of Meeting Terms of Reference on page 60.
The Nomination, Remuneration, Audit and Management Environmental Matters, Social and Community Issues Engagement Committees all have written terms of reference Information on environmental matters, social and community which define clearly their respective responsibilities, copies issues is set out on page 29.
The Company has no employees.
of which are available on the Companys website and for inspection on request at the Companys registered office and Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
At the date of this report, the following had declared a notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: Relations with Shareholders Ordinary Shareholders shares% The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full Lazard Asset Management LLC 20,636,434 18.0 understanding of the Companys activities and performance City of London Investment and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by Management Company 11,246,144 9.8 way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report and 1 Chase Nominees 10,291,455 9.0 two interim management statements.
This is supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of Royal Skandia 6,089,708 5.3 the net asset value of the Companys shares.
Sarasin & Partners LLP 5,808,373 5.1 JPMorgan Asset Management All shareholders have the opportunity, and are encouraged Holdings Inc. 4,697,689 4.1 to attend the Companys Annual General Meeting at which the Legal & General Management 4,533,336 4.0 Directors and representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet shareholders and answer their questions.
1 Held on behalf of JPMAM Investment Account, ISA and SIPP participants.
In addition, a presentation is given by the Investment Manager JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 27 Directors Report continued The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of The key elements designed to provide effective internal control Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and are as follows: powers to issue or repurchase the Companys shares are Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the Board of key investment and financial data, including the Companies Act 2006. management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities transactions and performance comparisons.
in the Company: no special rights with regard to control Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and attached to securities: no agreements between holders of custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its agreement.
control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for Management Systems The Managers system of internal loss of office.
control includes organisational agreements which clearly define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control Internal Control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs Compliance department which regularly monitors compliance The UK Corporate Governance Code requires the Directors, at with FSA rules.
least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and to report to shareholders that Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the they have done so.
This encompasses a review of all controls, Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the which the Board has identified as including business, financial, Board.
operational, compliance and risk management.
The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: financial information used within the business, or published, reviews the terms of the management agreement and is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve department: business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations misstatement or loss.
of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself independently reviewed: and Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided to the Company by reviews every six months an independent report on the JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by By the means of the procedures set out above, the Board JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the established by them, to ensure that they meet the Companys Companys system of internal control for the year ended business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for 30th June 2011 and to the date of approval of this Annual identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced Report and Accounts.
by the Company see Principal Risks on pages 21 to 22.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the date of the approval of the annual report and accounts, and the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings or it accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Company does not weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
This arrangement is kept under review.
28 JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Social & Environmental Corporate Governance and Voting Policy JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such corporate governance, voting policy and social and as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and Corporate Governance environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment process.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the to how we implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is also board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk in activity.
Proxy Voting JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and from JPMAMs website: www.
co. uk diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what governance which also sets out its approach to the seven principles of the will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are detailed voting record.
Stewardship Engagement JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, managers should: publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their By order of the Board stewardship responsibilities to their clients: Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary monitor their investee companies: 4th October 2011 establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: and report to clients.
JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
JPMorgan Emerging Markets Investment Trust plc.
