European Smaller pp20 31 European Smaller pp20 31 31 05 2011 17:10 Page 25 approximately 5% of the present issued share capital.
The full Company has applied the principles of good governance of text of the resolutions is set out in the Notice of Meeting on the Financial Reporting Council 2008 Combined Code the page 55.
Combined Code and the Association of Investment Companies AIC Code of Corporate Governance the AIC It is advantageous for the Company to be able to issue new Code, which complements the Combined Code and provides shares to investors purchasing shares through the JPMAM a framework of best practice for investment trusts.
savings products and also to other investors when the Directors consider that it is in the best interests of shareholders The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of to do so.
Any such issues would only be made at prices greater corporate governance and considers that the Company has than the NAV, thereby increasing the assets underlying each complied with the best practice provisions of the Combined share and spreading the Companys administrative expenses, Code, other than in respect of the provision relating to the other than the management fee which is charged on the value appointment of a senior independent director, and the AIC of the Companys market capitalisation, over a greater number Code throughout the year under review.
The issue proceeds would be available for Role of the Board investment in line with the Companys investment policies.
A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM ii Authority to repurchase the Companys shares resolution 10 sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This The authority to repurchase up to 14.99% of the Companys includes management of the Companys assets and the issued share capital, renewed by shareholders at the 2010 provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration Annual General Meeting, will expire on 7th January 2012 unless and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved renewed at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters Directors consider that the renewal of the authority is in the reserved for Board decision has been approved.
This includes interests of shareholders as a whole as the repurchase of determination and monitoring of the Companys investment shares at a discount to NAV enhances the NAV of the remaining objectives and policy and its future strategic direction, gearing shares.
The Board will therefore seek shareholder approval at policy, management of the capital structure, appointment and the Annual General Meeting to renew this authority, which will removal of third party service providers, review of key last until 7th January 2013 or until the whole of the 14.99% has investment and financial data and the Companys corporate been acquired, whichever is the earlier.
The full text of the governance and risk control arrangements.
resolution is set out in the Notice of Meeting on pages 55 to 56.
The Board meets at least five times during the year and Repurchases will be made at the discretion of the Board, and additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely will only be made in the market at prices below the prevailing information is provided to the Board to enable it to function NAV per share, thereby enhancing the NAV of the remaining effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their shares, as and when market conditions are appropriate.
Recommendation There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent The Board considers that resolutions 8 to 10 are likely to professional advice, if necessary, and at the Companys promote the success of the Company and are in the best expense.
This is in addition to the access that every Director interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The has to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of JPMAM, which is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and the resolutions as they intend to do, where voting rights are regulations are complied with.
exercisable, in respect of their own beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 41,846 shares representing Board Composition approximately 0.1% of the existing issued share capital of the The Board, chaired by Elisabeth Airey, consists of six Company.
non-executive Directors, all of whom are regarded by the Board as independent, including the Chairman.
The Directors Corporate Governance have a breadth of investment, knowledge, business and financial skills and experience relevant to the Companys Compliance business and brief biographical details of each Director are set The Company is committed to high standards of corporate out on pages 18 and 19. governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 31, indicates how the JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25 European Smaller pp20 31 European Smaller pp20 31 31 05 2011 17:10 Page 26 Directors Report continued Audit Nomination A review of Board composition and balance is included as part Board Committee Committee of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of Meetings Meetings Meetings which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether Director Attended Attended Attended a senior independent director should be appointed and has concluded that, as the Board comprises entirely of Elisabeth Airey 522 non-executive directors, this is unnecessary.
The Chairman Anthony Davidson 522 of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the Chairman.
1 Carolan Dobson 311 Tenure Paul Manduca 522 Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual Federico Marescotti 522 General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of Michael Wrobel 522 Association, it is required that they be reappointed by 1 shareholders.
Thereafter, a Directors appointment will run for Appointed 1st September 2010. a maximum term of three years.
Subject to the performance Training and Appraisal evaluation carried out each year, the Board will agree whether On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide it is appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
all Directors with induction training.
Thereafter regular The Board does not believe that length of service in itself briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking reappointment that affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are but, when making a recommendation, the Board will take into encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering account the requirements of the Combined Code, including the issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
need to refresh the Board and its Committees.
The Companys The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, its Articles of Association require that Directors stand for own performance and of that of its committees and individual reappointment at least every three years.
Any Director who has Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, are served for a period of more than nine years will stand for completed by each Director.
The responses are collated and annual reappointment thereafter.
then discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation of The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set individual Directors is led by the Chairman.
The Audit out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are Committee Chairman leads the evaluation of the Chairmans available for inspection on request at the Companys registered performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its office and at the Annual General Meeting.
own performance and that of its committees.
The Board confirms that Carolan Dobson, who will stand for Board Committee reappointment following her appointment during the year, and Nomination Committee Anthony Davidson and Federico Marescotti, who retire by The Nomination Committee, chaired by Elisabeth Airey, rotation at this years Annual General Meeting, continue to be consists of all of the Directors and meets at least annually to effective Directors and demonstrate commitment to their roles ensure that the Board has an appropriate balance of skills and and therefore recommends their reappointment.
experience to carry out its fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable candidates for appointment when necessary.
Meetings and Committees An external agency was engaged in connection with Carolan The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to Dobsons appointment.
Details of membership of committees are shown with the Directors profiles on pages 18 and 19.
Directors who On an annual basis each Director submits a list of potential are not members of Committees may attend at the invitation of conflicts of interest for approval at the Nomination Committee the Chairman.
These are considered carefully, taking into account the circumstances surrounding them, and, if considered The table below details the number of Board and Committee appropriate, are approved for a period of one year.
Following meetings attended by each Director.
During the year there the introduction of The Bribery Act 2010, the Board has were five Board meetings, two Audit Committee meetings and adopted appropriate procedures designed to prevent bribery.
26 JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 European Smaller pp20 31 European Smaller pp20 31 31 05 2011 17:10 Page 27 and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by The Committee undertakes an annual performance evaluation way of the annual report and accounts, the half year financial to ensure that all members of the Board have devoted report and two interim management statements.
This is sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work of the supplemented by the daily publication, through the London Board.
The Committee also reviews Directors fees and makes Stock Exchange, of the net asset value of the Companys shares.
recommendations to the Board as and when required.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys Audit Committee Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and The Audit Committee, chaired by Anthony Davidson, consists representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet of all the Directors and meets at least twice each year.
The shareholders and answer their questions.
In addition, a members of the Audit Committee consider that they have the presentation is given by the Investment Managers who review requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities of the Companys performance.
During the year the Companys the Committee.
brokers, the investment managers and JPMAM hold regular The Committee reviews the actions and judgements of the discussions with larger shareholders.
The Directors are made Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts and fully aware of their views.
The Chairman and Directors make the Companys compliance with the Combined Code.
It reviews themselves available as and when required to address the terms of the management agreement and examines the shareholder queries.
The Directors may be contacted through effectiveness of the Companys internal control systems, the Company Secretary whose details are shown on page 61. receives information from the Managers Compliance The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in department and reviews the scope and results of the external time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of audit, its cost effectiveness, the balance of audit and non-audit the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise services and the independence and objectivity of the external questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to submit auditors: in the Directors opinion the auditors are considered questions via the Companys website or write to the Company independent.
Representatives of the Companys auditors Secretary at the address shown on page 61. attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft Annual Report and Accounts are considered.
Having reviewed the Details of the proxy voting position on each resolution will be performance of the external auditors, the Committee published on the Companys website shortly after the Annual considered it appropriate to recommend their reappointment.
The Board supported this recommendation and a resolution will be put to the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Section 992 Companies Act 2006 The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal The following disclosures are made in accordance with control is set out on pages 28 to 29.
Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have Capital Structure written terms of reference which define clearly their respective The Companys capital structure is summarised on the inside responsibilities, copies of which are available on the Companys front cover of this report.
website, on request at the Companys registered office and at Voting Rights in the Companys shares the Companys Annual General Meeting.
As at 27th May 2011 being the latest business day prior to the Relations with Shareholders publication of this Notice, the Companys issued share capital The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the consists of 43,118,739 ordinary shares, carrying one vote each.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full Therefore the total voting rights in the Company are 43,118,739. understanding of the Companys activities and performance JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 27 European Smaller pp20 31 European Smaller pp20 31 31 05 2011 17:10 Page 28 Directors Report continued Notifiable Interests in the Companys Voting Rights Since investment management, custody of assets and all At the date of this report, the following had declared a administrative services are provided to the Company by notifiable interest in the Companys voting rights: JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided Number of by JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls Shareholders voting rights % established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys 1 business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for Chase Nominees Limited 4,955,206 11.5 identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced Lazard Asset Management LLC 3,896,140 9.0 by the Company see Principal Risks on pages 22 to 23.
This National Grid UK Pension Scheme 2,852,879 6.6 process has been in place for the year under review and up to 1607 Capital Partners, LLC 2,389,519 5.5 the date of the approval of the Annual Report & Accounts and it Legal & General Investment Management 1,877,614 4.4 accords with the Turnbull guidance.
The Company does not East Riding of Yorkshire Council 1,600,000 3.7 have an internal audit function of its own, but relies on the internal audit department of JPMAM which reports any 1 Held on behalf of JPMAM Investment Account, ISA and SIPP participants.
The key elements designed to The rules concerning the appointment and replacement of provide effective internal control are as follows: Directors, amendment of the Articles of Association and Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by powers to issue or buy back the Companys shares are the Board of key investment and financial data, including contained in the Articles of Association of the Company and the management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of Companies Act 2006. transactions and performance comparisons.
There are no restrictions concerning the transfer of securities Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and in the Company: no special rights with regard to control custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, attached to securities: no agreements between holders of whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written securities regarding their transfer known to the Company: agreement.
no agreements which the Company is party to that affect its control following a takeover bid: and no agreements between Management Systems The Managers system of internal the Company and its Directors concerning compensation for control includes organisational agreements which clearly loss of office.
define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs Internal Control Compliance Department which regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has Board.
identified as including business, financial, operational, The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, compliance and risk management.
keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key internal control, which is designed to safeguard the Companys operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that reviews the terms of the management agreement and financial information used within the business, or published, receives regular reports from JPMAMs Compliance is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed to department: manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide reasonable, reviews reports on the internal controls and the operations but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself misstatement or loss.
independently reviewed: and 28 JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 European Smaller pp20 31 European Smaller pp20 31 31 05 2011 17:10 Page 29 monitor their investee companies: reviews every six months an independent report on the internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms that in accordance with the Turnbull guidance, it has reviewed have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control and for the year ended 31st March 2011 and to the date of approval report to clients.
of this Annual Report and Accounts.
JPMAM endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK investments and During the course of its review of the system of internal control, supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We believe that the Board has not identified or been advised of any failings or regular contact with the companies in which we invest is central to our weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
investment process and we also recognise the importance of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
Corporate Governance and Voting Policy Social & Environmental The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on manner.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests corporate governance, voting policy and social and of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the the Board.
share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked Corporate Governance with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These to how we implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is also analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory activity.
to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk in project finance.
Proxy Voting JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what from JPMAMs website: will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, http: www.
co. uk Institutional we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are  CorporateGovernance, which also sets out its invested.
approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
Stewardship Engagement JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional By order of the Board shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, Jonathan Latter, for and on behalf of managers should: JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their Secretary stewardship responsibilities to their clients: 31st May 2011 disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: JPMorgan European Smaller Companies Trust plc.
