Audit Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2011 The Audit Committee the Committee is comprised of independent non-executive directors and membership is detailed in the table below.
The Chairman, Chief Executive Officer CEO and Chief Financial Officer CFO may attend meetings and provide input as required.
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 44.
Members Committee member since Giles Kerr Committee Chairman 6 November 2007 a Colin Blakemore 16 July 2008 Peter Chambr 1 November 2010 b William Jenkins 27 July 2005 Ian Much 1 November 2010 a Colin Blakemore resigned from the Committee and the Board on 13 July 2010. b William Jenkins resigned from the Committee on 24 January 2011.
Giles Kerr is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants and Director of Finance at Oxford University.
He is considered by the Board to have the necessary significant recent and relevant financial experience to qualify him to be the chairman of the Committee.
He receives additional remuneration to compensate him for his additional responsibilities, as set out on page 63.
Other members bring substantial experience in the pharmaceutical and international business areas as well as financial expertise to the deliberations of the Committee.
For further information, see the directors biographies on pages 38 to 39.
The terms of reference of the Committee can be found on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
These terms of reference have been updated during the year to reflect the recommendations of the FRC Guidance published in December 2010.
A summary of matters considered at the Committee since the last Annual Report and actions taken is shown below: Review of the Groups half year results to 30 September 2010 and full year results to 31March 2011: Review of the reports from the external auditor on the interim and full year results to 31March 2011: Consideration of accounting issues, changes in accounting standards and their impact on Group reporting, in particular relating to the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group during the year: Review of the scope, nature, resource planning and fee estimate for the full year audit: Review of trading updates issued by the Group and amendments thereto: Assessment of the going concern basis: Review of revenue and cash management in the US sales third-party distribution arrangements: A review of IT security and controls: Review of risk management systems, internal controls and fraud procedures: Review of the Groups compliance systems and policies and the results of internal compliance monitoring and auditing: Review of the Groups whistle-blowing policy: Review of the impact of the UK Bribery Act on the operations of the Group and consideration of any amendments to Group policies to ensure compliance: Review of the disclosures relating to material risks in the business review: Assessment of the need for an internal audit function: Review of a new policy on non-audit work carried out by the Companys auditors: Considering a report of internal review work covering a review of controls at Group sites in the UK, US and Australia: Review of committee terms of reference: and Completion of an effectiveness review.
52 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance A key role of the Committee is to undertake detailed monitoring of the interim and annual financial statements.
As part of this review it discusses the audit findings and auditors report with management and the external auditor and considers significant judgements and issues contained in them, whether the financial statements comply fully with the relevant statutes and accounting standards and if they present a balanced assessment of the Companys financial position and prospects.
Following this discussion the Chairman of the Committee reports the results of its review to the full Board.
The external auditor usually meets with the non-executive directors in the absence of management at the time when the half and full year results are discussed.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes the detailed monitoring of the controls and reports to the Board on its findings twice a year.
The Committee has reviewed the system of internal controls including financial, operational, compliance and risk for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The criteria applied by the directors in judging the effectiveness of these controls are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed.
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper running of the business.
The Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the material controls of the Group, which are embedded within the day-to-day business.
The Committee with the Board has an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
The Group Risk Committee, chaired by the CFO and including staff from all sections of the business, reviews the risks throughout the business and identifies and evaluates risks which may impact on the Groups strategic and business objectives.
The Risk Committee maintains a risk management plan that identifies the key risks.
The plan is designed to assess the probability of those risks occurring, the impact should they occur, how such risks may be mitigated and monitored and the actions and individuals responsible for managing the risks.
The Committee continues to monitor all areas of risk and the progress of actions designed to mitigate such risks: it reports its findings twice-yearly through the Audit Committee to the Board.
The Audit Committee received the latest report at its May 2011 meeting, which included results of a review of the Biocompatibles Group following its acquisition in January 2011, and was satisfied with actions being taken to control and mitigate risks identified.
The Group also has a Compliance Committee which is responsible for maintaining a complete compliance system to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all applicable laws including US Federal and State requirements that relate to the commercial operations of the Group including the US sales and marketing team.
The results are reported to the Audit Committee alongside the twice-yearly risk management report.
For details of principal risks and uncertainties that may affect the business, see pages 25 to 29 in the business review.
53 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Audit Committee report continued The Audit Committee considered the process for internal audit compliance as part of its review.
The process for compliance is included as part of the responsibilities of each local finance function.
This process was changed during the year by an appointment to the Head Office finance team of a senior accountant, with considerable experience of internal audit and compliance work, who has been tasked to visit all sites to ensure compliance with all internal controls and authorities.
During the year the Groups offices in the UK, US and Australia were visited and every site will be visited at least annually in order to ensure high standards of compliance are maintained.
The Committee noted that the internal audit work did not identify any material weaknesses in internal control but approved proposals to enhance control procedures.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of internal controls and risk management systems.
The Company currently has no dedicated internal audit function and the Committee reviews on an annual basis as to whether this is still appropriate.
The Committee considered, taking account of the increasing size and complexity of the organisation, particularly following the recent acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group, that it was now time for the Company to employ a dedicated internal auditor.
A search for a suitable candidate to fill this role is currently underway.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring that arrangements under which employees may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial performance or other matters are operating effectively and that appropriate follow-up action takes place.
Included within the new Code of Conduct are details of the Groups whistle-blowing policy and there are posters and pamphlets prominently displayed at each site giving details of what employees should do if they have concerns regarding any aspect of the business.
Employees are encouraged to report any concerns without fear of recrimination and an independent telephone line is available should staff wish to use it.
These arrangements were reviewed by the Committee during the year.
The Committee reviews the overall performance of the auditor annually and approves its terms of engagement and remuneration.
The Committee discussed the auditors proposed work plan prior to the commencement of the audit of the results for the year to 31 March 2011 and also reviews the non-audit work carried out by the Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, to ensure that such services do not impair its independence or objectivity.
The Committee approved a new process for deciding whether the auditor may be employed for non-audit work detailing areas where the auditor may not be used, areas where it may be used subject to the agreement of the Committee and areas where prior approval is not required.
Areas where prior approval is not required include audit-related services as specified in the APB Ethical Standards for Auditors and other services, routine in nature, where the fee is not significant in the context of the audit fee and where the conduct of such services will not adversely impact auditor independence or objectivity.
The Committee may set a threshold for the annual expenditure for each type of work and will receive a written annual report describing the fees paid to the auditor for non-audit work and whether such services were pre-approved or specifically approved by the Committee.
The auditor is appointed by the shareholders at the AGM to ensure its independence.
The Committee regularly discusses the independence of the auditor and whether there should be a need to rotate audit firms.
Given the relative size of the Company to that of KPMG and that the lead audit partner is changed on a regular basis at least every five years, the Committee is presently satisfied that KPMG is independent in its reporting on the audit of the Group and rotation of firms is not necessary.
The current lead audit partner took over the audit as from the year ended 31 March 2009.
54 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Fees paid to KPMG included 439,000 in relation to non-audit work see note 9 on page 94 for an analysis.
The Committee believes that the use of KPMG was appropriate and efficient in the circumstances and that independence was preserved as a partner other than the audit partner was responsible for the work and the fees paid were insignificant in the context of the size of KPMG as a whole.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
Giles Kerr Chairman of the Audit Committee 55 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
