Nomination Committee report for the year ended 31 March 2011 The Nomination Committee the Committee is comprised of independent non-executive directors: membership of the Committee is detailed in the table below.
The Company Secretary or his deputy serves as secretary to the Committee.
Details of attendance at meetings are shown in the table on page 44.
Members Committee member since John Brown Committee Chairman 17 March 2008 Peter Chambr 22 May 2007 Giles Kerr 16 July 2008 James OShea 13 May 2009 The Committee terms of reference, which were updated during the year, can be found on the Companys website or from the Company on request.
The Committee has continued its review of Board membership to ensure it has the right balance of experience and expertise as the business develops and it is Company policy to refresh Board membership on a regular basis.
The Committee employs external consultants to assist it in making appointments.
Prior to any appointments being made, the Committee prepares a full description of the role, desired skills and capabilities required for the appointment.
It interviews candidates and produces a shortlist for subsequent interview by all Board members.
During the year the Committee considered the re-appointment of William Jenkins and Giles Kerr as non-executive directors, whose three-year contracts were due for renewal.
It was agreed that Giles Kerr would be re-appointed for a second three-year period but that William Jenkins, having served since 2002, would be re-appointed for a period of up to a year.
It was anticipated that William Jenkins would retire from the Board once a new non-executive director had been found who offered the detailed research and development experience that he provided.
Following the departure of Colin Blakemore, who retired from the Board at the time of the AGM on 13 July 2010, having served since 2007, and the completion of the latest review of the constitution and skills of the Board, the Committee commenced a search for new Board members.
Following an extensive search and interview process the Committee recommended to the Board that Ian Much be appointed to the Board and he joined on 1August 2010.
The Committee then commenced a further search to find a suitably qualified replacement for William Jenkins, and Melanie Lee was appointed on 29 November 2010.
Following her appointment, William Jenkins retired from the Board on 4February 2011.
Further details on the new Board members may be found in the directors biography section on pages 38 and 39.
Following the appointment of new non-executive directors, the Committee ensures that they receive a full induction programme.
As part of the induction process the new director is given a full briefing on the financial history of the Company and details of operating plans, budgets and forecasts for future years.
Arrangements are also made for the new director to meet with the heads of the various business units for an in-depth briefing on the areas in which the Company is involved.
A briefing on corporate governance and directors responsibilities may also be given and the opportunity to attend external courses is also available.
The Committee reviews succession plans and plans for emergency cover of key managers and directors on a regular basis.
As part of corporate governance, the Committee also carried out a review of its effectiveness and reported the results and its recommendations for improvement to the Board.
John Brown Chairman of the Nomination Committee 56 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
