Corporate governance The Board of BTG recognises its accountability to shareholders and believes that good corporate governance is essential to running a successful company.
The Board is committed to ensuring that high levels of corporate governance are maintained that underpin the management of the Companys affairs.
This report explains how the Company applies the principles of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC.
The Board considers that the Company complied with all the provisions set out in Section 1 of the Code throughout the year to 31 March 2011.
More information on the Code can be found on the FRC website, www.
Board composition, responsibilities and balance The Board comprises six non-executive directors, including the Chairman, and two executive directors.
The Board is chaired by John Brown who is responsible for leading the Board and ensuring the effectiveness on all aspects of its role.
The Chief Executive Officer CEO, Louise Makin, is primarily responsible for the running of the Group.
Rolf Soderstrom, Chief Financial Officer CFO, is responsible for all financial reporting, tax and financial control aspects of the Group.
The Board has appointed Giles Kerr as the Senior Independent Director SID.
The principal role of the SID is to support the Chairman in his role, to work with the Chairman and other directors to resolve any significant issues that may arise, to lead non-executive directors in the oversight of the Chairman and to ensure there is a clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
He is also available to shareholders to express concerns which the normal channels have failed to resolve or which would be inappropriate.
The names and brief biographical details of all the directors are set out on pages 38 to 39.
The table below details the composition of the Board, its Committees, together with their attendance at meetings since the last Annual Report and the Companys assessment of the independence of the directors.
Board and Committee Committee Board Nomination Audit Remuneration composition and attendance memberships Independent meetings Committee Committee Committee Total number of meetings 10 5 3 5 Executive directors Louise Makin CEO No 10 10 N A N A N A Rolf Soderstrom CFO No 10 10 N A N A N A Non-executive directors a John Brown Chairman Nomination No 10 10 5 5 N A N A b Colin Blakemore Audit, Remuneration Yes 1 1 N A N A N A c Peter Chambr Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Yes 10 10 5 5 3 3 5 5 d William Jenkins Audit, Remuneration Yes 7 8 N A 1 1 2 3 Giles Kerr Audit, Remuneration, Nomination Yes 10 10 5 5 3 3 5 5 e Melanie Lee Remuneration Yes 4 5 N A N A 1 1 f Ian Much Audit, Remuneration Yes 9 9 N A 3 3 4 4 James OShea Remuneration, Nomination Yes 10 10 5 5 N A 5 5 a J ohn Brown is excluded from the determination of independence by virtue of his role as Chairman of the Company.
b Colin Blakemore resigned from the Board and Committees at the date of the AGM on 13 July 2010. c Peter Chambr joined the Audit Committee on 1 November 2010. d W illiam Jenkins resigned as Chairman and as a member of the Remuneration Committee and of the Audit Committee on 24 January 2011 and from the Board on 4 February 2011. e M elanie Lee joined the Board on 29 November 2010 and joined the Remuneration Committee on 23 March 2011. f Ian Much joined the Board on 1 August 2010.
He was appointed to the Remuneration and Audit Committees on 28 September and 1 November 2010 respectively and became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee on 24 January 2011, following the resignation of William Jenkins.
g Directors who are not Committee members may attend meetings by invitation.
Details are not included in the table.
The external auditor usually attends the Audit Committee meetings.
44 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance The Board applies a rigorous process in order to satisfy itself that its non-executive directors remain independent.
The Board reviews the independence of the non-executive directors every year, using its own judgement when applying the criteria in the Code.
Having undertaken this review, the Board confirms that all the non-executive directors are considered to be independent in character and judgement.
In line with the recommendations of the Code, at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, are independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman, John Brown, was considered to be independent at the date of appointment although, in accordance with the Code, he is excluded from the determination of the independence of the non-executive directors thereafter.
The Board has a number of matters specifically reserved for its decision or approval.
These include the approval of the interim and annual financial statements, the interim management statements and major public announcements, setting strategic direction, budgets and long-term plans.
Other areas include the approval of major investments and disposals, major capital expenditure, major litigation, significant financing, dividend policy and senior executive remuneration.
The Board as a whole monitors operating performance, the performance of management, succession planning, health, safety and environmental performance and standards of ethical and social behaviour.
It is also responsible for developing robust corporate governance, legal compliance and risk management procedures aimed at safeguarding the Companys reputation and assets and the integrity of its financial information and business conduct.
While the executive and non-executive directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Company and have fiduciary duties towards shareholders, their roles are strictly delineated.
The executive directors have direct responsibility for the business operations of the Company, the non-executive directors have a responsibility to bring independent and objective judgement to Board decisions and the Chairmans primary responsibility is for the effective running of the Board.
The non-executive directors duties include helping to develop the Companys strategy and constructively challenging the executive directors where they consider it appropriate.
To address the effect of Section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 directors conflicts of interests, the Companys articles enable the Board to authorise situations that might give rise to directors conflicts of interest.
Directors complete a declaration form in order to determine whether any actual or potential conflicts need authorisation.
The forms are reviewed annually to ensure that the information provided is up to date and includes any disclosures made during the past year.
At the March 2011 Board meeting all directors were asked to review and make any necessary amendments to their existing declarations.
The Company Secretary has reviewed the latest declarations and has confirmed that no conflicts have arisen.
Board members are reminded at regular intervals to disclose any conflicts should they arise.
All such notifications are kept in a conflicts register maintained by the Company Secretary.
Any director who considers they may have a potential conflict of interest should report this to the Chairman in the first instance, who may consult the Nomination Committee and report their findings to the Board.
There is an agreed procedure for directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
Directors have direct access to the advice and the services of the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Company arranges appropriate directors and officers liability insurance.
The removal of a director or of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
45 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Corporate governance continued Information and training, performance evaluation and re-election of directors The directors are sent an agenda and a full set of papers for each item to be discussed, in advance of each Board or Committee meeting.
Additional information is provided as appropriate and senior executives regularly make presentations at Board meetings on the results and strategies in their areas of responsibility.
Board meetings are sometimes held at different office locations enabling non-executive directors an additional opportunity to visit other Company sites.
Upon joining BTG, each director receives a comprehensive induction pack, including written information and opportunities to meet key and relevant members of staff.
All directors refresh their knowledge regularly through publications and conferences and through information provided by the Company and its advisers.
The Board evaluates its own effectiveness and that of its Committees on an annual basis, both through measuring performance against annual objectives and through an individual appraisal process.
The Chairman of each Committee reports the results of the reviews back to the Board with identified areas for future action.
The CEO is responsible for appraising the performance of the CFO, the Chairman and nonexecutive directors review the performance of the CEO.
Each director was asked to complete a questionnaire comprising both qualitative and quantitative responses.
The Chairman subsequently interviewed each director separately to discuss their individual performance as a director over the past year, the effectiveness of the Committees and the Board as a whole and how it might improve its monitoring of the business.
The non-executive directors, led by the Senior Independent Director and following input from the executive directors, evaluated the performance of the Chairman.
The Committees also reviewed their performance and reported the results to the Chairman and the Board as a whole.
The operation of the Board and its members was considered to be effective and no particular issues were identified.
The non-executive directors meet at least once a year without the executive directors in order to discuss the performance of the executive directors and any concerns over their management of the Companys affairs.
The Financial Reporting Council published The UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in June 2010.
The Code has provided updated recommendations in many areas of corporate governance, and applies to all companies whose accounting period commences on or after 29 June 2010.
The Board has noted the provision that evaluation of the boards of FTSE350 companies should be externally facilitated at least every third year and has requested that arrangements be made to enable this to take place in future.
The Board reviews its constitution regularly and has established a clear plan for refreshing its members.
Changes to the composition of the Board during the year have been as follows: Ian Much joined the Board on 1 August 2010 and Melanie Lee joined on 29 November 2010.
Colin Blakemore retired from the Board on 13 July 2010 having served since 2007 and William Jenkins retired from the Board on 4 February 2011, having served since 2002.
Following these changes the Board comprised a non-executive Chairman, five independent non-executive directors and two executive directors.
As reported in the Nomination Committee report on page 56, the Committee continues to review the composition of the Board on a regular basis to ensure that, as the business evolves, the Board continues to have the necessary skills to continue the development of the business.
Among other provisions in the Code is a proposal that the directors of all FTSE350 companies should stand for election every year rather than every third year as at present.
Along with many other FTSE350 companies, the Board has decided to adopt the proposal early and all directors will stand annually for election as from this year.
46 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Ian Much and Melanie Lee, having been appointed to the Board since the last AGM, are standing for election for the first time while all the other directors are standing for re-election.
Following a formal evaluation process, the Chairman is satisfied that each of the directors continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to their role, including commitment of time for Board, Committee meetings and their other duties.
Led by the Senior Independent Director, the non-executive directors met without the Chairman being present, to consider the Chairmans performance.
The Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors are satisfied that he continues to perform effectively and demonstrates commitment to his role, including commitment of time for Board, Committee meetings and his other duties.
Further information on the directors is shown in their biographies on pages 38 to 39.
Financial reporting and internal control The statement of directors responsibilities in relation to the preparation of the financial statements is set out on page 69 and the auditors statement on the respective responsibilities of directors and the auditor is included within its report set out on pages 70 and 71.
Communications with shareholders, be they results announcements, interim reports, annual reports or AGM and trading updates, are reviewed carefully and approved by the Board, or a sub-committee thereof, in order to ensure they are transparent and balanced in the view they give of the Companys progress and prospects.
The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring that the Group maintains an adequate system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board undertakes the detailed monitoring of the controls, at least annually, and reports to the Board on its findings.
The Board has reviewed the system of internal controls including financial controls for the year under review and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The criteria applied by the directors in judging the effectiveness of these controls are that they allow the maximisation of shareholder value by exploiting business opportunities while ensuring that risks are properly identified and managed.
The controls are regularly reviewed to ensure that they enable the proper management of business risks without so restricting efficiency and entrepreneurial nature that they inhibit proper running of the business.
BTG has a management structure with clear lines of responsibility and accountability, staffed by appropriate personnel.
The Board is responsible for setting the overall strategy and reviewing the performance of the Group.
Structure and reporting The day-to-day running of BTGs operations is managed by the Companys Leadership Team, chaired by the CEO.
Other members include the CFO and senior staff members from the business.
This team is also responsible for the recommendation to the Board of the Companys strategy and its subsequent implementation, for ensuring that appropriate internal controls are in place to manage and assess risk and that they are fully complied with.
The fundamental elements of the Groups internal control and risk management framework are described below.
47 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Corporate governance continued The Group has well-defined management structures and processes for acquisition, assessment and evaluation of technology opportunities, and development and execution of commercialisation strategies and a number of committees report to the Leadership Team that monitor various parts of the business: Development Leadership Team: This evaluates new technology opportunities, and is intimately involved in the development and execution of commercialisation strategies: Operational Leadership Team: This is responsible for ensuring that the manufacturing and supply chain parts of the business are tightly controlled and their operations are optimised as far as possible: Risk Committee: This is responsible for monitoring risks throughout the organisation and reporting findings to the Audit Committee twice yearly: Compliance Committee: This is responsible for maintaining a complete compliance system to ensure that the Group is fully compliant with all applicable laws including US Federal and State requirements that relate to the commercial operations of the Group, including its US sales and marketing team.
This Committee reports to the Audit Committee at least twice yearly: Corporate Responsibility Committee: This is responsible for ensuring the Group maintains high standards in this area: and Integration Committee: Following the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group in January 2011, the Company has set up an Integration Committee to manage all aspects of bringing the two businesses together.
This Committee will continue its work during the coming year.
Compliance and the review of risk and risk management are embedded throughout the Group.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the detailed report of the Risk Committee and Compliance Committee and reported its findings to the whole Board.
For further details see the Audit Committee report on pages 52 to 55.
The Board has reviewed the risk management process and confirms that ongoing processes and systems ensure that BTG continues to be compliant with the guidance on internal control issued by the Code.
BTG actively monitors its royalty revenue streams and from time to time audits its major licensees to ensure compliance with the terms of agreements.
BTG also has a system for supporting the protection and maintenance of patents.
The Leadership Team meets formally at least once each month to review business performance measured against annual budgets and longer-term plans and an agreed set of objectives and performance criteria for each business unit.
Forecasts are reset quarterly on the basis of detailed reviews of progress and prospects.
Reporting to the Board is based on these monthly and quarterly assessments.
The reports include non-financial as well as financial information and a review of development progress with the portfolio.
Approval procedures The Group has delegated authority structures that ensure that decisions are taken at an appropriate level, with an appropriate level of input by internal and external expert advisers.
The delegated authority structure prescribes financial limits of approval at each level and requires decisions with significant financial, legal or reputational impact for BTG to be approved by the Board.
The process has been reviewed during the year, following the acquisition of the Biocompatibles Group, and a revised Group-wide structure has been put in place.
Corporate policies, values and compliance During the year a new Code of Conduct was issued and all employees within the Group received appropriate training on its key requirements.
The Code of Conduct covers all aspects of ethics, business practices and compliance, including an updated whistle-blowing policy, an anti-bribery and corruption policy and policies related to the ethical conduct of research and development and interactions with doctors and other healthcare professionals.
Relevant employees meet regularly to discuss external changes in the regulatory, legal and financial environments in which BTG operates to ensure it remains fully compliant with new legislation and best practice.
The Group also runs periodic sessions updating staff on key issues affecting the business.
48 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance The Board, through the Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the internal controls of the Group.
The controls described above operate and are embedded within the day-to-day business.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group.
A reporting structure has been in place throughout the year, up to the date of approval of the financial statements and is regularly reviewed by the directors in accordance with the Code.
Further information is given in the Audit Committee report on pages 52 to 55.
Related parties and conflicts of interest BTG maintains robust procedures to ensure that related party transactions and potential conflicts of interest are identified, disclosed and managed.
The directors are required to declare interests in other businesses on appointment to the Board and thereafter complete an annual self-certification.
Directors are also reminded at Board meetings to declare any changes.
Where it is identified that a related party relationship exists, the Board agrees specific additional procedures to ensure the effective management of potential conflicts of interest.
Giles Kerr, a non-executive director of BTG plc, is also the Director of Finance at Oxford University and a director of Isis Innovations Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Oxford University.
Melanie Lee is chairman of Cancer Research Technology Ltd.
Wholly owned subsidiaries of BTG plc entered into revenue sharing agreements with these organisations in each case prior to either Giles Kerr or Melanie Lee joining the BTG Board.
The BTG Group has licensed the Intellectual Property covered by these agreements to third-party companies that are developing and or selling the licensed products.
Under these licence agreements, BTG is entitled to receive milestone payments and or a royalty on sales of the products made by the third-party licensees.
Under the various revenue-sharing agreements, the BTG Group pays a share of any income it receives to Oxford University, Isis Innovations or Cancer Research Technology Ltd, depending on the specific technology that generated the income.
As the revenue sharing agreements do not permit these organisations to have any input over the commercialisation of the licensed products or the amount payable under the relevant revenue sharing agreement, Giles Kerr and Melanie Lee are not able to influence the amounts received in their positions outside BTG.
Because they have no influence over any aspect of these agreements in their roles outside the BTG Group, the Company considers that their independence in relation to the BTG Group is not compromised.
Within the BTG Group, to avoid any possible conflict of interest, it has been agreed that Giles Kerr and Melanie Lee will not participate in any discussions concerning the relevant agreements either within the Board meetings of BTG plc or in any other discussions or meetings with the executives of BTG plc and its subsidiaries.
The Board has considered, and is satisfied with, this separation of duties.
See note 36 on page 123 for additional related party disclosures.
Market abuse directive The Company has a Disclosure Committee, as required by the Market Abuse Directive, comprising the CEO, CFO and the Director of Investor Relations.
The Committee reviews all significant items of business within the Group regularly, and on an ad hoc basis if required, and maintains an Insider List recording both those employed within the Group and as external advisers who may have access to inside information.
Whenever individuals are placed on or removed from the List they are notified accordingly and advised of their responsibilities.
49 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Corporate governance continued Relations with shareholders and constructive use of the AGM BTG endeavours to maintain good communications with shareholders through the appropriate channels.
The Company formally reports its results twice a year with full year results announced in May and interim results in November.
The CEO and CFO give presentations of these results to the Companys institutional shareholders, analysts and the media.
The presentations are broadcast live on the internet for the information of shareholders and are available thereafter as an archive on the Companys website.
In addition, the Company prepares Interim Management Statements in January and July that are released to a regulatory news service and are available on the Companys website.
The CEO and CFO meet regularly with institutional investors with support from the Investor Relations department.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and other directors are available to meet with major shareholders on request.
As part of his role as the Senior Independent Director, Giles Kerr is available to shareholders when contact with the executive directors or the Chairman may not be appropriate.
No requests have been received from major shareholders to meet with the Chairman, Senior Independent Director or other nonexecutive directors during the year, although the Chairman met with a number of institutional shareholders as part of the Companys shareholder communications programme.
The Investor Relations department acts as a contact point for investors throughout the year.
The directors receive a report from the Investor Relations department at each Board meeting giving information on the changes in shareholdings and any feedback from the Companys brokers and investors.
Following the twice-yearly results announcements, detailed feedback from external advisers and brokers is provided to the Board, outlining the views and reactions of investors and analysts.
This enables the Board to develop an understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
The Annual Report contains a full business review and the interim report, which is available on the Companys website, gives an update at the half year.
Extensive information, including annual and interim reports, interim management statements and all press releases, is published on the Companys website www.
com for access by all shareholders.
In addition, through the website, individuals can register to receive electronic copies of all Company announcements on the day they are issued.
The AGM is the principal opportunity for private shareholders to meet and discuss the Groups business with the directors and other senior management.
A full business presentation is given and there is an open question and answer session during which shareholders may ask questions both about the resolutions being proposed and the business in general.
The directors are available after the meeting for an informal discussion with shareholders.
Notice of the AGM, which will be held at 10.30am on 20 July 2011, at the offices of Stephenson Harwood, 1 Finsbury Circus, London EC2M 7SH, is included with this report.
The Notice of the AGM is sent to all shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The directors report on pages 40 to 43 summarises the main resolutions and the letter accompanying the AGM Notice includes details of the resolutions and explanatory notes thereon.
Members of the Company unable to attend the meeting may elect to vote electronically or use the proxy form enclosed with the AGM Notice.
In order to vote electronically, members should log on to Capita Registrars website www.
com and follow the instructions on the screen.
Crest members may send their proxy votes to the Companys registrars electronically.
At the AGM the number of proxy votes cast in favour, against and withheld in respect of each resolution will be disclosed and subsequently published on the Companys website.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be present at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
50 Directors and governance BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance Audit Committee and auditor BTG has an established Audit Committee with the principal responsibilities of overseeing financial reporting and internal control matters and maintaining appropriate relations with the Companys auditor.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on pages 52 to 55.
Appointments to the Board The Company has a Nomination Committee with responsibilities that include reviewing the size and composition of the Board: making recommendations to the Board on the appointment of executive and non-executive directors: the re-appointment of non-executive directors when their three-year terms of appointment expire and for ensuring that succession planning is in place.
The Committee also advises the Board on matters generally relating to Board appointments and meets as required but at least twice a year.
A report on the work of the Committee is set out on page 56.
Compliance with the provisions of the Combined Code The Board considers that the Company complied in full with the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2011.
Details of directors remuneration, as required by the Combined Code and Schedule 8 to the Large and Medium Sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008, is set out in the remuneration report on pages 57 to 68.
The Companys auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, is required to review whether this corporate governance statement reflects the Companys compliance with nine of the Codes provisions as specified in the Listing Rules of the FSA, relating to Accountability and Audit.
Having conducted such a review KPMG is obliged to report if it considers this statement of corporate governance does not reflect such compliance.
The Company confirms that no such report has been made.
John Brown Chairman 24 May 2011 51 BTG plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors and governance
