Governance 45 Shareholders are keptinformed of the progress The Companys first AGM will be held on 14June and performance of the Group through the 2012 at the Institute of Directors, 116PallMall, Annual Report, half year results, production London SW1Y5ED.
This will provide all shareholders reports, interim management statements, and with the opportunity to vote on the resolutions put to the AGM.
This information and other significant shareholders and, for those shareholders who are able announcements of the Group are released to to attend, to ask questions of the Board of Directors, the London Stock Exchange and are available including the Chairmen of the Committees.
AGM Notice is set out in a separate document accompanying the Annual Report and the result of the AGM voting on all resolutions will be published on the Companyswebsite.
Board Committees Audit Committee The full terms of reference of the Committee can be Meetings Members attended found on the Companys website, www.
com, Lord Renwick 4 4 or can be obtained from the Group General Counsel Steven Shapiro 4 4 and Company Secretary.
Sir Graham 4 4 Hearne Role of the Committee Sony Harsono 4 4 The Audit Committees remit includes the following: Amir Sambodo 3 3 monitoring the integrity of the financial statements joined the Committee in June 2011. of the Company and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained in them: Lord Renwick reviewing the effectiveness of the procedures for Chairman the identication, assessment and reporting ofrisk: monitoring the role and effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function including approving the annual program of internal All members of the Audit Committee are INEDs audit work and the appointment or removal and Messrs Steven Shapiro and Sony Harsono have of the head of internalaudit: recent and relevant financial experience as required reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys by the Governance Code.
internal controls: reviewing arrangements by which staff may The meetings of this Committee are normally attended in confidence raise concerns about possible by the Chief Financial Officer, the Group Financial improprieties regarding financial reporting Controller, the external auditors who have direct and other matters: access to the Chairman of the Committee and, considering and making recommendations to the for internal audit reviews, KPMG following their Board on the appointment of the external auditors, appointment to support the Group internal audit including approving the remuneration and terms and risk functions.
At the end of every meeting the of engagement of the external auditors: Committee has the opportunity to meet alone with approving the scope of the external auditors the external auditors.
The secretary to the Committee annual audit programme and reviewing the output: is the Group General Counsel and CompanySecretary.
monitoring and reviewing the external auditors independence and the effectiveness of the audit The Chairman of the Committee reports to subsequent process, taking into account the planning of, meetings of the Board and the Board receives a copy and results from, their work: and of the minutes of each meeting once these have been developing, implementing and monitoring approved by the Committee.
The Committees compliance with a policy on the engagement of effectiveness was reviewed as part of the Board the external auditors to supply non-audit services.
evaluation process and it was concluded to have operated effectively.
Bumi plc | Governance 46 Annual Report 2011 Board Committees continued Activities during the year information as required under Sections 418 The Audit Committee met four times during 2011. and 419 of the Companies Act: The annual work programme includes meeting reviewed the work undertaken to support the prior to the publication of the Companys full and going concern statement: and half year results and other regular scheduled items, reviewed the management representation letter areas considered to require particular focus and to the external auditors.
The Committee has also overseen the development In this first year for the Group, the priority for the of a risk management framework and an internal Audit Committee has been to establish a framework audit framework for the Group.
of risk management and internal controls to be operated throughout the Group with oversight from The Groups risk management and internal audit the Bumiplc Board, its Committees and executive planning commenced in April 2011.
The Companys management all in accordance with the guidance set aim was to build risk management and internal audit out in the Governance Code and in the Committee frameworks to achieve standards commensurate with of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway those expected by commonly accepted international Commission COSO framework.
practices which could be implemented in a practical and comprehensive manner, and replicated with The development of the framework of controls has any future acquisitions.
Consistent with the overall been informed by financial reporting procedures Group philosophy, our approach is to work at a local work performed in connection with the prospectus level, building on what is already in place, using the for the premium listing issued by the Company on model developed by Bumiplc.
The approach includes: 17June 2011, and supported through the engagement of KPMG reporting to the Group General Counsel a gap analysis providing insights into the status and Company Secretary acting as the Group Head of local company practices using international of Internal Audit and Risk Management until a standards, including the IIA frameworks as well permanent appointment is made.
as internationally recognised internal control and reporting frameworks COSO : Whilst the Committees primary focus is on the the design of an integration plan and mechanisms, Group, it has also sought to inuence the Wider Group including internal reporting templates, risk insofar as it is able to do so, through recommending assessment workshop materials and annual plans: to PTBumi the adoption of Group governance and integration support providing guidance and control policies where relevant andappropriate.
practical help to implement enhanced and or new procedures and review prior programmes: In respect of financial reporting, in addition collaborative oversight to ensure decision making to reviewing the above mentioned prospectus respects local and Group needs and to help and the 2011 half year and full year results, escalation of relevant matters to the Board:and theCommittee: formal reporting creating the basis for the review of progress and reports by the AuditCommittee.
oversaw the implementation of a series of policies, practices and controls in relation to The Groups approach is to identify the key risks that financial reporting and, in particular, Group could have a significant impact on the ability of the reportingprocesses: Group to achieve its objectives, analyse those risks, reviewed and approved the Group accounting ensure appropriate responses are put in place to policies, including the introduction of new mitigate the risks and monitor the implementation and accounting policies, and the Groups first effectiveness of such controls with regular reporting IFRS budget and five year plan: to the Audit Committee.
The principal aim of the risk conducted regular reviews of balance sheet items, management system is the management of business including the carrying value of assets, business risks that are significant to the fullment of the Groups development funds and the repayment of related strategic objectives, with a view to enhancing the value party balances: of the shareholders investment and the safeguarding reviewed the fair values ascribed to the assets of assets.
Due to the limitations inherent in any risk and liabilities on the acquisition of PTBerau management system, this is designed to manage and interests in PTBumi: rather than eliminate risk.
oversaw the development of a process to manage expenditure over the full project life cycle which The development and implementation of the Bumiplc is to be implemented in 2012: risk management framework took place in 2011 with reviewed managements reporting of reserves the support of KPMG and resulted in the delivery of andresources: a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and reviewed the process designed to ensure the managing the significant risks faced by the Group external auditors are aware of all relevant which supports the Principal Risks and Uncertainties Governance 47 set out on pages 28 to 29.
This process also delivered Accordingly the Committee recommended to the a Group risk register for 2011, regular reports at Board that PwC be re-appointed as the Groups Committee meetings and the further development auditors for a further year.
The Board has accepted ofrisk assessment programmes to be applied in 2012, this recommendation and has proposed a resolution ineach case working closely with the Head of Internal to shareholders for the re-appointment of PwC Audit at PTBerau.
The Committee regularly reviews in the AGM Notice which accompanies this and reports on this process to the Board, and considers AnnualReport.
that it complies with the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by the FRCincluded The Committee also reviewed PwCs engagement with the GovernanceCode.
letter and determined its remuneration in accordance with the authority given to it by shareholders, such The Committee is also responsible for Group internal remuneration being considered appropriate by audit.
The role of the internal audit function is to theCommittee.
help Bumiplc achieve its objectives by systematically evaluating and helping to improve risk management, The Committee has approved a policy which provides internal controls and corporate governance.
In 2011, clear guidance regarding non-audit work that may with the assistance of KPMG, appointed on a co-source be undertaken by the external auditors.
Whilst the basis to support the development and implementation Committee believes that in certain circumstances it of the internal audit framework for the Group, a Group is appropriate for non-audit work to be undertaken internal audit plan for 2011 was delivered together by the external auditors these are limited and, in a with detailed plans for 2012, in each case working normal year, total non-audit fees paid to the external closely with the Head of Internal Audit at PTBerau.
auditors would be expected to be lower than total audit fees.
However, the Committee has recognised In addition the Audit Committee also oversaw: that 2011 has been an exceptional year for the Group, reecting its formation, and has resulted in the development of the Groups Code of Conduct the non-audit fees being higher than the audit fees.
which was adopted by the Boards of Bumiplc At each meeting, the Committee reviews the nature and PTBerau in 2011: and amount of non-audit work performed by the with the assistance of Freshelds Bruckhaus auditors, as well as the fees charged, with a particular Deringer LLP and  focus on ensuring that the engagement of such services LLP PwC, the initiation of an anti-bribery does not undermine the auditors independence and corruption ABC programme for the andobjectivity.
Group which is being rolled out in 2012 with policies covering key risk areas that have been An analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and approved by the Board: and non-audit services provided by PwC for 2011 is set the appointment of an internationally recognised out in note 6 on page 91.
The majority of non-audit independent third party helpline provider based services provided by PwC during the year relate in the US, Global Compliance, to implement to work in connection with the prospectus for a whistleblowing policy for the Group which the premium listing, the proposed acquisition of is also to be rolled out in 2012.
PTBerau and investment in PTBumi and the proposed acquisition of BRM.
Having reviewed During the period, the Audit Committee met such non-audit services the Committee is satisfied four times and received regular reports, including that they were provided efficiently by the external internal audit reports, regarding the Companys auditors and did not prejudice their independence risk management and internal control systems which orobjectivity.
allowed it to monitor key matters, performance against objectives and follow up on actions to be taken to remedy any significant failings or weaknesses identied from such reports.
The Committee is also responsible for managing the relationship with PwC, the Groups external auditors on behalf of the Board.
The Committee reviews the independence and objectivity of the external auditors and carries out an annual assessment taking into consideration their qualications and expertise, regulatory requirements and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Following their assessment in respect of 2011, the Committee has concluded that the external auditors have demonstrated appropriate qualications and expertise, have remained independent of the Group and that the audit process was effective.
