Governance 41 Governance Report The Governance Report set out below is designed to Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities provide shareholders with a comprehensive summary have been delegated to the following committees of the Groups governance arrangements and an Committees and the terms of reference of such explanation of how the Company has applied the committees are available at www.
com: main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Audit Committee: Remuneration Committee: Code Governance Code as relevant for the Nomination Committee: Health, Safety, Environment Company in 2011.
The Directors believe that the and Communities HSEC Committee: and the Company has complied with the provisions set ConictsCommittee.
out in the Governance Code since the Directors joined the Board of Bumiplc on 11April 2011 A list of the individual Directors, their biographies and references in this Governance Report to 2011 and Committee memberships is set out on pages 38 shall be construed as meaning from this date except and 39.
As described in the Chairmans statement that, when he joined the Board as Chairman, Indra on pages 6 and 7 and as announced following the Bakrie was not independent within the criteria of the Board meeting on 26March 2012, the Board Governance Code on the date of his appointment comprises 16Directors and Messrs Samin Tan, as he was nominated as a Director of the Company NalinRathod and Scott Merrillees replaced Messrs by PTBakrie & Brothers Tbk and Long Haul Indra Bakrie, Ari Hudaya and Andrew Beckham Holdings Ltd together the BakrieGroup which as Chairman, CEO and CFO of the Company, are substantial shareholders in theCompany.
Andrew Beckham stepped down from the Board and was replaced by Scott Merrillees as The first meeting of the Board of Directors of the CFO, whilst Indra Bakrie became Co-Chairman Company took place on 11 April 2011 in Jakarta.
and Messrs Nathaniel Rothschild and Ari Hudaya On 17 June 2011, the Company issued a prospectus became non-independent Non-Executive Directors applying for its issued voting ordinary share capital of the Company.
The biographies of the new Directors to be admitted to the premium listing segment of are set out on pages 38 and 39. the Official List and to the London Stock Exchange, and for such shares to be admitted to trading on The Board has resolved that all Directors will be the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed subject to re-election annually by the shareholders securities.
On 28 June 2011, the Companys ordinary starting with the Annual General Meeting AGM shares were admitted to trading on the London in 2012.
The resolutions to be proposed regarding Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities such re-elections and the appointment of new Directors and it became the parent company of Vallarplc are set out in the Companys notice of AGM AGM now Vallar Limited and the ultimate owner of Notice which is being issued at the same time as this Vallarplcs interests in PTBerau and PTBumi.
One of the resolutions to be proposed at the AGM is to change the Articles of Association The details of Vallar plcs original acquisition of of the Company to increase the permitted size of the a 75% interest in PTBerau and a 25% interest in Board to 18members to enable the appointment PTBumi which closed on 8 April 2011 and 4March of furtherDirectors.
2011, respectively are set out in a prospectus issued by Vallar plc on 24February 2011 and the 2010 The Board and its Committees have regular scheduled Annual Report for Vallar plc which was issued meetings and hold additional meetings as and when on 28April2011.
During 2011, the Board met five times on scheduled occasions and two additional meetings took Leadership place.
Directors are expected, where possible, to attend The Board is responsible to Bumiplcs shareholders for all Board meetings, relevant Committee meetings creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value and the AGM.
The core activities of the Board and through the management of the Groups businesses its Committees are documented and planned on an within the Companys governance framework.
This annual basis with an annual schedule of agenda items framework is based on the principles in the Governance and the maintenance of, and follow up on, a list of Code.
The Boards role is to set Group strategy and matters arising from each meeting.
values and to ensure that appropriate standards, controls and resources are in place to deliver it.
As well During the course of 2011, the Board has been as oversight responsibility for financial performance, establishing an effective governance framework to internal controls and risk management of the Group, support the management of the Groups activities and the Board has a formal schedule of matters specically guide the affairs of the Group in pursuing its strategy.
reserved to it for its decision which is available at The Groups strategy is discussed on a regular basis at www.
These include major variations Board meetings and from 2012 one scheduled Board from and changes to the annual budget, material meeting will be focused specically on this subject capital projects and investments, acquisitions and and plans for future growth.
Bumi plc | Governance 42 Annual Report 2011 Governance continued Sir Julian Horn-Smith is the Senior Independent Board meetings attended Director SID and Deputy Chairman of the by each Director during 2011 Company.
His role and responsibilities as SID are Directors Meetings attended also set out in the Responsibilities Statement.
As Indra Bakrie 7 7 well as maintaining contact with major shareholders Nathaniel Rothschild 7 7 and making himself available to shareholders whose Ari Hudaya 3 7 concerns have not been satisfied through the normal Andrew Beckham 7 7 channels, the SID is the Chairman of the Nomination James Campbell 7 7 Committee and is also responsible for ensuring that Rosan Roeslani 7 7 the performance of the Board, its Committees and Independent Non-Executive Directors all Directors including the Chairman is formally Sir Julian Horn-Smith 7 7 and rigorously evaluated at least once a year working Lord Renwick 7 7 as appropriate with the Nomination Committee.
Steven Shapiro 7 7 Sir Graham Hearne 7 7 Effectiveness During 2011, the Board was made up of 14 Directors Amir Sambodo 7 7 comprising the Chairman Indra Bakrie, the Philip Yeo 7 7 Co-Chairman Nathaniel Rothschild, two Executive Sony Harsono 7 7 Directors, two non-independent Non-Executive 1 Badung Tariono 3 3 Directors and eight INEDs.
As mentioned above, the 1 Appointed 1 July 2011. membership of all the Board Committees comprises only INEDs.
The Board considers all its INEDs to be independent in accordance with the Governance Both the Companys subsidiary, PTBerau, and Code and reviews the independence of its INEDs its associate, PTBumi, are separately listed on the annually in accordance with the criteria set out Indonesia Stock Exchange.
As part of the governance within the Governance Code.
framework, in 2011 oversight of the management of the Companys subsidiary PTBerau was achieved The Board believes that there is an appropriate range through the presence on the PTBerau Board of one and balance of skills, experience, independence and of the Companys Non-Executive Directors, Rosan knowledge on the Board.
The Board also believes there Roeslani, as PTBeraus President Director.
In the case is an appropriate balance between independent and of its associate PTBumi, the ability of the Company to non-independent Directors and that the Non-Executive seek to inuence the activities of PTBumi was achieved Directors have a broad range of experience gained through common Board membership, which in 2011 in a suitable variety of private sector and government comprised Messrs Hudaya and Beckham who were the backgrounds internationally, and particularly President Director and CFO respectively, of PTBumi.
The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive As founders of the Company, Messrs Nathaniel Officer are separate and their responsibilities are set Rothschild and James Campbell are not considered out in a statement approved by the Board and signed independent together with Messrs IndraBakrie, by the then Chairman in 2011 Responsibilities AriHudaya, AndrewBeckham and RosanRoeslani Statement which is available at www.
who were appointed under relationship agreements The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and entered into with two significant shareholders of the effective running of the Board.
The Chief Executive Company, the Bakrie Group and PTBukit Mutiara.
Officer is responsible for the running of the Groups These relationship agreements were fully disclosed business within the authorities delegated by theBoard.
when shareholder approval was received for the acquisition of the interests in PTBerau and PTBumi.
The structure of the Board is designed to ensure Under the terms of those relationship agreements, that the independent Non-Executive Directors the Bakrie Group can nominate for appointment INEDs are in a position to constructively up to three Directors for the positions of Chairman, challenge and help guide strategy, monitor Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, management and the reporting of performance, and PTBukit Mutiara can nominate for appointment and to satisfy themselves regarding the standards one Non-Executive Director, subject to each of the of the Groups financial controls and systems of risk Bakrie Group and PTBukit Mutiara respectively management.
In accordance with the Governance retaining control of 15% of the votes able to be cast Code at least half of the members of the Board at general meetings of the Company.
are independent and the membership of all the Committees comprise only INEDs and in the These relationship agreements also regulate relations case of the HSEC Committee, an independent between such shareholders and the Company with technicaladvisor.
provisions which require that the Company will comply with the Listing Rules: the Company will be capable Governance 43 at all times of carrying on its business independently Non-Executive Director of the Company, Rosan of such shareholders: all transactions and relationships Roeslani is also the President Director of PTBerau, between the Company and such shareholders are at a subsidiary of the Company and President Director arms-length on a normal commercial basis: and the of Recapital.
In each case the Board believes these goodwill, reputation and commercial interests of the roles are complementary to the interests of, and do Company are maintained.
not affect the ability of such Directors to devote sufficient time to, the Company.
The INEDs meet without the Executive Directors and the non-independent Non-Executive Directors at All Directors appointed to the Board receive an the end of each scheduled Board meeting and at other induction programme which, depending upon times when appropriate, such as on the occasion of the their qualications and experience, will include proposed acquisition of BRM by the Company and presentations and briengs, meetings with senior following the receiptof a notice under Section303 of management and visits to key sites and offices.
the Companies Act 2006 from PTBorneo requesting changes to theBoard.
Ongoing professional development is provided to all Directors.
In 2011, the Boards professional development The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee focused primarily on the responsibilities and duties of a are set out on page 48 and include succession planning director of a premium listed company as well as briengs and determining the selection criteria and suitability on developments in corporate governance and the of prospective candidates having regard to the overall UK Bribery Act.
Board site visits are also considered balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the important and, in April 2011, a three day visit to Board and recommendations from the Companys Kalimantan was arranged to enable the Directors to major shareholders.
The Committee recognises the meet with key personnel, receive detailed briengs on importance of diversity and when recruiting ensures the operations and expansion plans, and visit local offices that there are no obstacles to the Committee having and mine locations at PTBerau, KPC andArutmin.
visibility of suitable candidates for possible appointment to the Board, in particular regardless ofgender.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Group General Counsel and Company Secretary The Nomination Committee reviews the background who is responsible to the Board for ensuring the Board and proles of the candidates using independent procedures are complied with.
The Group General external consultants and search rms when appropriate Counsel and Company Secretary is responsible for and interviews are also carried out before candidates advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all are recommended to the Board.
In the case of governance matters.
Under the direction of the appointments in 2011 and those proposed in the Chairman, the Group General Counsel and Company AGM Notice, as the focus was on Indonesian Secretarys responsibilities include ensuring good background and experience the Nomination information ows within the Board and its Committees, Committee sought suggestions from its shareholders.
and between senior management and Non-Executive Following this, candidates were the subject of detailed Directors, as well as facilitating induction and assisting background checks by an independent consultant with professional development asrequired.
followed by meetings with, at a minimum, the SID and one other member of the Committee before The Group General Counsel and Company Secretary being recommended to the Board.
The same acts as secretary to the Board and to each of its process was followed regarding the appointment Committees.
The appointment or removal of the of Messrs Tan, Rathod and Merrillees who were Group General Counsel and Company Secretary nominated in accordance with the above mentioned is a matter for the Board as a whole.
relationship agreement with the BakrieGroup.
Directors may obtain independent professional Whilst Non-Executive Directors are appointed advice at the Companys expense if they believe it by the Board for an initial three year term, all may be required in the furtherance of their duties.
Directors will be subject to re-election annually by the shareholders starting with the AGM in 2012.
In 2011, the Board, the Audit and Remuneration Subsequent appointment is subject to review by the Committees and individual Director evaluations Nomination Committee.
Their terms of appointment were conducted by the SID and the Chairmen are available for inspection in accordance with the of the Committees using written questionnaires Governance Code and the Board is satisfied that which covered a number of key areas, including their other duties do not conict with their time access to timely, clear and accurate information, commitments as Directors of the Company.
The the responsibilities of the Board and such Chairmans other commitments are as indicated in Committees, the relationship between the Board his prole on page 38 and do not affect his ability to and management, and ongoing development devote sufficient time to the Company.
As disclosed for Non-Executive Directors.
The results of the in their proles on page 38 and 40, Ari Hudaya and evaluations were considered by the SID and Andrew Beckham are also the President Director the Committee Chairmen and have either been and CFO respectively of PTBumi, an associate of the addressed or will form part of the agenda for Company, and in addition to being a non-independent the Board and such Committees in2012.
Bumi plc | Governance 44 Annual Report 2011 Governance continued Following these evaluations, the Directors concluded The Board confirms that a system of internal controls that the Board and its Committees operate effectively for the period ended 31December 2011 has been and also considered that each Director is contributing designed and is being established in accordance with effectively and demonstrating commitment to the the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control role.
As mentioned in the Chairmens letter on pages published by the FRC to assist with implementing the 6 and 7, Ari Hudayas attendance record in 2011 was Governance Code.
The Board, with advice from the compromised by his ill health but this did not affect Audit Committee, has reviewed the effectiveness of the his commitment to the Company.
Groups system of internal controls.
With Bumiplc in its first year, and PTBerau a new public company only The Board, Committee and individual Director from August 2010, 2011 has been a period of evolution evaluations will be facilitated by an independent for the Groups system of internal controls and this will external facilitator in 2012, and at least once every continue in the current year.
significant progress has three years going forwards in accordance with the been achieved during the period, as reported, and plans Governance Code.
have been established to address areas where the system of internal controls can be strengthened.
The Boards Accountability review process included consideration of the outcome of Through this Annual Report and, as required, through the work of the Audit Committee and reports provided other periodic financial statements the Board is by the ExecutiveDirectors.
committed to providing shareholders with a clear assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
This review excludes associates of the Company as the management of Bumiplc does not have the Statements regarding the status of the Company ability to dictate or modify the internal controls of these as a going concern and the Directors responsibilities entities and therefore can only recommend that local for reporting the financial statements can be found management adopts the Groups standards where on pages 24 and 69, respectively.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee comply Remuneration with the provisions of the Governance Code and Details of the level and make up of the Directors accordingly statements regarding the review of the remuneration and the work of the Remuneration Companys internal control and risk management Committee as required by the Governance Code systems, arrangements by which staff may in confidence and the Large and Medium-sized Companies and raise concerns about possible improprieties, the Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008 appointment of external auditors, and the provision can be found in the Remuneration Report on of non-audit services by the auditors can be found pages 50 to 61. in the Audit Committee report on pages 45 to 47.
Relations with shareholders The Board has overall responsibility for the The Board supports the objectives of the UK Groups system of internal control.
The system of Stewardship Code and welcomes opportunities internal control includes financial, operational and to engage constructively with shareholders.
The compliance controls, risk management procedures Board also recognises the importance of maintaining and a review of their effectiveness at least annually.
an ongoing relationship with the Companys shareholders based on frequent and purposeful The Board has delegated its responsibility for dialogue.
During 2011, a number of meetings with reviewing the effectiveness of these controls to institutional shareholders were held both in the UK the Audit Committee.
The results of the Audit and internationally by the Chairman, Co-Chairman, Committees work were reported to and considered Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, by the Board, which retains responsibility for the SID and the Group Head of Communications the disclosures on internal control in the Annual and Investor Relations to ensure that the investor Report.
Similarly, while the Audit Committee community received a balanced and comprehensive is responsible for oversight of the effectiveness view of the Groups performance and the issues it of the risk management systems, accountability faced during its rstyear.
for identifying and managing risks rests with the Board and executive management team.
The Board monitors the views of shareholders by way of a report from the Group Head of Communications The internal control systems are designed to meet and Investor Relations at every Board meeting the Groups needs and manage the risks to which covering investor feedback as well as analysts and it is exposed, although these cannot be altogether brokers reports and briengs, and a summary of the eliminated.
Such systems can only provide main movements in shareholdings.
The Chairman, reasonable but not absolute assurance against Co-Chairman and the SID remain available to material misstatement or loss.
meet institutional shareholders to discuss any issuesorconcerns.
