Directors Report continued Recommendation information is provided to the Board to enable it to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their The Board considers that resolutions 10 to 12 are likely to responsibilities.
promote the success of the Company and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders as a whole.
The There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent Directors unanimously recommend that you vote in favour of professional advice if necessary and at the Companys expense.
the resolutions as they intend to do in respect of their own This is in addition to the access that every Director has to the beneficial holdings which amount in aggregate to 50,341 advice and services of the Company Secretary, JPMAM, which is shares representing approximately 0.1% of the voting rights in responsible to the Board for ensuring that the Board the Company.
procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
Corporate Governance Statement Board Composition Compliance During the year the Board consisted of seven non-executive Directors, chaired by Pamela Idelson Smith, all of whom are The Company is committed to high standards of corporate regarded by the Board as independent of the Companys governance.
This statement, together with the Statement of Manager.
The Chairmans independence was assessed upon Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Accounts on her appointment and is re-assessed on an annual basis.
Paul page 30, indicates how the Company has applied the principles Teleki retired from the Board on 10th January 2011.
Mrs Nott of good governance of the Financial Reporting Councils UK was appointed to the Board after the Companys year end on Corporate Governance Code 2010 the UK Corporate 17th November 2011.
Governance Code and the AICs Code of Corporate Governance, the AIC Code, which complements the UK The Directors have a breadth of investment knowledge, Corporate Governance Code and provides a framework of best business and financial skills and experience relevant to the practice for investment trusts.
Companys business, and brief biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 16 and 18.
The Board is responsible for ensuring the appropriate level of corporate governance and considers that, apart from certain A review of Board composition and balance is included as part matters noted below, the Company has complied with the best of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which may be found below.
The Board has considered whether insofar as they are relevant to the Companys business, and the a senior independent director should be appointed and has AIC Code throughout the year under review.
concluded that, as the Board consists entirely of non-executive directors, this is unnecessary at present.
However, the Role of the Board Nomination Committee Chairman leads the evaluation of the performance of the Chairman and is available to shareholders A management agreement between the Company and JPMAM if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through sets out the matters over which the Manager has authority.
This discussion with the Chairman.
includes management of the Companys assets and the provision of accounting, company secretarial, administration, Tenure and some marketing services.
All other matters are reserved for the approval of the Board.
A formal schedule of matters Directors are initially appointed until the following Annual reserved to the Board for decision has previously been General Meeting when, under the Companys Articles of approved.
This includes determination and monitoring of the Association, it is required that they be elected by shareholders.
Companys investment objectives and policy and its future Thereafter, Directors stand for annual re-election, following the strategic direction, gearing policy, management of the capital Boards adoption of corporate governance best practice which structure, appointment and removal of third party service states that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should stand for providers, review of key investment and financial data and the annual reappointment.
Subject to the performance evaluation Companys corporate governance and risk control carried out each year, the Board will agree whether it is arrangements.
appropriate for the Director to seek an additional term.
The Board does not believe that length of service in itself The Board meets at least quarterly during the year and necessarily disqualifies a Director from seeking re-election but, additional meetings are arranged as necessary.
Full and timely 24 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 when making a recommendation, the Board will take into Training and Appraisal account the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance On appointment, the Manager and Company Secretary provide Code, including the need to refresh the Board and its suball Directors with induction training.
The Companys Articles of Association require that briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements Directors stand for re-election at least every three years.
Any that affect the Company and the Directors.
Directors are Director who has served for a period of more than nine years encouraged to attend industry and other seminars covering will stand for annual re-election thereafter.
As previously stated, issues and developments relevant to investment trusts.
the Board has decided to acknowledge the UK Corporate Governance Code and accordingly all continuing Directors will be The Board conducts a formal evaluation of the Manager, its standing for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Having been own performance and that of its committees and individual appointed during the year, Mr Jeens and Mrs Nott will both stand Directors.
Questionnaires, drawn up by the Board, are for initial election.
completed by each Director, the responses are collated and then discussed at a private meeting.
The evaluation of The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set individual Directors is led by the Chairman, and the Chairman out in formal letters of appointment, copies of which are of the Audit Committee leads the evaluation of the Chairmans available for inspection on request at the Companys registered performance.
The Board as a whole evaluates the Manager, its office and at the AGM.
own performance and that of its Committees.
As a result of the evaluation process described below, the Board confirms that Mr Jeens and Mrs Nott, who will retire and Board Committee seek election, together with all other Directors, who retire and Nomination Committee seek re-election at this years Annual General Meeting, The Nomination Committee, chaired by Patrick Gifford, consists continue to be effective Directors.
Accordingly, the Board of all Directors and meets at least annually to ensure that the recommends the election of Mr Jeens and Mrs Nott and the Board has the balance of skills and experience to carry out its re-election of all other continuing Directors.
fiduciary duties and to select and propose suitable candidates, for appointment when necessary.
A variety of sources, including Meetings and Committees the use of external recruitment consultants, may be used to The Board delegates certain responsibilities and functions to ensure that a wide range of candidates is considered.
Details of membership of committees are shown Committee engaged the services of a recruitment consultancy with the Directors profiles on pages 16 and 18. with regard the appointment of Mr Jeens and Mrs Nott.
The table below details the number of Board, Audit and The Nomination Committee undertakes an annual performance Nomination Committee meetings attended by each Director.
evaluation to ensure that all members of the Board have During the year there were nine Board meetings, two Audit devoted sufficient time and contributed adequately to the work Committee meetings and two Nomination Committee of the Board.
The Committee also undertakes the role of a meetings.
remuneration committee by reviewing Directors fees and making recommendations to the Board as and when required.
Audit Nomination Board Committee Committee The Committee has procedures in place to deal with potential Meetings Meetings Meetings conflicts of interest and confirms that there were no actual or Director Attended Attended Attended indirect interests of a Director which conflicted with the interests of the Company during the year.
1 Pamela Idelson Smith 922 Audit Committee Alexander Easton9 2 2 The Audit Committee, which was chaired by James Nicholson Patrick Gifford 822 2 throughout the year, consists of all the Directors, bar the Robert Jeens Chairman of the Board, and meets at least twice each year.
The George Nianias 822 Chairman of the Board attends by invitation of the Committee.
James Nicholson 922 The members of the Audit Committee consider that they have 3 Gill Nott the requisite skills and experience to fulfil the responsibilities Lysander Tennant 922 of the Committee.
1 Attended the Interim Audit Committee meeting by invitation.
The Audit Committee reviews the actions and judgements of 2 Robert Jeens was appointed to the Board on 14th October 2011.
3 the Manager in relation to the half year and annual accounts Gill Nott was appointed to the Board on 17th November 2011.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25 Directors Report continued of the Company and the Companys compliance with the UK Details of the proxy voting on each resolution will be Corporate Governance Code.
It reviews the terms of the published on the Company website shortly after the Annual management agreement and examines the effectiveness of the General Meeting.
Companys internal control systems, reviews information from the Managers Compliance department and also reviews the Internal Control scope and results of the external audit, its cost effectiveness The Combined Code requires the Directors, at least annually, and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal No non-audit work was undertaken by the auditors in the year control and to report to shareholders that they have done so.
under review and the Directors remain satisfied as to their This encompasses a review of all controls, which the Board has independence.
Representatives of the Companys auditors identified as including business, financial, operational, attend the Audit Committee meeting at which the draft annual compliance and risk management.
report and accounts are considered.
The Directors statement on the Companys system of internal control is set out on The Directors are responsible for the Companys system of pages 26 and 27. internal control which is designed to safeguard the Companys assets, maintain proper accounting records and ensure that Terms of Reference financial information used within the business, or published, Both the Nomination Committee and the Audit Committee have is reliable.
However, such a system can only be designed written terms of reference which define clearly their respective to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to responsibilities, copies of which are available for inspection on achieve business objectives and therefore can only provide request at the Companys registered office, on the Companys reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against fraud, material website and at the Annual General Meeting.
Relations with Shareholders Since investment management, custody of assets and all administrative services are provided to the Company by The Board regularly monitors the shareholder profile of the JPMAM and its associates, the Companys system of internal Company.
It aims to provide shareholders with a full control mainly comprises monitoring the services provided by understanding of the Companys activities and performance JPMAM and its associates, including the operating controls and reports formally to shareholders quarterly each year by established by them, to ensure they meet the Companys way of the annual report and accounts, the half year report and business objectives.
There is an ongoing process for two interim management statements.
This is supplemented by identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced the daily publication, through the London Stock Exchange, of by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year the net asset value of the Companys shares.
under review and up to the date of the approval of the Annual During the year the Companys broker, investment managers Report and Accounts, and it accords with the Turnbull and JPMAM held regular discussions with larger shareholders guidance.
Whilst the Company does not have an internal audit and directors met with the Companys largest shareholder.
With function of its own, the Board considers that it is sufficient to respect to the review of the Companys affairs reported in the rely on the internal audit department of JPMAM.
This arrangement is reviewed on an annual basis.
The key elements Chairmans Statement, the Board solicited the views of Shareholders owning over 50 per cent.
of the Shares on the designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: Company.
The Chairman and Directors make themselves Financial Reporting Regular and comprehensive review by available as and when required to address shareholder queries.
the Board of key investment and financial data, including The Directors may be contacted through the Company management accounts, revenue projections, analysis of Secretary whose details are shown on page 57. transactions and performance comparisons.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Companys Management Agreement Appointment of a manager and Annual General Meeting at which the Directors and custodian regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA, representatives of the Manager are available in person to meet whose responsibilities are clearly defined in a written shareholders and answer their questions.
presentation is given by the investment managers who review the Companys performance.
Management Systems The Managers system of internal control includes organisational agreements which clearly The Companys Annual Report and Accounts is published in define the lines of responsibility, delegated authority, control time to give shareholders at least 20 working days notice of procedures and systems.
These are monitored by JPMAMs the Annual General Meeting.
Shareholders wishing to raise compliance department which regularly monitors compliance questions in advance of the meeting are encouraged to write with FSA rules and reports to the Board.
to the Company Secretary at the address shown on page 57.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Stewardship Engagement Investment Strategy Authorisation and monitoring of the JPMAM recognises its wider stewardship responsibilities to its clients as a Companys investment strategy and exposure limits by the major asset owner.
To this end, we support the introduction of the FRC Board.
Stewardship Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional The Board, either directly or through the Audit Committee, shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the Code, keeps under review the effectiveness of the Companys system managers should: of internal control by monitoring the operation of the key publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge their operating controls of the Manager and its associates as follows: stewardship responsibilities to their clients: Reviews the terms of the management agreement and disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: receives regular reports from JPMAMs compliance monitor their investee companies: department: establish clear guidelines on how they escalate engagement: Reviews the reports on the internal controls and the be willing to act collectively with other investors where appropriate: operations of its custodian, JPMorgan Chase Bank, which is itself independently reviewed: and have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their voting record: and Reviews every six months an independent report on the report to clients.
internal controls and the operations of JPMAM.
JPMAM endorses and complies with the Stewardship Code for its UK By means of the procedures set out above, the Board confirms investments and supports the principles as best practice elsewhere.
We that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the Companys system believe that regular contact with the companies in which we invest is of internal control for the year ended 31st October 2011, and to central to our investment process and we also recognise the importance the date of approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
of being an active owner on behalf of our clients.
During the course of its reviews of the system of internal Social & Environmental control, the Board has not identified, nor been advised of any JPMAM believes that companies should act in a socially responsible failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Although our priority at all times is the best economic interests of our clients, we recognise that, increasingly, non-financial issues such Corporate Governance and Voting Policy as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the The Company delegates responsibility for voting to JPMAM.
share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within The following is a summary of JPMAMs policy statements on JPMAMs environmental, social and governance ESG team are tasked corporate governance, voting policy and social and with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental issues, which has been reviewed and noted by environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
JPMAM is also a signatory to the United Nations Principles of Responsible Corporate Governance Investment, which commits participants to six principles, with the aim of JPMAM believes that corporate governance is integral to our investment incorporating ESG criteria into their processes when making stock process.
As part of our commitment to delivering superior investment selection decisions and promoting ESG disclosure.
Our detailed approach performance to our clients, we expect and encourage the companies in to how we implement the principles is available on request.
JPMAM is also which we invest to demonstrate the highest standards of corporate a signatory to Carbon Disclosure Project.
JPMorgan Chase is a signatory governance and best business practice.
We examine the share structure to the Equator Principles on managing social and environmental risk in and voting structure of the companies in which we invest, as well as the project finance.
board balance, oversight functions and remuneration policy.
These JPMAMs Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are analyses then form the basis of our proxy voting and engagement available on request from the Company Secretary or can be activity.
downloaded from JPMAMs website: http: www.
This also sets Proxy Voting JPMAM manages the voting rights of the shares entrusted to it as it would out its approach to the seven principles of the FRC Stewardship Code, manage any other asset.
It is the policy of JPMAM to vote in a prudent and its policy relating to conflicts of interest and its detailed voting record.
diligent manner, based exclusively on our reasonable judgement of what will best serve the financial interests of our clients.
So far as is practicable, By order of the Board we will vote at all of the meetings called by companies in which we are invested.
Alison Vincent, ACIS for and on behalf of JPMorgan Asset Management UK Limited, Secretary 16th December 2011 JPMorgan Russian Securities plc.
