52 Nomination Committee report The Nomination Committee comprises Jamie Dundas who was Another important matter for the Committee has been to review independent at the time of appointment for the purposes of the executive succession planning and the processes supporting this.
Code, Liz Airey, who has been identified as independent and This has covered both Executive Committee posts and senior Michael Wilson, a non-executive Director appointed by TA management roles.
The Committee has worked with the Chief Associates, L. P. Jamie Dundas is the Chairman.
All Directors served Executive and HR leadership to bring additional rigour to this on the Committee throughout the year.
The Committee has formal agenda.
This was followed by the Board considering a more terms of reference which are available for inspection on the structured talent development process.
Other activities during the year included a review of the report to be The Committees responsibilities include: included in the Annual Report and Accounts, the development of a reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and new diversity policy for adoption by the Board, a review of Directors making recommendations to the Board with regard to any conflicts of interest and a review of time spent on Company business changes: by non-executive Directors.
Details of attendance at Committee considering succession planning for Directors and other senior meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance report.
executives: identifying and nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates The Committee formally reports to the Board on its proceedings and to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: will make recommendations where it deems appropriate on any area evaluating the balance and skills, knowledge and experience on within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
the Board and identifying the capabilities required for a particular appointment: The Committee has the right to appoint external advisers where it keeping under review the leadership needs of the Group, both believes that to be appropriate.
This includes legal and professional executive and non-executive: and advice.
It may also seek any information that it requires from any reviewing annually the time required from non-executive Directors.
officer or employee of the Group.
During 2011 the Nomination Committee met formally on three occasions.
The Committee has maintained a focus on the structure, size and composition of the Board on a rolling basis.
The Committee recommended in the first half of the year that the Board would benefit from the appointment of an additional independent non-executive Director.
Following a thorough search using external headhunters the Committee recommended that the Board should appoint Jon Little, who duly joined the Board on 12 September 2011 and is also Jamie Dundas serving on the Audit Committee.
Chairman 23 March 2012 Following the Board Effectiveness Review see page and conversations between the Chairman and each individual Director, the Committee has reviewed the performance of all Directors and has recommended to the Board that all Directors should be proposed by the Board for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
