50 50 Audit Committee report the effectiveness of the internal control, regulatory compliance and Year in review risk management environments in the light of reports thereon from management: During the period under review, the Audit Committee completed its first cycle of work in line with the agreed calendar of items for the Groups whistleblowing arrangements as a result of which consideration, the UK Corporate Governance Code and other the Company appointed an independent third party to provide a regulatory requirements.
This included oversight of the Groups confidential helpline for employees and Jupiters principal third party complete external reporting cycle, its internal assurance functions suppliers to date there have been no calls made to the helpline : and responsibility for the reappointment of both internal and external the Groups tax strategy and associated controls: auditors.
A fuller list of the Committees activities is included later in the Groups processes for the management of outsourced this report.
The Audit Committee continually seeks to improve its contracts: and understanding of the Groups business and control environment.
As the Groups disaster recovery and business continuity plans.
a result, during the year, it identified several topics for in-depth review, focusing on key systems and processes relied upon by The ultimate responsibility for reviewing and approving the annual management and their future scalability.
These topics included and half-year financial statements remains with the Board.
management of investment risk, disaster recovery arrangements and the management of outsourced relationships.
This process has also The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys helped raise awareness of the Committees activities and increased website and the Chairman of the Committee will be available at the its exposure to key management at all levels across the Group.
Annual General Meeting to answer any questions about the work of the Committee.
As intended, the Committee undertook its first formal annual review of effectiveness during 2011.
The Committee concluded that good Meetings of the Committee progress had been made in improving the quality, depth and focus of papers and presentations made to it thereby facilitating the The work cycle agreed by the Audit Committee requires it to meet at Committees oversight activities and deepening its understanding of least four times a year to carry out its routine work and it meets Jupiters internal control environment and management of risk.
While only members of the Committee have Together with a review of its terms of reference and associated the right to attend Committee meetings, representatives of the meeting procedures, the Committee concluded that it had carried out Groups external and internal auditors, the Chief Financial Officer, its duties in an effective manner during the period under review, the Chief Operating Officer, the Compliance Director, the Head of although some useful enhancements were identified for 2012 and Operational Risk and other relevant members of the senior beyond.
management team as appropriate, are usually required to attend all routine meetings and unless otherwise specifically determined ad hoc meetings of the Committee.
In addition, the Group Chief Summary of the Committees work during Executive and the Chief Investment Officer are invited to attend all or the year relevant parts of the meetings of the Committee.
The Chairman of the Board has a standing invitation to attend all Committee meetings.
The Audit Committees role is to assist the Board in discharging its As detailed within the Corporate Governance report, the Committee responsibilities by: held seven meetings during the period under review with two of overseeing the Groups financial reporting processes: those meetings being single agenda items concerning a proposed reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management trading update and Interim Management Statement respectively.
The systems: Committee also met with the internal and external auditors without reviewing the external and internal audit work plans, their findings Jupiter management present.
and their effectiveness: and overseeing the appointment, remuneration, independence and The current Audit Committee members are Liz Airey Chairman, performance of the Groups internal and external auditors.
Jon Little and Lorraine Trainer, all of whom have been identified as independent non-executive Directors.
All the members of the In performing this role the specific functions carried out by the Audit Committee whose profiles on page 35 provide further details of Committee during the period under review included reviewing the their qualifications are considered as being appropriately following: experienced and qualified to fulfil their duties.
Liz Airey is the the critical accounting policies, financial reporting issues and Chairman and is considered by the Board to have recent and judgements, including going concern, made in relation to the relevant financial experience.
annual and half-year financial statements, together with the reports on them from the external auditors: Interim Management Statements and trading updates prior to their release: Jupiter Fund Management plc Governance 51 Internal audit function analysis of fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services Ernst & Young LLP were appointed to provide the Groups internal provided by  LLP is provided within the audit function in the second half of 2008.
During the period under administrative expenses note of the financial statements.
During the review, the Audit Committee reviewed the performance and year under review, the majority of non-audit fees paid to the external effectiveness of the internal auditors and reappointed them.
The auditors came from three main pieces of work: the half yearly review: current internal audit plan runs until December 2012, in advance of the Jupiter Report on Controls in accordance with ISAE 3402 which date the Committee will consider the continued appointment of together with AAF 01 06 and implementing the Groups post-Listing Ernst & Young LLP as the Groups internal auditors.
The Committee is satisfied that the external auditors were best placed to provide these services The internal auditors report directly to the Audit Committee and, in because of their familiarity with the relevant areas of Jupiters addition to submitting status papers for each Committee meeting, business and that the arrangements in place between Jupiter provide the Committee members with copies of any individual, and the external auditors are sufficient to ensure that department specific reports completed between meetings.
The  LLPs objectivity and independence have Committee works with the internal auditors to help ensure that their been safeguarded.
work is co-ordinated with that of the external auditors.
The policy referred to in the preceding paragraph provides that The Committee continues to review the effectiveness of the internal certain types of non-audit services are pre-approved, whilst others audit function on an annual basis and is currently of the view that are prohibited and not permitted under any circumstances the outsourcing this to a specialist independent provider is appropriate prohibited services being those where the associated threats to and helps to ensure that the function is adequately resourced.
auditor independence are considered unacceptable.
Those services which are pre-approved are those in relation to which the threats to External auditors auditor independence are considered low but, nonetheless, still need The Groups external auditors remain  LLP.
the Committees approval if the expected fee exceeds 50,000.
Any During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed and approved the proposed services which are neither pre-approved nor prohibited terms of engagement and the proposed audit fee for the 2011 audit.
need to be approved by the Committee in advance and in such circumstances the Committee will need to be persuaded that it is in In line with its annual work cycle, a full review of the effectiveness of Jupiters best interests for the external auditors to be appointed and the external auditors was carried out by the Committee following the that the use of the external auditors will not impair their 2010 audit and as part of the process the Smith guidelines were independence and objectivity.
followed in looking at the following four areas of external auditor performance: i qualification: ii expertise and resources: iii Based on the work described above carried out by the Committee effectiveness: and iv independence.
As a result of the review, the to assess the performance of the auditors and safeguard their Committee is satisfied that  LLP have the independence, the Committee considers that it is in the best interests necessary qualification, expertise, resources and independence of the Group that  LLP continue to act to perform the Jupiter audit.
Accordingly, although this is always as the Groups auditors and has recommended this to the Board.
kept under review and other than in respect of the appointment Accordingly, a resolution will be proposed to the shareholders at the of Ernst & Young LLP as Jupiters internal auditors there are no Annual General Meeting that they be reappointed as the Groups contractual obligations restricting Jupiters choice of external auditor, external auditors for 2012. the Committee has not considered it necessary to instigate any competitive tender for the audit work.
In conjunction with the Committee, the Company has developed and implemented a policy to safeguard the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
This policy is reviewed regularly and sets out Liz Airey certain disclosure requirements by the external auditors to the Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee, restrictions on the employment of the external auditors 23 March 2012 former employees, partner rotation and procedures for the approval of non-audit services provided by the auditors.
The Committee now receives a regular report setting out the non-audit services provided by the external auditors during the year and the fees charged: an Annual Report & Accounts 2011
