36 Corporate governance report Jupiters ordinary shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange.
The Board The Corporate Governance rules that applied to the Company during the year are contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Role Code, as adopted by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in The Board is responsible for the leadership and success of the 2010 www.
The Financial Services Authority Company.
It provides entrepreneurial leadership within a framework Listing rules require the Company to set out how it has applied the of effective controls which allows risk to be assessed and managed.
main principles of the Code and explain any non-compliance.
The Board has ultimate responsibility for setting the overall strategy and long-term direction of the Company.
It has a formal schedule of The report, including the reports from the Audit Committee, matters reserved for its decision.
The roles of the Chairman and Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee, describes Chief Executive are separate and there is a clear division of how the Board has applied the principles of the Code during the year.
responsibilities between the two roles.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda, whereas the Chief Executive is responsible for the Statement of Compliance day-to-day management of the Companys business.
Certain responsibilities are delegated to Board committees which assist the Throughout the year the Company has applied the main principles Board in carrying out its functions.
and complied with the provisions of the Code, with the following exceptions: Beneath the Board there is in place a clear and appropriate The Code recommends that at least half the members of the apportionment of responsibilities amongst the executive Directors Board excluding the Chairman should comprise independent and senior managers so that the business can be effectively non-executive Directors.
The Board currently consists of ten managed and monitored.
members, being three executive and seven non-executive Directors, four of whom excluding the Chairman are regarded as Board balance and independence independent.
The Board do not consider Richard I. Morris, Jr. and The Board is made up of ten members, comprising the Chairman, Michael Wilson to be independent under B.
Jon three executive Directors and six other non-executive Directors.
The Little was appointed as an independent non-executive Director on biographical details of the Directors appear in the Directors profiles 12 September 2011 and this moves the proportion of independent section.
Four members of the Board Liz Airey, Jon Little, Lorraine non-executive Directors closer to meeting this Code requirement.
Trainer and Matteo Dante Perruccio are free of any relationship The Code recommends that non-executive Directors should be which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent appointed for specific terms.
However, Richard I. Morris, Jr. and judgement and have been identified as independent, as was the Michael Wilson, who were both nominated by TA Associates, L. P. Chairman on appointment, for the purposes of the Code.
Liz Airey is have been appointed as non-executive Directors of the Company the Senior Independent Director.
Jon Little was appointed as an for indefinite periods, subject to three months notice of termination independent non-executive Director on 12 September 2011. by either the Company or the non-executive Director.
Further details of their appointments are set out on page 35.
Richard I. Morris, Jr. and Michael Wilson, each of whom was The Code recommends that the Chairman of the Board should not nominated by TA Associates, L. P. which held 19.03 per cent.
of the be the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
Jamie Dundas issued share capital of the Company as at 14 March 2012 are the chaired the Remuneration Committee until 19 May 2011, in only non-executive Directors who do not meet the criteria of addition to being Chairman of the Board, when he was replaced independence set out in the Code.
by Lorraine Trainer as Chairman.
The Code recommends that at least three members of the The Board considers each of its non-executive Directors to be Remuneration Committee should be independent non-executive independent in both character and judgement and no one individual Directors.
The Remuneration Committee comprises two or group of individuals dominates the Boards decision making.
The independent non-executive Directors, the Chairman of the Board, non-executive Directors constructively challenge and help develop who was independent at the time of appointment for the purposes proposals on strategy, and bring strong independent judgement, of the Code, and Michael Wilson.
knowledge and experience to the Boards deliberations.
The Code recommends that the majority of the Nomination Committee should be independent non-executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee comprises one independent non-executive Director, the Chairman, who was independent at the time of appointment for the purposes of the Code, and Michael Wilson.
Where the Company has not complied with the Code, the Board considers that it is not practical to do so, given the provisions of the Relationship Agreement between TA Associates, L. P. and the Company, without having a Board of unwieldy size.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Governance 37 Diversity Conflicts of Interest It is seen as a prerequisite that each member of the Board must have the skills, experience and character that will enable each Director to The Articles of Association permit the Board to consider, and if contribute individually, and as part of the Board team, to the thought fit, to authorise situations where a Director has a conflict or effectiveness of the Board and the success of the Company.
Subject potential conflict of interest in relation to the Group.
The Board has to that overriding principle, diversity of experience and approach, established a formal system whereby conflicts, and potential including gender diversity, amongst Board members is of great value, conflicts, can be recorded by each Director and authorised by the and it is the Boards settled policy to give careful consideration to Board.
Conflicts of interest are included as an agenda item at each issues of overall Board balance and diversity in making new Board meeting.
When authorising conflicts or potential conflicts of appointments to the Board.
Women Directors currently constitute interest, the Director concerned is required not to take part in the 20 per cent.
Subject to overriding principles and other Boards decision making.
Non-conflicted Directors are required to act factors, the Board will aim to maintain female representation on the in a way they consider would be in the best interests of the Company Board at least at the current level, and increase the level if and most likely to promote the success of the Company.
These appropriate candidates are available when Board vacancies arise.
procedures on conflicts of interest have been followed throughout the A copy of the full statement on Board Diversity is available at year and the Board considers that they have operated effectively.
co. uk Board Committees Operation of the Board and Meeting Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees attendance The Board has established a committee structure to assist in the discharge of its responsibilities.
Details of each of the Audit, The Board meets regularly during the year, as well as on an ad hoc Remuneration and Nomination Committees, and the members, roles basis as necessary.
A rolling 12-month programme of items for and activities thereof are detailed in separate reports.
Each discussion by the Board is prepared to ensure that all key issues and Committee reports to, and has terms of reference approved by, the statutory matters are considered during the year, which includes Board.
The minutes of the Committee meetings, where appropriate, approving the Groups strategy and annual budget.
The Board held are circulated to, and reviewed by, the Board.
nine scheduled meetings during the year.
The current members of the Audit Committee are Liz Airey, Jon Little To enable the Board to function effectively and to assist Directors to and Lorraine Trainer, all being independent non-executive Directors.
discharge their responsibilities, a comprehensive set of papers is Liz Airey is Chairman of the Committee.
Jon Little was appointed to provided for Board and Committee meetings.
These include regular the Audit Committee on 13 October 2011 and Matteo Dante business progress reports, budgets, financial statements and Perruccio stepped down as a member on the same day.
In addition, non-executive Directors meet attendance of the individual Committee members at Audit Committee with senior management on a regular basis.
The Company Secretary meetings in 2011 is detailed in Table 1. manages the provision of information to the Board, in consultation with the Chairman and Chief Executive.
He facilitates the induction of The Remuneration Committee comprises four non-executive new Directors and assists with their personal development as Directors, namely Lorraine Trainer, Matteo Dante Perruccio, required.
He also seeks to ensure Board procedures are complied Jamie Dundas, the Chairman of the Board who was independent at with, that applicable rules and regulations are followed and reports to the time of appointment for the purposes of the Code and Michael the Chairman on matters of corporate governance.
Wilson, a non-executive Director nominated by TA Associates, L. P. Lorraine Trainer replaced Jamie Dundas as Chairman of the The Board requires all Directors to devote sufficient time to their Committee on 19 May 2011 after the Annual General Meeting.
The duties and to use their best endeavours to attend meetings.
The attendance of the individual Committee members at Remuneration attendance of each Director at Board and Committee meetings in Committee meetings in 2011 is detailed in Table 1.
The Chairman held two meetings during the year with the non-executive Directors without the executive The Nomination Committee comprises three non-executive Directors present.
Directors, namely Jamie Dundas, who was independent at the time of his appointment for the purposes of the Code, Liz Airey and Michael Wilson, a non-executive Director nominated by TA Associates, L. P. The attendance of the individual Committee members at Nomination Committee meetings in 2011 is detailed in Table 1.
The terms of reference of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees are available on the Companys website www.
Annual Report & Accounts 2011 38 38 Board effectiveness Evaluation The Board recognises that a continuous and constructively critical Appointments evaluation of its performance is an important component of the There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the Groups success.
appointment of new Directors to the Board.
Candidates are identified and selected on merit against objective criteria and with due regard This year, the Board decided to commission an externally facilitated to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
This review of its own effectiveness.
This was carried out in December process was followed during the recruitment of Jon Little, described 2011 and January 2012, and was led by Sheena Crane, an external in the Nomination Committee report set out on page 52. consultant with wide experience in Board review matters.
The review process covered not only the Board, but also the Audit, Induction and development Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
All Directors, executive On appointment, Directors are given an introduction to the business, and non-executive, participated in one-to-one interviews.
The results including meetings with senior management and advisers.
The were discussed by the Board, and will form the basis for our action Chairman is responsible for ensuring that induction and training plan to further develop the Boards effectiveness.
In the context of programmes are provided.
Specific training requirements of what was found to be a well-structured Board and governance Directors are met either directly or by the Company through legal system, several themes for improvement emerged from the review.
Non-executive Directors also have access to In particular, the action plan will focus on maximising the externally run programmes.
Individual Directors are also expected to effectiveness of the annual strategy development process: alignment take responsibility for identifying their training needs and take steps between executive risk management processes and Board approved to ensure that they are adequately informed about the Company and risk appetite: and on Board involvement in succession planning and their responsibilities as a Director.
Elements of the action plan will fall within the remit of the main Board Committees.
As well as the major themes Directors have access to independent professional advice at highlighted above, the review suggested a range of procedural the Companys expense where they judge this to be necessary improvements around such matters as continuing training or to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
All Directors induction for non-executive Directors and the structure of Board have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, papers and agenda.
All of these matters are addressed in an action who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures plan to further develop the Boards effectiveness that will be are complied with, and to the Chairman on matters of corporate implemented during the current year.
With regard to the performance of individual Directors, relevant input from the Board Effectiveness review was fed in to the Nomination Committee process described on page 52.
The Chairmans performance was reviewed by non-executive Directors taking into account the views of the executive Directors.
These processes fully supported the recommendations that all Directors should be proposed for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Number of Meetings Table 1 Board Audit Remuneration Nomination 9 7 8 3 Jamie Dundas 9 9 8 8 3 3 Liz Airey 9 9 7 7 3 3 Edward Bonham Carter 9 9 John Chatfeild-Roberts 8 9 Philip Johnson 9 9 Jon Little 2 2 1 1 Matteo Dante Perruccio 9 9 4 6 7 8 Lorraine Trainer 8 9 7 7 8 8 Richard I. Morris Jr. 9 9 Michael Wilson 9 9 8 8 3 3 Note: maximum possible number of meetings to be attended in brackets.
stepped down as Audit Committee member on 13 October 2011. appointed to the Board on 12 September 2011 and became an Audit Committee member on 13 October 2011.
Jupiter Fund Management plc Governance 39 39 Succession planning and Board appointments The Directors receive a report at Board meetings giving information The Nomination Committee is responsible for both executive and on the changes in shareholders and any feedback from the non-executive Director succession planning and recommends new Companys brokers and investors.
When making Board appointments, the Board seeks to ensure that there is a diverse range of skills, The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity background and experience, including industry experience.
to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and institutional shareholders and the Board will be available at the Director re-election meeting for shareholders to ask questions.
The Chairman of each of All Directors appointed by the Board are required by the Companys the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will be Articles of Association and the Code to be elected by shareholders available at the Annual General Meeting to answer questions.
at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment by the Board.
Jon Little will seek election at the Annual General Meeting Internal control and risk management having been appointed to the Board during the year.
In addition, and in accordance with the Code, all the remaining Directors will seek The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Following the performance Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness evaluation described above, the Board believes that the individuals on a regular basis.
A report describing the existing systems of continue to be effective members of the Board and to demonstrate internal control the Group has in place is set out in the Risk commitment to their roles and that their respective skills complement management and internal control report.
In accordance with the each other to enhance the overall operation of the Board.
Code, the Board and the Audit Committee have reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system, including financial, Shareholder relations operational and compliance controls and risk management, for the period 31 December 2011 to 23 March 2012 the date of approval of Communication with shareholders is given a high priority and the the annual report.
No significant failings or weaknesses were Company undertakes a regular dialogue with major shareholders, identified during this review.
However, had there been any such fund managers and analysts.
The Chief Executive and the Chief failings or weaknesses, the Board confirms that necessary actions Financial Officer meet with major shareholders, as appropriate, would have been taken to remedy them.
during the course of the year, in particular following the announcement of the year-end and interim financial results.
The Chairman stands ready to maintain a dialogue with shareholders on strategy, corporate governance and Directors remuneration as required.
The Chairman has communicated with major shareholders to ascertain whether there were any issues that shareholders wished to be communicated to the Board.
Communication with shareholders ensures that members of the Board, and in particular the nonexecutive Directors, develop an understanding of the views of the major shareholders about the Company.
Presentations to analysts are simultaneously posted on the Companys website at www.
The Senior Independent Director is available to meet shareholders on request if they have concerns that contact through the normal channel or communication through the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which such a contact is inappropriate.
