CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The Company has a formal performance evaluation process for the This report describes how the principles of corporate governance set out Board, its Committees and individual directors overseen by the in the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Chairman.
This includes completion of self-assessment forms by, and Council the Code have been applied by the Company during the year individual discussions with, each director when their individual training ended 31 December 2011.
The Company confirms that it has complied and development needs are reviewed.
Led by the senior independent throughout 2011 with the provisions of the Code, a copy of which is director, the non-executive directors also meet without the Chairman available at www.
present at least annually to appraise the Chairmans performance including a review of his other commitments to ensure that he is able to tHe bOARD allocate sufficient time to the Company to discharge his responsibilities As at 31 December 2011 and as at the date of this report, the Board effectively.
The Chairman periodically holds meetings with the nonwas made up of eight members comprising a Chairman, a Chief executive directors without the executive directors present.
All of these Executive, two other executive directors and four non-executive processes were carried out satisfactorily during the year as a result of directors.
Brief biographical details of the directors are given on page which the Board concluded that both it and its Committees are 30.
Eugenia Ulasewicz was appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011 and operating effectively.
Following the evaluation process this year, it was Charles Banks, who was the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, agreed that the Board should increase its visibility of the Groups senior retired from the Board following the Companys Annual General Meeting executives, by asking them to make more presentations about the on 20 April 2011.
None of the Companys non-executive directors had businesses for which they are responsible, and that the Nomination any previous connection with the Company or its executive directors on Committee should have greater insight into the Groups executive appointment to the Board and all of them are considered by both the development programmes as part of the Committees annual review of Board and the criteria set out in the Code to be independent.
The the management succession plan.
The Board has considered the new Chairman and each of the non-executive directors have a breadth of requirements of the Code in respect of an external evaluation of the strategic, management and financial experience gained in each of their Board at least every three years.
The Board has agreed that such an own fields in a range of multinational businesses.
In accordance with evaluation will be carried out within the next year.
the terms of the Code, each of the directors will be subject to re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Board also oversees the process for reviewing any potential conflicts of interest which may arise in relation to each member of the Board and There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and this process was carried out satisfactorily during the year.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership and effective working of the Board and the Chief Executive AuDit COmmittee has executive responsibility for running the Groups businesses.
The The Audit Committee comprises all of the independent non-executive Chief Executive is also the designated member of the Board responsible directors and is chaired by David Sleath who is considered by the Board for environmental, social and governance matters and reports to the to have recent and relevant financial experience.
While the other Board in relation to such matters.
directors are not members of the Committee, they normally attend meetings of the Committee by invitation together with the Head of Peter Johnson is the senior independent director and is available to Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditor.
shareholders if they have concerns which contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed The Committees principal role is to: to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and Information relating to the conduct of Board meetings and the review significant reporting judgements: procedures implemented to ensure that the Board retains overall control and accountability for all strategic, financial, operational and compliance review the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial controls: issues are set out in the internal control section below and in the Financial review on pages 22 to 24. review the process for the management of risk and the assurance procedures over controls designed to manage key risks: All new directors receive a tailored induction on joining the Board, including meetings with senior management and visits to some of the monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit Groups locations and the Board calendar is planned to ensure that the function: directors are fully briefed on a wide range of topics throughout the year.
Normally at least two Board meetings a year are held at or near Group make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment locations in the UK and overseas where the directors have the of the external auditor: opportunity to meet and interact with senior executives from different businesses within the Groups portfolio as well as observe the operations monitor and review the external auditors independence: and in situ.
develop and implement a policy on the engagement of the external Directors have access to independent professional advice at the auditor to supply non-audit services.
Companys expense where they judge this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities as directors and all directors have access to the The Committee Chairman holds preparatory meetings with the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to Companys senior management and, when appropriate, the Head of the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
Internal Audit and the external auditor prior to Committee meetings to discuss the items to be considered at the Committee meetings.
In The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees which addition, separate discussions are held between the Committee and comply with the provisions of the Code.
The membership, roles and the Head of Internal Audit and the external auditor without management activities of these Committees are set out below.
The Committee Chairman also attends the Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
During the year the Committee met on three occasions and its activities included: 36 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 receiving and considering reports from the external auditor in relation basis to ensure that the best placed adviser is retained.
Details of the to the half year and annual financial statements: fees paid to the external auditor in 2011 in respect of the audit and for non-audit services are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements.
reviewing the half year and annual financial reports and the formal announcements relating thereto: As part of the decision to recommend to the Board the re-appointment of the external auditor, the Committee takes into account the tenure of receiving and considering reports from the Head of Internal Audit the auditor in addition to the results of its review of the effectiveness of in relation to the work undertaken by the internal audit function and the external auditor and considers whether there should be a full tender reviewing and approving the internal audit work programme for process.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Committees the year: choice of external auditor.
reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal financial As a consequence of its satisfaction with the results of its review controls and the assurance procedures relating to the Companys of the external auditors activities during the year, the Committee risk management systems: has recommended to the Board that a resolution proposing the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as external auditor be put to reviewing the arrangements by which staff may, in confidence, raise shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters: The Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website, www.
reviewing the Committees terms of reference and the Committees effectiveness: RemuneRAtiOn COmmittee The Remuneration Committee comprises all of the independent reviewing the effectiveness of both the external auditor and the non-executive directors and is now chaired by Peter Johnson following internal audit function following completion of detailed questionnaires the retirement of Charles Banks from the Board in April 2011.
While by both the Board and senior management within the Company: neither the Chairman of the Company nor the Chief Executive are members of the Committee, they normally attend meetings by invitation making recommendations to the Board concerning the appointment except when the Committee is considering matters concerning of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of themselves.
Further details of the Remuneration Committee, the engagement of the auditor: and Companys remuneration policy and how it is applied are set out in the Directors remuneration report on pages 40 to 52.
The terms reviewing and approving the level and type of non-audit work of reference of the Committee are available on the Companys website.
which the external auditor performs, including the fees paid for such work.
nOminAtiOn COmmittee The Nomination Committee comprises the Chairman of the Company, The Committee ensures that the external auditor remains independent who chairs the Committee, the Chief Executive and all of the nonof the Company and receives written confirmation from the external executive directors.
The majority of the members are independent auditor as to whether it considers itself independent within the meaning non-executive directors.
The Committees role includes: of its own internal and the relevant regulatory and professional requirements.
Key members of the audit team rotate off the Companys reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board including audit after a specific period of time.
the evaluation of the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board, and making recommendations to the Board with regard to In order to ensure that the objectivity and independence of the external any changes: auditor is not compromised, the Committee has also pre-approved the non-audit service categories that can be provided by the external nominating, for the approval of the Board, appropriate individuals auditor and agreed monetary amounts for each service category that to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise having considered can be provided by them, subject to a maximum individual engagement candidates with relevant experience from a wide range of value.
Certain categories of services are prohibited under the ethical backgrounds: and standards of the Accounting Practices Board.
A permitted service requires specific authorisation from the Committee or the Committee considering succession planning, taking into account the challenges Chairman where it does not fall within the pre-approved categories and opportunities facing the Company and what skills and expertise or where its value exceeds the maximum pre-approved individual are therefore needed on the Board in the future, and reviewing engagement value.
Such non-audit service categories which are annually a management succession planning presentation in relation pre-approved principally comprise tax services and further assurance to the Companys senior executives.
services relating to pre-acquisition due diligence and other duties carried out in respect of acquisitions and disposals of businesses.
The The Committee meets as necessary throughout the year to discharge Committee believes that given the external auditors detailed knowledge its responsibilities.
An external search consultancy is retained by the of the Groups operations, its structure and accounting policies and the Company to assess potential candidates to be considered as importance of carrying out tax services and detailed due diligence as prospective non-executive directors and, when appropriate, part of the acquisition process, it is often appropriate for this additional executive directors.
work to be carried out by the Companys auditors.
However other firms are also used by the Company to provide non-audit services and it is the Companys policy to assess the services required on a case by case BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The Committee notes the publication of the Davies Review on Women meetinGS AttenDAnCe on Boards in February 2011 and the subsequent consultation The following table shows the attendance in 2011 of directors at undertaken by the Financial Reporting Council in relation to the Board meetings and at meetings of the Board Committees of which proposed changes to the Code.
Both the Board and the Committee they are members: recognise the importance of gender diversity throughout the Group, as demonstrated by the composition of its Executive Committee of Audit Remuneration Nomination which 40% of members are women.
Currently one of the eight Board Board Committee Committee Committee members is female.
The Committee aims to have a Board with a broad Number of meetings 8 3 3 4 range of skills, backgrounds and experience and while the Committee Philip Rogerson 8 4 will continue to follow a policy of ensuring that the best people are Michael Roney 8 4 appointed for the relevant roles, the Committee recognises the benefits Charles Banks 3 1 1 2 of greater diversity and will continue to take account of this when Ulrich Wolters 7 3 2 3 considering any particular appointment.
Patrick Larmon 8 Peter Johnson 8 3 3 4 During the year the Committee was involved in the selection and Brian May 8 appointment of a new non-executive director.
This involved agreeing David Sleath 8 3 3 4 the skills, knowledge and experience required for the role, appointing Eugenia Ulasewicz 6 2 2 1 independent search consultants and interviewing candidates.
All members of the Committee had the opportunity to meet the preferred Charles Banks retired as a director on 20 April 2011 having attended all of the Board candidate before a final recommendation was made to the Board.
meetings held between 1 January 2011 and that date.
Eugenia Ulasewicz was appointed as a director on 1 April 2011 and attended all The Company subsequently announced the appointment of Eugenia of the Board meetings held between that date and the end of the year.
She also Ulasewicz as a non-executive director in April.
Her experience has attended all of the Board Committee meetings which were held between the date been and will continue to be of great value as the Company continues she was appointed a member of such Committees and the end of the year.
RelAtiOnS witH SHAReHOlDeRS As a result of the retirement of Charles Banks, the Committee also The Company reports formally to shareholders twice a year with the half considered the appointment of a new Chairman of the Remuneration year results announced normally at the end of August and the annual Committee.
Having done so, the Committee recommended to the Board results announced normally at the end of February.
In addition the that Peter Johnson, the Companys senior independent director, should Company publishes two interim management statements a year as assume this role with effect from April 2011 and the Board subsequently required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director have regular meetings with The Committee reviewed and took account of the balance of skills, representatives of institutional shareholders and report to the Board the knowledge and experience of the Board, the time commitment expected views of major shareholders.
Additional forms of communication include of the non-executive directors and the conclusions of the formal presentations of the half year and annual results.
The Chairman and the evaluation process which was carried out during the year when senior independent director and the other non-executive directors are considering and recommending the nomination of directors for available to meet with major shareholders on request.
The Company re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
In particular the welcomes the Stewardship Code introduced in 2010 with the aim of Committee reviewed the performance of Ulrich Wolters, who was enhancing the quality of engagement between institutional investors appointed to the Board in July 2004, and Peter Johnson, who was and companies to help improve long term returns to shareholders and appointed to the Board in January 2006.
The Committee believes the efficient exercise of governance responsibilities.
The Board also that they both continue to be effective and to demonstrate strong periodically reviews and discusses analysts and brokers reports independence in character and judgement in the manner in which and surveys of shareholder opinions conducted by the Companys they discharge their responsibilities as directors.
Committee is satisfied that, despite their respective lengths of tenure, they remain independent.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All shareholders are encouraged Finally, the Chief Executive presented his annual management to participate in the Annual General Meeting, are invited to ask questions succession plan to the Committee.
The Company recognises that having at the meeting and are given the opportunity to meet all of the directors the right directors and senior management is crucial for the Groups informally.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged to vote using success and it is a key task of the Committee to ensure that the the proxy card mailed to them or electronically as detailed in the Notice Company has a robust and continuous succession planning process.
Shareholders are given the option to withhold their vote on As part of the process this year the Director of Group HR also made a the proxy form.
As in previous years, at the forthcoming Annual General presentation to the Committee about the Companys senior executive Meeting each of the resolutions put to the meeting will be taken on a development programmes.
poll rather than on a show of hands as directors believe that a poll is more representative of shareholders voting intentions because The terms of reference of the Committee are set out on the shareholder votes are counted according to the number of shares held Companys website.
and all votes tendered are taken into account.
The results of the poll will be publicly announced and made available on the Companys website as soon as practicable following the Annual General Meeting.
38 BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 inteRnAl COntROl AnD RiSK mAnAGement an Executive Committee, consisting of the Chief Executive, Finance The directors acknowledge that they have overall responsibility for Director and other functional managers, meets twice per month and identifying and managing the risks faced by the Group and for the also reviews the outcome of the discussions held at business area Groups system of internal control relating to those risks.
However, such meetings on internal control and risk management issues: a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not the Board in turn reviews the outcome of the Executive Committee absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance discussions on internal control and risk management issues which with Principle C. 2 of the Code and the related Turnbull guidance the ensures a documented and auditable trail of accountability: Company has established the procedures necessary to ensure that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, managing and both the Executive Committee and the Board carry out an annual mitigating significant risks to the Group and for determining the nature fraud risk assessment: and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take to achieve its strategic objectives.
The directors confirm that such procedures have actual results are reviewed monthly against budget, forecasts and the been in place for the year ended 31 December 2011 and up to the date previous year and explanations obtained for all significant variances: of approval of these financial statements and have been reviewed during the year.
the Groups bank balances around the world are monitored on a weekly basis and significant movements are reviewed centrally: To ensure that the directors maintain overall control over all significant strategic, financial, operational and compliance issues, the Board meets the internal audit department periodically reviews individual regularly throughout the year and has formally adopted a schedule of businesses and procedures, makes recommendations to improve matters which are required to be brought to it for decision.
These controls and follows up to ensure that management implement the include the approval of the annual and half year results of the Group, recommendations made.
The internal audit departments work is the Groups strategic plans, annual budget, larger capital expenditure determined on a risk assessment basis and their findings are and acquisition divestment proposals, material increases to borrowing reported to Group and business area management as well as to and loan facilities, treasury policies and the terms of reference for the the Audit Committee: Board Committees.
the Audit Committee, which comprises all of the independent The Board has delegated to management the responsibility for non-executive directors of the Company, meets regularly throughout establishing a system of internal control appropriate to the business the year.
Further details of the work of the Committee are set out on environments in which the Group operates.
The principal features of pages 36 and 37: this system include: regular meetings are held with insurance and risk advisers to assess a procedure for monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control the risks throughout the Group: system through a tiered management structure with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegation of authority: the management committee, which oversees issues principally relating to environment, health and safety, insurance and business clearly defined authorisation procedures for capital investment continuity planning matters, sets relevant policies and practices and and acquisitions: monitors their implementation: strategic plans and comprehensive budgets which are prepared risk assessments, safety audits and a regular review of progress annually by the business areas and approved by the Board: against objectives established by each business area are periodically carried out: and formal standards of business conduct including a code of ethics and whistle blowing procedure based on honesty, integrity and developments in tax, treasury and accounting are continually fair dealing: monitored by Group management in association with external advisers.
a well established consolidation and reporting system for the statutory accounts and monthly management accounts: The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and risk management in operation continual investment in IT systems to ensure the production of timely during 2011. and accurate management information relating to the operation of the Groups businesses: and The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the system detailed manuals covering Group accounting policies and policies of internal financial control and the data contained in the financial and procedures for the Groups treasury operations.
statements to the extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness of the financial statements.
Some of the procedures carried out in order to monitor the effectiveness of the internal control system and to identify, manage and mitigate On behalf of the Board business risk are listed below: paul Hussey central management holds regular meetings with business area Secretary management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues 27 February 2012 including a review of the significant risks affecting each of the business areas and the policies and procedures by which these risks are managed: BUNZL PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 39
