CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Corporate Governance Statement The Board The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the Company.
The Board provides leadership for the Group Dear Shareholder, and concentrates its efforts on strategy, performance, governance Your Board remains committed to high standards of corporate and internal control.
As at the date of this report, the Board governance which it considers to be central to the effective has eight members: the Chairman, the Chief Executive Officer, management of the business and to maintaining the confidence the Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and five of investors.
We take our role of ensuring the long-term success independent non-executive directors.
of the Company very seriously.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved to it for On the following pages we set out our approach to governance decision and approval which include, but are not limited to: at Burberry.
We explain how the Board and its Committees are the Groups business strategy: structured, how they operate and how their effectiveness is evaluated.
My role as Chairman is to provide leadership and annual budget and operating plans: ensure that the Board is effective, which I strongly believe that major capital expenditure, acquisitions or divestments: it is, and this was confirmed following an independent external evaluation held during the year.
the systems of corporate governance, internal control and risk management: During the financial year ended 31 March 2011, and as at the date of this report, Burberry complied in full with the relevant the approval of the interim and annual financial statements: and provisions set out in section 1 of the UK Combined Code on any interim dividend and the recommendation of the Corporate Governance the 2008 Code.
This report, together final dividend.
with the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 76 to 85, provides details of how we have complied with the 2008 Code.
Any matters that are not within the schedule of matters reserved, and do not fall within the terms of reference of the Boards Committees, The Board intends to comply with the provisions of the new UK are subject to the Companys internal approval processes.
Corporate Governance Code the 2010 Code in full during the financial year ended 31 March 2012.
We are adopting early the During the year the Board held six scheduled meetings, including provisions relating to the annual re-election of directors and will be an in-depth session on strategic matters, and one ad hoc proposing the relevant resolutions at the Annual General Meeting meeting.
All directors participate in discussions relating to the in July.
Groups strategy, financial and trading performance and risk management.
The Board considers that it met sufficiently often to enable the directors to discharge their duties effectively.
John Peace The table below gives details of directors attendance at Board Chairman and Committee meetings during the financial year ended 31 March 2011.
Attendance table Audit Remuneration Nomination Board Committee Committee Committee Scheduled Ad hoc Scheduled Ad hoc John Peace 6 6 1 1 5 5 2 2 Angela Ahrendts 6 6 1 1 2 2 Philip Bowman 6 6 1 1 3 3 2 2 5 5 2 2 Ian Carter 6 6 1 1 2 3 1 2 5 5 2 2 Stacey Cartwright 6 6 1 1 Stephanie George 6 6 1 1 3 3 2 2 5 5 2 2 David Tyler 6 6 1 1 3 3 2 2 5 5 2 2 John Smith 6 6 1 1 2 3 1 2 5 5 2 2 Any absences were due to unavoidable prior commitments.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 71 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued At the request of any non-executive director, the Chairman will Information and professional development arrange meetings consisting of only the non-executive directors On appointment, directors receive a full, formal and tailored to allow the opportunity for any concerns to be expressed.
During induction, including meetings with members of the management the year, the Chairman maintained regular contact and met with team and briefings on particular issues.
In addition, directors are the Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors furnished with an induction pack of information, which includes outside formal board meetings.
key Group policies, guidance notes and information on corporate governance matters.
The Board is chaired by John Peace.
The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board and for its effectiveness, including ensuring As an ongoing process, directors are briefed and provided with there is an open culture which allows debate and constructive information concerning major developments affecting their roles challenge of the executive directors.
Angela Ahrendts is the and responsibilities.
In particular, the directors knowledge of the Chief Executive Officer and is responsible for implementing the Groups worldwide operations is regularly updated by arranging strategy as agreed by the Board.
The division of the roles and presentations from senior management throughout the Group.
responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is The Chairman works closely with the Company Secretary formally set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The major to ensure that the Board is supplied in a timely manner with commitments of the Chairman are detailed in his biography on information in a form and of a quality appropriate to enable it page 67 and have not changed during the year.
to effectively discharge its duties.
Where there are occasions The Senior Independent Director, Philip Bowman, supports the when directors are unable to attend a meeting they have the Chairman in his role and leads the non-executive directors in the opportunity to review meeting papers and submit comments to oversight of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
The Senior the relevant Chairman.
Directors are also supplied with a monthly Independent Director has a specific responsibility to be available management report, which provides information on operational to shareholders if they have concerns which the normal channels and financial performance and the Groups business plans.
have failed to resolve or where such contact is inappropriate.
All directors have direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and all senior management.
The appointment Board balance and independence and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for The non-executive directors are, in the opinion of the Board, the Board as a whole.
Directors may obtain, in the furtherance of independent of management and free from any business their duties, independent professional advice, if necessary, at the relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise Groups expense.
During the year under review, the majority of the Board excluding the Chairman comprised Board performance evaluation independent non-executive directors.
The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its At the time of the 2011 Annual General Meeting, John Peace, performance and that of its committees each financial year.
In Philip Bowman and David Tyler will have served for nine years on the year under review the evaluation was led by an independent the Board.
The Board does not feel that this compromises their external consultant, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review.
The effectiveness, as they bring valuable insight and experience to evaluation process involved comprehensive interviews with each the Boards deliberations.
The external performance evaluation director and the Company Secretary and covered a range of conducted in the year reviewed the non-executive directors issues around board and committee processes, board roles and contributions and found that they continued to be effective.
The Board believes that Philip Bowman and David Tyler remain Feedback from the evaluation process was provided to the Board independent as they continue to provide constructive challenge to in the form of a presentation at a Nomination Committee meeting the Boards decision making process.
The Nomination Committee and a written report to the Board.
The review considered the will continue to keep the composition of the Board under review.
outcomes of previous evaluations, the current composition and responsibilities of the Board and each of its committees, together Board appointments with the frequency and structure of meetings.
In addition, the Board nominations are recommended to the Board by the review considered the contribution and effectiveness of the Nomination Committee under its terms of reference.
All directors executive and non-executive directors.
The review identified that have historically been subject to election by shareholders at the the Board had a number of strengths, including: Annual General Meeting following their appointment and have been re-elected every three years thereafter in accordance they regularly considered and understood shareholders with the Companys Articles of Association and the 2008 Code.
expectations: At the 2011 Annual General Meeting, the Company will adopt the culture and size of the Board was considered effective and early the provisions of the 2010 Code that relate to annual open, with a diverse range of skills and providing an appropriate re-election of directors and all of the directors will be offering level of challenge: and themselves for re-election.
the governance and support framework for the Board was The biographical details of the directors can be found on considered positive and effective.
page 67 of this Annual Report.
The Board confirms that, following formal performance evaluation conducted by an independent external consultant, the performance of each of the directors standing for re-election continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to their roles, including commitment of time for Board and Committee meetings and any other duties.
72 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED The review also suggested areas for further development, including: The main roles and responsibilities of the Audit Committee are set out in written terms of reference.
reviewing the succession planning framework: The Audit Committee is responsible for: continuing to develop a wider understanding of the competitive landscape and the consumer experience.
reviewing financial statements and formal announcements relating to the Groups performance: The Board has addressed both of these issues since the review and will continue to do so going forward.
reviewing the Groups internal financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management systems: The feedback from the review was considered and it was concluded that the Board and its Committees operate efficiently monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups and effectively.
internal audit function: assessing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness Conflicts of interest of the external auditors: The Board has authority to approve directors conflicts and potential conflicts of interest and has adopted a policy and developing and implementing policies on the engagement procedures to manage and, where appropriate, to approve of the external auditors for the supply of non-audit services: such conflicts, which it believes operates effectively.
making recommendations for the appointment, reappointment A review of situational conflicts which have been authorised is and removal of the external auditors and approving their undertaken by the Board annually.
Following the review for the remuneration and terms of engagement: financial year, the Board concluded that there is currently no reviewing arrangements by which employees may, in compromise to the independence of any director arising from confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties in an external appointment or any outside commercial interest.
matters of financial reporting and other matters.
Committees The Board is satisfied, in accordance with the provisions of the The Board is supported by a number of committees including the 2008 Code, that at least one member of the Audit Committee has following principal committees: Audit Committee, Remuneration recent and relevant financial experience, given the nature of the Committee and Nomination Committee.
All the non-executive senior management positions held or previously held by Philip directors are members of each of the principal committees of the Bowman, David Tyler and John Smith see biographical details Board.
The terms of reference of each of the principal committees on page 67. can be viewed on the Groups website www.
The Audit Committee met five times during the year with three The Committees, if they consider it necessary, can engage with scheduled meetings and two ad hoc meetings.
The attendance third-party consultants and independent professional advisors record of Committee members is recorded in the table on and can call upon other resources of the Group to assist them page 71.
At the invitation of the Chairman of the Audit Committee, in developing their respective roles.
In addition to the relevant the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the committee members and the Company Secretary, external advisors Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, the Director and, on occasion, other directors attend committee meetings but of Audit and Risk Assurance, the Senior Vice President Group only at the invitation of the chairmen of the Committees.
Finance, the Director of Tax and the external auditors regularly attend meetings.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing Audit Committee and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal control The Audit Committee comprises five independent non-executive procedures and risk management systems.
The Committee directors: reviewed the Groups internal audit plan and approved the internal Philip Bowman Chairman audit plan for the financial year to 31 March 2011.
In addition, Ian Carter the Committee reviewed the adequacy of the whistle blowing Stephanie George arrangements in place to enable employees to raise, in John Smith confidence, any concerns they may have.
The Committee David Tyler is satisfied that such arrangements remain appropriate.
External Audit During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the external audit process.
The appointment of  as the Companys auditors predated the IPO of the Company in 2002.
Further, given the elevation of the Company to the FTSE100 Index in 2009 and the significant geographical and financial expansion of the Company and the Group, the Committee concluded that it was appropriate to review the effectiveness of the external audit process by inviting each of , Ernst & Young, KPMG and Deloitte to tender for the appointment as the Companys and the Groups external auditors.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 73 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Audit Committee, supported by senior management, During the year the Nomination Committee considered and conducted a rigorous tender process focusing on quality, reviewed the structure and diversity of the Board and its resources, independence and value.
The tendering firms Committees, the Groups succession planning arrangements were invited to put forward a proposal to the Audit Committee, and the results of the performance evaluation.
These following briefing meetings with key management and the Audit arrangements will be kept under review by the Committee.
Following the review of these proposals The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive by management and the Audit Committee Chairman, two firms, directors, including the expected time commitment, are available  and Ernst & Young, were selected for inspection at the Companys registered office and will be made to present to the Audit Committee and such presentations available for 15 minutes before the Annual General Meeting and were made by the personnel which each firm proposed would during the meeting itself.
This included partners, directors and managers from the respective firms.
The team proposed Remuneration Committee by  was a different team from the one The report of the Remuneration Committee is set out on pages which had conducted the audit for the year ended 31 March 76 to 85.
After careful consideration, the Audit Committee concluded Corporate Responsibility that the proposal from  was the best Details of the Groups approach to Corporate Responsibility are overall in terms of quality, resources, independence and value and given on pages 58 to 63. would better meet the Groups requirements for external audit services going forward.
Accountability and audit The Board acknowledges that it should present a balanced The Audit Committee therefore recommended to the Board that and understandable assessment of the Groups position and  be retained as the Groups external prospects.
In this context, reference should be made to the auditors and that it should propose to shareholders that Statement of Directors Responsibilities on page 86, which  LLP be re-appointed as the Groups includes a statement in compliance with the 2008 Code regarding external auditors at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Groups status as a going concern, and to the Report of the The Committee recognises that the independence of the auditors Auditors on page 87 which includes a statement by the auditors is an essential part of the audit framework and the assurance that about their reporting responsibilities.
The Board recognises that it provides.
The Committee monitors the types of non-audit work its responsibility to present a balanced and understandable that are undertaken by the external auditors, including receiving assessment extends to interim and other price-sensitive public regular reports on the type of work undertaken, to ensure that reports and reports to regulators as well as to information their objectivity and independence are not compromised.
Any required to be presented by law.
proposed non-audit assignments require prior approval and the Committee receives a report at each meeting providing details Internal control of non-audit assignments carried out by the external auditors The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for the Groups in addition to their normal work.
system of internal control and the Audit Committee reviews its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather Details of the fees paid to the external auditors during the than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives financial year can be found in note 31 in the financial statements.
and can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance Nomination Committee against material misstatement or loss.
The Audit Committee The Nomination Committee comprises: has reviewed the effectiveness of the key procedures which have been established to provide internal control.
As part of the John Peace Chairman process that the Board has in place to review the effectiveness Angela Ahrendts of the internal control system, there are procedures designed Philip Bowman to capture and evaluate failings and weaknesses, and in the case Ian Carter of those categorised by the Board as significant, procedures Stephanie George exist to monitor that the necessary actions are being taken to John Smith remedy failings.
David Tyler In accordance with the revised guidance for directors on internal The Nomination Committee is responsible for reviewing the control the Revised Turnbull Guidance, the Board confirms balance and composition of the Board and its committees and that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and for identifying and recommending appointments or renewal of managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
These include appointments to the Board.
These regular reviews ensure that those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
the Group and the Board are able to draw from a complementary This process was in place throughout the year under review and balance of skills and experience and that there is in place an up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
appropriate plan for orderly succession to the Board.
The procedure The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee for appointments is set out in the Committees terms of reference.
which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and The Nomination Committee met twice during the year under is in accordance with the Revised Turnbull Guidance.
The table on page 71 gives details of directors procedures operating within the Group are as follows: attendance at these meetings.
74 Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Risk assessment Monitoring The Groups business objectives are incorporated into the annual A range of procedures is used to monitor the effective application budgeting and planning cycle.
Progress towards the achievement of internal control within the Group.
These include management of such objectives is monitored by a variety of financial measures review and management confirmations of compliance with and non-financial performance indicators.
standards and procedures as well as internal audit and other specialist reviews.
The Internal Audit department is responsible for The Group Risk Committee of executive management meets reporting to the Audit Committee on the effectiveness of internal formally at least three times a year to re-evaluate risk and to control systems.
consider the work of the Internal Audit and Risk Assurance and other assurance teams.
During the year, the Committee met Relations with shareholders on three occasions.
The Director of Audit and Risk Assurance The Board recognises the importance of maintaining good attends these meetings.
communications with its shareholders and does this through the Annual Report, preliminary and interim announcements, interim The Board acknowledges that it is responsible for considering management statements, the Annual General Meeting and operational, financial, compliance and other risks to the through the additional processes described below.
business and has delegated responsibility for reviewing the risk management procedures to the Audit Committee.
The Chief Executive Officer and Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer make presentations to institutional Control environment and control activities shareholders and analysts immediately following the release of The Group consists of a number of businesses, each with its the preliminary and interim results: these presentations are made own management structure which forms part of the overall available on the Groups website www.
management structure of the Group.
The senior executives of these units report to the executive directors.
The Company communicates with its institutional investors frequently and regularly through a combination of formal meetings, The Group has established procedures for the delegation of participation at investor conferences and informal briefings with authorities for matters that are considered significant, either management.
The Board is kept abreast of the views of major because of their value or the impact on the Group, to ensure shareholders by briefings from the Director of Investor Relations.
that approval is considered at an appropriate level.
In addition, analysts notes and brokers briefings are also used The Groups trading units operate within a framework of policies to achieve a wide understanding of investors views.
and procedures which are either already laid down or are being The non-executive directors, including the Senior Independent established in organisation or authority manuals.
Policies and Director, are available to meet with major shareholders to discuss procedures cover key issues such as authorisation levels, issues of importance to them, should a meeting be requested.
compliance with legislation and physical security.
Annual General Meeting The Group has implemented various strategies to deal with the 2010 Annual General Meeting risk factors that have been identified.
Such strategies include a In accordance with the provisions of the 2008 Code, the framework of internal control and the use of third-party services to Notice of the 2010 Annual General Meeting was sent to assist in monitoring specific issues.
In addition, other approaches shareholders at least 20 working days before the Meeting.
are taken, such as insurance.
Further information is set out in the A poll vote was taken on each of the resolutions put before Risk section on pages 54 to 56. shareholders.
Shareholders approved a resolution to adopt Information and financial reporting new Articles of Association which had been amended to take The Group has procedures in place to ensure that there is appropriate account of the Companies Shareholders Rights Regulations internal control and risk management in relation to financial reporting 2009 and the final implementation of the Companies Act 2006. and the preparation of consolidated accounts.
All directors attended and the Chairman of the Board and the The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, chairmen of each of the committees were available to answer focused on monthly financial performance reporting which is at shareholders questions.
A summary of results supported by 2011 Annual General Meeting commentary and performance measures is provided to the Board Voting at the 2011 Annual General Meeting will be by way of poll.
The performance measures are subject to review The results of the voting at the Annual General Meeting will be to ensure that they provide relevant and reliable indications of announced and details of the votes will be available to view on the business performance.
com as soon as possible after In relation to the preparation of consolidated accounts, the the meeting.
procedures include maintaining a dedicated consolidated It is the intention that all directors, including the chairmen of the financial reporting system, obtaining representations from Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, will attend senior management of the relevant legal entities, and the review the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will be available and reconciliation of reported data at appropriate intervals.
A summary of the key business risks and relevant control measures is submitted by the executive directors at each Audit Share capital Committee meeting.
The Audit Committee meets with both Further information about the Companys share capital, including external and internal auditors.
substantial shareholdings, can be found in the Directors Report on pages 68 to 70.
Burberry Group PLC annual report 2010 11 75
