54 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.
SUMMARY OF OBSERVATIONS AS A RESULT RECOMMENDATION FROM ACTION TAKEN IN 2011 2010 BOARD EVALUATION OFBOARD EFFECTIVENESS REVIEWS Each year the Board participates in a formal evaluation Further enhance strategy and The Board received internal of its performance.
In 2010 the Board evaluation was market review discussions.
and external presentations undertaken by an external facilitator, Tracy Long, of on the economic outlook and market and sector Boardroom Review.
Tracy is an experienced consultant topical issues.
whose only interest with Legal & General is her work with the Board.
During 2011, the Board considered the Increase informal interaction Attendance of senior recommendations arising from the 2010 Board evaluation between Board members management at Board in order to further improve its effectiveness.
An update on and senior management meetings, training sessions outside of formal Board and director induction progress made against the recommendations is set out on and Committee meetings.
The Board has evaluated its performance during All presenters meet with 2011.
As a result, the Board intends to consider refreshing Board members informally following Board meetings.
the Board agenda and format of reports to the Board in order to facilitate further discussion, to continue to focus on succession planning and talent management and Further leverage non-executive The Chairman liaises with directors breadth of experience.
non-executive directors to further enhance the Boards role in monitoring the on relevant agenda items.
Specialist focused briengs on topical macro issues are prepared for individual non-executive directors.
BOARD AGENDA: KEY AREAS OF FOCUS IN 2011 CORPORATE AND STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES REGULATORY CHANGE TALENT MANAGEMENT SOCIALPURPOSE The Board constantly In light of the evolving The Board is committed The Board has a strong reviews the Companys regulatory framework and to enhancing talent in the focus on the corporate and strategic objectives and in in particular, Solvency Company and recognises social responsibility of the 2011 focused on developing II and the FSAs Retail the importance of Company.
It has closely deeper relationships with Distribution Review, identifying, retaining and followed debate on welfare customers and promoting the Board is regularly developing talent to grow reform and regularly a brand that customers updated on regulatory leaders for the future.
The Board closely The Board has considered to develop products and was also increased focus monitors the Companys the Companys talent services that deliver the on capital management and plans and responses management strategy at right benets to the right building the Companys to regulatory changes various Board meetings people in the right way.
organisational capability in order to ensure the thisyear.
For more information and productivity.
Company isfully prepared on the Companys view to respond to, and comply on corporate social with, regulatory change responsibility please see including the opportunities pages 46 to 49. changepresents.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 55 TYPICAL NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR ranges from two to four days depending on the needs INDUCTIONPROGRAMME of the appointee.
Non-executive directors have meetings Upon appointment non-executive directors receive with the Chairman to discuss their personal development a comprehensive induction pack including business plan and have a series of induction meetings with information, investor reports and the Groups governance executive directors and seniormanagement, examples policies.
The length of the initial induction programme of which are set out in the table below.
INDUCTION MEETINGS WITH EXECUTIVES AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAMS MATTERS COVERED FACILITATED BY Overview of the Groups business areas and the strategic objectives of the Group.
Group Chief Executive The Group financial plan, targets and projections.
Group Chief Financial officer Group and Individual Protection, Annuities, General Insurance.
Executive Director Risk Workplace and Retail Savings, the Savings teams response to the Retail Distribution Review.
Executive Director Savings An overview of the LGIM structure and its current business plan.
CEO LGIM An explanation of the Groups international businesses and the strategic plans for the international division.
CEO International An overview of the Groups attitude to and management of risk.
CRO A brieng on the regulatory framework and the Groups compliance, including Retail Distribution Review, Group Compliance andTreating Customers Fairly.
Informative training on Solvency II and details of the Companys contingency plans.
Solvency II Team The Groups remuneration policies and talent management strategy.
Human Resources and Remuneration An explanation of Group policies on brand, customers and investor relations.
Communications and Investor Relations An overview of financial control processes and audit and accounting matters.
Finance Relationships with Banks and Building Societies, IFAs, appointed representatives and customers.
Distribution BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS ATTENDANCE Appointment Audit Nominations Remuneration Group Risk Director Date Board 9 Committee 5 Committee 7 Committee 3 Committee 4 J Stewart 1 January 2010 9 9 7 7 1 1 T J Breedon 1 January 2002 9 9 M Fairey 1 May 2011 6 6 2 2 5 5 2 2 Dame C Furse 1 June 2009 9 9 6 7 3 4 M J Gregory 28 January 2009 9 9 R Markham 4 October 2006 9 9 7 7 3 3 1 1 J B Pollock 11 December 2003 9 9 S Popham 1 July 2011 4 4 4 4 2 2 3 3 N Prettejohn 2 November 2010 9 9 4 4 6 7 3 3 4 4 H S Staunton 1 May 2004 9 9 5 5 7 7 4 4 1 J Strachan 1 December 2003 4 4 3 3 2 2 1 1 1 Sir D Walker 1 March 2002 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 J Wilson 9 November 2011 2 2 1 1 2 2 N D Wilson 1 September 2009 9 9 1 Retired at AGM on 25 May 2011.
56 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.
COMPLIANCE WITH THE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE For the year ended 31 December A3.
EFFECTIVENESS 2011, the Board believes that the for leadership of the board and B1.
The board and its committees Company has complied with the ensuring itseffectiveness.
should havethe appropriate principles and provisions of the The Chairman sets the agendas balance of skills, experience, UKCorporate Governance Code.
for meetings, manages the independence and knowledge meeting timetable and facilitates ofthe company the contribution of non-executive A.
LEADERSHIP Board member biographies on directors for agenda items and pages 50 to 51 identify the skills A1.
and experience each director brings collectively responsible for Meetings are chaired to ensure tothe Board.
the long-term success of that all Board members have the thecompany.
All directors bring experience and opportunity to contribute to the qualities from other industries and The Board sets the Companys discussion and debate.
other aspects ofcommercial and strategy and reviews performance The Chairman facilitates opportunities public life to the Board.
for Board members to engage outside The Board is committed to The Board is responsible for of the boardroom to promote the achieving greater diversity of ensuring the necessary resources development andstrengthening thought in the boardroom, including are in place for the Company to of director relationships.
through stronger representation achieve its objectives.
The non-executive directors ofwomen on the Board.
The Board is accountable to formally appraise the Chairmans The Board considers each of the shareholders, employees, performance.
This is facilitated by non-executives to be independent customers and other stakeholders the Senior Independent Director.
in accordance with the UK for the performance of the Corporate Governance Code.
non-executive directors with institutional investors, the should constructively challenge annual re-election of the Board, B2.
a formal, rigorous and and help develop proposals and employee and customer transparent procedure for the forstrategy.
appointment of new directors Short presentations on key issues to the board.
There is a clear schedule of matters at Board meetings ensure time and reservedfor the Board.
The Board The appointment of new directors to opportunity fordiscussion, debate has  for the the Board is led by the Nominations and the sharing of non-executive Groups internal control system.
The procedure for directors views.
Implementation of the internal new appointments is described control system is the responsibility The Chairman seeks to achieve in more detail in the Nominations of the executive directors and an environment in the boardroom Committee Report on page 58. senior management.
forconstructive challenge by Succession planning is regularly non-executive directors by actively The Board delegates operational considered for both Board inviting non-executive directors responsibilities to the Group Chief members and senior management.
views and encouraging these views Executive who in turn delegates How the Company identies and to be delivered in a supportive and authority to members of the retains talent was an area of focus positive manner.
for the Board during 2011, see the All directors participate in an table on page 54 for further detail.
off-site strategy event where the A2.
clear division of strategic objectives for the last year responsibilities B3.
All directors should be are reviewed and performance able to allocate sufficient time Dened roles for each of the against the objectives evaluated.
to the company Chairman, Group Chief Executive Together with externally facilitated and Senior Independent Director The time commitments of nondiscussion onmacroenvironment ensure a clear divisionof executive directors are dened matters, this forms the foundation responsibilities between them.
on appointment and regularly for all Board members to evaluated.
Non-executive directors The Chairman is responsible for debateand develop proposals are expected to dedicate time to theleadership and effectiveness for the Companys strategy.
thepreparation for and attendance ofthe Board.
The non-executive directors regularly atmeetings, the annual strategy The Senior Independent Director meet in the absence of the executive event, Board dinners and training is responsible for facilitating the directors providing an opportunity .
relationship between the Board for any concerns tobe discussed.
The Chairmans agreement to a andshareholders.
Non-executive directors also meet new directorship is required where with the Senior Independent Director The Group Chief Executive is this may affect the time a director inthe absence of the Chairman.
responsible for leading the day to can dedicate totheCompany.
day management ofthe Company The Senior Independent Director Attendance at meetings during 2011 within the strategy set by the Board.
meets regularly with the Chairman to issetout in the table on page 55. discuss the effectiveness of the Board.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 57 B4.
All directors should receive C. ACCOUNTABILITY D. REMUNERATION induction on joining the board and C1.
Levels of remuneration should should regularly update and refresh a balanced and understandable be sufficient to attract, retain and their skills andknowledge.
assessment of the companys motivate directors of the quality The induction process is described position and prospects.
required to run the company in detailon page 55. successfully, but a company The Directors Report can be should avoid paying more than There are regular training sessions located at pages 1 to 43, and is necessary for this purpose.
this sets out the performance significant proportion ofexecutive ofthe Company, the business The Chairman regularly meets with directors remuneration should model, strategy and the risks each director to agree training and be structured so as to link and uncertainties relating to the developmentneeds.
rewards to corporate and Companys future prospects.
The board should be The levels of remuneration of supplied in a timelymanner with directors and how the Company C2.
The board is responsible information in a form and of promotes an alignment of for determining the nature and aquality appropriate to enable interest between directors and extent of significant risks itis it todischarge its duties.
shareholders by linking reward to willing to take in achieving its Board and committee papers are performance are explained in the strategicobjectives generally issued aweek in advance Directors Remuneration Report The Board sets the Companys ofmeetings.
onpages 64 to 82. riskappetite and annually reviews During 2011, the Board was the effectiveness of theCompanys e-enabled tofacilitate the D2.
a formal and transparent risk management and internal supply ofinformation.
procedure for developing policy control system.
on executive remuneration and for The Company Secretary assists The Group Risk Committee xing the remuneration packages theChairman in ensuring the timely provides guidance to the Board ofindividual directors.
supply ofquality information to on risk management policies and the Board and updates the Board The activities of the Remuneration procedures and advice on what on governance matters ateach Committee and the way in which constitutes acceptable risk taking.
it sets executive remuneration This assists the Board in setting policy are set out in the Directors All Board members have access the risk appetite for the Company.
to the adviceand services of the The activities of the Group Risk Company Secretary as and when Committee are explained in more required, as well asto independent detailon pages 62 and 63.
E. RELATIONS WITH professional advice attheexpense SHAREHOLDERS of the Company.
The board as a whole has formal andtransparent responsibility forensuring that B6.
The board should undertake arrangements for considering a satisfactory dialogue with a formal andrigorous annual how they should apply the shareholders takes place.
evaluation corporate reporting and risk The Board actively seeks the views management and internal control The Board evaluation is described of shareholders, including through principles and for maintaining an in detail on page 54. meetings between shareholders appropriate relationship withthe and the Chairman, Group Chief companysauditor.
Executive or Group Chief Financial B7.
All directors should be There is a risk management officer, bi-annual discussions submitted for re-election framework in place comprising withthe Companys corporate All directors were subject to policies and procedures.
These brokers and regular reports on shareholder re-election at the policies and procedures are investor relations activities.
The AGMin 2011. published on a dedicated intranet Board values open interaction with All current directors will stand for site which is regularly updated shareholders and is committed either election or re-election at the andreviewed.
to ensuring that the direction 2012 AGM.
of the Company isaligned with The Audit Committee and the shareholders interests.
Group Risk Committee assist the Board by undertaking the day to day oversight of the E2.
The board should use risk management framework the AGM tocommunicate with and seeking assurance on the investors and toencourage effectiveness ofthe internal their participation.
controls in accordance The Board values the AGM as an withTurnbullGuidance.
important opportunity to engage The Board has delegated with investors.
Attendees at the management of the relationship AGM have the opportunity to ask with the Companys auditor to questions of the Board and to speak the Audit Committee.
details of the activities of the Audit Committee are setout on pages 59 to 61.
