62 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 GROUP RISK COMMITTEE REPORT.
MEMBERSHIP AND INDUCTION The Committees primary role Membership of the Group Risk Committee comprises is to provide guidance to the four non-executive directors.
Board in relation to the Groups risk management policies and On appointment to the Board, directors participate inadetailed induction programme which is outlined procedures and to provide advice inmore detail on page 55.
This induction covers the on what constitutes acceptable roleof the Committee and its terms of reference.
Where a new director joins the Committee, their induction extends to include a more detailed brieng session with the Group Chief Risk officer on topical issues for the Committee, for example, key areas of current focus and emerging risks.
GROUP CHIEF RISK OFFICER The Committees primary role is to provide guidance tothe Board in relation to the Groups risk management policies and procedures, and to provide advice on what constitutes acceptable risk taking.
This assists the Board in setting the risk appetite for the Group.
TheGroup Chief Risk officer performs an important role in the Groups risk management framework, which is described in more detail on page 41.
The Group Chief Risk officer reports to, and has unfettered access to, the Committee.
The Committee must approve the NICK PRETTEJOHN appointment or removal of the Group Chief Risk officer.
CHAIRMAN OF THE GROUP RISK COMMITTEE MEETINGS The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial officer, Group Chief Risk officer, Group Chief Internal Auditor and the lead partner of the external auditor,  LLP, regularly attend THE COMMITTEE all meetings, although the Committee reserves the right to request that they withdraw at any time.
Business representatives are invited to present individual reports, Members and the Committee values these opportunities to directly Committee member since 2 November 2010, Nick Prettejohn question those closest to the relevant business area.
Chairof the Committee since 6 April 2011 Dame Clara Furse Committee member since 14 April 2010 The Committee met four times during 2011.
The areas Rudy Markham Committee member from 14 April 2010 to 1 July 2011 of focus during 2011 are summarised in the table on Committee member since 14 April 2010, Chair of the Henry Staunton AuditCommittee page 63.
The Committee operates under formal terms of Chair and member of the Committee from reference and these are reviewed annually.
The current John Stewart 14April 2010 to 6 April 2011 terms ofreference for the Committee are available on Committee member from 14 April 2010, James Strachan ourwebsite.
retired 25May 2011 Stuart Popham Committee member since 1 July 2011 The Chairman of the Committee reports back to the Board on the outcome of meetings, and the Board receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 63 REGULAR AGENDA AND AREAS OF FOCUS DURING 2011 GROUP CHIEF RISK OFFICER REPORT Matters considered by the Committee as part of its review of the CROs Each meeting of the Committee receives a formal reportincluded: report from the Group Chief Risk officer CRO The economic outlook, developing events within the eurozone, and the implications providing an assessment of the environment in for sovereign debt, bond markets and banking counterparties: which the Group is operating, the risks that this may Changes in the legal and regulatory environment including the implications of the present and potential mitigation.
The report provides Test-Achats judgment, Legal & Generals implementation of the Retail Distribution the Committee with an opportunity to debate key Review RDR and Solvency II requirements and our response to the FSAs Withissues and review mitigating actions proposed profits consultation: and bymanagement.
Proposed changes to the UK financial services regulatory framework and their implications for the Group.
The CRO report includes a management information pack providing analysis of the Groups exposures to market, insurance, liquidity, counterparty, operational and conduct risks together with the top risk issues to the Group.
FOCUSED BUSINESS REVIEWS Key reviews during the year included the risk prole of our: A cycle of focused business reviews enables the Investment Management business: Committee to consider the risk prole of Legal & Insurance businesses in America: Generals core business lines, typically presented by Retail Savings business: and its managing director.
The Committee also receives UK Group Protection business.
ad-hoc reviews, either at the request of the Committee or in response to developing risks.
The Committee undertook reviews of the prole of risks within our annuity business in 2010, with specic consideration of investment and insurance risks.
During 2011 consideration was given to the impact of ination on the annuity book.
FOCUSED RISK MANAGEMENT REVIEWS During the year the Committee has overseen the development of the Groups Risk Focused risk management reviews provide Appetite Statement.
The Committee has also undertaken specic reviews of the theCommittee with an opportunity to challenge frameworks for the management of: therobustness of frameworks in place to manage Liquidity risk: the different types of risk to which the Group may Reputation risk: and beexposed.
The Groups overall risk taxonomy and assessment framework was also reviewed.
STRESS & SCENARIO TESTING In addition to contributing to the assumptions of the Groups stress and scenario test AND CAPITALMANAGEMENT programme at its March meeting, and reviewing the results at its September meeting, A programme of stress and scenario tests is in place the Committee considered analysis of: to enable assessment of the impact of extreme but Key reverse stress tests performed by each of the Groups core business lines: plausible events on the Groups capital position.
Potential stresses arising as a result of a double dip recession: The Committee contributes to the scenarios to be Contingency options in the event of a prolonged period of market stress evaluated and considers the completed analysis.
andilliquidity: The Committee also invites senior business Possible Euro break-up scenarios, the implications for the macroeconomic personnel to discuss emerging risks and the environment and the Group: and impact of extreme outcomes.
Exposures to banking counterparties and how those exposures are managed.
At each Committee meeting there is a formal agenda item to enable members to raise and discuss emerging risks.
As well as providing a feedback loop into the programme of stress and scenario tests, discussions provide an opportunity to shape future meeting agenda of the Committee.
The November meeting of the Committee included an externally facilitated review of the macroeconomic environment and the financial risks that may present to the Group.
