OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 59 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT.
INDUCTION The Committees principal On appointment to the Board, directors participate responsibilities for 2011 were ina detailed induction programme which is outlined oversight over financial reporting, in more detail on page 55.
This induction covers the internal control framework and the role of the Committee, its terms of reference, and current and upcoming material issues to monitoring auditor independence.
Where a new director joins the Committee, their induction extends to include more detailed brieng sessions with the external auditor and Group Chief Internal Auditor as well as the Group Chief Financial officer, Group Financial Controller and UK Actuary on topical issuesfor the Committee, for example, significant areas ofaccounting judgement for the last financial report, the internal control environment and the relationship with the external auditor.
MEETINGS The Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive, GroupChief Financial officer, Group Chief Risk officer, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Internal Auditor, UK Actuary and representatives ofthe external auditor,  LLP, regularly attend all Committee meetings, HENRY STAUNTON CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE although the Committee reserves the right to request that they withdraw at any time.
Business representatives are invited to present individual THE COMMITTEE reports, and the Committee values these opportunities to directly question those closest totherelevant business area.
Members Committee member since 1 May 2004, Chair since The Committee met five times during 2011.
Henry Staunton 27 April 2005 Theareasof focus during 2011 are summarised Stood down as a Committee member on Dame Clara Furse inthetable on page 60.
The Committee holds private 2 January 2011 meetings withtheGroup Chief Internal Auditor Mike Fairey Committee member since 1 May 2011 andrepresentatives of the external auditor at least Nick Prettejohn Committee member since 15 March 2011 once during the year.
The Committee operates Committee member since 23 February 2004, James Strachan retired 25 May 2011 underformal terms of reference and these are Sir David Walker 15 February 2011 meeting only, retired 25 May 2011 reviewed annually.
Thecurrent terms of reference Julia Wilson Committee member since 9 November 2011 forthe Committee areavailable on our website.
The Chairman of the Committee reports back to the MEMBERSHIP Board on the outcome of meetings, and the Board Membership of the Audit Committee comprises four receives the minutes of all Committee meetings.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Committees terms of reference, at least one member must have recent and relevant financial experience and competence in accounting or auditing.
The Chair of the Committee is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ICAEW.
Julia Wilson is the current Group Finance Director of 3i Group Plc and is a member of ICAEW and the Chartered Institute ofTaxation.
60 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT.
AREAS OF FOCUS DURING 2011 INTERNAL CONTROL AREAS OF ACCOUNTING AND RISK MANAGEMENT FINANCIAL REPORTING EXTERNAL AUDITOR INTERNAL AUDIT JUDGEMENT FRAMEWORK Reviewing in depth the Methodology for the Evaluating the Receiving the external Quarterly reports processes and controls calculation of the credit consistency of auditors views on on internal audits around the Groups default provision.
Stock Exchange areas of accounting undertaken, with annuities business and announcements and judgement and the detailed findings the pensions financial the Annual Report internal control presented on areas reporting processes.
Detailed presentations from individual business areas by way of follow upto internal audits reporting on managements responses to internal auditactions.
Examination of the Mortality and longevity Review of the Groups Evaluating and Quarterly reports on responsibilities, team assumptions.
approving the external financial crime activity.
composition and audit plan for the year.
segregation of duties Approval of the within the Group  Treasuryfunction.
Assessing the EEV economic Consideration of Approving the terms of Evaluating and processes and controls assumptions.
matters relating to the engagement and fees approving the annual around projects, adoption ofthe Groups for the external auditor.
including the controls accounts ona going During 2011, the around establishment, concern basis.
and approved revisions Approval of the going to the internal audit concern statement.
plan as it identied a need to reallocate internal audit resource to regulatory change programmes.
Monitoring the controls on the use independence of of spreadsheets.
the external auditor, including overseeing the amount and nature of non-audit work undertaken by theexternal auditor and evaluating the balance ofnon-audit to audit work.
The Groups policy on the provision of non-audit services to the Group underpins the Committees work.
The Committee must approve the engagement of theexternal auditor fornon-audit work.
Analysis of the Tax matters: internal control and risk management the announcement processes, in of the reduction in conjunction with the corporate tax rates.
review by the Group Risk Committee of the the treatment of Groups principal risks deferred tax assets.
OUR GROUP OUR PERFORMANCE OUR APPROACH GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 61 RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE AUDIT COMMITTEE AND GROUP RISK COMMITTEE The Audit Committee, in conjunction with the Group Risk Committee, assists the Board in ensuring the Group operates within a framework of prudent and effective controls that allows risk to be identied, assessed andmanaged.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee is a member of the Group Risk Committee.
The Chairman of the Group Risk Committee is a member of the Audit Committee.
The areas of responsibility of each of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee are dened.
The Group Risk Committee provides guidance to the Board on risk management policies and procedures and what constitutes acceptable risk taking, while the Audit Committee looks at the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control framework encapsulated within those policies and procedures, including financial control.
There is active consideration of areas of potential overlap between the Committees and where it would be helpful for an issue considered by one committee to also be considered by the other.
The Audit Committee receives input from the Group Risk Committee in the preparation of the internal audit programme and external audit plan.
The work of the Audit Committee and the Group Risk Committee assists the Board in discharging its overall responsibility for the Groups internal control system and for monitoring its effectiveness.
Implementation and maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of the executive directors and senior management.
Where failings or weaknesses have been identied, actions have been taken to remedy those failings or weaknesses.
The Groups control policies and procedures, which are in accordance with Turnbull Guidance, have been in place during 2011 and up to the date this report was approved.
The UK Corporate Governance Code requires directors to review and report to shareholders on the Groups internal control system, which includes financial, operational and compliance control, and risk management.
The system of internal control is designed to manage rather than eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material loss.
The internal control and risk management systems cover the Companys financial reportingprocess and the Groups process for preparation of consolidated financial statements.
For 2011, the Board was able to conclude, with reasonable assurance, that appropriate internal control and risk management systems were maintained throughout the year.
