58 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE REPORT.
THE COMMITTEE When developing the specications, the Nominations The Nominations Committee leads the process for the Committee considered the importance of a diverse appointment of new directors to the Board and reviews Board both in terms of thought, skills and experience on a regular basis the succession plans in place for and gender.
The Committee instructed external executive directors and key senior management, board advisers to assist in the identication and shortlisting composition, the suitability of the directors standing for of potential candidates.
All Committee members, the re-election at the Annual General Meeting and whether Group Chief Executive and other executive directors met the Chairman and the non-executive directors continue the shortlisted candidates and unanimously resolved to be able to meet theircommitments to the Company.
torecommend to the Board the appointments of Mike Fairey, Stuart Popham and Julia Wilson, who each formally joined theBoard as a non-executive director Members on1 May, 1 July and 9 November respectively.
John Stewart Nick Prettejohn Dame Clara Furse Henry Staunton DIVERSITY Mike Fairey from 1 May Julia Wilson from 9 November The Nominations Committee welcomes the Rudy Markham James Strachan until 25 May recommendations made by Lord Davies, and believes Stuart Popham from 1 July Sir David Walker until 25 May that they mark a series of practical and achievable steps towards addressing the important issue of a stronger contribution by women in the UKs boardrooms.
The The Committee is chaired by the Chairman, and all non-executive directors are members of the Committee.
Nominations Committee considers therecommendations Both Sir David Walker and James Strachan were when contemplating the composition of the Board members of the Committee prior to their retirement.
and the Company is working tofurther strengthen Mike Fairey, Stuart Popham and Julia Wilson all the representation of women among the non-Board joined the Committee on the respective dates of their senior management who may bethe Board directors appointments.
The executive directors, as well as the of tomorrow.
Group General Counsel and Group HR Director, may attend meetings by invitation.
The Committee is chaired DIRECTORS TIME COMMITMENT by Henry Staunton, the Senior Independent Director, All directors may serve on a number of other when it is considering matters relating to the Chairman.
Boards, provided they can demonstrate that any such The Nominations Committee met formally seven times appointment will not interfere with their time commitment in2011.
to the Company and that they obtain the agreement of the Chairman to the appointment before accepting.
Executive GROUP CHIEF EXECUTIVE SUCCESSION directors must also obtain the permission of the Group Following the Companys announcement that the Chief Executive.
This ensures that any potential conicts GroupChief Executive intends to retire at the end of of interest or any other concerns around the proposed appointment are considered and addressed.
The major 2012, the Committee has met regularly to consider the plans for succession.
commitments of our non-executive directors are outlined in their biographies on pages 50 and 51.
Currently, nonexecutive directors are contractually obliged to commit BOARD COMPOSITION IN 2011 During 2011, the Committee was active in the appointment circa 25 days per year.
However, in practice their time of three new non-executive directors following the commitment is signicantly in excess of 25 days.
The Chairmans time commitment is two to two and a half decision of Sir David Walker and James Strachan to stand down from the Board after serving nine and eight days a week.
The Committee remains satisfied that all years on the Board respectively.
Therefore, based on non-executive directors have sufficient time to meet their commitments to the Company.
The Committee an assessment of the size of the Board and the balance of its composition, the Committee decided to seek evaluates the independence of any non-executive three additional non-executive directors.
The balance director serving over six years.
All of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent and the of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board was evaluated, and the Committee developed appointment Chairman was considered independent on appointment.
specications for the three positions.
The Committee The Committee was also satisfied that during 2011 the Chairmans other commitments did not interfere with the decided that the Boards diversity of skills would be strengthened by the addition of Board members day to day performance of his duties for the Company.
with knowledge of the insurance market, financial The Committees terms of reference can be viewed services, legal and accounting, tax oraudit issues.
