Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 177 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to achieving long term success for the Company by being the best bank for customers and generating strong, stable and sustainable returns for shareholders.
The Boards strategy is underpinned by high standards of corporate governance designed to ensure consistency and rigour in its decision making.
This report explains how those standards, in particular, those laid down in the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code, apply in practice to ensure that the Board and management work together for the long term benefit of the Company and its shareholders.
The Code can be accessed at www.
uk Leadership and accountability The Chairman has overall responsibility for the leadership of the Board.
His role is separate from that of the Group Chief Executive who manages and leads the business.
A sound relationship between the Chairman and Group Chief Executive, based on a mutual understanding of their respective roles, is essential to maintaining an open culture with the Board.
Establishing an effective working relationship with Antnio Horta-Osrio, the new Group Chief Executive, has therefore been a key area of focus for the Chairman this year.
The Board is collectively responsible for the long term success of the Company including setting the strategy and establishing the values and standards of the Group.
The Group Strategic Review, initiated by Antnio Horta-Osrio in March 2011, has been a key area of focus for the Board during 2011 and all Directors participated fully in its formulation.
An internal project team supported by McKinsey & Co, was established under the direction of the Group Chief Executive.
Detailed plans and proposals were developed by the executive between March and June 2011.
During that period, the Board met a number of times to consider, evaluate and challenge the proposals.
Additional meetings took place with the Non-Executive Directors individually.
The final challenge process took place during a two day Board Strategy session in June 2011.
This meeting was held offsite to allow Directors to fully consider and evaluate the strategic options before they were put to the Board for approval.
The offsite meeting also provided an opportunity to foster closer working relationships between Board members and the new senior team.
The Chairman has overall responsibility for leadership of the Board and for ensuring that the Board devotes its attention to the right matters.
He oversees the content of the agendas which are finalised at Board Agenda Review meetings involving the Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Company Secretary.
The Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent Director also attend.
Details of the matters reserved to the Board are set out in the Board Governance Framework which is explained further below.
The Chairman, with the support of the Company Secretary, ensures that Directors receive timely and relevant information and are kept advised of key developments, both during and between formal meetings.
During 2011, the timeliness of Board communications has been enhanced by the introduction of a secure board portal which enables Directors to access papers electronically as they become available.
A weekly Board dashboard ensures that Directors are kept informed of key developments and emerging issues.
It is expected that all directors, but particularly the Non-Executive Directors, constructively challenge proposals that come to the Board for decision.
Facilitating an open culture is key to achieving this.
During 2011, the Board, led by the Deputy Chairman, developed a charter of values aimed at encouraging strong individual and independent views to broaden the Boards outlook and strengthen its collective judgement.
Open dialogue is encouraged between Directors.
To this end, the Chairman meets regularly with the Non-Executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors either in private sessions held following regular Board or Committee meetings or in separately arranged meetings.
The Executive Directors are aware of such meetings through the Board calendar.
Non-Executive Directors meet at least once a year without the Chairman being present to discuss his performance.
Such meetings are led by the Senior Independent Director.
All Non-Executive Directors have ready access to the Group Chief Executive and other senior executives.
All Directors, including Non-Executive Directors, have access to the services of the Company Secretary in relation to discharging their duties as a director, or as a member of any Board Committee.
The appointment, and removal, of the Company Secretary is a matter reserved for the Board as a whole.
In addition, the Group provides access, at its expense, to the services of external advisers in order to assist directors in their role, wherever this is deemed necessary.
In 2011, a total of sixteen Board meetings were held of which nine were scheduled at the start of the year.
The number of meetings held reflects the continuing challenging environment in which the Group operates and the emphasis placed on keeping the Board informed of developments on a timely basis.
Details of attendance at meetings are set out on page 182.
To assist the Board in carrying out its functions and to provide independent oversight of internal control and risk management, certain responsibilities are delegated to the Boards Committees.
The Board is kept up to date on the activities of the Committees through reports from each of the Committee Chairmen.
Terms of reference for each of the Committees are available on the website at www.
Information on the membership, role and activities of each of the Committees can be found on pages 183 to 185.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 178 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Governance framework The Board operates through a Governance Framework which is reviewed at least annually to ensure that it remains fit for purpose.
During 2011, the Governance Framework was reviewed and updated to reflect the Group Strategic Review and organisational changes.
The revised Governance Framework was approved by the Board in December 2011 and comprises: The Board Governance Framework.
This is, in effect, the Boards operating manual and sets out: the matters that the Board has reserved to itself including the development and setting of strategy and long term objectives: approval of the medium term plan and financial budgets: capital and structure of capital: significant contracts: and various statutory and regulatory approvals: terms of reference of, and delegations to, the Board Committees to ensure an appropriate level of independent oversight by the Non-Executive Directors: delegation of the responsibility for day to day management of the business to the Group Chief Executive: and the respective roles and responsibilities of each of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Senior Independent Director and Non-Executive Directors.
This is the means by which the Group Chief Executive delegates responsibilities at executive level to assist him in carrying out his duties.
The Group Chief Executive reserves certain matters to himself and, subject to financial limits, delegates responsibilities to the Executive Directors, his direct reports and other senior executives who collectively make up the Group Executive Committee.
Lloyds Banking Group conducts its business through a large number of subsidiary entities.
To help manage the legal, regulatory and reputational risks associated with these entities, the Group requires its subsidiaries to adopt consistent, proportionate and appropriate standards.
The Group Subsidiaries Manual provides guidance on the required governance structures and controls having regard to the nature and risk profile of the entity.
The Group Subsidiaries Manual was introduced in April 2011 and was updated in the second half of the year to reflect changes made to the overall Governance Framework in response to the Group Strategic Review.
Board effectiveness As Chairman, Sir Winfried Bischoff leads the ongoing review of the Boards effectiveness.
The Nomination & Governance Committee, which he also chairs, oversees the process and makes recommendations to the Board as appropriate.
To ensure a broad representation of independent views including perspectives from each of the Committees, membership of the Nomination & Governance Committee comprises the Deputy Chairman, the Senior Independent Director, the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Risk Committees and one other independent NonExecutive Director.
The Group Chief Executive also attends meetings as appropriate.
Key activities of the Nomination & Governance Committee are summarised in the Committees section on page 184.
Given the importance of its role in ensuring effective governance of the Board, a more detailed review of the work of the Nomination & Governance Committee is provided here.
Board composition The Nomination & Governance Committee is responsible for reviewing the composition of the Board, including size and structure.
During 2011, it oversaw the search and selection process for new directors, including Sara Weller, who was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 1 February 2012, and the new Group Finance Director.
In reviewing Board composition, the Committee has regard to a range of factors, including: Skills and experience In reviewing composition, the Board aims to ensure that its membership represents a mix of backgrounds and experience that will enhance the quality of its deliberations and decisions.
As part of the ongoing review of composition, specific skills required by the Board are identified with reference to the overall skills of the Board at the time, the need to address longer term succession and current business priorities.
All Directors are required to have good and in most cases have deep experience and understanding of the banking and financial services sector.
The complexity of the Group means that broader skills are also required.
Maintaining the right balance is an ongoing priority.
The annual Board evaluation is instrumental in identifying any new skills requirements, as well as possible shortcomings, gaps and inefficiencies.
As part of its longer term succession plans, the Board has identified a need for at least two new Non-Executive Directors: one with substantial insurance experience and another with in-depth accounting and financial expertise to continue to meet the FRC and SECs financial expert criteria.
Diversity The Board continues to place emphasis on ensuring that its membership reflects diversity in the broadest sense including diversity of gender, ethnicity and background.
The Group welcomes and publicly supports the Davies Review.
The Board has committed to show demonstrable progress towards the goal of achieving at least 25 per cent and ultimately 30 per cent female representation on the Board by 2013 and expects to meet this by 2015.
As a founder member of the 30% Club, which encourages UK companies to aim for at least 30 per cent female representation on their boards by 2015, Sir Winfried Bischoff takes an active interest in promoting diversity within the Group and in business more generally.
The Nomination & Governance Committee currently utilises the services of an Executive search firm which has signed up to the 30% Club's voluntary Code of Conduct for Executive Search firms.
The Group aims over time to be a leader in its approach to gender diversity.
It will continue to focus on diversity and inclusion in order to build a diverse talent pipeline so that there is an appropriate number of talented women ready to make the next move in their careers.
Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 179 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Board size Our aim is to ensure that the size of the Board is sufficient to reflect a broad range of views and perspectives whilst allowing all Directors to participate effectively in meetings.
At year end, the Board comprised twelve directors which is within the range agreed by the Nomination & Governance Committee.
Independence The Boards preference is to ensure a strong majority of independent directors.
At year end, our Board comprised three Executive Directors, eight independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman.
The Code requirement that at least half the Board should be independent Non-Executive Directors has been met throughout the year.
The Nomination & Governance Committee is responsible for assessing the independence of Non-Executive Directors on appointment and annually thereafter.
Based on its 2011 assessment, it is satisfied that throughout the year, all Non-Executive Directors were independent as to both character and judgement.
In assessing independence, the Committee does not rely solely on the Code criteria but considers whether, in fact, the Non-Executive Director is demonstrably independent and free of relationships and other circumstances that could affect their judgement.
It does this with reference to the individual performance and conduct in reaching decisions.
It also takes account of any relationships that have been disclosed and authorised by the Board.
In the view of the Nomination & Governance Committee, Glen Moreno, who between January and August 2009, was acting Chairman of United Kingdom Financial Investments UKFI, the body which manages the Governments shareholding in the Group, continues to exercise his own, and robustly independent judgement, at all times.
Board changes Non-Executive Directors The Nomination & Governance Committee is responsible for leading and overseeing appointments to the Board.
The process of identification of potential new Non-Executive Directors, is undertaken on a rolling basis alongside the continuous review of the composition of the Board.
Where appropriate, this is conducted with the support of an executive search firm.
On 1 February 2012 the Group announced the appointment of Sara Weller as a Non-Executive Director and as a member of each of the Remuneration and Risk Committees.
Saras career, characterised by strong advocacy of customers and of the application of new technology, directly supports the Groups strategy.
In addition, her background in a range of retail and associated sectors enhances the diversity of perspectives on the Board.
On 27 February 2012, the Group announced that with effect from 17 May 2012, the Board had appointed David Roberts as Deputy Chairman and Tony Watson as Senior Independent Director.
Group Chief Executive succession and interim arrangements On 1 March 2011, Antnio Horta-Osrio was appointed Group Chief Executive replacing Eric Daniels who retired on 28 February 2011.
Consistent with his contractual entitlement to notice, Eric Daniels remained employed by the Group until the end of September 2011.
The detailed process leading to the appointment of Antnio Horta-Osrio was explained in the 2010 Corporate Governance Report.
He joined the Board as an Executive Director on 17 January 2011.
This allowed him time to get to know the business and to complete an orderly handover before assuming the role of Group Chief Executive on 1 March 2011.
On 2 November 2011, the Board announced that, acting on medical advice, Antnio Horta-Osrio would be taking a short leave of absence due to exhaustion.
He returned to work in full health on 9 January 2012.
In the period from 2 November 2011 to 8 January 2012, Tim Tookey was appointed Interim Group Chief Executive in addition to his role as Group Finance Director.
Interim governance arrangements were implemented to ensure that: all authorities vested in the Group Chief Executive were automatically deemed to vest in the Interim Group Chief Executive for as long as that office was required: and where internal governance arrangements required a four eyes approval, these could not be achieved by one person acting in the capacity of both the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director.
Arrangements were put in place to ensure that either the Chief Risk Officer or Company Secretary provided the necessary second pair of eyes.
Throughout Antnios absence, the Board kept its contingency arrangements under review.
On 21 November 2011, the Board announced that one of its Non-Executive Directors, David Roberts, would be appointed to the role of Interim Group Chief Executive in the event that Antnio HortaOsrio was unable to return by the end of the year.
In the event, this contingency was not required.
The Board kept in close contact with Antnio during his absence.
Prior to his return to work, the Board followed a rigorous process to ensure that it was in the best interests of the Group and its shareholders for Antnio to return as Group Chief Executive.
This process involved independent medical assessment as well as individual meetings between Antnio and each Board member.
As a result of this process, the Board concluded that Antnio was fit to return to work on 9 January 2012.
To avoid a recurrence and to assist him in adjusting to the role, the Board agreed to an initiative from Antnio to restructure and reduce his direct reporting lines in order to strengthen the accountabilities of his senior management team.
The new structure was announced on 1 February 2012.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 180 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Retirements The following retirements took place in the course of the year: Eric Daniels: see Group Chief Executive succession above: Archie Kane: Group Executive Director, Insurance who retired at the Companys general meeting on 18 May 2011: and Helen Weir: Group Executive Director, Retail who stepped down at the Companys general meeting on 18 May 2011.
On 19 September 2011, we announced the retirement of Lord Leitch as Deputy Chairman of the Group and Chairman of Scottish Widows.
Lord Leitch will remain on the Board until 29 February 2012.
On 19 September, the Group also announced that Tim Tookey would stand down as Group Finance Director with effect from the end of February 2012 to pursue interests outside the Group.
On 24 February 2012, the Group announced that Tim Tookey would stand down as Group Finance Director with effect from that date.
Since the year end the following announcements have been made: On 1 February 2012, the Group announced that Sir Julian Horn-Smith would retire from the Board at the annual general meeting and would not stand for re-election as a Director: On 6 February 2012, the Group announced that Truett Tate would resign from the Board with immediate effect: and On 27 February 2012, the Group announced that Glen Moreno would retire from the Board at the annual general meeting and would not stand for re-election as a Director.
Time commitments In 2011, as in 2009 and 2010, the time commitment demanded of all Non-Executive Directors was considerable and substantially in excess of the time envisaged in their terms of appointment.
The detail set out on page 182 shows the Board meetings that the directors have attended including those called at short notice.
There has been no increase to fees since January 2008 to reflect the increased workload and additional time spent on Lloyds Banking Group business.
Election and re-election As indicated in 2010, in the interests of good corporate governance and in accordance with provisions of the Code now in force, Directors will retire voluntarily and submit themselves for re-election at the annual general meeting.
Biographies of the career experience of the current directors are set out on pages 172 to 173.
To assist in the voting process, details of the Directors seeking re-election at the annual general meeting are set out in the notice of meeting sent to all shareholders.
Succession planning The Nomination & Governance Committee oversees the Boards arrangements for the longer term succession of Board and Committee members.
Non-Executive succession planning Non-executive director succession planning is addressed as part of the ongoing review of Board composition.
The policy takes account of the need regularly to refresh the intake of Non-Executives to bring new perspectives, to ensure appropriate representation on each of the Boards Committees and to plan for longer term succession.
The average tenure of the Non-Executive Directors is just over two years.
Following the move to annual re-election of directors, non-executive directors are appointed on a rolling 12 months basis.
Executive Directors and senior executives The Nomination & Governance Committee and the Board are responsible for oversight of the process for succession and management development of the most senior executives both at and below Board level, including Executive Directors and members of the Group Executive Committee.
The primary responsibility rests with the Group Chief Executive who is responsible for developing and maintaining a succession plan for key leadership positions in the senior executive team.
Arrangements are reviewed with the Nomination & Governance Committee at least annually with the latest review taking place in September 2011.
The Chairman is responsible for developing and maintaining a succession plan in relation to the Group Chief Executive and for reviewing the plan with the Nomination & Governance Committee at least annually.
During 2011, emphasis was also placed on contingency arrangements during the Group Chief Executive's leave of absence.
Board training Directors induction All Directors are expected to make an informed contribution based on an understanding of the Groups business model and the key challenges facing the Group and its businesses.
To ensure that they can contribute from an early stage, all Directors undergo an extensive three stage induction on appointment comprising: a corporate induction, which provides an overview of the Group, its strategy, operational structures and main business activities: governance and directors responsibilities, which explains the role and statutory duties of a Non-Executive Director including the roles and responsibilities owed by banks and other financial services firms to the FSA and other regulatory bodies: and a bespoke induction plan prepared in consultation with the Chairman, tailored to the individual needs of the director, to the specific role that they will carry out, and their skills experience to date.
Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 181 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Board training The Board receives regular refresher training and information sessions to address current business or emerging issues.
In the course of 2011, Non-Executives Directors undertook approximately two days of training, including nine hours of structured training during Board meetings.
This is delivered through a variety of means, including sessions on matters such as capital and liquidity including stress testing requirements : regulatory updates for approved persons: accounting development updates and updates on credit rating agency developments.
In addition, the Audit Committee arranged a series of deep dives to which all Board members were invited, and which provided an in-depth review of the operations of each of the business divisions and of the latest accounting standards and operating methodologies.
Sessions were delivered for several business areas amounting to three and a half days in total.
Board evaluation and performance Having conducted thorough and rigorous externally facilitated evaluations in 2009 and 2010 as well as in earlier years, the Board accepted the recommendation of the Nomination & Governance Committee that the 2011 evaluation should be facilitated internally, reverting to an external review for 2012.
The 2011 Board evaluation process was overseen by the Nomination & Governance Committee and took the form of: a detailed questionnaire, drafted by Group Secretariat in conjunction with the Chairman, to assess the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors: individual follow up interviews with the Chairman: and formulation of an action plan for adoption by the Board.
Remuneration The Remuneration Committee, chaired by Anthony Watson, is responsible for overseeing the Groups remuneration arrangements and compliance with the FSAs Remuneration Code.
The Remuneration Committees terms of reference are available on the website at www.
An overview of the Remuneration Committee is set out on page 184.
The work of the Remuneration Committee is explained in the Directors remuneration report on pages 187 to 204.
Shareholder engagement The Board recognises the importance of promoting mutual understanding between the Company and its shareholders through greater engagement.
In 2011, there was regular dialogue with institutional shareholders with more than 400 equity investor meetings undertaken in the year.
Many of these meetings were undertaken by senior management primarily the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director or Board members.
The Chairman has also attended a number of meetings with shareholders to discuss governance and strategic direction.
Anthony Watson, as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, regularly meets the larger shareholders to discuss executive remuneration issues while the Senior Independent Director separately meets with a range of major shareholders.
The Board is kept advised of the views of major shareholders by means of regular updates at Board and Committee meetings.
It also receives monthly reports on market and investor sentiment and shareholder analysis.
Investor Relations has primary responsibility for managing day-to-day communications with institutional shareholders.
Supported by the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director, they achieve this through a combination of briefings to analysts and institutional shareholders both at results briefings and throughout the year, as well as site visits and individual discussions with institutional shareholders.
The Company Secretary oversees communications with private shareholders.
The Groups annual general meeting provides an opportunity to meet the Groups Directors and to hear more about the strategy of the Group.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the annual general meeting and to raise any questions at the meeting or in advance, using the email address shown in the pack which will be sent to shareholders in March 2012.
Scottish Widows Investment Partnership, one of Europes largest asset managers and a Group company, complies with the principles of the Financial Reporting Councils Stewardship Code, as published in July 2010.
Details of Scottish Widows Investment Partnerships approach to stewardship and corporate governance can be found on its website, www.
Conclusion In conclusion, the Group confirms its compliance with all relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year ending 31 December 2011.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 182 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Attendance at meetings The attendance of Directors at Board meetings and at meetings of the Audit, Nomination & Governance, Remuneration and Risk Committees of which they were members during 2011 is shown in the table.
In addition, the Audit Committee arranged five half day and one full day deep dive meetings during 2011 which were open to, and attended by, other members of the Board.
Numbers in brackets show the maximum number of meetings that each Director could have attended in 2011 including ad hoc meetings or those called at short notice.
Nomination & Governance Remuneration Board meetings Audit Committee Committee Committee Risk Committee Regular Ad hoc Total Regular Ad hoc Regular Regular Regular Ad hoc Number of meetings during the year 9 7 16 8 7 4 12 6 1 Current directors who served during 2011 Sir Winfried Bischoff 9 7 6 4 12 5 1 1 Antnio Horta-Osrio 7 7 4 5 A M Frew 9 5 7 6 5 1 2 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 7 4 2 3 8 2 3 Lord Leitch 9 5 8 4 4 11 2 G R Moreno 9 5 3 4 D L Roberts 9 6 8 7 4 12 6 1 T T Ryan 8 3 8 5 10 6 1 M A Scicluna 9 7 8 7 4 6 1 Anthony Watson 9 5 8 7 4 12 Former directors who served during 2011 4 J E Daniels 2 2 2 3 5 A G Kane 3 4 3 4 6 G T Tate 9 6 7 T J W Tookey 9 7 8 H A Weir2 4 3 4 1 Appointed to the Board on 17 January 2011.
On leave of absence from 2 November 2011 to 8 January 2012 and was therefore absent from meetings between these dates.
Archie Kane attended all Board meetings prior to the announcement that he would be retiring from the Board.
Helen Weir attended all Board meetings prior to the announcement that she would be stepping down from the Board.
Some Directors attended Committee meetings as attendees periodically throughout the year.
This attendance is not shown in the table.
Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 183 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Board committees The tables below set out a summary of the membership and role of each of the Board Committees, along with the activities they performed during 2011.
There is a standing invitation for all Non-Executive Directors to attend Committee meetings of which they are not members.
All Committee terms of reference are displayed on the website, www.
com or are available from the Company Secretary.
Committee Purpose To monitor and review the formal arrangements established by the Board in respect of: Audit a the financial statements and reporting of the Group: Chairman b internal controls and the risk management framework: Martin Scicluna Members c internal audit: and Anita Frew d the Groups relationship with its external auditors.
Lord Leitch until 29 February 2012 Responsibilities David Roberts reviews the financial statements published in the name of the Board and the quality and acceptability of Tim Ryan the related accounting policies, practices and financial reporting disclosures: Anthony Watson reviews the scope of the work of the Group Audit Department, reports from that department and the adequacy of its resources: reviews the effectiveness of the systems for internal control, risk management and compliance with financial services legislation and regulations: approves the external auditors terms of engagement and remuneration: assesses the external auditors independence and objectivity: recommends the external auditors appointment, re-appointment and removal: reviews the results of the external audit and its cost effectiveness: reviews reports from the auditors on audit planning and their findings on accounting and internal control systems: and reviews procedures for handling complaints regarding accounting, internal accounting controls or auditing matters and for staff to raise concerns in confidence.
2011 Activities reviewed and recommended to the Board the Group annual and interim reports and accounts: reviewed significant accounting matters as discussed with the auditors: reviewed the Groups position as a going concern: reviewed the appointment of the auditors and approved their remuneration: attended one full day and five half day deep dive sessions with each of the divisions: reviewed litigation and regulatory risks: received reports from the Divisional Financial Control Committees and the Group Risk Committee: received reports from the internal audit department on internal controls, including SOX reports: reviewed the Groups key finance programmes: reviewed details of the Groups whistle blowing procedures and incidents: and discussed the level of impairments.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 184 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Committee Purpose To keep the Boards governance arrangements under review and make appropriate recommendations to the Nomination & Board to ensure that the Companys arrangements are consistent with best practice corporate governance Governance standards.
Chairman Responsibilities Sir Winfried Bischoff reviews the structure, size and composition of the Board: Members oversees the selection process for prospective directors: Sir Julian Horn-Smith until 17 May 2012 makes recommendations to the Board on potential appointments and reappointments of Directors at the Lord Leitch end of their specified term: until 29 February 2012 considers Board succession: Glen Moreno oversees the annual evaluation of the performance of the Board: until 17 May 2012 reviews the Boards governance arrangements: David Roberts oversees the Groups implementation of governance requirements: and Martin Scicluna Anthony Watson oversees the process for appointments of new Non-Executive Directors and makes recommendations to the Board.
2011 Activities reviewed Board composition including the Groups response to the Davies Review and diversity targets: oversaw the search and selection process for new non executive directors and the Group Finance Director: oversaw the Board Evaluation process including formulation of the action plan: reviewed the Governance Framework to ensure consistency with the Group Strategic Review, organisational changes and emerging developments: and reviewed the adequacy of the Groups succession plan, including contingency arrangements during the Group Chief Executives leave of absence.
Committee Purpose To set the principles and parameters of remuneration policy for the Group, and to oversee remuneration Remuneration policy and outcomes for those colleagues specified in the terms of reference.
Chairman Responsibilities Anthony Watson Information about the Remuneration Committees responsibilities is given in the Directors remuneration Members report on pages 187 to 204.
Sir Winfried Bischoff Sir Julian Horn-Smith 2011 Activities until 17 May 2012 Information about the Remuneration Committees activities during 2011 is given in the Directors Lord Leitch remuneration report on pages 187 to 204. until 29 February 2012 David Roberts Tim Ryan Sara Weller from 1 February 2012 Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 185 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Committee Purpose To review and report its conclusions to the Board on: Risk a the Groups risk appetite: and Chairman David Roberts b the Groups risk management framework, taking a forward looking perspective and anticipating changes in business conditions.
Members Sir Winfried Bischoff Responsibilities Anita Frew facilitates the involvement of Non-Executive Directors in risk issues and aids their understanding of these Sir Julian Horn-Smith issues: until 17 May 2012 oversees adherence to Group risk policies and standards and considers any material amendments to them: Tim Ryan and Martin Scicluna Sara Weller reviews the work of the Group Risk Division.
from 1 February 2012 2011 Activities reviewed the Group consolidated risk report and received an update from the Chief Risk Officer at each meeting: reviewed the risk and control frameworks: reviewed the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process report: reviewed the Groups funding plan and stress testing process: participated in deep dives in conjunction with each division and with members of the group risk team: reviewed the Groups risk appetite framework: and reviewed the Groups report on financial crime.
Compliance with the British Bankers Association Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure In September 2010, the British Bankers Association published a Code for Financial Reporting Disclosure the Disclosure Code.
The Disclosure Code sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that UK banks: commit to providing high quality, meaningful and decision-useful disclosures: commit to ongoing review of, and enhancement to, their financial instrument disclosures for key areas of interest: will assess the applicability and relevance of good practice recommendations to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of such guidance: will seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures across the UK banking sector: and will clearly differentiate in their annual reports between information that is audited and information that is unaudited.
The Group and other major UK banks have voluntarily adopted the Disclosure Code in their 2011 financial statements.
The Groups 2011 financial statements have therefore been prepared in compliance with the Disclosure Codes principles.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 186 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Internal control The Board of Directors is responsible for the establishment and review of the Groups system of internal control, which is designed to ensure effective and efficient operations, quality of internal and external reporting, internal control, and compliance with laws and regulations.
It should be noted, however, that such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
In establishing and reviewing the system of internal control, the Directors have regard to the nature and extent of relevant risks, the likelihood of a loss being incurred and the costs of control.
It follows, therefore, that the system of internal control can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk of material loss.
The Directors and senior management are committed to maintaining a control-conscious culture across all areas of operation.
This is communicated to all employees by way of published policies and procedures and regular management briefings.
A requirement to comply with internal control risk policies is a key component of individual staff objectives expressed in the balanced scorecard.
Key business risks are identified, and these are controlled by means of procedures such as physical controls, credit, trading and other authorisation limits and segregation of duties.
In addition, there is an annual control self assessment exercise whereby the key businesses and head office functions review specific controls and attest to the accuracy of their assessments.
The assessment covers all enterprise-wide risk management categories and is in accordance with the principles of the Code.
As in previous years, this exercise was completed for the year ended 31 December 2011.
All returns have been satisfactorily completed and appropriately certified.
The effectiveness of the internal control system is reviewed regularly by the Board and the Audit Committee, which also receives reports of reviews undertaken around the Group by group risk and group audit.
The Audit Committee receives reports from the Companys auditors,  LLP which include details of significant internal control matters that they have identified, and has a discussion with the auditors at least once a year without executives present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the annual report and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Information regarding the main features of the internal control and risk management systems in relation to the financial reporting process is given within the Risk Management Report on pages 99 to 170.
Auditor independence and remuneration Both the Board and the external auditors have safeguards in place to protect the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has a comprehensive policy to regulate the use of auditors for non-audit services.
This policy sets out the nature of work the external auditors may not undertake, which includes work which will ultimately be subject to external audit, internal audit services and secondments to senior management positions in the Group that involve decision-making.
It also includes the Groups policy on hiring former external audit staff.
For those services that are deemed appropriate for the auditors to carry out, the policy sets out the approval process that must be followed for each type of assignment.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee must be consulted regarding potential instructions in respect of allowable nonaudit services with a value above defined fee limits.
Each year the Audit Committee establishes a limit on the fees that can be paid to the external auditors in respect of non-audit services and monitors quarterly the amounts paid to the auditors in this regard.
The external auditors also report regularly to the Audit Committee on the actions that they have taken to comply with professional and regulatory requirements and current best practice in order to maintain their independence.
This includes the rotation of key members of the audit team.
Total auditor remuneration analysed between audit and other services is shown in note 11 to the financial statements on page 243.
The Audit Committee evaluated the performance of the external auditors during the year and will periodically continue to do so.
The Audit Committee has not considered it necessary to require an independent tender process.
Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 187 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Statement by the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee As Chairman of the Groups Remuneration Committee, I am pleased to introduce the Directors Remuneration Report for 2011 and highlight some of the key decisions and activities of the Remuneration Committee this year.
Once again, there has been considerable external focus and scrutiny of executive remuneration in the past twelve months.
In light of this we have worked as a Committee to ensure that we motivate, incentivise and retain our talent while continuing to be mindful both of the economic outlook and the views of our numerous stakeholders.
During 2011, a thorough Strategic Review of the business was conducted by the Board, which is now in its implementation phase.
Following this review, the Remuneration Committee has worked towards translating our new strategic objectives into meaningful metrics against which to measure performance.
We believe that the introduction of a balanced scorecard approach to measure long-term performance from 2012 will enable the Committee to assess the performance of the Company and its senior executives in a consistent and performance driven way.
These targets are described on pages 190 and 191.
While there have been no material changes to the overall structure of executive remuneration, we have continued to maintain an open and transparent dialogue with shareholders.
This valuable engagement is something we will seek to continue into 2012, as we recognise our responsibilities to the providers of our equity capital in setting fair and appropriate remuneration policies.
The approximate make-up of the main components of our package for Executive Directors on an expected value basis is shown below: Long-term incentive Based on a combination of performance targets comprising Paid in shares after 20% economic profit, absolute total shareholder return and three years strategic financial objectives Short-term incentive Based on financial measures and on a balanced scorecard Deferred into shares until 35% of non-financial measures at least March 2014, subject to malus Salary Based on role, market competitiveness, and performance Paid in cash 35% Pension and benefits Based on role and market competitiveness Paid into pension or taken 10% as cash The split in the components in the above chart are for Executive Directors.
Comparable numbers for the Group Chief Executive are: long-term incentive 24 per cent, short-term incentive 32 per cent, salary 29 per cent and pension and benefits 15 per cent.
We have continued to be mindful of the need to exercise restraint as part of the effective governance of executive pay.
In particular, we have focused on the need to manage aggregate variable pay in the prevailing environment.
This has been demonstrated through a number of decisions made in the last twelve months including not increasing fixed pay, as others in the market have done, and the decision by the Group Chief Executive not to be considered for a bonus for 2011.
Furthermore, the Committee has proactively taken the decision to adjust bonus awards made to Executive Directors and certain senior executives in respect of the performance year 2010 to reflect the PPI provision made in this years accounts.
While there is no suggestion of wrongdoing or culpability, the Committee has made the adjustment, known as malus, to reflect the provision that was made after the annual results and bonus awards were finalised in February 2011.
The Remuneration Committee carefully considered what size bonus pool would be appropriate to distribute across the Bank as a whole.
In making their decision, the Committee took into account the success of the integration programme, the Groups overall performance and the views of shareholders and the general public.
As a result, the bonus pool was reduced by 30 per cent with the greater reductions being applied to more senior staff.
Annual incentives for Executive Directors and the Group Executive Committee are down approximately 50 per cent against 2010 on a like for like basis.
Salary increases have also been restricted.
Salaries as part of the annual review will increase by less than 2.5 per cent, with lower or zero increases at more senior levels.
The Long Term Incentive Plan remains a core part of our reward strategy.
We have changed the performance conditions to better ensure alignment with the objectives and timeline of the Strategic Plan as well as to link to retaining our key employees and align with other elements of reward.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 188 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The Committee believes the LTIP will be more motivational by introducing measures with clear milestones and outcomes that can be communicated regularly, providing a sense of purpose and achievement throughout the life of the plan.
The Committee recognises that core financial measures remain an important element for top management to ensure alignment with shareholders.
Accordingly, it is proposed that Economic Profit and Absolute Total Shareholder Return targets remain in place for Executive Directors, but at a reduced level, with a significant percentage of LTIP based on balanced scorecard measures.
Despite the uncertain economic outlook, the market for talent is no less competitive and the Group must compete for this in the UK and overseas markets with varying levels of regulation and scrutiny.
Nonetheless, the Committee recognises the impact that recruitment premiums can have on the total pay bill, and therefore we have continued to recruit successfully paying at appropriate market levels.
Where possible, we also seek to link recruitment awards to Company performance as demonstrated by the share price targets applied to the Group Chief Executive's pension opportunity and through a recently introduced process to carefully monitor new joiners performance as they become established in their roles.
In the same way, for leavers we are conscious of the importance of mitigating the Companys costs and not paying more than is appropriate through previously agreed exit terms.
Other than in exceptional circumstances we pay only that required under contractual entitlements.
As a Committee we are also keen to maintain alignment between our senior executives and shareholders so that executives share the same experience in terms of Company and share price performance.
As such, we will continue to operate a stringent deferral policy to ensure senior executives experience variability in remuneration dependent on Company performance.
The final point I want to touch on is the importance of risk in the formulation and evaluation of our remuneration policies and practices.
Given the events in the financial services sector over the past few years, the impact of risk underpins every decision we make as a Committee, manifested through our use of economic profit to measure performance and therefore determine remuneration levels.
We consider risk when making decisions on remuneration outcomes and re-consider the Groups experience when deferred awards come to vest, demonstrated by the adjustment made to 2010 bonus awards.
The Committee is dedicated to ensuring that remuneration policies and practices set out in this Report are well placed to support the successful delivery of the business strategy going forward.
This Report will be tabled for shareholder approval at the AGM, which I hope you will support.
Anthony Watson CBE Chairman, Remuneration Committee This is a report made by the Board of Lloyds Banking Group plc, on the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee.
It covers the current and proposed components of the remuneration policy and details the remuneration for each serving Director during 2011.
The Group has complied throughout the period with the requirements of the UK Corporate Governance Code previously known as the Combined Code in relation to Directors remuneration.
In addition, the report has been prepared in accordance with the Large and Medium sized Companies and Groups Accounts and Reports Regulations 2008.
The Committee recognises the attention which Bank remuneration receives and is very aware both of the importance of getting the right balance between the linkage of rewards to performance and the competitive process: recruiting, retaining and motivating staff as well as a more widely perceived concept of fairness for all involved.
Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 189 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Governance and Risk Management An essential component of our approach to remuneration is the governance process that underpins it.
This ensures that our policy is robustly applied and risk is managed appropriately.
The overarching purpose of the Remuneration Committee is to consider, agree and recommend to the board an overall remuneration policy and philosophy for the Group that is defined by, supports and is closely aligned to its long-term business strategy, business objectives, risk appetite and values and recognises the interests of relevant stakeholders.
The Group has a conservative business model characterised by a risk culture founded on prudence and accountability.
The remuneration policy and philosophy covers the whole Group, but the Committee pays particular attention to the top management population, including the highest paid employees in each division, those colleagues who perform significant influence functions for the Group and those who could have a material impact on the Groups risk profile.
The Committees role is to ensure that these colleagues are provided with appropriate incentives and reward to encourage them to enhance the performance of the Group and that they are recognised for their individual contribution to the success of the organisation, whilst ensuring that there is no reward for excessive risk taking.
The Committee works closely with the Risk Committee in ensuring the bonus pool is moderated.
The two Committees meet every year to determine whether the proposed bonus pool and performance assessments adequately reflected the risk appetite and framework of the Group: whether it took account of current and future risks: and whether any further adjustment is required or merited.
We are also determined to ensure that the aggregate of the variable remuneration for all our colleagues is appropriate and balanced with the interests of shareholders and all other stakeholders.
The Committee determines the pensions policy for the Group and advises on other major changes to employee benefits schemes.
It also agrees the policy for authorising claims for expenses from the Group Chief Executive and the Chairman.
It has delegated power for settling remuneration for the Chairman, the Group Executive Directors, the Company Secretary and any group employee whose salary and annual bonus exceeds a specified amount, currently 750,000.
To ensure compliance with the FSA Code of Practice, the Committee approves remuneration for Code Staff and that of senior risk and compliance officers.
The Committee monitors the application of the authority delegated to the Group Chief Executive who in turn delegates to the Group Executive Committee, the Executive Compensation Committee and the divisional Remuneration Committees, to ensure that policies and principles are being fairly and consistently applied.
The Committee liaises closely with the Risk Committee and the risk function in relation to risk-adjusted performance measures, including consideration of both current and future risk.
Together the management of remuneration and risk form an integral part of the Boards determination of Group corporate strategy.
All the independent Non-Executive Directors are invited to attend meetings and have the opportunity to comment on proposals and have their views taken into account before the Committees decisions are implemented.
The Committees terms of reference are available from the Company Secretary and are displayed on the Groups website, www.
These terms were last updated in March 2011 to ensure continued compliance with the FSA Code.
The members of the Committee during 2011 were as follows: Anthony Watson chairman Sir Winfried Bischoff Sir Julian Horn-Smith Lord Leitch David Roberts also chairman of the Risk Committee Tim Ryan During 2011, the Committee met 12 times and considered the following principal matters: Review of remuneration arrangements for senior executives Determination of the appropriate remuneration packages for a number of senior new hires Determination of bonus pools based on Group performance and adjustment for risk Performance conditions for the Long-Term Incentive Plan Bonus and salary awards for Executive Directors and key senior managers Approval of remuneration and terms of service that fall within the Committees terms of reference, including new appointments Feedback from the Remuneration Committee Chairman on his meetings with the FSA and shareholders We thank all committee members for their commitment during the last year and attendance at meetings.
The Committee appoints independent consultants to provide advice on specific matters according to their particular expertise.
During the year, Deloitte LLP advised the Committee.
Deloitte has voluntarily signed up to the Remuneration Consultants Code of Conduct and are judged by the Committee to be independent.
Deloittes fees for 2011 amounted to 350,000.
During 2011, Deloitte provided information on behalf of the Committee for the testing of TSR performance conditions for the Groups long-term incentive plans calculated by reference to both dividends and growth in share price.
Eric Daniels until 28 February 2011, Antnio Horta-Osrio from 1 March 2011, Angie Risley Group HR Director and Liz Jackson HR Director, Reward provided guidance to the Committee other than for their own remuneration.
Juan Colombs Chief Risk Officer and Tim Tookey Group Finance Director also attended the Committee to advise as and when necessary on risk and financial matters.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 190 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors remuneration policy The Groups remuneration policy continues to support our business values and strategy, based on building long-term relationships with our customers and employees and managing the financial consequences of our business decisions across the entire economic cycle.
Our policy is intended to ensure that our remuneration offer is both cost effective and enables us to attract and retain Executive Directors and senior management of the highest calibre, motivating them to perform to the highest standards.
Our objective is to align individual reward with the Groups performance, the interests of its shareholders, and a prudent approach to risk management.
In this way we balance the requirements of our various stakeholders: our customers, shareholders, employees, and regulators.
This approach is in line with the Association of British Insurers best practice code on remuneration and the FSA Remuneration Code of Practice, as the policy seeks to reward long-term value creation whilst not encouraging excessive risk taking.
Our overall policy objective is met by a focus on the particular aspects detailed below.
Policy objective How achieved Building long-term We build relationships with our customers and people.
Working for Lloyds Banking Group is about more than pay.
relationships Our relationship with our people means that we want to pay them fairly and competitively, but our pay is positioned conservatively against the market and we do not seek to align with the highest payers in the sector.
In setting pay for Executive Directors and senior managers, we take account of relative pay positioning and target levels of variable remuneration opportunity for all levels of employees in the Group.
Our incentive measures are not just financial.
Our Balanced Scorecards, which all of our senior executives have as part of their objectives for the year, include objectives that cover effective risk management, lending to Corporates including SMEs and retail customers, performance against targets that measure how satisfied our customers are and the extent to which our employees feel engaged with and committed to working for Lloyds Banking Group.
Managing the financial Economic profit is a key measure by which we manage our business.
This measure takes into account the level of capital consequences of our required to generate profits as well as the risks taken.
The same level of profit generated at lower risk results in higher business through the economic profit.
Economic profit also measures risk based on an assessment of how the business will perform through economic cycle the economic cycle and is a key measure for short term incentives.
For example, in good times, when default rates on loans are low, we adjust the economic profit measure downwards based on a higher average expected default experience over the economic cycle.
This encourages us to avoid business and funding strategies that are only profitable during boom times but turn bad in a recession.
Economic profit plays a prominent role in our incentive plans for executives, with its inclusion in both the annual and LTIP performance measures.
Aligning individual Our executives annual incentives are based on stretching performance objectives and targets in the Group Balanced rewards with Group Scorecard.
This Balanced Scorecard is derived from the Medium Term Plan which defines the financial and non-financial performance and targets within our agreed risk appetite over a three year period.
shareholders Any annual bonus for Executive Directors is deferred into shares and released over time, helping to increase alignment with shareholders.
These deferrals are subject to malus in the event of unsustainable performance.
Executives are also aligned with shareholders through the LTIP, which pays out in shares based on performance against Group financial targets over a three year period.
In addition to purely financial metrics of Economic Profit and Total Shareholder Return, the performance conditions for the 2012 LTIP will comprise measures linked to the Strategic Review that reflect the wider Group objectives.
These measures are short-term funding as a percentage of total funding, noncore assets at the end of 2014, run-rate simplification benefits achieved at the end of 2014 and customer satisfaction.
We operate tough contract provisions relative to market practice, whereby no executive has an entitlement to more than 12 months notice not taking into account recruitment provisions, pay in lieu of notice is limited to basic salary, is paid monthly over 12 months and is mitigated if the executive gets another job.
This approach avoids the risk of payment for failure.
A prudent approach We also have non-financial measures of performance against risk objectives in both the annual and long-term plans to risk management for executives.
For the 2011 annual incentive plan we continue to align the award to long-term prudent risk management by deferring 100 per cent of the award for Executive Directors, which is subject to malus.
Executive Directors are also required to retain any shares vesting from LTIP awards for a further 2 years, after allowing for tax and national insurance requirements.
For other employees, the immediate cash bonus award is limited to 2,000 with a percentage of larger bonuses being subject to deferral and malus.
If the performance is unsustainable during the deferral period some or all of the award may be forfeited.
We have a robust governance framework with an independent Remuneration Committee reviewing all compensation decisions for senior executives.
This approach to governance and review is cascaded through the organisation.
We also ensure that all control function employees are assessed and their remuneration determined jointly by the relevant business Director and the control function Director.
Senior risk and compliance officers are also reviewed by the Remuneration Committee.
Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 191 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Policy objective How achieved Cost effective packages We aim to ensure that the totality of remuneration for Executive Directors is competitive against our benchmark groups.
to attract and retain These groups are other major UK banks and the top 20 companies in the FTSE 100, reflecting practices in large UK executives companies across all sectors.
We aim to be competitively but conservatively positioned against the market.
We select incentive plan targets that are directly linked to the business strategy and priorities, ensuring alignment with company performance, targets that are meaningful to executives and incentive packages that are valued by executives and cost effective.
Summary Following extensive consultation with shareholders, the Remuneration Committee is proposing a package for Executive Directors for 2012 that is closely based on the structure and principles applied in previous years as follows: Element Level design for 2012 Key purpose Base salary Base pay should be set relative to FTSE 20 and banking sector competitors To provide the basis for a competitive package There are no increases to base salaries for Executive Directors Enable executives to build long-term Pension Defined contribution pension provision for new entrants retirement savings Retention Annual incentive 200 per cent of salary maximum 225 per cent for the Group Chief Executive Alignment with Group performance Based on Group financial targets relating to profit before tax and Motivation of executives economic profit as well as Balanced Scorecard measures covering Pay for performance divisional financial targets, customers e. g. SME lending, people, Alignment with sound risk management risk and building the business Subject to deferral and malus in line with FSA requirements Long-term Annual awards of 275 per cent of salary for the Group Chief incentive plan Executive and 225 per cent for other Executive Directors.
Motivation and retention of executives Vesting based on financial measures comprising Absolute Total Alignment with sound risk management Shareholder Return, Economic Profit and strategic financial Alignment with long-term shareholder interests objectives.
Details of the performance conditions are as follows: Measure Basis Metric Weighting Economic Profit Payout range set relative to 2014 targets Threshold: 160 million 30% Maximum: 1,653 million Absolute TSR Growth in share price including dividends Threshold: 12% per annum 30% Maximum: 30% per annum Short term funding as % of total funding Payout range set relative to 2014 targets Threshold: 20% 10% Maximum: 15% Non-core assets at end of 2014 Threshold: 95 billion 10% Maximum: 80 billion Net simplification benefits run rate achieved Threshold: 1.5 billion 10% at 2014 year-end Maximum: 1.8 billion Customer satisfaction FSA reportable Threshold: 1.5 10% complaints per 1,000 customers over 3 years Maximum: 1.3 Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 192 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Base salary Base salaries are reviewed annually, taking into account individual performance and market information which is provided by Towers Watson and supplemented with information from Deloitte LLP and normally adjusted from 1 January of the relevant year.
The remuneration committee confirmed during the 2011 review that the FTSE remains the most appropriate comparator group to use to benchmark overall competitiveness of the remuneration package whilst taking particular account of the remuneration practice of our direct competitors, namely the major UK banks.
No increase to salaries will be made in 2012.
Annual incentive plan The annual incentive scheme for Executive Directors is designed to reflect specific goals linked to the performance of the business.
Incentive awards for Executive Directors are based upon individual contribution and overall corporate results.
Incentive opportunity is driven by corporate performance based on profit before tax and economic profit, together with divisional achievement and individual performance.
Individual targets relevant to improving overall business performance are contained in a Balanced Scorecard and are grouped under the following headings: Financial Building the Business Customer Service Risk People Development These targets apply differently for the Executive Directors, reflecting differing strategic priorities.
The non-financial measures include key performance indicators relating to risk management, SME lending, process efficiency, service quality and employee engagement.
The remuneration committee believes that the structure of the incentive in particular the use of risk-adjusted and non-financial measures has been highly successful in promoting a long-term focus within the senior management team.
The maximum annual incentive opportunity is 200 per cent 225 per cent for the Group Chief Executive of base salary for the achievement of exceptional performance targets.
Consistent with the aim of ensuring that short-term financial results are only rewarded if they promote sustainable growth, the 2011 annual incentive is subject to deferral in shares until at least 2014.
This deferred amount is subject to malus if the performance that generated the incentive is found to be unsustainable.
The committee reserves the right to exercise its discretion in reducing any payment that otherwise would have been earned, if they deem this appropriate.
The key achievements of the Group are set out in the Group Chief Executives review on pages 14 to 19 of this Annual Report.
The calculation of the annual incentive plan outcomes for Executive Directors, based on the achievement of performance against targets in respect of performance in 2011, has been vigorously discussed by the Remuneration Committee.
Mr Horta-Osrio advised the Board that he did not wish to be considered for a bonus in respect of the 2011 performance year.
The bonuses awarded to directors are shown in the table below: Name A Horta-Osrio G T Tate T J W Tookey Maximum Opportunity 225% 200% 200% % awarded for 2011 Declined bonus 53% 20% Bonus awarded for 2011 345,000 120,000 Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 193 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Long-term incentive award The current LTIP rules allow for awards to be made of up to 400 per cent of base salary.
Under normal circumstances, awards can be made of up to 300 per cent of salary with the additional 100 per cent available for circumstances that the Remuneration Committee deems to be exceptional.
In 2011, awards were made of up to 300 per cent of base salary to the Executive Directors and 420 per cent for the Group Chief Executive.
The award for Mr Horta-Osrio was made in order to facilitate his appointment as Group Chief Executive.
In 2012, the committee intends to make an award of 275 per cent of salary to Mr Horta-Osrio.
Mr Tookey and Mr Tate are not eligible to receive an award following Mr Tookeys resignation and Mr Tates retirement from the Group.
Long-term incentive performance measures During 2011, the Committee has consulted widely with shareholders on the topic of performance measures and sharing the growth in the Company appropriately between shareholders and management.
The Committee believes that the performance measures for the 2012 LTIP award for the Executive Committee should be Economic Profit, Absolute Total Shareholder Return and strategic financial measures.
These measures capture risk measurement, profit growth and shareholder experience and align shareholder experience and management reward.
Details of current LTIP awards are provided on page 201.
Pension Executive directors may participate in the Groups defined contribution scheme under which their pension entitlement will be based upon both employer and employee contributions.
Company contributions are 25 per cent of salary, with the exception of Antnio Horta-Osrio who is eligible for 50 per cent of reference salary, including his flexible benefit allowance.
These can be taken as cash or pension contributions, or a mixture of each.
Details of pension contributions and accruals are shown on page 197.
Other share plans The Executive Directors are also eligible to participate in the Groups sharesave and share incentive plans.
These are all-employee share plans.
Shareholding guidelines Directors are required to build up a holding in Lloyds Banking Group shares of value equal to 1.5 times gross salary 2 times gross salary for the Group Chief Executive and expected to achieve these targets within 5 years of joining the Board.
They are required to retain any shares vesting from the share price performance element of the 2010 LTIP and 2011 LTIP for a further two years post vesting.
The Group Chief Executive is making significant progress in reaching this target.
Chairmans remuneration The Chairmans remuneration comprises salary and benefits.
He does not participate in the annual bonus and long-term incentive arrangements, nor is he entitled to pension benefits.
The Chairmans salary remained unchanged in 2011, at 700,000 per annum.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 194 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Independent Non-Executive Directors fees The fees of the Independent Non-Executive Directors are agreed by the Board within a total amount determined by the shareholders.
NonExecutive Directors may also receive fees, agreed by the Board, for membership of Board Committees.
The fees are designed to recognise the various responsibilities of a Non-Executive Directors role and to attract individuals with relevant skills, knowledge and experience.
The fees are neither performance related nor pensionable and are comparable with those paid by other companies.
The annual fees were reviewed in 2011 and remain unchanged as listed below.
Non-Executive Director base fee 65,000 Deputy Chairman 100,000 Senior Independent Director 60,000 Audit Committee Chairmanship 50,000 Audit Committee Membership 20,000 Remuneration Committee Chairmanship 30,000 Remuneration Committee Membership 15,000 Risk Committee Chairmanship 40,000 Risk Committee Membership 15,000 Nomination & Governance Committee Membership 5,000 In the case of the Nomination & Governance Committee, membership currently comprises the Deputy Chairman, Senior Independent Director and chairs of the Board Committees the fees for which include membership of the Nomination & Governance Committee and one other Independent Non-Executive Director.
Only this director receives an attendance fee, which is 5,000.
Independent Non-Executive Directors who serve on the Boards of subsidiary companies may also receive fees from the subsidiaries.
2011 Non-Executive Directors fees Senior RemuneraNomination & Deputy Independent Audit tion Governance Risk SW Board 2011 1 Board Chairman Director Committee Committee Committee Committee fees Total A M Frew 65 20 15 100 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 65 15 5 15 100 Lord Leitch 65 100 20 15 120 320 G R Moreno 65 60 125 D L Roberts 65 20 15 40 140 T T Ryan 65 20 15 15 115 M A Scicluna 65 50 15 130 Anthony Watson 65 20 30 115 1 Scottish Widows Services Limited Dilution limits The following charts illustrate the shares available for the Groups share plans.
ALL PLANS 10% OF THE ISSUED ORDINARY SHARE CAPITAL OF THE GROUP IN ANY CONSECUTIVE 10 YEARS 1,255.1 5,552.3 2010 Shares used million 2011 1,252.6 4,620.0 Shares available million EXECUTIVE PLANS 5% OF THE ISSUED ORDINARY SHARE CAPITAL OF THE GROUP IN ANY CONSECUTIVE 10 YEARS 2010 481.0 2,922.7 2944.699951 Shares used million 2011 1,622.5 1,813.8 Shares available million Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 195 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Service agreements The Groups policy is for Executive Directors to have service agreements with notice periods of no more than one year.
All current Executive Directors are entitled to receive 12 months notice from the Group, but would be required to give at least six months notice.
It is the Groups policy that where compensation on early termination is due, it should be paid on a phased basis, mitigated in the event that alternative employment is secured, and that bonus payments should relate to the period of actual service, rather than the full notice period, and will be determined on the basis of performance.
Any entitlements under the pension scheme or equity plans will be in accordance with the scheme rules on leaving.
Notice to be given by the Company Date of service agreement letter of appointment Sir Winfried Bischoff 6 months 27 July 2009 Antnio Horta-Osrio 12 months 3 November 2010 G T Tate 12 months 9 February 2009 T J W Tookey 12 months 26 January 2009 Independent Non-Executive Directors do not have service agreements and their appointment may be terminated, in accordance with the articles of association, at any time without compensation.
External appointments The Group recognises that Executive Directors may be invited to become Non-Executive Directors of other companies and that these appointments may broaden their knowledge and experience, to the benefit of the Group.
Fees are normally retained by the individual directors as the post entails personal responsibility.
Executive Directors are generally allowed to accept one Non-Executive Directorship.
During 2011, Eric Daniels received fees of 76,000 which was retained by him, for serving as Non-Executive Director of BT plc.
Truett Tate received fees of 30,000 as chairman of Arora Holdings Ltd and 20,000 as a Director of Towergate Partnership Ltd.
These fees were retained by him.
Performance graph The graph below illustrates the performance of the Group measured by TSR against a broad equity market index over the past five years.
The Group has been a constituent of the FTSE 100 index throughout this five year period.
Total shareholder return FTSE 100 index Lloyds Banking Group plc FTSE 100 index Rebased to 100 on 31 December 2006 Source: Deloitte 150 125 100 75 50 25 0 Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec Dec 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 196 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors emoluments for 2011 audited Other benefits Performance- 6 Salaries Pension One-off Other cash Non-cash related 2011 2010 1 2 3 4 5 fees allowance payments benefits benefits payments Total Total 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 Current Directors who served during 2011 Executive Directors Antnio Horta-Osrio from 17 January 2011 1,019 514 172 50 10 1,765 Non-Executive Directors Sir Winfried Bischoff 700 12 1 713 712 A M Frew 100 100 8 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 100 100 100 Lord Leitch 320 320 308 G R Moreno 125 125 134 D L Roberts 140 140 104 T T Ryan 115 115 113 M A Scicluna 130 130 130 Anthony Watson 115 115 115 Former Directors who served during 2011 J E Daniels until 28 February 2011 776 25 40 14 855 2,572 A G Kane until 18 May 2011 590 80 24 27 721 1,408 G T Tate until 6 February 2012 656 164 27 26 345 1,218 1,745 T J W Tookey until 24 February 2012 615 90 73 36 5 120 939 1,579 H A Weir until 18 May 2011 625 125 35 6 791 1,578 Others for 2010 only 35 973 6,126 270 224 89 465 8,147 10,641 1 Following changes to the amount of tax relief available on pension contributions in each year, Directors may elect to receive some or all of their allowances as cash.
Contributions into the pensions scheme shown on page 197 are commensurately reduced.
2 One-off payments comprise a contractual cash payment to Antnio Horta-Osrio as part of the buyout of his benefits from his previous employer, an allowance to Tim Tookey to reflect his additional responsibilities as Interim Group Chief Executive and a tax planning allowance for Eric Daniels.
3 Other cash benefits includes flexible benefits payments 4 per cent of basic salary, payments to certain directors who elect to take cash rather than a company car under the car scheme.
4 The non-cash benefits column includes amounts relating to the use of a company car, use of a company driver and private medical insurance.
It also includes a spouse's travel allowance for Truett Tate, Sir Winfried Bischoff and Eric Daniels and the value of any matching shares which are received under the terms of Sharematch, through which employees have the opportunity to purchase shares up to a maximum of 125 per month and receive matching shares on a one for one basis up to a maximum value of 30 per month, rounded down to the nearest whole share.
5 Bonuses awarded in respect of 2011 performance will be subject to 100 per cent deferral into shares until at least 2014.
6 Bonus awards made to Executive Directors in respect of 2010 were amended in February 2012 by reducing the amounts awarded in Deferred Shares.
The reduction amounted to 40 per cent of the award in respect of Mr Daniels and 25 per cent of the awards in respect of Mr Kane, Mr Tate, Mr Tookey and Mrs Weir.
The Boards decision is based on the fact that had the outcome of the Judicial Review into Payment Protection Insurance PPI in April 2011 been known, and had the consequential provision made been effected at the time of the award of the 2010 bonus in February 2011, the bonus pool would have been lower and individual bonus awards would also have been lower.
Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 197 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Directors pensions audited The Executive Directors are members of one of the pension schemes provided by Lloyds Banking Group with benefits either on a defined benefit or defined contribution basis.
There are now no Directors accruing further pensionable service on a defined benefit basis.
Defined benefit scheme members Additional Accrued Accrued Transfer Transfer pension pension at pension at Change in value at value at Change in earned to Transfer 31 December 31 December accrued 31 December 31 December transfer 31 December value of the 2011 2010 pension 2011 2010 value 2011 increase 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 000 a b a - b c d c - d e f J E Daniels 223 210 13 5,081 5,030 51 13 294 A G Kane 379 372 7 8,734 8,657 77 7 154 Columns a and b represent the deferred pension to which the directors would have been entitled had they left the Group on 31 December 2011 and 2010, respectively.
For Mr Daniels the 2011 figure is the pension put into payment upon retirement on 30 September 2011.
For Mr Kane, the 2011 figure is the deferred pension entitlement as at the date of opting-out of the pension scheme on 15 June 2011.
Column c is the transfer value of the deferred pension in column a calculated as at 31 December 2011 based on factors supplied by the actuary of the pension scheme.
Column d is the equivalent transfer value, but calculated as at 31 December 2010 on the assumption that the Director left service at that date.
Column e is the increase in pension built up during the year, recognising i the accrual rate for the additional service based on the pensionable salary in force at the year end, and ii where appropriate the effect of pay changes in real inflation adjusted terms on the pension already earned at the start of the year.
Column f is the capital value of the pension in column e. The disclosures in columns e and f are as required by the UK Listing Authority listing rules.
The requirements of the listing rules differ from those of the Companies Act.
The listing rules require the additional pension earned over the year to be calculated as the difference between the pension accrued at the end of the financial year and the pension accrued at the start of the financial year less the increase in the pension earned over the year solely due to inflation.
The transfer value in column f can differ significantly from the change in transfer value as required by the Companies Act because the additional pension accrued over the year calculated in accordance with the listing rules makes allowance for inflation, and the change in the transfer value required by the Companies Act will be significantly influenced by changes in the assumptions underlying the transfer value calculation at the beginning and end of the financial year.
Benefits from a registered pension scheme are subject to the Lifetime Allowance, currently 1.8 million, which is equivalent to an annual pension of 90,000.
Any benefit in excess of this amount will incur a tax charge for the individual.
The Lifetime Allowance will decrease to 1.5 million from April 2012.
The Group has agreed that if an Executive Director has benefits in excess of the Lifetime Allowance he may cease to accrue benefits in the Scheme and receive a salary supplement as an alternative.
This will not cost the Group more than the current arrangements.
The Group will not compensate any individual in respect of any tax liability arising from the provision of pension.
Defined contribution scheme members During the year to 31 December 2011 the Group has made the following contributions to the defined contribution scheme: Pension contributions 000 Antnio Horta-Osrio 31 G T Tate 41 T J W Tookey 64 H A Weir 31 Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 198 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Directors interests audited The beneficial interests, of those who were directors at 31 December 2011 in ordinary shares of Lloyds Banking Group were: Number of shares At 1 January 2011 or later date of At 31 December At 27 February appointment 2011 2012 Executive Directors 1 Antnio Horta-Osrio 100,000 1,067,099 1 2 G T Tate 529,015 789,181 789,745 3 T J W Tookey 123,891 315,957 316,943 Non-Executive Directors Sir Winfried Bischoff 800,000 1,100,000 A M Frew 300,000 Sir Julian Horn-Smith 227,890 227,890 Lord Leitch 55,787 55,787 1 G R Moreno 500,000 1,200,000 D L Roberts 378,670 968,641 1 T T Ryan 100,877 400,877 M A Scicluna 56,226 92,572 Anthony Watson 226,357 376,357 1 Shareholdings held by Mr A Horta-Osrio, Mr G T Tate, Mr G R Moreno and Mr T T Ryan are either wholly or partially in the form of ADRs.
2 The beneficial interests for Mr G T Tate relate to changes to partnership and matching shares acquired under the Lloyds Banking Group Share Incentive Plan between 31 December 2011 and 6 February 2012, the date of his resignation from the Board of Lloyds Banking Group.
3 The beneficial interests for Mr T J W Tookey relate to changes to partnership and matching shares acquired under the Lloyds Banking Group Share Incentive Plan between 31 December 2011 and 24 February 2012, the date of his resignation from the Board of Lloyds Banking Group.
A summary of the awards vested, purchases and sales made by directors is shown on page 204.
Mrs Weirs Sharesave award lapsed during 2011 at her request.
b Executive option granted in March 2001. c Executive option granted between March 2004 and August 2004. d Executive option granted between March 2005 and August 2005. e Exercisable to the extent that the performance condition was satisfied.
f Lapsed on 10th anniversary of date of grant as the performance conditions had not been met.
g Not exercisable as the option has not been held for the period required by the relevant scheme.
h Exercisable for period of one year from date of leaving.
i Exercisable for period of six months from date of leaving.
j Share buy out award granted on 30 March 2011 for the loss of deferred share awards forfeited on leaving the Santander Group.
Awards are consistent with those forfeited and have a nil option price.
k Award exercised on 30 March 2011 at a price of 58.75p.
l The extent that the award will become exercisable is subject to performance.
The performance condition has not changed since the award was made.
None of the other directors at 31 December 2011 had options to acquire shares in Lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
The market price for a share in the Company at 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 was 65.70p and 25.91p, respectively.
The range of prices between 1 January 2011 and 31 December 2011 was 21.84p to 69.61p.
The following table contains information on the performance conditions for executive options granted since 2001.
The Remuneration Committee chose the relevant performance conditions because they were felt to be challenging, aligned to shareholders interests and appropriate at the time.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 200 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT Options granted Performance conditions March 2001 Growth in earnings per share which is equal to the aggregate percentage change in the retail price index plus three percentage points for each complete year of the relevant period plus a further condition that the Companys ranking based on TSR over the relevant period should be in the top 50 companies of the FTSE 100.
As the performance conditions for those options granted in March 2001 were not met, the options lapsed in March 2011.
March 2004 August 2004 That the Companys ranking based on TSR over the relevant period against a comparator group 17 UK and international financial services companies including Lloyds Banking Group must be at least ninth, when 14 per cent of the option will be exercisable.
If the Company is ranked first in the group, then 100 per cent of the option will be exercisable and if ranked tenth or below the performance condition is not met.
Options granted in 2004 became exercisable as the performance condition was met on the re-test.
The performance condition vested at 24 per cent for Truett Tates March option and at 14 per cent for all other options granted to Executive Directors during 2004.
March 2005 August 2005 That the Companys ranking based on TSR over the relevant period against a comparator group 15 companies including Lloyds Banking Group must be at least eighth, when 30 per cent of the option will be exercisable.
If the Company is ranked first to fourth position in the group, then 100 per cent of the option will be exercisable and if ranked ninth or below, the performance condition is not met.
Options granted in 2005 became exercisable as the performance condition was met when tested.
Grants vested at 82.5 per cent for all options granted to Executive Directors.
March 2011 That the Companys ranking based on TSR over the relevant period against a comparator group 18 companies Applicable only to award made including Lloyds Banking Group must be at least ninth, when 30 per cent of the option will be exercisable.
If the to Antnio Horta-Osrio on Company is ranked first to fifth position in the group, then 100 per cent of the option will be exercisable and if 30 March 2011 over ranked tenth or below, the performance condition is not met.
1,707,763 shares Lloyds TSB executive retention plan 2006 On 26 March 2008 prior to his appointment as an Executive Director, Tim Tookey was granted an award under the Lloyds TSB Executive Retention Plan 2006.
The award is satisfied in cash only and, subject to continued employment, gave him the right to receive an amount equal to the total value of 218,400 Lloyds Banking Group shares on the dates of vesting.
On 26 March 2011 50 per cent of his award vested at 60.48p.
Mr Tookey had agreed to reinvest the cash proceeds and he acquired 52,896 Lloyds Banking Group shares.
Following notification of Mr Tookeys resignation from Lloyds Banking Group, the remaining 50 per cent of the award lapsed.
Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 201 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 Lloyds TSB long-term incentive plan audited The following table shows conditional shares awarded under the plan.
Further information regarding this plan can be found on pages 202 and 203.
The vested during the year figure includes 4,796 dividend shares accumulated prior to the stopping of dividend payments.
The closing market price of the Groups ordinary shares on the date of release was 58.54p.
c The Absolute Share Price element of this award has an end of performance period date of 26 March 2013.
Mr Daniels LTIP and Integration Awards will continue, but will be pro-rated to reflect the number of months employed during each performance period.
For the awards made on 8 April 2009, this will be 33 months and for the award made on 26 March 2010, this will be 21 months.
Mr Tookeys unvested awards all lapsed upon his departure from the Group on 24 February 2012.
Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 202 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 DIRECTORS REMUNERATION REPORT The following table contains information on the performance conditions for awards made under the long-term incentive plan.
LTIP awarded Performance conditions March and April 2008 For 50 per cent of the award the EPS Award the percentage increase in earnings per share of the Group on a compound annualised basis over the relevant period needed to be at least an average of 6 percentage points per annum greater than the percentage increase if any in the Retail Prices Index over the same period.
If it was less than 3 per cent per annum, the EPS Award would lapse.
If the increase was more than 3 per cent but less than 6 per cent per annum, then the proportion of shares released would be on a straight line basis between 17.5 per cent and 100 per cent.
The relevant period commenced on 1 January 2008 and ended on 31 December 2010.
For the other 50 per cent of the award the TSR Award the Groups TSR needed to exceed the median of a comparator group 13 companies over the relevant period by an average of 7.5 per cent per annum for the TSR Award to vest in full.
17.5 per cent of the TSR Award would vest where the Groups TSR was equal to median and vesting would occur on a straight line basis in between these points.
Where the Groups TSR was below the median of the comparator group, the TSR Award would lapse.
The relevant period commenced on 6 March 2008 the date of award and ended on 5 March 2011.
At the end of the relevant period, neither of the performance conditions had been met and the Awards lapsed.
Tim Tookey was not an Executive Director when his award was made in 2008, and as such his award vested at 29 per cent on the same basis as other award recipients below the Group Executive Committee level.
April 2009 EPS: The release of 50 per cent of the shares will be dependent on the extent to which growth in EPS achieves cumulative EPS targets over the three year period from January 2009 to December 2011.
Economic profit: The release of the remaining 50 per cent of shares will be dependent on the extent to which the Group achieves cumulative Economic Profit targets over the three year period from January 2009 to December 2011.
EPS Vesting % Growth in EPS Threshold 25% 26% Maximum 100% 36% Economic profit Vesting % Absolute improvement in adjusted EP Threshold 25% 100% Maximum 100% 202% April 2009 Synergy Savings: The release of 50 per cent of the shares will be dependent on the achievement of target Integration award run-rate synergy savings in 2009 and 2010 as well as the achievement of sustainable synergy savings of at least 1.5 billion by the end of 2011.
The award will be broken down into three equally weighted annual tranches.
Performance will be assessed at the end of each year against annual performance targets based on a trajectory to meet the 2011 target.
The extent to which targets have been achieved will determine the proportion of shares to be banked each year.
Any release of shares will be subject to the Remuneration Committee judging the overall success of the delivery of the integration programme.
Integration Balanced Scorecard: The release of the remaining 50 per cent of the shares will be dependent on the outcome of a Balanced Scorecard of non-financial measures of the success of the integration in each of 2009, 2010 and 2011.
The Balanced Scorecard element will be broken down into three equally weighted tranches.
The tranches will be crystallised and banked for each year of the performance cycle subject to separate annual performance targets across the four measurement categories of Building the Business, Customer, Risk and People and Organisation Development.
Board of Directors 172 Lloyds Banking Group Directors report 174 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 203 Corporate governance report 177 Directors remuneration report 187 1 20 205 355 March 2010 EPS: Relevant to 36 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured based on absolute improvement in adjusted EPS over the three financial years starting on 1 January 2010 relative to an adjusted fully diluted 2009 EPS base.
Economic Profit: Relevant to 36 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured based on the compound annual growth rate of adjusted Economic Profit over the three financial years starting on 1 January 2010 relative to 2009 adjusted Economic Profit base.
Absolute Share Price: Relevant to 28 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured based on the Absolute Share Price on 26 March 2013, being the third anniversary of the award date.
The targets are: EPS Vesting % Absolute improvement in adjusted EPS Threshold 25% 158% Maximum 100% 180% Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis.
Economic profit Vesting % Compound annual growth rate of adjusted EP Threshold 25% 57% per annum Maximum 100% 77% per annum Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis.
Absolute Share Price Vesting % Absolute Share Price Threshold 0% 75p Maximum 100% 114p Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis, provided that shares comprised in the Absolute Share Price element of the award may only be released if both the EPS and Economic Profit performance measures have been satisfied at the threshold level or above.
1 March 2011 EPS: Relevant to 33 3 per cent of the award.
Performance will be based on 2013 EPS outcome.
1 Economic Profit: Relevant to 33 3 per cent of the award.
The performance target is based on 2013 adjusted Economic Profit.
1 Absolute Total Shareholder Return: Relevant to 33 3 per cent of the award.
Performance will be measured against the annualised return over the three year period ending 31 December 2013.
The targets are: EPS Vesting % Target Threshold 25% 6.4p Maximum 100% 7.4p Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis.
Economic profit Vesting % Target Threshold 25% 567m Maximum 100% 1,234m Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis.
Absolute Total Shareholder Return Vesting % Annualised Absolute Shareholder Return Threshold 25% 8% Maximum 100% 14% Vesting between threshold and maximum will be on a straight line basis, provided that shares comprised in the Absolute Share Price element of the award may only be released if both the EPS and Economic Profit performance measures have been satisfied at the threshold level or above.
Deloitte provided information for the testing of the TSR performance conditions for the Companys long-term incentive plan.
EPS is the Groups normalised earnings per share as shown in the Groups report and accounts, subject to such adjustments as the Remuneration Committee regards as necessary for consistency.
None of those who were Directors at the end of the year had any other interest in the capital of Lloyds Banking Group plc or its subsidiaries.
The register of Directors interests, which is open to inspection, contains full particulars of Directors shareholdings and options to acquire shares in Lloyds Banking Group.
On behalf of the Board Harry F Baines Company Secretary 27 February 2012 Overview r Business review r Governance Financial statements r Other information r Lloyds Banking Group 204 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 OTHER REMUNERATION DISCLOSURES Emoluments of the eight highest paid senior executives unaudited Emoluments of the eight highest paid senior executives can be found on the Group's website at www.
Goodwill Report of the independent auditors on Notes to the consolidated the consolidated financial statements 206 financial statements 216 30.
Other intangible assets Consolidated income statement 208 32.
Critical accounting estimates and judgements of comprehensive income 209 4.
Deposits from banks Consolidated balance sheet 210 5.
Net fee and commission income 36.
Trading and other financial liabilities at fair of changes in equity 212 value through profit or loss 7.
Net trading income Consolidated cash flow statement 215 37.
Liabilities arising from insurance contracts 9.
Other operating income and participating investment contracts 10.
Investments in joint ventures and associates 41.
Unallocated surplus within insurance businesses 14.
Loss on disposal of businesses in 2010 43.
Trading and other financial assets at fair value 46.
Subordinated liabilities through profit or loss 47.
Loans and advances to banks 49.
Loans and advances to customers 50.
Debt securities classified as loans and receivables 53.
Allowance for impairment losses on loans 54.
Contingent liabilities and commitments and receivables 55.
Approval of financial statements Report of the independent Notes to the parent company auditors on the parent company financial statements 348 financial statements 344 1.
Deferred tax asset Parent company balance sheet 345 3.
Amounts due from subsidiaries Parent company statement 4.
Share capital and share premium of changes in equity 346 5.
Other reserves Parent company cash flow statement 347 6.
Approval of the financial statements and other information
