40 Governance Corporate Governance Review of Risk In line with developing best practice the Board and Audit and Risk Committee have increased the focus on risk management during the year.
The Audit and Risk Committee amended its terms of reference to reflect this.
It is imperative that business managers feel ownership and responsibility for risks within their divisions.
To this end, business managers regularly present to the Audit and Risk Committee on the risks within their areas.
We seek to ensure that assessment of risk remains a key part of significant decisions brought before the Board.
The Report which follows is intended to give you an understanding More detail on the work of the Audit and Risk Committee in of the corporate governance framework of the Group and how relation to risk can be found in the Audit and Risk Committee we have applied the principles and provisions of the Combined report on pages 46 to 47.
Code in relation to the past year.
With effect from 1 April 2011 we will apply the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Board Effectiveness Code published by the FRC in June 2010.
Following the annual review of Board Effectiveness, I am satisfied that the Board continues to operate well.
The review The effective leadership by the Board of the Groups strategy and was carried out internally using a questionnaire completed by its stewardship of risk are key components of good governance.
The Group Company Secretary then prepared a The Board has reviewed its strategic options on a number of report which was discussed by the Board.
Questions raised in occasions throughout the year in discussion with the Executive.
the Review included how the key areas of risk and succession could be given greater focus by the Board as a whole as well as Board changes and the Nominations Committee work in the relevant Committees.
We will work over the coming year During the year the Nominations Committee met to consider to ensure that opportunities for improvement are addressed.
Board and senior management succession planning.
As we indicated in 2010, we have continued to refresh the membership Engagement with Shareholders of the Board.
This is part of an ongoing process following Engagement and effective communication with investors is significant change between 2007 2009 when five new Board critical for the continued success of the Company.
This is members joined in 2007 following the merger with Borsa particularly the case against the backdrop of significant Italiana and we appointed a new CEO in 2009.
The members announcements such as the proposed merger with TMX Group.
of the Nominations Committee also provided advice to me We have an extensive investor relations programme which is between Board meetings in the negotiations with TMX Group, described in more detail in this Corporate Governance Report.
in particular in relation to governance matters.
The Board receives regular updates on shareholder feedback During the year ended 31 March 2011 Oscar Fanjul, Nigel at each of its meetings so that it is aware of shareholders Stapleton and Angelo Tantazzi left the Board.
In the same views and concerns.
The Senior Independent Director and period Paul Heiden, Gay Huey Evans and Massimo Tononi I are also available to meet with our major shareholders.
joined as Non-Executive Directors and Raffaele Jerusalmi as an Executive Director.
In making these appointments, the Board was mindful of the importance of the need for the Board to have the appropriate balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company.
I consider that these appointments increase the range of business insight and expertise of the Board.
Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman New Non-Executive Directors participated in an induction programme which included meeting with executives from throughout the Group.
We facilitate opportunities for all NonExecutive Directors to meet with executives at all levels so that they can continue to develop their understanding of the business.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Governance Corporate Governance 41 Corporate Governance Report The Board also views the brands and reputations as regulated Complying with the provisions of the Combined Code entities of its direct and indirect subsidiaries as important London Stock Exchange Group plc and its subsidiaries are assets of the Group.
Protection of brand and reputation are committed to high standards of corporate governance and key parts of the Boards role.
business integrity in all their activities.
Throughout the year ended 31 March 2011 the Company has complied with all Board Activities in 2011 provisions of the Combined Code.
Matters considered by the Group Board during the year included: The Combined Code on Corporate Governance sets out guidance Each meeting Annually Throughout the year in the form of principles and provisions on how companies should Reports from the Chief Health and safety Detailed consideration be directed and controlled to follow good governance practice.
Executive on performance and approval of the in each of the business proposed merger The Financial Services Authority requires companies listed in the areas, regulatory strategy, with TMX Group UK to disclose, in relation to Section 1 of the Combined Code, public affairs and Italian how they have applied its main principles and whether they have regulatory matters complied with its provisions throughout the year.
Where the Reports from the Chief Off site strategy day Discussion and approval provisions have not been complied with companies must provide Financial Officer on the of Group Strategy: an explanation for this.
Further information on the Combined financial performance Group Risk Register Code can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, and position of the Group, investor relations at www.
This Corporate Governance Report forms part activity and Treasury, of the Corporate Governance Statement on pages 59 to 61 of the UK Regulatory and Directors Report.
In June 2010, the FRC issued a new Code, The HR matters UK Governance Code in June 2010.
This applies to reporting Updates from the FSAs risk mitigation Approval of significant periods which begin on or after 29 June 2010.
The Company also Board Committee programme together RNS statements, intends to comply with this new code.
The Company will report with FSA presentation including Interim Management Statements: against the UK Governance Code in its 2012 Annual Report.
Review of Directors Conflicts of Interest Board of Directors The results of the Board Updates on changes Changes to the Board Effectiveness Review to laws and regulations As part of the process of refreshing the Board described in such as the Bribery Act last years Annual Report, Nigel Stapleton and Oscar Fanjul 2010 and reports on stepped down from the Board in July 2010 and Angelo Tantazzi governance issues left the Board of London Stock Exchange Group in September Group response to 2010 but remained a director and chairman of Borsa Italiana, various regulatory CC&G and Monte Titoli.
consultations Review of significant Paul Heiden and Gay Huey Evans were appointed to the Board acquisitions in June 2010 and Massimo Tononi in September 2010.
As Massimo Review of Audit Tononis appointment was made after the AGM confirmation of and Risk Committee his appointment will be sought at this years AGM.
In addition, Terms of Reference in line with the new UK Governance Code all Directors will be Full and half year put forward for election on an annual basis.
results and dividends Role of the Board The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are distinct and The Board is the principal decision-making forum for the Group separate with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman and is responsible to shareholders for achieving the Groups is responsible for the running and leadership of the Board and strategic objectives and for delivering sustainable growth in ensuring its effectiveness.
The Chairmans other current significant shareholder value.
Directors act in a way they consider will commitments are set out in his biography on page 38.
The Group promote the long-term success of the Company for the benefit Chief Executive has delegated authority from, and is responsible of shareholders as a whole, with regard to the interests of the to, the Board for managing the business with the power for further Groups employees, the impact of the business on the community delegation in respect of matters which are necessary for the and environment and the interests of stakeholders.
The Board effective running and management of the business.
has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it including: establishing, reviewing and maintaining the Corporate strategy: the annual budget: increases or significant variations in the terms of borrowing facilities: committing to major capital expenditure or acquisitions: and dividend policy.
For further information visit: www.
com 42 Governance Board and Committee Meetings 2011 the Company, to the extent to which it has indemnified the The Board held six scheduled meetings, six ad hoc meetings Directors.
This insurance cover will be renewed on 1 June 2011. and one strategy day.
The Chairman met Non-Executive Neither the Companys indemnity nor insurance provides cover Directors without the presence of Executive Directors on in the event that the Director is proved to have acted fraudulently a number of occasions throughout the year.
and Non-Executive Directors also meet without the Executive Directors at the start of each Board meeting to discuss the Board Balance and Independence business of that meeting and other issues.
Throughout the There is a strong non-executive element on the Board and year the Chairman also met with Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors provide deep corporate experience individually to discuss business related matters.
and knowledge which they apply to their understanding of the Group and its strategy.
The Board comprises 12 Directors: the Table of Attendance Chairman who was independent on appointment, three Executive Directors and eight independent Non-Executive Directors.
Board and Audit and Strategy Risk Remuneration Nomination The Board considers that the Directors demonstrate a strong meetings Committee Committee Committee range of business experience and the Board has the right mix Total number of of skills and experience given the size and geography of the meetings in the year Group.
The Board also seeks to balance the continuity of ended 31 March 2011 13 5 2 2 experience and succession.
Chris Gibson-Smith 13 2 2 The Board has concluded that all Non-Executive Directors Xavier Rolet 13 were independent in character, that there were no relationships Doug Webb 13 or circumstances which are likely to affect their independent 1 Raffaele Jerusalmi 12 judgement and no undue reliance was placed on any individual.
Baroness Janet Cohen 13 5 2 Andrea Munari is employed by Banca IMI and, until 31 March Sergio Ermotti 11 2 1 2011, Sergio Ermotti was employed by Unicredit, both of which Paul Heiden 12 4 1 are shareholders of the Company and customers of the Companys Gay Huey Evans 12 4 1 Italian subsidiaries.
Both companies also supply banking services Andrea Munari 13 4 and financial lines to the Group.
The Combined Code suggests Paolo Scaroni 13 1 2 that such a business relationship may affect independence.
2 Massimo Tononi 10 However, the Board continues to believe that both are independent Robert Webb 13 2 2 given the significance of the customer relationships to the Group as a whole, the fact that neither Mr Munari nor Mr Ermotti is Directors who left the Board during the year directly involved in decisions relating to the investment in the Company or banking arrangements and both demonstrate 3 Oscar Fanjul 0 1 1 0 behaviours indicating independence.
The Board has found their 3 Nigel Stapleton 2 1 knowledge and experience of financial markets particularly 4 Angelo Tantazzi 1 1 0 valuable.
Neither was appointed under any arrangement with 1 their respective employers.
Paul Heiden, Gay Huey Evans and Raffaele Jerusalmi joined the Board on 4 June 2010.
2 Janet Cohen and Robert Webb have both served on the LSEG Massimo Tononi joined the Board on 27 September 2010.
The Combined Code suggests that length of Nigel Stapleton and Oscar Fanjul left the Board on 14 July 2010.
4 Angelo Tantazzi left the Board on 27 September 2010. tenure is a factor to consider when determining independence of a Non-Executive Director.
The Board considers that an When Directors have not been able to attend meetings due to individuals independence cannot be determined arbitrarily conflicts in their schedule, they receive and read papers to be on the basis of a particular period of service.
The Board has considered at the relevant meeting.
They have the opportunity concluded that each of the Directors named above continue to to provide comments on the matters to be discussed to the demonstrate the characteristics of independence expected by Chairman of the meeting in advance.
The Board also benefits from their experience and knowledge resulting from their length of service.
Additionally, Directors have the benefit of indemnity arrangements from given the changes to the Board in recent years, in particular the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their following the merger with Borsa Italiana, the Board considers office and execution of their powers, duties and responsibilities.
that a period of continuity and phased changes to the composition The Company purchased and maintained a directors and officers of Non-Executive Directors is beneficial for the Company.
As liability insurance policy throughout the year ended 31 March indicated above, in line with The UK Governance Code, all 2011.
This policy covers the Directors for any such liabilities in Directors will be subject to annual re-election.
respect of which they are not indemnified by the Company, and London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Governance Corporate Governance 43 Board Development Board Committees A number of Directors joined the Board in 2011.
Each of the Remuneration Committee Directors was provided with an induction programme covering The Committee members as at 31 March 2011 were: Robert the key areas of business of the Group.
Directors were provided Webb Chairman, Chris Gibson-Smith who was independent with key documents including strategy documents, past Board on appointment, Gay Huey Evans, Paolo Scaroni and Sergio papers, an overview of the business including the regulatory Ermotti.
All members of the Committee are considered to be framework within which the Group operates and information independent.
Details of the Committees remit and activities are on their responsibilities under the Listing Rules.
Additionally set out in a separate Remuneration Report on pages 48 to 57.
Directors met with executives from throughout the Group to The Committee has written terms of reference which are better understand each of the business areas together with the available from the Group Company Secretary or at the Groups governance, financial and legal framework.
corporate governance section of the Companys website at www.
com Directors are encouraged to continually update their skills and knowledge of the business.
Periodically the Board meets at the Nomination Committee Groups Milan office and briefings are also given at Board The Nomination Committee members as at 31 March 2011 meetings on particular parts of the business.
were: Chris Gibson-Smith Chairman, Janet Cohen, Robert Webb and Paolo Scaroni.
The Committees role is to review Performance Evaluation the size and structure of the Board, succession planning and The annual performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees to make recommendations to the Board on potential candidates and Directors was undertaken in 2011 and was conducted by for the Board.
The Committee normally invites the Chief Executive the Group Company Secretary using a detailed questionnaire.
The Committee has written terms of reference which The results of the review were used to highlight areas of strength are available from the Group Company Secretary or at the and weakness, assist in consideration of the future development corporate governance section of the Companys website of the Board and its Committees and further improve their www.
The review also included a separate assessment of the Chairmans performance with feedback provided to the The Committee met twice in the year.
It considered the Chairman on an individual basis.
appointments of Paul Heiden, Gay Huey Evans and Massimo Tononi and also senior management succession planning.
The The results were discussed by the Board and actions agreed members of the Nomination Committee provided advice to the where appropriate.
The evaluation concluded that the Board Chairman and CEO in the negotiations with TMX Group between and its Committees were working effectively.
The key areas Board meetings, in particular in relation to governance matters.
identified by the Board for further development were that succession planning and risk should be given greater focus Audit and Risk Committee at Board level as well as in the relevant committees.
The Audit and Risk Committee is chaired by Paul Heiden and at 31 March 2011 comprises three other independent Conflicts of Interest Non-Executive Directors Janet Cohen, Gay Huey Evans and The Articles of Association allow the Board to authorise Andrea Munari.
The Committee met five times during the year conflicts of interest that may arise and to impose such limits and maintains a formal agenda which ensures that all matters or conditions as it thinks fit.
The Company has established for which the Committee is responsible are addressed at the a procedure whereby actual and potential conflicts of interest appropriate time.
Recent and relevant financial experience is are regularly reviewed and for the appropriate authorisation provided by the Chairman of the Committee who is a chartered to be sought prior to the appointment of any new Director or accountant and has held a variety of senior finance roles in if a new conflict arises.
The decision to authorise a conflict his career.
In addition the Board considers that each member of interest can only be made by non-conflicted Directors and of the Committee has the skills and experience necessary in making such decision the Directors must act in a way they to enable the Committee to discharge its responsibilities consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the effectively.
Its activities are set out in a separate report on Companys success.
The Board believes that during 2011 pages 46 to 47. this procedure operated effectively.
Copies of the Committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
com or on request from the Group Company Secretary.
com 44 Governance Internal Control Policies and Procedures The Board has overall responsibility for the framework of risk The Group has established a number of policies and procedures governance and for maintaining an adequate system of internal which are designed to outline and give effect to the system control which meets the Groups particular needs and mitigates of internal control.
These policies are reviewed and updated the risks to which it is exposed in line with the Boards agreed to meet changing business needs.
For example, a revised risk appetite.
The Audit and Risk Committee assists the Board corporate gifts and hospitality policy has been introduced in discharging this responsibility by reviewing and assessing the in response to the forthcoming introduction of the Bribery Groups internal controls and risk management process.
The Group policies are supplemented with system of controls is designed to manage rather than eliminate a number of local policies where appropriate and are the risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives, and can only available to all employees via the Groups intranet.
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of laws and regulations.
Risk Management System Risk management is an integral part of managements agenda The Board confirms that, through the Audit and Risk and business managers are responsible for risk identification, Committee, it has periodically reviewed the operation and analysis, evaluation, mitigation, monitoring and reporting in effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls and their area, within the framework established by the Board.
risk management throughout the financial year to which these This encompasses a Board-endorsed risk management policy financial statements apply and up to the date of their approval.
Risk appetite is categorised using No significant failings or weaknesses were identified during a five point scale ranging from zero to high, and limits have this review.
However, the Board confirms that any necessary been established for each risk type which have been cascaded actions would have been taken should any significant failings throughout the organisation via appropriate Group policies, or weaknesses have been identified.
The Board is satisfied that delegated levels of authority and the internal control framework.
the system of internal controls is in accordance with the For example, the Group has a zero tolerance for matters such guidance in the revised Turnbull guidance 2005. as fraud or unethical behaviour, although will accept a moderate The principal components of the Groups internal control amount of risk in other regards where such risk can be adequately framework are described below.
The framework is amended as quantified and managed where an opportunity is likely to appropriate in response to changes in the Groups business and lead to successful delivery whilst providing an acceptable associated risks: risk-weighted level of return.
A combined bottom up and top down risk management approach Organisational Structure is adopted, with risks identified at a business unit, divisional The business is managed on a day to day basis by an Executive and group level.
The group risk register is presented to the Board Committee which is chaired by the Chief Executive Officer.
for approval at least every six months following a review of the Details of the Committee members and its role are provided on process by the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Group is organised into a number of divisions, each a divisional internal control and risk management self-certification of which is overseen by a member of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee is supported by a Leadership Team, comprising 50 Senior Managers from across the business The principal risks and uncertainties for the Group are detailed units within each division.
Line management are accountable on pages 32 to 37. for internal controls and risk management.
Clear lines of responsibility and delegation of authority from the Board are in place.
London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Governance Corporate Governance 45 Financial Reporting Process Relations with Shareholders A comprehensive business planning and financial reporting The Company runs an Investor Relations IR programme and review process using a single system for both internal and throughout the year, aimed at ensuring that shareholders external purposes is in place.
Monthly reporting of financial and sell-side analysts, who produce investment research and and key performance indicators to assess progress against commentary relating to the Group, have access to appropriate objectives is undertaken.
This process provides management information to understand activities, performance and prospects with appropriate and relevant financial information on which of the Company.
The IR programme typically consists of meetings, to base decisions.
Clear authorisation levels and appropriate calls, presentations and news data releases.
segregation of duties are in place.
Clearly defined procedures The IR team, which reports to the CFO, has responsibility for have been established for planning, approving and monitoring organising the IR programme and for day to day contact with all investment decisions which includes the preparation of budgets, the market.
The CEO and CFO engage in regular dialogue with risk evaluation and appraisal and review procedures.
Key shareholders, through meetings and presentations, to discuss issues are reported at each Board meeting.
strategy, performance and other matters.
The Chairman, Senior Independent Director and Chairman of the Remuneration Programme and Project Governance Committee are also available to meet major investors, particularly All projects are performed in accordance with the Groups to discuss corporate governance and remuneration, as required.
established and proven project management methodology.
During the past year, senior management and the IR team held A project Board, including Executive Committee representation over 380 meetings and calls with shareholders and potential where appropriate, is accountable for delivery of each project.
investors in the UK, Europe, the Middle East, Asia and North America.
Regulatory Monitoring Separate regulatory teams monitor the regulatory and The Investor Relations section of the website at compliance risks in the UK and Italian markets in which we www.
com is the primary source operate.
These regulatory teams are managed independently of regularly updated information about the Group.
Annual and from the customer-facing business units and work closely with interim reports and accounts, interim management statements, the FSA in the UK and CONSOB and Banca dItalia in Italy.
news releases, presentations at investor conferences and other key documents are archived on the website together with a Internal Audit summary of sell-side analysts forecasts of performance.
Internal Audit provides independent review of internal controls Presentations of preliminary and interim results are accessible and risk management procedures and reports its findings to the by all shareholders via webcasts in real time and also via Executive and Audit and Risk Committees.
All audit actions replay for a period after the event.
arising are monitored and tracked to completion.
The audit The Board receives a report on IR matters at each of its scheduled plan is aligned to the Group risk register and is approved by the meetings, including market expectations of financial performance, Audit and Risk Committee.
Individual reviews are performed share register composition and feedback from major investors.
Pre-implementation reviews are The Company also receives advice on shareholder relations and performed for all major Group projects and where appropriate share register analysis from external advisers.
The AGM provides Internal Audit will be represented at the project Board.
the opportunity for shareholders to meet Directors and to put questions to the Board, including the Chairmen of the Audit and Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
The procedures for the AGM are compliant with the Combined Code and the event is normally attended by all Directors.
Voting at the AGM is by way of a poll to ensure all shareholders views are taken into account.
