Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Other Information 107 Investor relations Shareholder services Substantial Shareholders Equiniti registrars shareview service As at 13 May 2011 the Company had been notified of the Shareview is a free service provided by our registrars, following interests amounting to more than three per cent in Equiniti.
Itmay beaccessed through the internet at the issued share capital of the Company in accordance with www.
Bycreating a Shareview portfolio, DTR 5 of the FSAs Disclosure and Transparency Rules: you will gain online access toinformation about your Exchange shares and other investments including: Borse Dubai Limited 20.6% Direct access to information held for you on the share Qatar Investment Authority 15.08% register including share movements: Unicredito Italiano S. p. A.
5.95% A daily indicative valuation of all investments held in your portfolio: and Intesa Sanpaolo S. p. A.
5.33% A range of information and practical help for shareholders.
FIL Limited 5.02% To register at Shareview you will need your shareholder Legal & General Group plc 4.99% reference which can be found on your share certificate and youwill be asked to select your own personal identification number.
A user ID will then be posted to you.
If you have any problems in registering your portfolio for the Shareview service, please contact Equiniti on 0871 384 2544.
Calls to this number are charged at eight pence per minute froma BT landline.
Other telephone providers costs may vary.
For calls from outside the UK, please contact Equiniti on 44 121 415 7047.
Please note that you should only use electronic addresses included in this Annual Report for the purposes expressly stated.
Groups share price service To obtain share price information for London Stock Exchange Group plc, please see our website at: www.
com By clicking on the Investor Relations tab you will find the Exchanges share price, historical closing prices and volumes andan interactive share price graph.
Alerting service To receive email alerts when financial reports, news releases and webcasts are posted on our Investor Relations website, register at: www.
com and follow the link in the section on financial performance reports and key documents.
For further information visit: www.
com 108 Other Information Investor relations contacts Mailing address Registration information Attn: Investor Relations Equiniti London Stock Exchange Group plc Aspect House 10 Paternoster Square Spencer Road London EC4M 7LS Lancing West Sussex BN99 6DA For enquiries relating to shareholdings in London Stock Exchange Group plc: T 0871 384 2544 or 44 0 121 415 7047 www.
co. uk Shareholder helpline: 44 0 20 7797 3322 Visit the investor relations section of our website for up-to-date Reporting accountants and independent auditors information including the latest share price, announcements,  LLP financial reports and details of analysts and consensus 7 More London Riverside forecasts www.
com London SE1 2RT Registered office Corporate brokers London Stock Exchange Group plc JPMorgan Cazenove Limited 10 Paternoster Square 125 London Wall London EC4M 7LS London EC2Y 5AJ Registered company number T 44 0 20 7588 2828 London Stock Exchange Group plc: 5369106 www.
com Nomura International plc One Angel Lane London EC4R 3AB T 44 0 20 7102 1000 www.
com London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Welcome to our Annual Report London Stock Exchange Group sits at the heart of the worlds financial community.
The Group provides a broad range of international equity, bond and derivatives markets, including London Stock Exchange: Borsa Italiana: MTS Europes leading fixed income market : IDEM derivatives: and Turquoise, offering pan-European AIM, Baikal, Infolect, London Stock Exchange, the Designed and produced by London Stock Exchange coat of arms device, Addison www.
co. uk NOMAD, RNS, SEDOL, SEDOL Masterfile, SETS, lit and dark equity trading, together with equity derivatives TradElect and IOB are registered trade marks of Board photography by London Stock Exchange plc.
Main Market, Michael Clement www.
Specialist Fund Market, SFM and UnaVista are and Nick Sinclair www.
com trade marks of London Stock Exchange plc.
Executive Committee photography by Borsa Italiana, MTA, MIB and IDEM are registered Nick Sinclair www.
com Through its markets, the Group offers domestic and trade marks of Borsa Italiana S. p. A. MOT and IDEX are deposited trade marks of Borsa Italiana S. p. A.
Printed by St. Ives Westerham Press Ltd international businesses unrivalled access to Europes CC&G is a registered trade mark of Cassa di Printed on Revive 50:50 Silk, made at an ISO 14001 Compensazione e Garanzia S. p. A. mill with 25 per cent fide-inked post-consumer capital markets.
The Group is a leading developer of waste, 25 per cent pre-consumer waste and 50 per Monte Titoli S. p. A. and X-TRM are registered trade cent virgin wood fibre high performance trading platforms and capital markets marks of Monte Titoli S. p. A. software and also offers its customers around the EuroMTS and MTS are registered trade marks of Mercato dei Titoli di Stato S. p. A. world an extensive range of real time and reference MTSNext is a trade mark of MTSNext Limited.
data products and market-leading post trade services.
Proquote is a registered trade mark of Proquote Limited.
FTSE is a registered trade mark of London Stock Headquartered in London, with significant operations Exchange plc and The Financial Times Limited and is used by FTSE International Limited under licence.
in Italy and Sri Lanka, the Group employs over EDX and EDX London are registered trade marks of EDX London Limited.
MillenniumIT is a registered trade mark of Millennium Information Technologies Private Limited and MillenniumIT Software is a registered trade mark of MillenniumIT Software Private Limited.
Turquoise is a registered trade mark of Turquoise Global Holdings Limited.
Other logos, organisations and company names referred to may be the trade marks of their respective owners.
Further information on London Stock Exchange Group can be found at www.
com LONDON STOCK EXCHANGE GROUP PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 Delivering on our strategy Getting in shape Leveraging our assets Developing opportunities Annual Report 2011 May 2011 London Stock Exchange Group plc 10 Paternoster Square London EC4M 7LS Telephone 44 0 20 7797 1000 Registered in England and Wales No.
