46 Governance Report of the Audit and Risk Committee Responsibilities The Committee was renamed the Audit and Risk Committee formerly Audit Committee in November 2010 to reflect its increased focus on risk.
The Committees responsibilities and remit are set out in its terms of reference which are approved by the Board and include: reviewing the integrity of, and key accounting judgements in, the Groups annual and half-year financial statements: reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems, including the I assumed the role of Chairman of the Audit and Risk process for identifying, assessing and reporting all key risks: Committee the Committee in July 2010.
As Chairman I am monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups responsible for setting the Committees annual agenda and internal audit function: and reporting to the subsequent meeting of the Board on the overseeing the Groups relations with the Groups external Committees work.
auditors, including making recommendations to the Board During the year the Committee continued to focus on the Groups concerning their appointment, retention, removal and control environment and managements work to further refine remuneration.
and improve the updated risk management framework introduced By invitation, the Audit and Risk Committee meetings are regularly in the prior year.
In addition the Committee reviewed changes attended by the Chairman of the Board, Chief Financial Officer, planned to the Groups core finance systems in response to the Group Financial Controller, Head of Group Internal Audit, the Risk changing Group structure and the Groups business continuity Management and Business Continuity Manager and the Groups arrangements ahead of the launch of our new trading platform.
Both the external The Committee will have a number of priorities in the auditors and Head of Group Internal Audit have direct access forthcoming year including items related to the TMX Group to both the Chairman of the Company and the Audit and Risk merger transaction and monitoring compliance with the Committee throughout the year and as a matter of best practice Bribery Act 2010. meet privately with the Committee at each meeting in the absence of management.
The Committee may obtain, at the Groups expense, legal and other independent professional advice on any matter within its terms of reference.
No such advice was sought by the Committee during the year.
Paul Heiden Activities Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee During the year the Committee discharged its responsibilities as set out in its terms of reference by reviewing the following: the Groups annual and half-yearly reporting including significant financial reporting judgements made by management, including the evaluation of goodwill for any impairment and property impairment following rationalisation of our property portfolio in Milan.
The Committee paid particular attention to the methodology used by management in undertaking the goodwill impairment review, including consistency with prior years, the assumptions made regarding future growth based on the Groups three-year business plan and the assessment of the cost of capital used to discount the cash flows of each cash generating unit: the risk management framework including particular focus on the management of risk within the Post Trade Services and Technology Services divisions: the documentation requirements and financial content of the communications to shareholders as part of the proposed merger with TMX Group: the Groups business continuity arrangements and future development plans in this area: London Stock Exchange Group plc Annual Report 2011 Overview Business Review Governance Group financial statements Other information Governance Audit & Risk Committee 47 reports from the Head of Internal Audit on the effectiveness In the year ended 31 March 2011, the substantial majority of the Groups internal control system including key findings of other non-audit services related to services provided by from internal audit reviews and actions taken in response  LLP in relation to the proposed by management: merger with TMX Group Inc.
The Audit and Risk Committee the remit of Internal Audit, including approval of the audit reviewed these appointments and concluded that there were plan and an assessment of the departments effectiveness: no conflicts of interest and, given PwCs knowledge of our the external auditors report and findings from the half year business and the Groups structure and accounting and tax review and year end audit: and affairs, the appointment of  LLP incidents of whistleblowing which occurred within the represented the most effective and efficient way of obtaining Group and the arrangements by which employees may, in the necessary advice and services.
In considering the provision confidence, raise concerns about possible wrongdoing in of non-audit services the Committee reviews the ratio of audit financial reporting and other matters.
fees to non-audit fees and the economic importance of our business to the external auditors.
The Committee has concluded External Audit that the nature and extent of overall and non-audit fees do not  LLP have been the Groups auditors for compromise the external auditors independence, and that the many years, although they were only appointed as auditors of fee payable in respect of audit services is appropriate to ensure Borsa Italiana in 2008 following our merger.
The auditors of that an adequate audit can be performed.
There are a number regulated entities are appointed for nine years under Italian law.
of other safeguards in place to ensure the independence of the Accordingly,  were appointed as external auditors is not compromised: auditors of Borsa Italiana until the year ended 31 March 2016.
 LLP provide written confirmation Borsa Italiana may terminate the appointment for just cause at to the Committee on a periodic basis of all relationships with any point during the nine years, although along with the auditors, the Group, and that in their professional judgement, they are would have to communicate to CONSOB the reasons why the independent of the Group: mandate had been terminated.
The auditors must be replaced  LLP are required to rotate the audit after nine years and cannot be reappointed within three years.
engagement partner every five years as required by their own The Committee recognises that certain work of a non-audit rules and relevant professional standards.
The current audit nature can be best undertaken by the external auditors due partner was appointed in 2010: and to their knowledge of the Group.
To ensure that any such work The Group has a policy on the employment of former would not impair the external auditors independence and employees of the external auditor.
Any partner involved objectivity the Committee has adopted a policy on the provision in the audit of the Group would not be employed by the of non-audit services by the external auditors and monitors Group until at least two years have lapsed from the end compliance with it semi-annually.
The policy is consistent with of their involvement.
APB Ethical standard 5 Non Audit Services Provided to Audit The Committee undertakes an annual evaluation of the Clients.
The policy permits specified compatible services, independence and objectivity of the external auditors, and the prohibits the provision of selected other non-audit services and effectiveness of the audit process following completion of the requires case by case consideration of non-audit services that annual audit, taking into account all elements of the framework are potentially incompatible with independent external audit outlined above.
The Committee is satisfied that the independence services.
Copies of the policy are available on the Companys and objectivity of the external auditors is not impaired, and that the website or on request from the Group Company Secretary.
external audit process remains effective.
There are no contractual A breakdown of the fees paid and payable to the external obligations that restrict the Groups choice of external auditors auditors for the year ended 31 March 2011 is provided below except as highlighted above.
Accordingly, resolutions to authorise and in note 36 to the accounts: the Board to re-appoint  LLP as auditors of the Group and determine their remuneration will be proposed 2011 2010 at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM on 20 July 2011. m m Audit of parent company and consolidated accounts 0.2 0.2 Audit of subsidiary companies 0.8 1.0 Other audit related 0.2 0.1 Other non-audit services Taxation 0.3 0.3 Corporate finance 0.3 0.3 Other assurance services 0.4 0.1 Total 2.2 2.0 For further information visit: www.
