80 Man Group plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report Jon Aisbitt Chairman In my Chairmans Review I highlighted the priorities and main areas of focus for the Board during the last financial year.
In this report, I am pleased to discuss more fully the work and operation of the Board and the framework of governance it deploys to lead and control the business and report on the Companys performance.
What is the role of the Board?
Our core purpose is to create and deliver the long term success of the Company and long term return for shareholders.
This requires us to determine business strategy and our appetite for risk.
We need to monitor managements performance in delivering against that strategy and ensure that the risk management measures and internal controls they put in place are appropriate and effective.
We must ensure that the funding and talent available to the business will support it long term.
Finally, we must remain aware of the Companys obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders and respond to their needs with transparent reporting and active engagement.
Man Group plc 81 Annual Report 2011 To help discharge these key responsibilities, Financial reporting and dividends The executive directors, supported by senior the Board has defined the business and Recommending and declaring dividends.
management, are responsible for the day to day governance issues which are reserved for its Approval of major accounting policies.
operation and development of the business.
These form the basis of its core Approval of financial statements and results The non-executive directors are appointed to agenda and are summarised below: announcements.
bring an external and independent view, both to Approval of all shareholder circulars and support and, when appropriate, challenge Schedule of matters reserved for the Board notices of meeting.
Strategy Determining strategy and approval of Appointments Our non-executive directors closely monitor medium term plans and budgets.
management performance against the agreed Approval of major acquisitions and Appointment of auditors.
strategy and direction and seek remedial or disposals.
Appointment of Board Committees terms alternative action where objectives are not being Approval of new ventures which extend of reference and membership.
Their independence from management beyond the Companys current business also allows them to play a critical part in key mandate and risk appetite.
Remuneration Board governance functions through their Approval of the Companys remuneration detailed work on three Board Committees, the Risk appetite, funding and liquidity philosophy and the principles of its summary roles of which are outlined below.
Determining the Companys risk appetite.
Agreeing the Companys capital structure, Approval, on the recommendation of the The Chairman of each Committee reports to funding, borrowing limits and liquidity.
Remuneration Committee, of the Companys the Board on matters discussed at Committee Approval of Treasury policies including credit total variable compensation spend each year.
meetings and highlights any significant exposures and interest rate and foreign Approval of new share incentive plans prior to issues requiring Board attention.
their submission to shareholders for approval.
from the Chairman of the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees on the work of Risk management and internal controls How is the Board structured?
those Committees during the year are given on Reviewing the effectiveness of the I lead a focussed close knit Board comprised pages 91 and 94 respectively.
A report from Companys risk management framework of an effective balance of executive and nonme on the work of the Nomination Committee and internal controls and reporting on that executive directors.
Biographical details of each follows on page 90.
Full terms of reference for review to shareholders.
director, together with their Board Committee these Board Committees can be found on our Approval of the Companys capital memberships and terms of appointment, website www.
com under About adequacy submission to the FSA.
are set out in the table on pages 82 and 83.
Board of Directors sets strategy determines risk appetite monitors Company and management performance engages with shareholders Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee reviews the Boards skill and experience determines and agrees with the Board the reviews the integrity of financial reporting to base and proposes any necessary principles of the Companys remuneration shareholders changes policy reviews the effectiveness of the Companys directs the search and selection process determines the total compensation for risk management framework and internal for new appointments and recommends executive directors, Executive Committee controls preferred candidates to the Board members and FSA Code staff within that determines the scope of external audit and oversees senior management succession policy reviews its findings and effectiveness planning to ensure continuity of executive recommends to the Board the quantum reviews Internal Audit reports and resource at and just below Board level of the Companys annual variable monitors managements response to their compensation recommendations PG 90 Nomination approves executive directors annual Committee report objectives and sets the performance PG 91 Audit and Risk conditions and vesting criteria for their share Committee report incentive plans agrees executive directors contractual termination terms PG 94 Remuneration Committee report
