Man Group plc Report and accounts 48 48 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Corporate governance report Jon Aisbitt In my Chairmans review I discussed the Board membership Of key importance for the effective running of the Board is the Boards main areas of focus and action during combination of individuals who sit around the Boardroom table, the reporting period.
This report gives more details of whom are given on pages 50 and 51.
Our Chief detail on how the Board and its Committees Executive and Finance Director have a wealth of experience in work, what they have done and how together funds, corporate finance and financial management.
Our Chief they have provided the governance framework Operating Officer brings additional market, trading and business management expertise from his previous roles at GLG required for the direction and oversight of the and Goldman Sachs.
Our non-executive directors have in business.
It also provides an insight into the depth experience in strategy development and operational and approach I take to running the Board and people management from their careers in a wide range of creating the conditions for its success.
Some have institutional investment and client development expertise.
All have a keen understanding of financial markets and the international experience and global outlook necessary for the direction of Mans business.
The specific contributions of our new non-executive directors appointed during the period Matthew Lester and Nina Shapiro are referred to in my Chairmans review on page 5.
Board governance structure The overall role of the Board and the key governance mandates of each of its three main Committees are shown opposite.
The full terms of reference and membership for each Committee are given on our website www.
com and a report from the Chairman of each Committee on their work during the period follows later in this report.
The overall remit of the Committees continues to grow in scope and complexity in response to ever increasing regulatory requirements.
This has required the further coordination of certain aspects of the Committees work Man Group plc Report and accounts 49 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 and the alignment of agendas and meeting schedules.
Refreshing Committee membership An important example of this linkage is the advice given by We like to make changes to Committee membership from time the Audit and Risk Committee to the Remuneration Committee to time and take advantage of the opportunities for switching on the identification of those individuals with a material impact roles created by new Board appointments.
This rotation helps on the risk profile of the business and on the accounting introduce a new perspective to Committee discussions and judgements and risk issues to be taken into account when broadens non-executive directors understanding of and agreeing bonuses and incentives.
Linkage and communication contribution to the business.
Frdric Jolly has recently between individual Committees and the Board is achieved transferred from the Audit and Risk Committee to the through regular reporting by Committee Chairmen at Remuneration Committee to which he is able to bring his direct Board meetings and the circulation of minutes and papers knowledge and experience of compensation in the investment when appropriate.
Following his appointment as Senior Independent Director in July, Patrick OSullivan now sits on the Remuneration Committee as well as the Audit and Risk Committee.
This gives him an overview of the full scope of the Boards governance activity which is essential for his new role.
Board of Directors Determine strategy Agree risk appetite and oversee management of risk Monitor business and management performance Communicate with and respond to shareholders Audit and Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Review the integrity of the Determine and agree with the Keep the Boards skill and Companys financial reporting and Board the principles of the experience base under continued the effectiveness of Mans risk Companys remuneration policy review.
Conduct search and management framework and selection process and recommend internal controls Recommend to the Board for new appointments to the Board approval the quantum of the Determine the scope of the Companys annual variable Oversee executive succession external audit and review compensation and the annual planning to ensure continuity of its effectiveness objectives and compensation senior management resource packages for individual Review the scope and executive directors P G 60 Nomination effectiveness of the internal audit Committee report function and managements Approve the total compensation for response to their findings Executive Committee members and FSA code staff PG 56 Audit and Risk Committee report PG 62 Remuneration report Man Group plc Report and accounts 5 50 0 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Corporate governance report continued Jon Aisbitt Alison Carnwath Peter Clarke Phillip Colebatch Kevin Hayes Chairman of the Board Independent nonChief Executive Independent non-executive Finance Director and Chairman of the executive director director and Chairman of Nomination Committee the Remuneration Committee Jon Aisbitt has 20 years Prior to joining the Board, Peter Clarke joined Man in Prior to joining the Board, Kevin Hayes joined Man experience in international Alison Carnwath spent 20 1993 from the investment Phillip Colebatch was a as Chief Financial Officer corporate finance and was years working in investment banking industry, having member of the Executive in March 2007 from previously a Partner and banking.
worked at Morgan Grenfell Boards of Swiss Lehman Brothers, where Managing Director in the and Citicorp.
He was Reinsurance Company he served in a variety of Investment Banking Division appointed Head of and Credit Suisse Group.
senior finance and of Goldman Sachs.
Corporate Finance & strategy positions based Corporate Affairs at Man in New York and London.
He was previously a Partner in the Financial Services practice of Ernst & Young LLP in New York.
He was Company Secretary of Man from November 2007 to July 2009.
Jon was appointed to the Alison was appointed to the Peter was appointed to the Phillip was appointed to the Kevin was appointed to Board as a non-executive Board as a non-executive Board in 1997 and was Board as a non-executive the Board as Finance director in August 2003 and director in January 2001 and appointed Finance Director in director in September 2007.
Director in May 2007. was appointed nonwas Senior Independent May 2000.
He was appointed Phillips current 3 year term Kevin has no fixed term executive Chairman in Director between July 2009 Deputy Group Chief Executive of office expires in July 2014. of office.
Alisons in November 2005 and Chief contract is terminable on current 3 year term of office current term of office expires Executive in March 2007.
Subject to has no fixed term of office.
His to his reappointment by her reappointmentby service contract is terminable shareholders at AGMs, his shareholders at the 2012 on 12 months notice.
term of office will be renewed AGM her term of office will be 2 until May 2015. renewed until the 2013 AGM.
Jon is an Advisory Board Alison is Chairman of Land None.
Director of Celtic Pharma I Securities Group plc, a director of Insurance and Celtic Pharma II non-executive director Australia Group and Lend biotechnology and a of Barclays PLC and an Lease Corporation and is on Director of New Forest Independent Director of the Boards of Trustees of the Company Holdings Paccar Inc. LGT Group Foundation and African forestry.
the Prince of Liechtenstein Foundation.
Jon is Chairman of the Alison is a member of the Peter regularly attends Phillip is Chairman of the Kevin regularly Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee attends Audit and Risk and a member of the and the Nomination and Nomination Committee and a member of the Committee meetings by Remuneration Committee.
He attends He attends Audit and Peter is Chairman of the Remuneration Risk Committee meetings Executive Committee.
for certain items of business.
1 All directors appointments are subject to their retirement and reappointment by shareholders at the Companys Annual General Meetings AGMs.
2 As Alison Carnwath has served on the Board for more than 9 years, her reappointment is reviewed and renewed by the Board on an annual basis.
1 Committee membership External appointments Date of appointment Background and experience Man Group plc Report and accounts 51 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Frdric Jolly Matthew Lester Patrick OSullivan Emmanuel Roman Nina Shapiro Independent nonIndependent nonSenior Independent Chief Operating Officer Independent nonexecutive director executive director and Director executive director Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee Frdric Fred Jolly was Matthew Lester was Group Patrick OSullivan was Emmanuel Manny Roman Nina has had a long Chief Executive Officer of Finance Director of ICAP plc previously Vice Chairman of joined Man as Chief career of senior roles Russell Investments Europe, from 2006 to 2010.
Prior to the Group Management Operating Officer in October within the World Bank Middle East and Africa until this he worked at Diageo plc Board, as well as Group 2010 following the and was Vice President, the summer of 2008.
Prior to in a number of senior finance Finance Director, of Zurich acquisition of GLG.
He joined Finance and Treasurer of this, he was Head of roles, including Group Financial Services Group.
GLG in 2005 as Co-Chief the International Finance Investment Consulting at Financial Controller, Executive Officer after 18 Corporation from 2000 The Wyatt Company, Paris Treasurer and Divisional years with Goldman Sachs to 2011. now Watson Wyatt.
where he was Co-Head of Worldwide Global Securities and Co-Head of the European Securities Division.
Fred was appointed to the Matthew was appointed to Patrick was appointed to Manny was appointed to Nina was appointed Board as a non-executive the Board as a nonthe Board as a nonthe Board in May 2011. to the Board as a director in August 2009.
His executive director in May executive director in Manny has no fixed term non-executive director current 3 year term of office 2011.
His current 3 year term September 2007.
His service contract in October 2011.
Her expires in August 2012. of office expires in May 2014. appointed Senior is terminable on current three year term Subject to his reappointment Independent Director in 12 months notice.
of office expires in by shareholders at AGMs, July 2011.
His current October 2014. his term of office will be 3 year term of office renewed until May 2015. expires in July 2013.
Fred was appointed Senior Matthew is Chief Finance Patrick is Chairman of Old Manny is a non-executive Nina is a director of Advisor for Europe for Officer of the Royal Mail Mutual plc and is Deputy director of Grupo Prisa SA.
African Minerals Ltd and Investec Asset Management Group.
He is on the main Governor of the Bank of education, media and Russian Rail Leasing.
Committee of the Hundred Ireland.
non-executive Chairman of the Shareholder Executive and a non-executive director of COFRA Holding AG.
Fred is a member of Matthew is Chairman of the Patrick is a member Manny regularly attends Nina is a member of Remuneration Committee Audit and Risk Committee of the Audit and Audit and Risk Committee the Audit and Risk and a member of the and a member of the Risk Committee, the meetings by invitation.
Remuneration Committee member of the and the Nomination Nomination Committee.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 52 52 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Corporate governance report continued Board priorities and areas of focus Board priorities and activity The table opposite highlights the main areas of Board activity during the period, reflecting the priorities and areas of focus Improving investment performance discussed in my Chairmans review.
For information on the full range of business and governance matters which are reserved AHL for decision by the Board, please see the Schedule of reserved Continual monitoring of performance relative to competitor matters on our website.
com peer group Review and challenge of management actions taken to Risk management and internal controls improve performance The Board is required to maintain sound risk management and internal control systems, to review their effectiveness and to GLG report on this review to shareholders.
Information on Mans risk Maintained focus on risk management and counterparty management and internal control systems, which have been in risk place throughout the period and up to the date of this report, Risk assessed and approved a transaction by which can be found in the Risk management section on pages 24 to Lehman creditor claims impacting GLG funds were 29.
Details of Mans financial reporting controls and of the purchased by Man, positioning the funds for future growth Boards oversight of its risk management and internal control systems are given below.
Meeting client needs Financial reporting controls Strategic review of opportunities and challenges The financial reporting control system operating across the presented by recent market trends and regulatory Company includes the following control methodologies: developments control ownership, account ownership and entity ownership.
Workstreams identified for management action: These require certification of the key controls over the financial Client retention reporting processes and material financial statement line items.
Development of product set The financial controls framework is designed to maintain New markets and entry strategies proper accounting records and provide assurance that financial information used within the business and for Driving cost efficiency publication is reliable.
Reshaping the cost base for future business needs Review of risk management and internal control Delivered $50 million GLG integration cost synergies systems Repaid debt and completed outsourcing of fund The Companys systems of internal control aim to safeguard administration to reduce expense base by $40 million in 2012 assets, maintain proper accounting records and provide Announced a further $75 million cost reduction assurance that the financial information used in the business programme of which $50 million to be delivered in 2012 and published externally is robust and reliable.
The systems are designed to manage key risks rather than eliminate the risk of Maintaining financial strength failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Renewed committed bank facilities at reduced level misstatement or loss.
The systems comply with the guidance Buy back of substantial proportion of senior bonds, given in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors the reducing interest expense 2005 Turnbull guidance.
Review and approval of regulatory capital requirement ICAAP for submission to the FSA Mans risk management and internal control systems are Analysis of financial impact of share buybacks and regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board receives reports implementation of $150 million share buyback programme from line management and Group Risk on the risks to the Review of economic capital requirement for future business achievement of the Groups operational and financial needs and consideration of future distribution policy objectives, together with assurance that the level of risk sustained is consistent with and being managed in accordance Developing management talent with the Boards risk appetite.
These reports include current and forward looking assessments of capital and liquidity Pierre Lagrange appointed non-executive Chairman of adequacy and a summary risk dashboard.
The Audit and Risk Man Asia to head up the expansion of investment Committee receives reports from the Risk Assurance management capability in that region Committee which considers the effectiveness of risk controls Ruud Hendriks stepped down from the Board to become through regular monitoring of risk scenarios, key risk indicators adviser to Mans European Institutional Sales Team and operational risk incident reports.
This process is described Review of Executive Committee appointments and in more detail in the Report from the Chairman of the Audit and succession see Nomination Committee report on page 60 Man Group plc Report and accounts 53 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Risk Committee on pages 56 to 59.
A number of operational independence of view and judgement which is a pre-requisite and regulatory matters arose in the normal course of business for effective non-executive directors and which is present in and whilst we sought to improve our processes as a result, they abundance on the Man Board.
There is a belief within parts of were not sufficiently material in number or nature to either the investment community that independence is eroded by require separate disclosure or to indicate that the control long service on a board.
It is my view that boards benefit from environment has not been working effectively.
Objective an appropriate balance of more recent and more long standing assurance on the operation and effectiveness of internal members.
Continuity of service brings an in-depth knowledge controls is provided by Internal Audit whose audit programme of the business and experience of past challenges which is of is targeted on the business areas and processes that are most considerable value to new members in periods of successive significant in terms of the Groups risk profile and where there change.
The Man Board has a good spread of non-executive are key controls on which the Group relies.
directors in their first and second terms of office.
One of our directors, Alison Carnwath, has now been with us for 11 years In addition to its ongoing monitoring of risk controls, the Board and has served in a variety of Committee roles and as Senior has conducted a specific period end review of the effectiveness Independent Director during that time.
She is a huge of the Groups risk management and internal control systems contributor to our challenge of the business and continues to during the nine months and for the period up to the date of this be unquestionably independent in thought and judgement.
This process covered all material controls including therefore, continue to regard her to be an independent operational, financial and compliance and included a review of non-executive director.
all significant operational risk incidents and Internal Audit findings raised during the period.
Additionally, as part of this Board climate review, the Board received attestation from senior management My aim as Chairman is to create an inclusive and open Board in the business units that the internal controls and risk climate which welcomes challenge and promotes full and frank management framework had been effective during the period.
Of key importance in this is my relationship with the This positive assurance was consistent with the matters Chief Executive, Peter Clarke, and his relationship with the reported to and discussed at the Audit and Risk Committee other non-executive Board members.
While I am responsible and with the findings of Internal Audit as they carried out their for leading the Board, Peter is responsible for leading the audit work.
No significant weaknesses or material failings in the business.
Our respective roles are clearly differentiated and risk management and internal control systems were identified in summarised on our website www.
Peter keeps me this review.
regularly updated on developments in the business and I share with him my sense of Board members thinking and concerns, Directors attendance at Board meetings including their information needs and their areas of challenge.
Nonstrategy reviews executive directors benefit from Peters monthly Board reports on Mans investment performance, sales and redemptions, the Number of meetings held in the nine month period 7 market backdrop, regulatory issues and current business Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 7 developments.
I create opportunities for informal engagement Alison Carnwath 7 between executive and non-executive Board members outside Peter Clarke 7 Board meetings, making full use of Board dinners and offsite Phillip Colebatch 6 meetings for reflective discussion on matters of broader or 1 Dugald Eadie 2 longer term concern.
This helps prepare for more informed and Kevin Hayes 7 2 focused debate at subsequent meetings.
Ruud Hendriks 6 Frdric Jolly 7 I invest a lot of time in planning the Boards forward agenda and Matthew Lester 7 Patrick OSullivan 6 considering how the discussion of business challenges can Emmanuel Roman 7 best be approached and structured.
I take soundings from 3 Nina Shapiro 2 Patrick OSullivan, our Senior Independent Director, and other non-executive directors on new or sensitive issues before they 1 Dugald Eadie retired from the Board on 7 July 2011. are brought to the full Board.
By attending all main Board 2 Ruud Hendriks stepped down from the Board on 1 December 2011.
Committee meetings I gain a comprehensive view of Board 3 Nina Shapiro joined the Board on 10 October 2011. activity and the thinking and stance of its members.
I also ensure that I keep in regular touch with my colleagues in Board diversity and independence between formal meetings, updating them and seeking their In my Chairmans review I referred to the Boards policy on views on important developments.
diversity, further details of which are given in my Nomination Committee report on page 60.
My aim in building and running Board education the Board is to capture the value that is brought to Board We put together a tailored and regularly reviewed induction debate and decision making by directors with diverse programme for new Board members which introduces them to backgrounds, experience and outlook.
Diversity also fosters the the heads of our business and corporate management team.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 54 54 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Corporate governance report continued An outline of a typical programme is given our website Progress on key 2011 Board evaluation priorities www.
Further opportunities are created for our non-executives to build their knowledge of the business and key Review and restatement of the Boards strategic positions.
individuals through management presentations and overseas The Board strategy review in October explored a broad range visits.
The Board will normally make a trip to Switzerland and to of possible asset management models and confirmed the another of our main overseas offices at least once a year.
In positioning of the business and areas for strategic build in September 2011, the Board visited the Tokyo office and were 2012. given an overview of the regional sales outlook and challenges for Japan, Australia, Hong Kong and our other Asian markets by Provision of more competitor information performance, the Regional Managers for those regions.
Pierre Lagrange, our sales, strategies and products.
non-executive Chairman of Asia, discussed progress on the The Board is now provided with and monitors on a continuing development of Mans investment management capability in that basis comprehensive sector and peer group product region and the shaping of products to meet local demand.
Board were also able to meet and engage with all the members of the Tokyo sales office whose effort had contributed to record Renewed work on senior management development and sales earlier in the year.
There was a mid-year review by the Nomination Committee of The Board is kept aware of important regulatory developments business critical roles at Executive Committee level and one impacting the business through presentations and updates by level below.
This identified roles for which no immediate Mans Regulatory team.
These provide an insight into the future successors are available and which are subject to ongoing regulatory landscape for alternative investment and the review.
significant issues which the firm will need to address.
In December, PwC updated the Board and led a discussion on Feedback on the contribution of individual directors was the Department of Business, Innovation and Skills proposals discussed with them by me on a one to one basis.
My own on directors remuneration and their impact on the UK reporting contribution as Chairman was reviewed by Alison Carnwath regime.
The learning opportunities offered by external who was at that time Senior Independent Director.
Alison programmes and seminars covering a wide range of legal, sought views on my performance from all Board members regulatory and governance developments relevant to Man are and gave me direct and candid feedback.
researched by the Company Secretary and made available to directors on a continuing basis.
Plans for 2012 evaluation The Board is planning to conduct its next evaluation later in Board evaluation 2012 which will allow the impact of the changes in the business I reported in our Annual Report for the 12 months ended and the changes in Board membership since the 2011 review 31 March 2011 on the Board evaluation we had carried out in to be properly reflected.
We intend once again to seek the March 2011.
We have not carried out another evaluation since involvement of an independent facilitator which we believe is that date.
The March evaluation was led and managed by an the most effective way of exploring issues and allowing views independent third party who conducted in depth interviews on the Boards methods of working to be thoroughly and with each of the directors and Company Secretary on their openly debated.
assessment of the Boards performance in key areas such as strategy development, the decision making process, Communicating with shareholders information flows, Board relationships and succession Institutional investors planning.
Detailed feedback was also sought on the operation In the course of a difficult 2011, the Board paid particular and effectiveness of each of the three main Board Committees attention to the views and concerns of the investment and on the contributions of individual directors.
The table below community, remaining acutely aware of the need to build sets out in blue the key areas arising from that evaluation which earnings and communicate our policy on governance and were identified for further focus and attention by the Board.
The capital allocation to the market.
We receive regular and detailed progress reported against these areas in a mid term review feedback on market views from our investor relations team and carried out in November 2011 is shown in grey.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 55 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 corporate advisers.
We have strengthened that team and Statement of compliance refreshed our advisers with the appointment of Goldman Sachs as corporate broker alongside Bank of America Merrill Lynch The Company has, throughout the nine month period ended and Credit Suisse.
We have also improved our reporting and 31 December 2011, applied the principles of and complied disclosures, specifically in respect of funds under management, with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code fund performance and costs.
the Code except in the following respects: As Chairman, I attend our final and interim results presentations 1.
Provision D. 2.2 of the Code requires that the and enjoy meeting institutional investors in private meetings.
Remuneration Committee should have delegated Both I and our Senior Independent Director are always available responsibility for setting the remuneration of all the to talk to shareholders about any issues of concern.
Our executive directors and the chairman.
executive team have met with around 50% of our institutional shareholder base in the nine month period and are in regular Executive directors remuneration contact with analysts and other market commentators.
In At Man, the terms of reference of the Remuneration September, we held a Meet the Managers event to introduce Committee were changed during the period to provide institutional investors and managers to our broader executive that the Committee should recommend, for approval by team.
Following introductions from Peter Clarke and Manny the Board, individual executive directors objectives and Roman, Tim Wong AHL, Pierre Lagrange GLG and compensation.
This was subject to the continuing proviso Luke Ellis Man Multi-Manager talked about their investment that no director should participate in the approval of his or management capabilities.
Christoph Mller Head of Sales her objectives or compensation.
gave an overview of our global sales network and Hidehiko Hayashi, our Regional Manager in Japan, provided a first hand This change was made on the basis that, given the case study of our highly successful Japanese business.
importance of motivating the executive team to deliver the Highlights from the Meet the Managers event are available Companys strategy, it is appropriate for all non-executive to view in the Investor Relations section of our website Board members, rather than just those who sit on the www.
Remuneration Committee, to determine the executive directors objectives and compensation packages.
Private investors We are always keen to hear the views of our private Chairmans remuneration shareholders and we encourage them to use our shareholder At Man, the remuneration of the Chairman is determined mailbox shareholder@man.
com for detailed enquiries and by the Board based on the recommendation of the our website for Company reports and business information.
This makes the process The website also provides direct access to Shareview fully transparent and allows the views of all the directors, www.
co. uk which enables shareholders to executive and non-executive, to be taken into account.
manage their shareholding account online.
7.1 of the Code requires all directors to be In June last year, I was delighted to meet members of the UK subject to annual election by shareholders.
Shareholders Association in London and discuss with them the progress of the business and the Boards areas of strategic Retirement and reappointment of directors at AGMs focus.
At the AGM in July, Peter Clarke gave his regular update At the AGM held in July 2011, our directors retired and sought on the positioning of and outlook for the business.
This was reappointment in line with the provisions of the former followed by short videos of the Heads of AHL, GLG and Man Combined Code on Corporate Governance which required Multi-Manager talking about the opportunities and challenges the retirement by rotation of one third of the Board.
for our investment management businesses.
Shareholders were invited to ask questions formally during the meeting and All Board members will be retiring and seeking reappointment to follow up their discussions with our directors on a one to one at the 2012 AGM in accordance with the new Code basis afterwards.
I am looking forward to welcoming provisions.
shareholders to our 2012 AGM and continuing our dialogue with you.
Jon Aisbitt Chairman Man Group plc Report and accounts 5 56 6 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Corporate governance continued Audit and Risk Committee report Matthew Lester The Board relies on the Audit and Risk The following report on the work of the Committee during the period sets out meeting attendance, the key matters Committee to provide effective governance considered during the period and the conclusions reached.
over risk management and external financial This information is presented thematically.
Also included is reporting, to monitor the integrity of the any change in the way the Committee conducts its business.
Financial Statements, to review the internal A description of the role of the Committee, the Committee controls and risk management systems and to membership and the Committees terms of reference can be found on our website at www.
com together with a report its findings and conclusions to the description of the routine business of the Committee which Board.
I am pleased to present my report on is not repeated here.
the work and operation of the Committee for the nine month period ended 31 December Membership and meeting attendance 2011, with particular emphasis on the specific Attendance by Committee members during the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 is set out below: matters we have examined.
Number of meetings held 5 Matthew Lester 5 Alison Carnwath 2 Dugald Eadie 2 Frdric Jolly 4 Patrick OSullivan 5 Nina Shapiro 1 Matthew Lester joined the Board and the Committee in May and became Chairman in November 2011 in succession to Patrick OSullivan.
Nina Shapiro was appointed to the Committee in October on her appointment to the Board.
Alison Carnwath and Frdric Jolly left the Committee in September and December respectively.
Dugald Eadie retired from the Board and the Committee in July.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 57 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Matters considered during the period The other noteworthy judgemental matter was the valuation Formalising our three lines of defence of the Lehman Brothers claims acquired from 29 GLG Throughout the period, the Committee maintained its pursuit of managed funds for $355 million in July 2011.
The Committee increased formalisation and demonstrability of risk and control concluded that the Lehman assets were purchased at fair assessment within Man, building on our agreed three lines of value, in an arms length transaction, and that the valuation defence principles described on page 27 that are baked into attributed to the assets at 31 December 2011 should not be our organisation structure, risk framework and delegation of significantly different from the original purchase price less authority.
This provides an integrated approach to the subsequent distributions.
identification and assessment of operational, financial and financial reporting risks.
So far this has been applied to two key Service providers to funds functions Product & Client Operations and Technology Group Management of service provider risk has been high on the which will, when complete, achieve a good base.
The next Committees agenda for some time, reflecting major projects step is to agree a timetable for extending the formal risk and over the last 12 months to focus the business on a small control self-assessment process to the remaining business number of strategic providers.
This had been discussed processes.
Progress is due to be considered by the Committee intensively earlier in 2011 when the providers were being in April alongside a plan for implementation in other business selected, contractual arrangements put in place and monitoring areas through 2012.
At the same time, Internal Audit will arrangements established.
In October we took a close look at examine what has been achieved so far and recommend the contingency arrangements in the event of the need to any enhancements.
change custodians and the notification requirements for termination events.
We also considered the existence and External financial reporting extent of insurance for one of the providers.
The Committee is Our meetings in September and December were primarily monitoring progress to ensure that best in class performance focused on key judgemental items for financial reporting and risk monitoring arrangements are in place for all and the adequacy of our internal controls.
The most significant judgement is our assessment of the GLG integration carrying value of the goodwill relating to the GLG acquisition.
Good progress was made in the period in integrating GLG The determination of the recoverable amount clearly involved into the Group such that, by September, an executive level making a number of judgemental assumptions.
In reviewing integration steering group was able to be disbanded.
All the valuation the Committee assessed the macro and micro residual matters at that time became business as usual.
economic environment that would impact the value.
In The one remaining area of particular interest to the Committee assessing the macroeconomic environment, it was concluded has been the migration of critical GLG systems to our Global that, despite the tough market conditions in the second half of Data Centres in Woking and Redhill by December 2011, and 2011, there was no significant event or development in the remaining GLG systems by March 2012, in order to maintain post-acquisition performance that would imply that the system resilience at Group standards.
investment rationale for the acquisition no longer remained valid.
The assessment of the micro environment focused on the key input assumptions into the valuation model, in particular the sales, redemptions and performance return assumptions.
Duff & Phelps, a specialist firm in this area, was appointed to make an independent estimate of the recoverable amount at 31 December 2011 and to provide a single point valuation.
The resulting valuation of $1.8 billion was comparable with managements estimate.
The Committee ensured that a good level of disclosure was given in the financial statements see Note 12 to the Financial review to set out clearly how we reached our conclusions.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 58 58 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Corporate governance continued Compliance and information technology Responding to incidents Given the vital importance of regulatory compliance and Significant external and internal incidents considered by the technology to our business, the Committee receives sixCommittee include: monthly reports from our Global Heads of those functions.
The focus of the regulatory report was the UK Bribery Act and the A review of the various controls at GLG around unauthorised practical steps taken to respond to its implementation from trading, in response to a well-publicised incident at a global July.
Key technology topics included: investment bank Planning for timely and orderly response to possible failure migration of GLG systems of third-party brokers, including migration of accounts to confirmation that GLGs IT team had been fully integrated alternative brokers with Mans team with key man risks being mitigated Contingency planning around any possible withdrawal from enhancement of system resilience by transfer of data or break-up of the Eurozone held locally in European office data centres to the Global Data Centres Policy development Increased cyber security risk and in particular how A significant part of the work of the Committee is in reviewing information security assurance is provided and challenging proposed new or updated risk, regulatory and compliance policies.
Given the developing global regulatory The Committee has emphasised the need for more rigorous framework, we have seen significant developments in this area.
contingency planning to address random, short term electricity Examples of such policies which we have reviewed include: supply issues that have arisen in a few key sites.
Updated whistleblowing policy and the related processes Oversight of risk governance to support confidentiality and independence Committee discussions through 2011 led to the development of Group ethics policy together with supporting processes, a new risk dashboard for the Committee to monitor that key policies and statements of risk appetite risks continue to be within the Boards risk appetite.
This was Group anti-bribery and corruption policy and increased adopted by the Committee at its December meeting and risk internal resourcing to analyse and implement these processes discussions at subsequent meetings are being framed in the context of this dashboard.
Risk reporting to the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration report PG 62 describes the way in which The Committee also received at each meeting a report from risk issues are communicated between Committees according the executive level Risk Assurance Committee and, from to an agreed protocol that provides the Remuneration December, the Finance Committee.
Committee with assurance, as part of the annual bonus process, that a robust risk control framework is in place for We discussed with our General Counsel and Finance Director, the financial period, Code staff roles have been properly who chair those Committees, and other executives how key identified and any risk items that may affect bonus pool or matters were being addressed.
individual bonus calculations have been reported.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 59 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Oversight of Internal Audit The remuneration paid in the nine month period to Mans The Committee continues to receive a report on every auditors,  LLP and its worldwide significant audit finding, the actions agreed with management associates, is shown in the table below: and the status of those actions.
The Committee is satisfied with 9 months to 12 months to the speed and diligence with which these findings are resolved.
December March $000 2011 2011 The Committee commissioned an independent accounting firm Fees payable to the Companys to conduct the periodic review of Internal Audit effectiveness.
auditors for the audit of the The results and recommendations arising from this review are Companys financial statements 2,304 1,991 under consideration.
Other services: The audit of the Companys External financial reporting the external auditors subsidiaries pursuant to legislation 3,955 2,507 The two key issues discussed with the external auditors during Other services pursuant to legislation 333 371 the year were the carrying value of goodwill and various Other services relating to taxation 592 646 aspects of Mans control environment.
They welcomed the Services relating to corporate finance involvement of external specialists to provide an independent transactions 1,794 valuation of goodwill relating to the GLG acquisition, which added a fresh view to this judgemental issue.
The external All other services 393 422 auditors also provided valuable insight and guidance to the Total auditors remuneration 7,577 7,731 Committee during the discussion of three lines of defence and how the arrangements in Man compare with similar The increase in the audit fee relates to the GLG business which organisations.
Other services pursuant to legislation largely relate to services in relation to statutory and As a safeguard to help avoid the objectivity and independence regulatory filings.
These include the review of Mans interim of the external auditors becoming compromised, the financial information under the Listing Rules of the FSA.
Committee has a formal policy governing the engagement of Taxation services include compliance and advisory services the external auditors to provide non-audit services.
This policy relating to reporting to the tax authorities, in particular in precludes them from providing certain services and permits Australia and the US.
Other services include further advisory other limited services which are subject to low fee thresholds or work in connection with corporate restructuring and Mans which require prior approval from the Committee.
Committee evaluation A Committee effectiveness review was undertaken externally by an independent consultant in March 2011 and was reported in the 2011 Annual Report.
The review concluded that the Committee was effective in carrying out its duties.
It is expected that a further external evaluation of the Committee will be carried out later this year.
Matthew Lester Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Man Group plc Report and accounts 60 60 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Corporate governance continued Nomination Committee report Jon Aisbitt I am pleased to report below on the main areas Committee membership All our non-executive directors are members of the Committee of focus for the Nomination Committee during and meetings are normally also attended by the Chief Executive the nine month period to 31 December 2011. and the Global Head of Human Resources.
The Committee The Committees principal role is to keep under met three times during the period.
review and make recommendations on the composition of the Board to ensure that it has Directors attendance at Committee meetings the full range of competencies, knowledge and Number of meetings held 3 experience required for the direction and Jon Aisbitt, Chairman 3 oversight of the business.
The Committee also Alison Carnwath 3 oversees senior management development and Phillip Colebatch 3 1 Dugald Eadie 1 succession plans to ensure that there is 2 Ruud Hendriks 2 continuity of appropriate executive resource Frdric Jolly 3 immediately below Board level.
Full terms of Matthew Lester 3 Patrick OSullivan 3 reference for the Committee are given on our 3 Nina Shapiro 1 website: www.
com 1 Dugald Eadie retired from the Board on 7 July 2011.
2 Ruud Hendriks stepped down from the Board on 1 December 2011.
3 Nina Shapiro joined the Board and the Committee on 10 October 2011.
Board diversity There has been considerable debate on the topic of Board diversity, and in particular gender diversity, in recent times, prompted in part by the recommendations of the Davies Review.
In my Chairmans review I referred to the value of bringing together on a board individuals with diverse backgrounds, experience and outlook.
Gender is a vital part of this diversity and I have in the past been disappointed by the small numbers of female candidates with the appropriate skill set who have been identified and put forward to the Committee by executive search firms.
Man Group plc Report and accounts 61 for the nine month period ended 31 December 2011 Policy on gender diversity capabilities in the region and build a team on the ground to Our firm policy continues to be that we will make Board complement the existing investment management teams in appointments based, first and foremost, on merit and overall London and New York.
Other key developments discussed suitability for the role.
Subject to this principle, and to the were the creation of the new role of Head of Strategy and availability of appropriate female candidates, our aim is to Corporate Finance at Executive Committee level and achieve a meaningful percentage of women on our Board in succession planning for the Head of Marketing role for Europe line with the recommendations of the Davies review, taking and North America.
account of the size of the Board and the tenure of our existing Board members.
Our full statement on gender diversity at Review and renewal of non-executive appointments Board and senior management level is given on our website.
As part of their responsibility for reviewing Board composition www.
com and succession, the Committee considered the renewal of the contracts of Alison Carnwath and Frdric Jolly which were due Appointment of Nina Shapiro to expire in the course of 2012.
It was noted that the findings of In June 2011, in the context of our continuing interest in the Board evaluation carried out in 2011 had confirmed their potential women Board members with relevant experience, one capability, contribution and commitment.
The Committee of the executive search firms we regularly use introduced me to noted the depth of experience brought to the Board by Alisons Nina Shapiro.
After an initial discussion, arrangements were 11 years service and the continuing independence of her made for Nina to meet most of our Board members individually thought and judgement.
The Committee, therefore, continued and informally over the summer period.
The consensus view to regard her as an independent non-executive director.
The was that the Nomination Committee should formally consider Committee recommended to the Board the renewal of Alison her appointment as a non-executive director against the Carnwaths contract for a further 12 months and the renewal of general requirements for the role and the particular needs of Frdric Jollys contract for a further three years, subject to the business at the current time.
The Committees conclusion their reappointment at AGMs.
was that Ninas in depth experience of capital markets and sophisticated product structuring would bring significant value The Committee reviewed my own appointment as Chairman of to the Man Board.
It was believed that we would also benefit the Board, which was due to expire in the course of 2012, and from her insights into government policy on the development of agreed to recommend the renewal of my contract for a further financial markets around the world and her knowledge of three years, subject to my reappointment by shareholders at emerging markets more broadly.
This review was led in my absence by our Senior Committees recommendation and the securing of FSA Independent Director, Patrick OSullivan, and took account approval, Nina was appointed to the Board and as a member of the feedback on my performance given in the 2011 of the Audit and Risk Committee in October.
Executive management development and succession Board composition In July the Committee discussed the results of the review of The Committee was satisfied that, on the basis of the proposed succession plans for the Executive Committee and one reappointments, the composition of the Board would continue management level below.
This took account of the changes to to be in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code the management structure introduced as part of the integration requirement for at least 50% of the membership excluding the of GLG.
The Committee noted that succession planning was a Chairman to comprise independent non-executive directors continuous process and that developing high calibre talent to and would continue to comprise 20% female directors.
It was strengthen management capability was a key objective of agreed, following Ruud Hendriks stepping down from his Executive Committee members.
Attention focused on certain non-executive role on the Board to take up an advisory Executive Committee roles where no ready now successors appointment within the business, to consider at a later date the had been identified and where further discussion was required.
The Committee also challenged the business critical nature of some of the roles identified below Executive Committee level which it was agreed should be further reviewed.
Jon Aisbitt Chairman In September the Committee was updated on the appointment of Pierre Lagrange as non-executive Chairman of Man Asia in addition to his responsibility for running GLG portfolios out of London.
It was noted that Pierre would be supported in this role by the appointment of a new Head of Asia Equity, creating the infrastructure to increase Mans investment management
