party 79 Overview 02 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Nominations Committee Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Report Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 February: H. Nominations Committee Report Agree the recommendation for the re-appointment of certain Purpose Directors at the2011 AGM Review the Committees work and its terms of reference The Board has adopted a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure forthe appointment of new Directors to the Board by appointing a December: Nominations Committee to lead the process of appointment and make Review the Boards composition, size, independence and diversity recommendations to the Board.
The Nominations Committee also The composition and size of the Board changed significantly in March advises the Board on its structure, size, composition and matters of 2011 following the completion of the Merger.
The Board has functioned Director and senior management succession.
well and effectively in overseeing the Merger integration process as demonstrated by the fact that bwin.
party is now forecasting larger Membership synergy savings than forecast when the Merger was originally proposed.
The members of the Nominations Committee are or have been: The Nominations Committee, however, is mindful of both the Boards size and the independence issue, as well as of the need to ensure it has Simon Duffy Chairman appointed 31 March 2011 an appropriate balance of skills and experience.
Consequently, Per Afrell appointed 31 March 2011 asdisclosed on page 74, in 2012 the Board has undergone a detailed Rod Perry performance evaluation with Lintstock Limited, an experienced third-party corporate governance adviser.
The aim of this exercise has Manfred Bodner from 31 March 2011 to 15 March 2012 been to review how well the Board and its committees are operating Tim Bristow until 15 March 2012 and what improvements can be made to ensure the experience and Helmut Kern from 31 March 2011 to 15 March 2012 knowledge of the Board are appropriate to lead bwin.
party beyond theMerger integration stage.
This process required each Director to Lewis Moonie until 15 March 2012 answer a series of questions on the performance of the Board, the Georg Riedl from 31 March 2011 to 15 March 2012 Chairman, individuals and committees and was followed up by each Jim Ryan until 15 March 2012 Director being interviewed by Lintstocks consultants.
The results will Norbert Teufelberger from 31 March 2011 to 15 March 2012 bepresented to the Nominations Committee and the Board once the Chairman has discussed the conclusions of the review with each From 1 January 2011 to 31 March 2011, Rod Perry chaired the Director individually.
Thereafter the Nominations Committee will agree Nominations Committee and Rami Lerner was a member.
what recommendations to make regarding the Boards composition.
Responsibilities Terms of appointment The Nominations Committee has adopted terms of reference, The letters of appointment for each of the Non-Executive Directors approvedby the Board that are available on the Companys website: donot specify a fixed term of appointment.
The Board has resolved, http: www.
com AboutUs CorporateGovernance however, that if any Non-Executive Director remains in office for a NominationsCommittee.
In summary, the main responsibilities period of six years, having satisfied annual performance evaluations and ofthe Nominations Committee are to: been re appointed by shareholders at an AGM at least twice, then that Non-Executive Directors re-appointment will be subject to a review by Regularly review the structure, size and composition including the the Nominations Committee and Board, both bodies taking into account skills, knowledge and experience required of the Board compared the need to maintain an active and progressive Board.
The Board does toits current position and make recommendations to the Board with not expect that any Non-Executive Director will serve for a period of regard to any adjustments that are deemednecessary: greater than nine years.
Give full consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior management in the course of its work, taking into account the The Code recommends that notice or contract periods for Directors challenges and opportunities facing the Company, and what skills and should be set at one year or less.
As disclosed in the Remuneration expertise are needed on the Board in the future: Report on pages 93 and 94, the notice periods for all the Directors comply with this recommendation.
Be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise: The letters of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors and the and service agreements for the Executive Directors will be available for Make recommendations to the Board concerning the re-appointment inspection 30 minutes prior to and during the AGM.
Simon Duffy Business during the year Chairman of the Nominations Committee 29 March 2012 During 2011 the Nominations Committee met twice to deal with the following business:
