party 75 Overview 02 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Audit Committee Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Report Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Founder shareholders of both bwin and PartyGaming holding Meet with the external auditors post-audit at the reporting stage to inaggregate 22% of bwin.
partys share capital have Board discuss the audit, including problems and reservations arising from representatives which facilitates a productive dialogue with the audit, and any matters the auditor may wish to discuss in the theseinvestors absence of management, where appropriate : Maintaining good communications with the investment analyst Make recommendations to the Board concerning any proposed, community so that there exists a portfolio of research on the newor amended accounting policy: business.
This also allows the Company to understand how Monitor and review the internal audit programme and its itisbeingperceived by the investor community generally effectiveness: E. Audit Committee Report Ensure co-ordination between the officers responsible for internal Purpose audit and the external auditors, and that the internal audit function isadequately resourced and has appropriate standing within The Board is required by the Code to establish formal and transparent bwin.
party: arrangements for considering how it should apply the required financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an Consider any major audit recommendations and the major findings appropriate relationship with the Companys joint auditors, BDO LLP ofinternal investigations and managements response in the and BDOLimited.
absence of management, where appropriate : Membership Monitor and review bwin.
partys systems for internal control, financial reporting and risk management: and The Board has done this by appointing an Audit Committee.
Themembers of the Audit Committee are: Reviewing the individual internal audit reports covering various areas and activities of the business Helmut Kern Chairman Business during the year Tim Bristow Rod Perry During the year to 31 December 2011, the Audit Committee met five times to review and consider the following items of business: Helmut Kern has recent and relevant financial experience and was appointed to the Audit Committee with effect from 31 March 2011.
February: From1 January 2011 to 31 March 2011 Lewis Moonie chaired the Audit 2010 Annual report Committee and Tim Bristow was regarded as the member with relevant The external auditors report and the required letter of representation financial experience.
from the Company The non-audit services provided by the external auditors The Code recommends that a minimum of three independent directors The re-appointment of the external auditors at the 2011 AGM should serve on the Audit Committee.
From 1 January 2011 to 31 March The internal audit status report 2011 the Company was notcompliant with this recommendation, because there were only two independent Directors serving on the April: Board.
Since 31 March 2011 the Audit Committee has complied with The external audit process post-merger theCode in having three independent Directors.
The internal audit and risk management functions post-merger Responsibilities June: External auditors management letters The Audit Committee has adopted terms of reference, approved by The external auditors 2011 planning report and engagement letter theBoard that are available on the Companys website: http: www.
The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors bwinparty.
Latest internal audit status report In summary the main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to: Internal audit charter Risk management status report Consider and make recommendations to the Board as regards the appointment of the head of the internal audit function and also the August: external auditors as well as the re-appointment of the latter: External auditors half year review relating to the 2011 half year results and the required letter of representation from bwin.
party Recommend the audit fee to the Board and develop and recommend Review of the 2011 half year results to the Board bwin.
partys policy in relation to the provision of nonThe Companys functional currency audit services by the external auditor: The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors Monitor the integrity of the financial statements of bwin.
party and Latest internal audit status report any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial Five-year internal audit plan and universe performance and to review, and challenge where necessary, the Update for treasury management policy and currency risk review actions and judgements of management in relation to the half-year and annual financial statements before submission to the Board: bwin.
party 76 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Audit Committee Report December: The Group continues to adopt and publicise a formal whistleblowing Group risk register procedure by which employees can, in confidence, raise concerns about Latest internal audit status report and ongoing projects possible improprieties in financial or other matters.
This procedure is set Follow-up in respect of the management letter arising from the out in the Groups employee handbooks and has been reviewed by the lastaudit Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that arrangements Updated code of conduct and whistle-blowing policy are in place fortheproportionate and independent investigation of such Updated report from the external auditors on their plans for auditing matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
the 2011 annual financial results External Auditors The level of non-audit services provided by the external auditors Company balance sheet restructuring During the year ended 31 December 2011, BDO LLP was appointed under an engagement letter to act as auditors to enable the Company to meet At these meetings, members met with management and with the its obligations to prepare financial statements in accordance with the internal and external auditors.
The Audit Committee members also met Listing Rules.
For the purposes of filing the Companys financial privately with the external auditors and separately with the internal statements in Gibraltar, BDO LLP and BDO Limited have been appointed audit function, without management representatives present.
to act as joint auditors to allow an audit report to be issued under Through these meetings and review process the Audit Committee has section 10 of the Gibraltar Companies Accounts Act 1999. satisfied itself that proper and satisfactory internal control systems In accordance with its duties, the Audit Committee made remain in place to identify and contain business risks and that the recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the external integrity of the Companys financial reporting is sound.
In doing so the auditors, approved their remuneration both subject to Shareholder Audit Committee continues to exercise its authority to seek any approval and also approved their terms of engagement.
The Audit information it requires from any employee of the Company.
Committee has also established a policy regarding the appointment of In 2012, the Audit Committee has met once to review and recommend auditors to perform non-audit services for the Group and will keep this the approval of the 2011 full year results and the 2011 AnnualReport.
This policy dictates that in the Companys financial year, the total fees for non-audit services provided by the Risk management and effective internalcontrols external auditors, excluding non-audit fees for due diligence for The section, Key risks on pages 55 to 57 of the Annual report sets out the acquisitions and other specific matters noted below, should not main risks impacting the Groups business.
exceedthe total fees for audit services they provide.
In the year ended31December 2011, the proportion of total non-audit fees bwin.
party maintains a robust system of internal control for the purpose tototalauditfees paid to the external auditors was 0.09:1.0. of safeguarding the investment of shareholders in the Company and the Groups assets.
At least annually the Board conducts a review of the In addition to their statutory duties, BDO LLP is also employed where, effectiveness of the Groups system of internal controls, covering all asa result of their position as auditors or for their specific expertise, material controls, including financial, operational and compliance they either must, or the Audit Committee accepts they are best placed controls and risk management systems.
partys system of internal to, perform the work in question.
This is primarily work in relation to control reduces the probability that business risks might impede the matters such as shareholder circulars, Group borrowings, regulatory Company in achieving its objectives, but it cannot eliminate these risks filings and certain business acquisitions and disposals.
In such and can therefore provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance circumstances the Audit Committee will separately review the specific against material misstatement or loss.
service requirements and consider any impact on objectivity and independence of the auditors and any appropriate safeguards to this.
The Group has an internal audit department, which also carries out the Assuch the Audit Committee believes it appropriate for these non-audit Companys risk management monitoring.
During the year, management services to be excluded from the 1:1 ratio set out above.
In the year identified the risks attaching to the business and, on an ongoing basis, ended 31 December 2011 the total fees paid to the external auditors efforts are being taken to mitigate these risks.
Throughout the year inrespect of due diligence for acquisitions was 0.17 million.
partys internal auditors performed internal audits of offices and departments within the business to assess whether adequate internal Helmut Kern controls are in place to protect the Group, its employees and Chairman of the Audit Committee shareholders.
The internal audit reports are presented to the Audit 29 March 2012 Committee and the Head of Internal Audit meets regularly with the Audit Committee as well as Chairman of the Audit Committee, to whom he has direct access.
In accordance with the guidance contained in the Turnbull Report, the Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has completed its annual review of the effectiveness of the internal system of control, andis satisfied that it is in accordance with that guidance.
