party 70 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Good corporate governance has become a necessary condition for A.
Leadership sustainable success in business.
The purpose of this section of the Annual Board structure report is to demonstrate how the Board oversees the interests ofthe Company through its operating structure and to review bwin.
party digital compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
Audit Committee entertainment plc Board Thischapter comprises the following sections: A Leadership Ethics Committee B How the Board functions C Effectiveness D Relations with shareholders Integration Committee E Audit Committee Report F Ethics Committee Report Executive Directors Nominations Committee G Integration Committee Report H Nominations Committee Report I Remuneration Report Senior Management Team Remuneration Committee J Other Governance & Statutory Disclosures and the 2012 AGM While being strongly committed to good governance, the Company has undergone considerable change in the recent past and consequently did The composition of the Board during 2011 and to date is set out on page 71. not comply with the Code in all respects during the reporting period.
Biographies of the current Directors are set out on pages 68 and 69.
Inparticular, it did not comply in the following areas: Changes during 2011 1 Less than half the Board are determined to be independent.
During 2011 the following changes to the Board occurred: Thismatter is addressed below on page 71.
On completion of the merger with bwin on 31 March 2011, Simon Duffy, 2 The membership of the Audit Committee.
However this was rectified Norbert Teufelberger, Joachim Baca, Per Afrell, Manfred Bodner, Helmut on 31 March 2011 with the completion of the merger with bwin Kern and Georg Riedl were appointed Directors on 31 March 2011. seepage 75.
Rami Lerner stepped down as a Director and was replaced by Geoff 3 The membership of the Remuneration Committee.
However this was Baldwin on 15 July 2011. rectified on 31 March 2011 with the completion of the merger with bwin see page 81.
Simon Duffy succeeded Rod Perry as Chairman on 31 March 2011 and Rod Perry became the Deputy Chairman and Senior Independent 4 In relation to various legacy share plans: Director, having been independent when originally appointed to the a the performance-related elements of certain Executive Directors Board.
Having served on the Board for six years, following a review of his remuneration see page 91 : independence by the Nominations Committee, Rod Perry was re-elected as a Director at the 2011 AGM.
b executive share options being offered at a discount see page 91 : and The Chairman, Co-CEOs and Senior Independent Director c certain Non-Executive Directors holding share options The responsibilities of the Chairman and the Co-CEOs are clearly defined seepage91 and are summarised below: The explanations for these deviations and the actions that have already Chairman been taken or will be taken in an appropriate timeframe to remedy them Overseeing the effective running of the Board are set out in this section.
Ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part Simon Duffy in the development and determination of the Companys strategy and Chairman overall commercial objectives 29 March 2012 Acting as the guardian of the Boards decision-making process Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level bwin.
party 71 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 Co-CEOs Despite the technical imbalance of independent and non-independent Directors, the Board is satisfied that it has maintained a sufficient Running the Companys business degree of independence for the following reasons: Proposing and developing the Companys strategy and overall On the majority of business items considered by the Board, a noncommercial objectives, which they do in close consultation with independent Non-Executive Director is independent, because the theChairman and the Board interests of the relevant founder shareholders and the Company Responsible, with the executive team, for implementing the decisions donot conflict of the Board and its Committees On issues when the interests of the Company and interests of a Promoting, and conducting the affairs of the Company with, the founder shareholder may conflict, mechanisms in the relationship highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance agreement and or letters ofappointment for the non-independent Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director allow the independent Directors to exclude them from the decision-making process As well as performing the normal duties expected of a Non-Executive The independent Directors have not been and will not be in a minority Director, the Senior Independent Director is required to: to the ExecutiveDirectors Be available to shareholders if they have concerns which contact The Chairman of the Board was independent on appointment through the Chairman, Co-CEOs or CFO has failed to resolve or for The Board had the appropriate balance of skills and experience which contact is inappropriate: tomanage the imbalance appropriately Lead the Non-Executive Directors in evaluating the performance ofthe Chairman, taking into account the views of the The Company stated in the Merger prospectus and circular that if the ExecutiveDirectors: composition of the Board remained non-compliant with the Codes independence recommendation on 31 December 2011, the composition Maintain sufficient contact with shareholders to understand their of the Board would be changed by the appointment of two additional issues and concerns: and independent Directors to ensure compliance.
For the reasons given Perform such other roles and responsibilities as the Senior above, the Board and in particular the independent Directors believe for Independent Director as may be contemplated by the Code or best the time-being sufficient independence exists to ensure the Board can practice guidelines in place from time to time.
operate effectively and in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Board independence Furthermore, with 13 members the Board is already larger than the boards of most comparable companies.
Therefore, rather than choosing The Code recommends that at least half the members of a Board to increase the size of the Board to comply with the Codes independence excluding the Chairman should be Non-Executive Directors who are criteria, which would have resulted in an unwieldy board of 15, the Board independent in character and judgement and free from relationships is going through a thorough Board performance evaluation using a orcircumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, third-party see page 74 with the aim of reviewing how well the Board their judgement.
and its committees are operating and what improvements could be made to ensure it has the right experience and knowledge to lead During 2011 the Company has not complied with this recommendation.
theCompany once the merger integration is complete.
Astatement Prior to the completion of the merger with bwin on 31March 2011, the regarding changes to the composition of the Board will be made Board was served by twoindependent Non-Executive Directors Lewis laterin2012.
Moonie and Tim Bristow, three non-independent Directors Jim Ryan, Martin Weigold and Rami Lerner and the Chairman ofthe of the Board The Board has also considered the review of Lord Davies of Abersoch Rod Perry.
A project to increase the number of independent Directors entitled Women on Boards, published in 2011, which requested FTSE was instigated in 2010, but following the announcement of the proposed 350 companies to set out aims for percentages of women serving on merger with bwin this recruitment exercise was suspended.
Gender diversity on the Board will be an important factor the Nominations Committee will take into account when considering any Currently, excluding the Chairman, the Board is composed of five new candidates to join the Board.
However, gender is only one of a independent Non-Executive Directors Rod Perry, Per Afrell, Tim Bristow, number of issues that the Nominations Committee must consider and Helmut Kern and Lewis Moonie and seven non-independent Directors the Directors will always regard a candidates experience, knowledge Joachim Baca, Geoff Baldwin, Manfred Bodner, Georg Riedl, Jim Ryan, and skills as critical selection drivers.
party will aim to appoint at Norbert Teufelberger and Martin Weigold.
As part of the merger least one woman to the Board by the end of 2013, with at least two negotiations, both the bwin and PartyGaming boards agreed a balanced women serving on the Board by 2015.
Over that period the Board will management structure was in the best interests of the combined Group, also be reduced in size so that the percentage of women on the Board drawing upon the considerable management strength and experience will be greater than it would be if it remained at its present size.
The combined experience and knowledge of the bwin.
party Board, coupled with continuity of leadership, have been critical to the initial stages of integrating the bwin and PartyGaming online gaming businesses, whilst also guiding the Group to focus on newbusiness opportunities.
party 72 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Responsibility and delegation B.
How the Board functions The Directors have adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to In accordance with the Code, the Company isheaded by an effective theBoard, setting out which issues must be referred to the Board for Board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the Company.
These can be categorised into a number of key areas including The Board provides entrepreneurial leadership of the Company whilst but not limited to: ensuring that a framework of prudent and effective controls exists in order to assess and managerisk.
Long-term business plan, strategy, budgets and forecasts: Meetings Restructuring or reorganisation of the Group and material acquisitions and disposals: The Board and its committees met in Gibraltar throughout 2011 The Groups finance, banking and capital structure arrangements: anddetails of the number of meetings and attendance records are setoutinthe table overleaf.
The agenda of Board meetings usually Approval of capital expenditure and financial guarantees above coverthefollowing: certain levels: Financial reporting interim and annual financial results and interim Strategy, covering both the existing real-money gaming business management statements : poker, sports, casino and bingo as well as adjacent businesses such as social gaming, monetised digital gaming and payment systems Dividend policy: Geographical expansion Shareholder circulars, convening shareholder meetings and stock exchange announcements: Operational and business performance updates Approval of the Groups remuneration policy following Financial updates recommendations from the Remuneration Committee : Regulatory and licensing developments Approval of the Groups risk management and control framework and Industry consolidation opportunities the appointment re-appointment of the external auditors following In order to ensure that the Board has an appropriate level of knowledge recommendations from the Audit Committee : and about the operations of the business and to enable it to assess the Approval of the Groups policies in relation to corporate and social calibre of management below Executive Director level, members of the responsibility, health and safety and the environment senior management team are regularly invited to attend meetings to present on and take part in discussions on particular items of business.
Following the independent assessment of the functioning of the Board, the Chairman will meet with the Non-Executive Directors individually toreview governance issues.
The Senior Independent Director has met with the Non-Executive Directors as part of the process of reviewing the performance of the Chairman and has communicated the results of that meeting to him.
He will take account of the feedback in his future management of the Board and of governance issues.
party 73 Overview 02 Annual report & accounts 2011 Strategy 20 Review of 2011 32 Markets and risks 47 Responsibility and relationships 58 Governance 70 Financial statements 103 In addition, the Board has adopted a formal delegation of authority memorandum which sets out the level of authority for employees of the business below Board level.
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the following committees of Directors: Audit Ethics Integration Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Helmut Kern C Tim Bristow C Manfred Bodner C Simon Duffy C Rod Perry C Tim Bristow Per Afrell Simon Duffy Per Afrell Per Afrell Rod Perry Helmut Kern Rod Perry Rod Perry Helmut Kern Lewis Moonie Jim Ryan Lewis Moonie Norbert Teufelberger C denotes Chairman of the committee Each committee reports separately on its work on the following pages.
During the year the Board and its committees met in Gibraltar and details of the number of meetings and attendance records are set out in the tablebelow: Total number of meetings held during the year ended 31 December 2011 and the number of meetings attended of the maximum number that each Director was entitled to attend Board Audit Ethics Integration Nominations Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Total held in year 7 5 3 4 2 6 Per Afrell 5 5 2 2 1 1 4 4 Joachim Baca 5 5 Geoff Baldwin 3 3 Manfred Bodner 4 5 i 4 4 1 1 2 2 Tim Bristow 7 7 5 5 3 3 2 2 Simon Duffy 5 5 4 4 1 1 Helmut Kern 4 5 ii 4 4 2 2 1 1 4 4 Rami Lerner 4 4 1 1 4 4 1 1 Lewis Moonie 5 7 iii 1 1 3 3 2 2 6 6 Rod Perry 7 7 4 4 1 1 4 4 2 2 6 6 Georg Riedl 5 5 1 1 Jim Ryan 7 7 4 4 2 2 Norbert Teufelberger 5 5 4 4 1 1 Martin Weigold 7 7 i Manfred Bodner was absent from a meeting whilst on business in the United States representing the Companys interests ii Helmut Kern was absent from one meeting through illness iii Lewis Moonie was absent in person from two meetings, because one meeting was convened in Gibraltar at short notice and in respect of the other meeting he had toremain in the United Kingdom to attend an important vote in the House of Lords.
For both meetings he attended by telephone, however, the Companys articles ofassociation provide that any Director present by telephone from the United Kingdom cannot be regarded as present for the purposes of ascertaining a quorum bwin.
party 74 Governance Annual report & accounts 2011 Internal controls ensuring Board procedures are complied with and advising the Board through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
In accordance with the Code, the Board has reviewed, with assistance from the Audit Committee, the effectiveness of the Companys risk Independent legal advice management and internal control systems put in place to manage the The Board has adopted a procedure for Directors to seek independent risks attaching to the business in pursuing its strategic objectives.
This professional advice at the expense of the Company if they judge it review covers all material controls, including financial, operational and necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors.
The Board is satisfied that the Company maintains Committee of the Board also has authority under its terms of reference an ongoing sound system for identifying, evaluating and managing risk.
to obtain outside legal or other independent professional advice if the For more information on this subject please see the Audit Committee Committee considers it necessary in order to perform its duties.
Induction and ongoing training Tenure Each new Director receives a full induction on joining the Board The Companys articles of association require every new Director to andmajor Shareholders are offered the opportunity to meet new stand for re-election by shareholders at the next AGM immediately Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman ensures that all Directors following their appointment.
Thereafter each Director is required to continually update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the seek re-election by shareholders at an AGM at least once every three Company to fulfil their roles on the Board and Board Committees years.
The Code, however, recommends that Directors stand for viareports and information collated by management, the Company re-election annually and in accordance with this recommendation, Secretary and the Companys advisers.
allthe Directors are seeking re-appointment at the 2012 AGM.
Performance evaluation The tenure of the current Board is as follows: Each year the Directors undertake a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and of individual Directors Number Period of Directors of service during the prior year.
The evaluation of 2010s performance carried outin early 2011 resulted in a review of the content and format of 8 Less than 12 months managements reports to the Board and a decision to increase the 1 34 years frequency of presentations by senior managers to Board meetings.
2 45 years Each year the Board has utilised the services of a third-party corporate 2 67 years governance consultancy to assist in the evaluation process.
Even though Succession the Board has existed in its present form for less than a year, for the review of 2011s performance, carried out in early 2012, the Board The Nominations Committee keeps under review the succession plans decided to use the services of Lintstock Limited, a third-party corporate for Directors and senior managers.
In doing so, the Nominations governance adviser, to carry out a full questionnaire and interview Committee focuses on whether the Board is appropriately diverse with process.
More information on the performance evaluation process is arange of generalist and specialist knowledge and skills.
For further setout in the Nominations Committees report on page 79. information please refer to the Nominations Committee report.
D. Relations with Shareholders Insurance and indemnity The Directors recognise the importance of maintaining effective bwin.
party maintains an insurance policy for its Directors and communications with shareholders.
This is serviced in the officersand the Company has also entered into deeds of indemnity followingways: withits Directors.
Throughout the year the Co-CEOs, Chairman and Director of C. Effectiveness Communications meet with existing and potential institutional investors Information flow to the Directors All Directors attend the Annual General Meeting and shareholders are The Chairman oversees, with the assistance of the Company Secretary, invited to attend and ask questions either during orafter the meeting.
the process of ensuring that all Directors receive timely and accurate Notice of the AGM is set out on page 158 of thisdocument and details information in order to enable them to perform their duties.
of the meeting are set out on pages 100 and 101.
Inaccordance with Management provides detailed information ahead of each Board or the Code, the AGM notice has been dispatched toshareholders more Committee meeting and additional information or updates between than 20 working days before the AGM meetings when deemed necessary.
The corporate website contains useful information for all Each Executive Director is readily available to the Non-Executive shareholderson the Companys strategy, financial results, Directors if the latter should need clarification or amplification on any sharepriceand announcements information provided.
All the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for
