The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Management Contract and Management Fee The management contract with RCM UK Limited RCM provides for a fee of 0.35% per annum 2010 0.35% of the value of the assets, calculated quarterly, after deduction of current liabilities, short term loans under one year and any funds within the portfolio managed by RCM.
The management contract is terminable at one years notice 2010 one year.
The Managers performance under the contract and the contract terms are reviewed at least annually by the Management Engagement Committee.
This committee consists of the Directors not employed by the management company in the past five years and therefore includes the entire Board.
During the year, the committee met the Manager to review the current investment framework, including the Trusts performance, marketing activity and total expense ratio.
The committee also reviewed the terms of the management contract and considered the level of the management fee.
The committee was satisfied with its review and believes that the continuing appointment of the Manager is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Individual Savings Accounts The affairs of the Company are conducted in such a way as to meet the requirements for an Individual Savings Account and it is the intention to continue to do so.
Corporate Governance Statement The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the Association of Investment Companies Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code which was issued by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2008, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide, will provide better information to shareholders.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code, except in relation to the Combined Code provisions relating to: the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company as it is an externally managed investment company.
The Company has therefore not reported further in respect of these provisions.
The Board The Board currently consists of five Directors, all of whom are non-executive and independent of the Companys investment manager.
The Directors biographies, on page 16, which give details of length of service, demonstrate a breadth of investment, industrial, commercial and professional experience.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
Henry Staunton is the Senior Independent Director.
The Senior Independent Director can provide a sounding board for the Chairman and serve as an intermediary for the other directors when necessary, as well as providing another points of contact for Shareholders.
The Board follows the AIC Code and considers Dick Barfield to be independent, notwithstanding that he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board does not consider that length of service has diminished his independence and continues to be of the view that his extensive experience and active knowledge of the industry is of great benefit to the Board.
The composition of the Board is reviewed regularly.
The Boards tenure policy is that new Directors stand for election at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment and then at least one third of Directors retire by rotation at each Annual General Meeting.
Every Director is required to seek re-election at least every three years and annually after nine years service.
The names of the Directors retiring by rotation and those other Directors retiring in accordance with the Articles of Association at this years Annual General Meeting are given on page 20.
New Corporate Governance rules which will apply in the next financial year require that all the directors stand for re-election annually, or for the Board to explain why they do not.
The Board met six times in the year and also held a strategy meeting.
Between meetings, regular contact with the investment manager is maintained.
The Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its approval to ensure it has full and effective control over appropriate issues.
These issues include approval of the Companys investment policy, capital structure, share price and discount, committee membership and terms of reference, financial reporting, risk management, board appointments and removals, corporate governance, internal controls and contracts.
A procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the 21 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Company.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that the Company complies with applicable rules and regulations.
When a new Director is appointed there is an induction process carried out by the investment manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys regulatory and statutory requirements and internal financial controls.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
During the year, the effectiveness of the Board and the performance of individual Directors was assessed through interviews conducted by the Chairman with each Director.
The Chairman also discussed individual training and development needs with each Director.
The Chairmans own performance was evaluated by the other Directors in discussions with Henry Staunton as Senior Independent Director.
The results of the effectiveness assessment and performance evaluation have been presented to the Nomination Committee.
The effectiveness assessment determined that with the planned recruitment of a new director the balance of the Board was satisfactory.
As part of the recruitment process, consultants were appointed to draw up a shortlist to include as wide a spectrum of candidates as possible, including taking gender into account.
The Board has contractually delegated to the investment manager the management of the investment portfolio, and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
This contract was entered into after full and proper consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, including the financial control systems in operation, in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from the investment manager and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
The Boards statement on its review of the management contract appears on page 21.
Attendance by Directors at formal Board and committee meetings during the year was as follows: Management Audit Nomination Engagement Director Board Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings 6211 S. J. Fraser 62 11 R. A. Barfield 6211 M. J. E. McKeon 6211 H. E. Staunton 6211 Lord Sassoon# 2 Sir Hugh Stevenson# 1 Invited to attend meetings, although not a committee member.
# Retired from the Board in May 2010.
Conflicts of Interest The Companies Act 2006 sets out directors general duties with some changes from the previously existing law.
A director must avoid a situation where he has, or can have, a direct or indirect interest that conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the Companys interests.
Since 1 October 2008, directors are able to authorise these conflicts and potential conflicts.
The Board reports annually on the Companys procedures for ensuring that its powers of authorisation of conflicts are operated effectively and that the procedures have been followed.
Each of the Directors has provided a statement of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest relating to the Company.
These statements have been considered and approved by the Board.
The Directors have undertaken to notify the Chairman and Company Secretary of any proposed new appointments and new conflicts or potential conflicts for consideration, if necessary, by the Board.
The Board has agreed that only Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered will be able to take the relevant decision and that in taking the decision the Directors will act in a way they consider, in good faith, will be most likely to promote the Companys success.
The Board is able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if it thinks this is appropriate.
The Board confirms that its powers of authorisation are operating effectively and that the agreed procedures have been followed.
22 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Board Committees Audit Committee The Audit Committee consists of all of the independent non-executive Directors, with the exception of the Chairman, and has defined terms of reference and duties.
The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in relation to the reporting of financial information.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mike McKeon.
The committee considers that, collectively, its members have sufficient recent and relevant financial experience to discharge their responsibilities fully.
The committee meets at least twice each year and reviews the annual and half yearly financial statements and considers the Auditors report on the annual accounts, the planning and the process of the audit and the Auditors independence and objectivity.
It has also considered the non-audit services provided by the Auditors and determined that they have had no impact on the Auditors independence and objectivity.
The Audit Committee reviews the Companys accounting policies and considers their appropriateness.
The Committee also reviews the terms of appointment of the Auditors together with their remuneration.
It meets representatives of the Manager twice-yearly and receives reports on the internal controls maintained on behalf of the Company and reviews the effectiveness of these controls.
The Audit Committee continues to believe that the Company does not require an internal audit function of its own as it delegates its day to day operations to third parties from whom it receives internal controls reports.
As the Company has no employees it does not have a formal policy concerning the raising, in confidence, of any concerns about improprieties, whether in matters of financial reporting or otherwise, for appropriate independent investigation.
The Audit Committee has, however, received and noted the Managers policy on this matter.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee meets at least once each year and makes recommendations on the appointment of new Directors and the re-election of existing Directors by shareholders.
The committee also determines the process for the annual evaluation of the Board.
The committee is chaired by Simon Fraser, the Chairman of the Board.
All Directors serve on the committee and consider nominations made in accordance with an agreed procedure.
The recruitment process for new directors is for the Board to appoint external consultants to nominate candidates for the committee to consider.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee meets at least once each year to review the Management Agreement and the Managers performance.
It has defined terms of reference and consists of the non-executive Directors and would exclude any Directors previously employed by the Manager.
It is chaired by Simon Fraser, the Chairman of the Board.
Terms of Reference The Terms of Reference for each of the committees may be viewed by shareholders on request and are published on the website www.
The Board has not constituted a Remuneration Committee: all Directors are non-executive and remuneration matters are dealt with by the whole Board.
Financial Reporting The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is on page 27.
The Independent Auditors Report can be found on page 30.
Auditors Information Each of the persons who is a Director at the date of approval of this report confirms that: a in so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and b the Director has taken all the steps he ought to have taken as a Director in order to make himself aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are aware of that information.
This confirmation is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 2 of the Companies Act 2006.
Internal Control The Directors have overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control.
Whilst acknowledging their responsibility for the system of internal control, the Directors are aware that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of a failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
23 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Company.
This process is subject to review by the Board and accords with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors in the Combined Code published in September 1999 and revised by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005 the Turnbull guidance.
The process has been fully in place throughout the year under review and up to the date of signing of this Annual Financial Report.
The key elements of the procedures that the Directors have established and which are designed to provide effective internal control are as follows: The Board, assisted by the Manager, undertook a full review of the Companys business risks and these are analysed and recorded in a risk matrix.
Every six months the Board receives from the Manager a formal report which details any known internal controls failures, including those that are not directly the responsibility of the Manager.
The Board continues to check that good systems of internal control and risk management are embedded in the operations and culture of the Company and its key suppliers.
The appointment of RCM UK Limited RCM as the Manager provides investment management, accounting and company secretarial services to the Company.
The Manager therefore maintains the internal controls associated with the day to day operation of the Company.
These responsibilities are included in the Management Agreement between the Company and the Manager.
The Managers system of internal control includes organisation arrangements with clearly defined lines of responsibility and delegated authority as well as control procedures and systems which are regularly evaluated by management and monitored by its internal audit department.
RCM is regulated by the Financial Services Authority FSA and its compliance department regularly monitors compliance with FSA rules.
The Company receives reports at least annually from the manager on its internal controls.
The Company, in common with other investment trusts, has no internal audit department, but the effectiveness of the Managers internal controls is monitored by Allianz Global Investors internal audit function.
There is a regular review by the Board of asset allocation and any risk implications.
There is also regular and comprehensive review by the Board of management accounting information including revenue and expenditure projections, actual revenue against projections and performance comparisons.
Authorisation and exposure limits are set and maintained by the Board.
The Audit Committee assesses the Managers and Custodians systems of controls by reviewing Internal Control reports provided by the Managers and third party service providers, including those of the Companys Registrars, Capita Registrars, and Custodian, HSBC Bank plc.
The Directors confirm that the Audit Committee has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Relations with Shareholders The Board strongly believes that the annual general meeting should be an event which private shareholders are encouraged to attend.
The annual general meeting is attended by the Chairman of the Board and the Chairman of the Audit Committee, and the Investment Manager makes a presentation at the meeting.
The number of proxy votes cast in respect of each resolution will be made available at the annual general meeting.
The Manager meets with institutional shareholders on a regular basis and reports to the Board on matters raised at these meetings.
The Chairman and, where appropriate, other Directors, are available to meet with shareholders to discuss governance and strategy and to understand their issues and concerns.
All correspondence with shareholders is reviewed by the Board.
Shareholders who wish to communicate directly with the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director or other Directors may write care of the Company Secretary at 155 Bishopsgate, London EC2M 3AD.
The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting and special resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors Report.
Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
The UK Stewardship Code and Exercise of Voting Powers The Companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The Board has delegated discretion to discharge its responsibilities in respect of investments, including the exercise of voting powers on its behalf to the Manager, RCM UK Limited RCM.
Following a consultation by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC the UK Stewardship Code the Stewardship Code was published in July 2010.
It aims to enhance the quality of engagement between institutional investors and companies to help improve long-term returns to shareholders and the efficient exercise of governance responsibilities.
The Stewardship Code sets out good practice on engagement with investee companies.
It provides an opportunity to bring together UK and overseas investors committed to the high quality dialogue with companies needed to underpin good governance.
24 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report By creating a sound basis of engagement it should create a much needed stronger link between governance and the investment process, and support the concept of comply or explain as applied by listed companies.
The FRC therefore sees it as complementary to the UK Corporate Governance Code for listed companies, as revised in June 2010.
The FRC encouraged all institutional investors to publish on their websites by the end of September 2010 a statement about the extent to which they had complied with the Stewardship Code and to notify the FRC when they had done so.
The Companys Manager, RCM UK Limited, has complied with this and its policy statement on the Stewardship Code can be found on its website: www.
com london pdf Stewardship Policy.
The Board has reviewed this policy statement and is satisfied that the Companys delegated voting powers are being properly executed.
Where Directors hold directorships on the boards of companies in which the Company is invested, they do not participate in decisions made concerning those investments.
Exercise of Voting Powers The Companys investments are held in a nominee name.
The Board has delegated discretion to discharge its responsibilities in respect of investments, including the exercise of voting powers on its behalf, to the Manager.
The Board has noted the Managers statement of its corporate governance aims and objectives, summarised as: Our primary corporate aim is to maximise shareholder value through the securing of corporate performance whilst protecting this value through operating within established rules of conformance.
Our primary investment management aim is to meet or exceed our clients expectations through generating first class returns within the constraint of their risk tolerance.
RCM votes in all markets wherever possible, and strives actively to encourage both improved levels of disclosure among companies and proper voting infrastructure among custodians and agents globally.
In the UK, RCM is a member of the National Association of Pension Funds NAPF and the International Corporate Governance Network ICGN, and abides by these organisations founding principles.
These guidelines also take into account international codes of corporate governance from a number of sources, including Employment Retirement Income Security Act ERISA legislation and Department of Labor recommendations in the U. S. where appropriate.
An extract from the Companys voting record in the previous calendar year will be available for inspection at the annual general meeting each year.
Annual General Meeting Allotment of New Shares and Disapplication of Pre-emption Rights Approval is sought for the renewal of the Directors authority to allot relevant securities, in accordance with Section 551 of the Companies Act 2006, up to a maximum number of 34,401,047 Ordinary Shares, representing approximately 33% of the existing Ordinary Share capital.
This authority is renewable annually and will expire at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2012.
A resolution was passed at the Annual General Meeting held on 11 May 2010 in accordance with Section 570 of the Companies Act 2006, to authorise the Directors to allot Ordinary Shares for cash other than pro rata to existing shareholders.
The authority is renewable annually and expires at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting in 2011.
A Special Resolution is therefore proposed under special business at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting to renew this authority for a further year.
This power is limited to a maximum number of 10,321,346 Ordinary Shares, being approximately 10% of the issued Ordinary Share capital of the Company as at the date of this report, provided that there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of this report and the Annual General Meeting to be held on 10 May 2011.
The Directors may allot shares under these authorities to take advantage of opportunities in the market as they arise but only if they believe it would be advantageous to the Companys existing shareholders to do so.
The Directors confirm that no allotment of new shares will be made unless the lowest market offer price of the Ordinary Shares is at least at a premium to net asset value, valuing debt at market value.
25 The Merchants Trust PLC Directors Report Purchase of Own Shares The Board is proposing that the Company should be given renewed authority to purchase Ordinary Shares in the market for cancellation.
The Board believes that such purchases in the market at appropriate times and prices are a suitable method of enhancing shareholder value.
The Company would make either a single purchase or a series of purchases, when market conditions are suitable, with the aim of maximising the benefits to shareholders and within guidelines set from time to time by the Board.
Where purchases are made at prices below the prevailing net asset value of the Ordinary Shares, this will enhance net asset value for the remaining shareholders.
It is therefore intended that purchases would only be made at prices below net asset value, with the purchases to be funded from the capital reserves of the Company which are currently in excess of 380 million.
The rules of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules limit the price which may be paid by the Company to 105% of the average middle-market quotation for an Ordinary Share on the five business days immediately preceding the date of the relevant purchase.
The minimum price to be paid will be 25p per Ordinary Share being the nominal value.
Overall, this proposed share buy-back authority, if used, should help to reduce the discount to net asset value at which the Companys shares currently trade.
The Board considers that it will be most advantageous to shareholders for the Company to be able to continue to make such purchases as and when it considers the timing to be most favourable and therefore does not propose to set a timetable for making any such purchases.
Under the Listing Rules, the maximum number of shares which a listed company may purchase through the market pursuant to a general authority such as this is equivalent to 14.99% of its issued share capital.
For this reason, the Company is limiting its renewed authority to make such purchases to 15,471,698 Ordinary Shares, representing 14.99% of the issued share capital, provided that there is no change in the issued share capital between the date of this report and the Annual General Meeting to be held on10 May 2011.
The authority in accordance with Section 701 of the Companies Act 2006, will last until the Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2012 or the expiry of 18 months from the date of the passing of this resolution, whichever is the earlier.
The authority will be subject to renewal by shareholders at subsequent annual general meetings.
Authority to hold a general meeting on 14 days clear notice This resolution is required to reflect the implementation in August 2009 of the EU Shareholder Rights Directive the Directive, which has increased the notice period for all general meetings of the Company to 21 days clear notice.
The Company was previously able to call general meetings other than an Annual General Meeting on 14 days clear notice and would like to preserve this ability.
Under the Directive, Companies are permitted to seek shareholder approval, on an annual basis and by way of a special resolution, for general meetings other than the annual general meeting to be called on 14 days clear notice.
This authority will only be used if it is in the best interests of shareholders and will be effective until the Companys next Annual General Meeting, when it is intended that a similar resolution will be proposed.
In order for this authority to be used, all shareholders must be given the opportunity but not the obligation to vote at such a general meeting by electronic means.
Annual general meetings will continue to be held on at least 21 days clear notice.
Auditors The Directors will place a resolution before the Annual General Meeting to re-appoint  LLP as Auditors for the ensuing year.
A resolution to authorise the Directors to determine the Auditors remuneration will also be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
