The Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Internal Audit Report of the Corporate Services Director, Group Financial Internal Audit is led by the Head of Internal Controller, Head of Internal Audit and Audit, supported by a team of in-house AuditCommittee representatives from KPMG, the Companys auditors based in the UK and Jamaica, external auditor are also invited to attend all supplemented by a third party to provide Committee meetings.
In May and November specific skills as required.
The function has when the full year and half year results a formal charter that describes its purpose, are considered, the Chairman is also invited authority and responsibility.
Its audit plan is to attend.
approved by the Audit Committee annually.
The agenda for meetings is prepared by the External audit Committee Chairman in conjunction with KPMG Audit Plc KPMG was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer, Group Financial auditor of the Company during the financial Controller and the external auditor.
Each year 2009 10 and also acted as auditor This report sets out the membership, scheduled meeting commences with a of Cable and Wireless plc since 1991.
The purposes and activities of the Audit private session, attended only by Committee Committee evaluates KPMGs tenure annually Committee of Cable & Wireless members, the external auditor and Head of and is not restricted by any contractual Communications Plc.
This report should Internal Audit, to take soundings on matters obligations in its choice of auditors.
The be read in conjunction with the Corporate to be discussed at the meeting or any other Board has accepted the Committees governance report on pages 44 to 46. matters attendees wish to highlight.
At each recommendation that KPMG should be meeting the Committee then receives reports reappointed for 2011 12.
This Membership and terms of reference from the Chief Financial Officer, the external recommendation was based on a detailed The Audit Committee the Committee auditor and the Head of Internal Audit, review of the 2009 10 audit of the Company is comprised solely of independent Nontogether with biannual litigation reports.
which demonstrated overall satisfaction with executive Directors.
The members of the During the year, the Committee also the performance of KPMG as external auditor.
Audit Committee during the financial year considered the specific items of business set The review included a survey of Committee were Simon Ball Chairman, Mary Francis, out below, making recommendations to the members and key personnel involved in Kate Nealon, Ian Tyler appointed 1 January Board where appropriate: the audit, discussions with KPMG, senior 2011 and Kasper Rorsted resigned management and Internal Audit, as well 1 January 2011.
Preliminary results and press release for as an analysis of KPMGs capabilities the year ended 31 March 2010: The principal duties of the Committee are set and independence.
out in the terms of reference and include: The 2009 10 Annual Report, together The audit engagement partner responsible with the Directors statement on compliance To review and monitor the effectiveness for the 2010 11 audit was assigned on with Turnbull guidance on internal controls of internal controls, internal audit and risk 19 March 2010. and risk management and the reporting and management systems: disclosure of the demerger of Cable & The Committee has established a policy to To review and approve the internal audit Wireless Worldwide plc: maintain the independence of the external programme, ensuring adequate resources auditor and its personnel and to govern the Interim results and press release for the and co-ordination with external auditors: provision of audit and non-audit services six months ended 30 September 2010: provided by the auditor and its associates.
To monitor the integrity of the financial Review of risk management within the The policy clearly identifies permitted and statements and announcements relating Group: prohibited services and sets out the to financial performance, and review procedure to be followed for the approval significant judgements contained in them: Review of the External Audit Strategy for of all audit and non-audit services.
All the year ended 31 March 2011 taking into To monitor the financial reporting process engagements with an expected fee in excess account this was the first full year audit for and the effectiveness of the statutory audit of US$400,000 require the prior approval the Group post demerger: of the Annual Report: and of the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Review of the Groups insurance cover: To review and monitor independence For the year ended 31 March 2011 the Audit and performance of external auditors, Effectiveness review of the internal and Committee approved fees for audit services recommend their appointment, external auditors: and of US$3.4 million, together with fees for auditre-appointment and removal to the Board related regulatory reporting of US$0.4 million Review of the Groups accounting and as appropriate and develop policy in relation and non-audit work of US$1.7 million.
nature of the services provided is set out to the provision of non-audit services.
in note 7 to the consolidated financial The terms of reference also set out the Disclosure Committee statements.
There is no limitation of liability To assist the Committee with the above, authority of the Committee to carry out in the terms of appointment of KPMG as its duties.
responsibility for identifying and considering auditor to the Company.
disclosure matters in connection with the The Committee undertook a review of its preparation of all market releases containing Meetings objectives and terms of reference during material financial information has been the period and the full terms of reference The Audit Committee held four scheduled delegated to a Disclosure Committee.
This meetings during the year ended 31 March are available at www.
Committee comprises members of senior 2011.
Details of the number of meetings The Board has satisfied itself that at least one management from finance, legal, company of the Audit Committee and individual member of the Committee has recent and secretarial and investor relations.
attendance at the meetings by members relevant financial experience and is confident During the preparation of the Annual are shown in the table on page 44. that the collective experience of the Report, the Disclosure Committee obtains members enables them to act as an effective Simon Ball certifications from contributors prior to the Audit Committee.
Chairman, Audit Committee documents review by the Committee and approval by the Board.
