The Board is responsible for the Groups resigned 21 July 2010, Simon Ball, Mary Corporate Francis, Kate Nealon, Ian Tyler appointed corporate governance system and is committed to maintaining high governance 1 January 2011 and Kasper Rorsted resigned governancereport 1 January 2011.
Biographies of the current standards.
The key policies and practices of the Company and the Group are set out Directors, including details of their Committee memberships, are shown on pages 36 and 37. in this Corporate governance report as well as in the reports of the Audit Committee The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive on page 47 and the Remuneration are separate with distinct responsibilities.
The Committee on pages 48 to 60.
Chairmans key areas of responsibility are the Furthermore, our independent Nonleadership of the Board, including setting its executive Directors have prepared a report agenda, ensuring that it receives clear, timely describing the corporate governance and and accurate information and facilitating the behaviours of the Board on pages 42 and contribution of the Non-executive Directors.
43 and details of significant shareholdings The Chairman is also responsible for corporate and rights, obligations, powers and governance and for ensuring, together with procedures under the Companys Articles the Senior Independent Director, that the of Association are set out in the Directors Company maintains effective communication report on pages 39 to 41.
Together, with shareholders and other stakeholders.
The these reports provide shareholders with commitment of the Chairman as Chair of the an insight into how our Board and senior PwC Public Interest Body is noted on page 36, management manage the business to and the Board considers that this is not a increase shareholder value.
constraint on his agreed time commitment to the Company.
Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year the Group has complied The Chief Executive is responsible for the with all the provisions set out in Section One leadership of the business and managing it of the Combined Code on Corporate within the authorities delegated by the Board.
Details of Directors attendance at scheduled A governance update was provided to the Board and Committee meetings are shown Board in November 2010, with periodic in the table below.
updates provided at board meetings in the Company Secretarys report to the Board.
Role of the Board The Board is accountable to shareholders for Going forward, the Company intends to the creation and delivery of strong sustainable comply fully with the main and supporting performance and the delivery of long-term principles of the new UK Corporate shareholder value.
To enable the Board to Governance Code.
function effectively, full and timely access is The Code and the UK Corporate Governance given to all relevant information.
The Board Code are available on the Financial Reporting sets the strategic aims of the Group and is Councils website www.
collectively responsible for matters of strategy, performance, resources, standards Board Composition of conduct and accountability.
In order to During the year, the Board comprised Sir progress these aims the Board meets Richard Lapthorne Chairman, Tony Rice, Tim frequently and is responsible for organising Pennington, Nick Cooper, George Battersby and directing the Company and the Group Board and Committee meeting attendance 1 April 2010 31 March 2011 Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee Sir Richard Lapthorne 8 8 2 2 3 3 1 George Battersby 0 3 Nick Cooper 8 8 Tim Pennington 8 8 Tony Rice 8 8 Simon Ball 8 8 4 4 2 2 3 3 Mary Francis 8 8 4 4 2 2 3 3 Kate Nealon 8 8 4 4 2 2 3 3 2 Kasper Rorsted 3 6 0 3 1 1 0 2 3 Ian Tyler 2 2 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 Resigned with effect from 21 July 2010.
2 Resigned with effect from 1 January 2011.
3 Appointed with effect from 1 January 2011.
Director is not a Committee member.
44 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Governance in a manner that promotes the success of business experience, as they all occupy or Board Committees The reports of the Audit Committee and the Company and is consistent with good have occupied senior positions in industry corporate governance practice.
Formal and public life and, as such, each contributes Remuneration Committee are set out on pages 47 and 48 to 60 respectively.
minutes recording decisions of all Board significant weight to Board decisions.
and Committee meetings are prepared and The Non-executive Directors are initially The members of the Nomination Committee circulated to each Director as appropriate.
appointed for a three year term with an during the year were Sir Richard Lapthorne If a Director objects to a particular proposal, expectation that they will continue for a Chair, Simon Ball, Mary Francis, Kate Nealon, this is recorded in the minutes of the relevant further three year term.
Ian Tyler appointed 1 January 2011 and meeting.
During the period under review, as Kasper Rorsted resigned 1 January 2011. for the period since incorporation, there were The terms and conditions of appointment of no such objections.
the Non-executive Directors, together with The Nomination Committee has met on two occasions in the period 1 April 2010 service contracts for Executive Directors, are There is a formal schedule of matters available for inspection by shareholders at our to 31 March 2011.
The Committee reviews reserved to the Board including: succession planning requirements and the registered office during normal business hours Group strategy: and at our AGM.
need to ensure planned and progressive refreshing of the Board as and when required.
Corporate governance: All Directors have access to the advice of the When recommending the appointment of Company Secretary as well as appropriate Financial reporting and control: new directors to the Board, regard is given training and briefings on matters including to the size of the Board, balance of Executive Budgets and operating plans: corporate social responsibility, health & safety and Non-executive Directors, the skills, and governance matters.
Additionally, any Acquisitions and disposals: knowledge and experience already Director may take independent professional represented and likely future requirements.
Appointments to the Board, Committees advice on any matter at the Companys Going forward, the Nomination Committee and some senior executive positions: expense in the furtherance of his duties.
will take into account gender diversity during Director and senior executive remuneration: the appointment process.
The Senior Independent Director Delegation of authority: Simon Ball is the Senior Independent Director The full terms of reference of the Nomination of the Company.
The Senior Independent Committee are available at www.
Customer contracts and expenditure over Director is available to meet shareholders on a certain financial limit: and During the period under review, the request and is the designated point of contact Nomination Committee considered and Approval of litigation.
for shareholders to raise any concerns where recommended to the Board the appointment contact through the normal channels of Other specific responsibilities are delegated of Ian Tyler as a Non-executive Director, the Chairman or Executive Directors is to the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration and as a member of the Remuneration, inappropriate.
Matters raised by major Committees, each with clearly defined terms Nomination and Audit Committees.
Ian Tyler shareholders to any Director are brought of reference.
was identified as an ideal candidate to to the attention of the Board.
complement the existing balance of skills and Full details on matters reserved to the Board As part of our commitment to regular knowledge of the Board, with sufficient time and the terms of reference of its Committees dialogue, meetings have been held between to dedicate to the role.
The suitability of his can be found on our website at www.
the Executive Directors and investors on skills and knowledge were independently an ongoing basis throughout the year.
verified by Jan Hall, a partner at JCA Group, a Board Balance and Independence The Chairman and the Senior Independent boardroom consultancy firm.
The Nomination The Board considers all the Companys Director have, as in previous years, offered Committee also commenced a process for Non-executive Directors to be independent ongoing dialogue and meetings with the appointment of a further Non-executive in character and judgement.
Collectively the shareholders to discuss any issues they wish Director to the Board.
Non-executive Directors help to provide an to raise.
The Company intends to continue effective Board with a strong mix of skills and this practice.
Cable & Wireless Communications 45 Financial controls: the Group has dedicated The evaluation process involved a thorough Corporate resource to embed processes and controls review of board documentation and individual across the businesses.
It operates a number interviews with members of the Board, the governancereport of additional self-assessment exercises, Company Secretary and other attendees which include monthly certification of including external advisers and members continued compliance with key financial controls and of the senior management team.
The The evaluation concluded that the Board is latter exercise requires management to strong and effective with a good relationship assess the effectiveness of its fundamental between Executive and Non-executive operating controls over all aspects of its Directors.
The report on the findings of the operations, in addition to the other financial review has been discussed by the Board at controls covered by our Financial Controls its meeting in May 2011 and an action plan Toolkit.
The results of this exercise are to follow up on its recommendations will utilised by Internal Audit in planning its Internal control, risk management be implemented during the year.
work for the forthcoming year: and and financial reporting The Non-executive Directors also appraised The Board is responsible for the Groups Whistle blowing: the Group operates an the Chairmans performance and carefully system of internal control and for reviewing Ethics Helpline which is administered by reviewed the relationship between the its effectiveness on a continual basis.
The an independent third party and is available Chairman and the Executive Directors Groups system of internal control is designed to all employees.
to ensure that the Board structure and to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of relationships continue to promote the failure to achieve business objectives and can Effectiveness of internal control creation of shareholder value.
only provide reasonable, but not absolute, The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the assurance against material misstatement or internal control systems in operation during By order of the Board loss.
The concept of reasonable assurance the financial year in accordance with the Clare Underwood recognises that the cost of control procedures revised Turnbull guidance.
The processes Company Secretary should not exceed the expected benefits.
as set out above have been in place for the year under review and up to the date of this 24 May 2011 The Group operates a risk management Annual Report.
Where appropriate, necessary process, under which the regional businesses action has been or is being taken to remedy identify the key risks to their plans, their any failings and weaknesses identified as likelihood and impact and the actions significant during this review.
being taken to manage those risks and the effectiveness of steps taken to mitigate them.
The responsibility for internal control The risk register is presented to the Audit procedures within our joint ventures rests with Committee on a rolling 12 month basis.
The the senior management of those operations.
principal risks identified by the Group are set We monitor our investments and exert our out on pages 34 and 35. influence through board representation.
The Executive Directors report to the Board, Induction and Professional Development on behalf of management, significant changes On appointment, the induction of new Board in the Groups business and the external members is undertaken by the Company environment in which it operates.
In addition, Secretary at the request of the Chairman, they provide the Board with monthly financial who retains responsibility for the induction information, which includes key risk and process.
The induction includes the provision performance indicators.
The Groups key of information about the Company, details of internal control and monitoring procedures procedures, governance issues and Directors include the following: responsibilities.
The programme also includes Financial reporting: each year, an annual meetings with senior management, and budget is agreed and approved by the meetings with major shareholders may be Board.
At each Board meeting, actual arranged on request.
results are reviewed and reported against The Company intends to develop individual budget and, when appropriate, revised training and development programmes for forecasts: all Directors.
Investment appraisal: the Group has clearly defined policies for capital expenditure.
Performance Evaluation These include annual budgets and detailed A full external performance evaluation of the Board as a whole has been undertaken by appraisal processes for such expenditure: Independent Audit Limited.
Independent Audit Monitoring systems: internal controls are has no other connection with the Company or monitored through a programme of internal Group, and was appointed following a review audits.
The Internal Audit function reports of external providers due to their specialist to the Audit Committee on its examination experience and expertise in all aspects of board and evaluation of the effectiveness and performance and governance.
adequacy of systems of internal control: 46 Cable & Wireless Communications Annual report 2010 11 Governance
