As a UK Listed Company, Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc the Company is required to comply with Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Codeon Corporate Governance the Code.
TheCompany is required to make certain statements relating to the way it is governed andexplain where provisions of the Code have notbeen met.
A full version of the Code can be found at www.
uk The following sections of this Corporate Governance report set out how the Company applied the principles of the Code during the yearended 31 March 2011.
Compliance with the Combined Code Throughout the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company fully complied with the provisions set outin Section 1 of the Code with the exceptions listed below: A.
7.1 of the Code provides that all Directors should be subject to election by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment.
The Companys Articles of Association the Articles provide that at the first two Annual General Meetings following the demerger, one-third of the Directors shall retire from office but shall be eligible for re-election.
This provision was included in the Articles to allow for an even spread of Director re-appointments following demerger.
In view of T he Board of Cable & this, it is proposed that a further one-third of Directors will seek re-election at the Companys Wireless Worldwide plc second Annual General Meeting in 2011. is committed to the C. 3.1 of the Code provides that the Board should satisfy itself that at least one member of the Audit highest standards of Committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The Board considers that there is a corporate governance sufficient breadth of financial expertise across the Audit Committee and that, collectively, its members and firmly believes have the requisite skills and attributes to discharge its responsibilities properly.
As a result, the Board thatthese standards has decided not to identify any one member as having such experience.
form an essential An updated version of the Code, the UK Corporate underpinning to the Governance Code, was introduced in May 2010.
This new code applies to companies with accounting Groups business periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010.
Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc is therefore required to practices.
comply with the new code from its accounting period beginning 1 April 2011.
The Company aims to fully John Pluthero comply with the provisions of the new code at the Chairman appropriate time.
