Statement of Corporate Governance These matters include: Introduction the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to management policies describe how they have complied with the principles of the the monitoring of the business activities of the Company, UK Corporate Governance Code published in May 2010 the ranging from analysis of investment performance to annual Governance Code, which is available on the Financial budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance analysis Reporting Councils website: www.
The Governance Companies Act requirements, such as the approval of the Code covers in particular the annual re-appointment of half-yearly and annual Financial Statements, and approval Directors, Board diversity, external evaluation, the Boards and recommendation of the interim and final dividends responsibilities in relation to risk, and a clear explanation of respectively business model and strategy.
"setting the range of gearing in which the Manager may operate The Association of Investment Companies AIC has also major changes relating to the Companys structure, published a Code of Corporate Governance ""AIC Code"" and including share buy-backs and share issues a Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies Board appointments and removals and the related terms AIC Guide which are available on the AICs website: appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms www."
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC and conditions of the management and administration Guide, addresses all of the principles set out in Section 1 of agreements relating thereto the Governance Code, as well as setting out additional terms of reference and membership of Board Committees principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services relevance to investment trusts.
Authority approval of all circulars and listing particulars, and approval of all releases concerning matters decided by The Board considers that reporting against the principles and the Board.
recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide which incorporates the Governance Code will The Board currently consists of five non-executive Directors.
provide better information to shareholders.
The names and biographies of those Directors who held office at the date of this Annual Report appear on pages 19 Application of the Principles of the Codes and 20 of this Annual Report, and indicate their range of The Company has complied with the recommendations of investment, industrial, commercial and professional the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the experience.
Governance Code, except the Governance Code provisions relating to: The Board has assessed the independence of the Directors against the criteria set out in the Codes, and has concluded The role of the chief executive A.
"1.2 that they are all independent of the investment manager Executive directors remuneration D. 2.1 and D. 2.2 ""Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited"" or the Manager, and The need for an internal audit function C. 3.5 free of any relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide and in the preamble strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct."
to the Governance Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the position of Murray Income Ms Glen was, until December 2008, a partner of a law firm Trust PLC, being an externally-managed investment which has undertaken occasional work for companies within company.
The Company has, therefore, not reported further the Managers group.
In January 2009, Ms Glen ceased to be in respect of these provisions.
The Board is committed to a partner of that firm.
Accordingly, while Ms Glen does not high standards of corporate governance and has put in place meet the tests of independence set out in the AIC Code, the a framework for corporate governance, which it believes is Board takes the view that, in performing the role of Director, appropriate for an investment trust.
Ms Glen has displayed independence from the Manager.
The Board Mr Gifford will, by the Annual General Meeting, have served as a Director for more than eleven years.
The Governance The Board sets the Companys values and objectives, and Code states that, following appointment, the test of ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
It has independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman.
formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to However, the AIC Code states that the test of independence be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains continues to be appropriate and, consequently, the Board will full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, follow the AIC Code.
The Board takes the view that operational and compliance issues.
independence is not compromised by length of service on 26 Murray Income Trust PLC the Board, and that experience can add significantly to the There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take Boards strength.
The Board is, therefore, satisfied that Mr independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Gifford, as Chairman, continues to have the appropriate Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice experience, knowledge and independence to remain in this and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its role.
As recommended by the Governance Code, Mr Gifford appointed representatives, who are responsible to the Board: will stand for annual re-appointment.
for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good The re-appointment of each of the Directors, whose information flows with the Board and its committees, as biographies appear on pages 19 and 20, were considered and well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional approved by the Nomination Committee.
The continuing development as required independent and objective judgement of the Directors was for advising through the Chairman on all corporate confirmed in the annual Board performance and evaluation governance matters.
The Board evaluation process also confirmed that When a Director is appointed, an induction process is the performance of the Directors standing for rearranged by the Manager.
This involves induction meetings appointment continued to be effective and that they which cover details about the Company, its Manager, legal continued to demonstrate commitment in their roles.
responsibilities and investment trust industry matters.
Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
information on the Companys policies, regulatory and Mr van der Klugt has been appointed Senior Independent statutory requirements and internal controls.
affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board During the year ended 30 June 2011, the Board met five as they arise.
Directors have also taken part in various times.
Details of attendance by each of the Directors and training specific to non-executive Directors, including Committee members at Board and Committee meetings are training courses run by the AIC and the Manager.
The Board has a formal process for the consideration and Audit, Management authorisation by the Board of Directors' reported actual and Nomination Engagement potential conflicts of interest at each Board meeting.
In and Committee accordance with the Company's Articles of Association and Remuneration Meetings relevant legislation, each Director abstains from approval of Board Committee Attended their own position.
Following the implementation of the Meetings Meetings Bribery Act 2010, the Board has adopted appropriate Director Attended Attended procedures designed to prevent bribery.
P A F Gifford 5 5 5 5 1 1 M Glen 3 5 4 5 1 1 The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual N A Honebon 5 5 5 5 1 1 performance evaluation, using questionnaires and discussion, to ensure that all its members have devoted sufficient time H van der Klugt 5 5 5 5 1 1 and contributed adequately to the work of the Board and D E Woods 5 5 5 5 1 1 Committees, and to consider each Directors independence.
During the year, the Board used an external consultant to Between meetings, the Board maintains regular contact with carry out an evaluation of the Boards performance.
The primary focus at regular Board meetings is external consultant held individual meetings with each the review of investment performance and associated Director, with the consultants report on the outcome being matters, including gearing, asset allocation, marketing and discussed with the Chairman of the Board and the Board as a investor relations, peer group information and industry whole.
The Chairman has also been evaluated by his fellow issues.
The Board considers that none of his other commitments set out on page 19 of this Report interfere In order to enable the Board to function effectively and allow with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Company, Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely and is satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of serve the Company effectively.
There have been no Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments papers, including the Managers review and discussion during the year.
Directors have made further enquiries where necessary.
Murray Income Trust PLC 27 Statement of Corporate Governance continued diversity.
The Financial Reporting Council has recently External Agencies conducted a consultation on whether further changes are The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, needed to the Governance Code in order to help achieve including the Manager and other service providers, certain more diverse boards, and the outcome of that review is services: the management of the investment portfolio: the awaited.
custodial services which include the safeguarding of the assets : the registration services: and the day-to-day Audit Committee accounting and company secretarial functions.
Each of these An Audit Committee has been established and comprises all contracts was entered into after full and proper consideration independent Directors including the Company Chairman.
The by the Board of the quality and cost of services offered, in so Board considers it appropriate that the Company Chairman is far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
The Board a member of the Audit Committee, although he may not receives and considers reports from the Manager on a regular chair it, provided that he is considered by the Board to be basis.
In addition, ad hoc reports and information are independent, as is currently the case.
Mr van der Klugt, a supplied to the Board as requested.
chartered accountant, is the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, Committees which are available on request and on the Companys Nomination Committee website, are reviewed and re-assessed for their adequacy on A Nomination Committee has been established with written an annual basis.
The Committee considers Ernst & Young LLP, terms of reference which are available on the Companys the Companys auditor, to be independent of the Company, website and comprises the full Board.
The Chairman of the as no non-audit services were carried out by Ernst & Young Committee is the Chairman of the Company.
The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on The matters considered by the Committee during the year the following matters: included: the identification and nomination of candidates to fill the review of the effectiveness of the internal control Board vacancies as and when they arise, for the approval of environment of the Company to assist in this the the Board Committee received reports from the internal auditors and plans for succession external auditor on a regular basis the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the the review of the half-yearly and annual Financial Reports conclusion of their specified term of office the review of the terms of appointment of the auditor the re-appointment by shareholders of any Director under together with their remuneration, as well as the non-audit the retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys services provided by the auditor if applicable Articles of Association and in accordance with the UK the review of the scope and the results of the audit, its cost Corporate Governance Code effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the the continuation in office of any Director at any time auditor, with particular regard to non-audit fees it should the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. be noted that the auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, rotate the Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the partner responsible for the audit every five years position of Chairman, the recommendation for which the review of the auditors management letter and the would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
management response the review of the management agreement In considering the appointment of a new Director, the meetings with representatives of the Manager.
Committee ensures that the Board continues to have the right balance of skills, diversity, experience, age and length of Management Engagement Committee service.
It may use the professional services of a search As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management consultant to identify suitable candidates for review by the Engagement Committee has been established, comprising Board.
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee the full Board.
The Chairman of the Committee is the state that the Committee must consider candidates on merit Chairman of the Company.
The Committee annually reviews and against objective criteria and with due regard for the matters concerning the investment management agreement benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
Lord in place between the Company and Aberdeen Asset Davies review of gender diversity on the boards of listed Managers Limited.
Details of this agreement are shown on companies was published in February 2011.
It made a page 24. number of recommendations, and concluded that quotas were not the preferred option and might indeed be Remuneration Committee and Directors Remuneration counterproductive.
Since 2006, women have comprised 20% Under the UK Listing Authoritys Listing Rule 15.6.
6, where of the Board, and the Board is supportive of the principle of an investment trust has only non-executive directors, the 28 Murray Income Trust PLC Governance Code principles relating to directors Direction enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of remuneration do not apply.
However, the Company does Direction is forwarded to the administrator of the Savings have a Remuneration Committee, comprising the full Board, Plan, who will complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and whose Chairman is Mr van der Klugt.
and forward it to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
The remuneration of the Directors has been set in order to Those participants who wish to attend the Annual General attract individuals of a calibre appropriate to the future Meeting are able to make arrangements with the development of the Company.
The Companys policy on administrator of the Savings Plan to do so, and to vote on a Directors remuneration, together with details of the show of hands and speak at the meeting.
As required by the remuneration of each Director, is detailed in the Directors Governance Code, the Annual Report is posted to Remuneration Report on pages 33 and 34.
The terms of shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on General Meeting.
request, and on the Companys website.
The Notice of Meeting on pages 56 to 59 sets out the Directors Terms of Appointment business of the meeting and the resolutions are explained All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term more fully in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages of three years, subject to re-appointment and the Companies 33 and 34 and the Directors Report on pages 22 to 25.
Act provisions and in accordance with the existing Articles of Association.
The Articles of Association provide that Separate resolutions are proposed for each substantive issue.
Directors retire and are subject to election at the first Annual The Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting General Meeting following their appointment and thereafter is an event at which all shareholders are encouraged to must offer themselves for re-appointment at least once attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to every three years.
However, in a change to this practice and the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect in order to meet the requirements of section B.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put UK Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010, all questions at the Annual General Meeting.
The number of of the Directors of the Company will stand for annual reproxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the Annual General appointment.
Meeting after each resolution has been dealt with on a show of hands, and details will be posted on the Companys Policy on Tenure website.
The Boards policy on tenure is that Directors need not serve on the Board for a limited period of time only.
The Board Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the does not consider that the length of service of a Director is free shareholder information telephone service run by the as important as the contribution he or she has to make, and Manager and the Company, and the Manager responds to therefore the length of service will be determined on a caseletters from shareholders.
The Company's website, from by-case basis.
which the Companys reports and other publications can be downloaded, is www.
Communication with Shareholders The Company places a great deal of importance on Substantial Interests communication with its shareholders.
The Manager, At 9 September 2011, the following interests in the issued accompanied occasionally by the Chairman, has an annual Ordinary share capital of the Company have been disclosed programme of meetings with institutional shareholders, and in accordance with the requirements of the UK Listing reports back to the Board on these meetings.
Authority's Disclosure and Transparency Rules: The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures Number of that, when shares in Murray Income Trust are held in the Shareholder shares held % held name of nominee companies and notification has been Clients of Aberdeen Asset 11,388,549 17.60 received in advance, nominee companies will be provided Management with copies of shareholder communications for distribution Rathbone Brothers 3,723,724 5.76 to their customers.
Nominee investors may make Investment Management arrangements to attend and speak at general meetings.
2,336,879 3.61 Legal & General Assurance 2,312,235 3.57 Participants in the Managers Savings Plan, whose shares are Pensions Management held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Murray Income Trust PLC 29 Statement of Corporate Governance continued the Board and the Manager have agreed clearly-defined Accountability and Audit investment criteria, specified levels of authority and The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the exposure limits.
Reports on these issues, including Financial Statements is on page 32 and the Statement of performance statistics and investment valuations, are Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page regularly submitted to the Board.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 35. procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed appraisal and due diligence Internal Control as a matter of course, the compliance department of The Board of Directors of Murray Income Trust PLC has Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited continually reviews the overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal Managers operations control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Directors written agreements are in place which specifically define confirm that there is an ongoing process for identifying, the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the party service providers Company, which has been in place for the full year under twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an review and up to the date of approval of the Financial assessment of internal controls by considering Statements, and that this process is regularly reviewed by the documentation from the Manager, including its internal Board and accords with the Financial Reporting Councils audit and compliance functions, and taking account of FRC guidance document Internal Control: Revised events since the relevant period end Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
on a monthly basis the Board receives a detailed compliance report.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly-documented for identifying and evaluating the significant risks affecting contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities the Company and the policies and procedures by which these that that have been delegated to external professional risks are managed.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of The Managers Head of Internal Audit reports six-monthly to the Companys assets to the Manager within overall the Audit Committee of the Company, and has direct access guidelines, and this embraces implementation of the system to the Directors at any time.
of internal control, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control The internal control systems are designed to meet the systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is function which undertakes periodic examination of business exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are processes, including compliance with the terms of the designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to achieve business goals and, by their nature, can provide to improve controls are implemented.
reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Risks are identified and documented through a risk management framework by each function within the The Board has reviewed the need for an internal audit Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the function, and has decided that the systems and procedures FRC guidance, and includes financial, regulatory, market employed by the Manager, including its internal audit operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit function, provide sufficient assurance that a sound system of risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
internal control, which safeguards shareholders' investment Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Board, and and the Companys assets, is maintained.
An internal audit timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to function, specific to the Company, is therefore considered systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required unnecessary.
is monitored and feedback provided to the Board.
Proxy Voting and Stewardship The key components designed to provide effective internal The FRC published the UK Stewardship Code for control for the year under review and up to the date of this institutional shareholders on 2 July 2010.
The purpose of the Annual Report are outlined below: UK Stewardship Code is to enhance the quality of the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts engagement between institutional investors and companies which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities to help improve long-term returns to shareholders and assist and review its investment performance institutional investors with the efficient exercise of their governance responsibilities.
The FRC is encouraging 30 Murray Income Trust PLC Socially Responsible Investment Policy institutional investors to make a statement of their commitment to the Code.
The Directors are aware of their duty to act in the interests of the Company.
As an investment trust, the Company has The Board has delegated responsibility for actively no direct social, environmental or community responsibilities.
monitoring the activities of portfolio companies to the However, the Directors acknowledge that there are risks Manager.
The Board has reviewed and accepts the Managers associated with investment in companies which fail to Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the conduct business in a socially responsible manner and the Managers website, at http: www.
aberdeenDirectors, therefore, ensure that they take regular account of asset.
These the social, environment and ethical factors, which may affect Principles set out the Managers framework on corporate the performance or value of the Companys investments.
governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested or is considering investing.
The Board has also reviewed the Managers Disclosure Response to the UK Stewardship Code, By order of the Board which appears on the Managers website, at the web-address Aberdeen Asset Management PLC given above.
Secretary Bow Bells House The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, 1 Bread Street the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced London, EC4M 9HH by the portfolio companies and for attending company 9 September 2011 meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to use discretion in the exercise of the Companys voting rights.
The Board recognises and supports the Managers policy of active engagement with investee companies and the voting of all of the shares held by the Company.
The Board receives from the Manager regular reports on the exercise by the Manager of the Companys voting rights and discusses with the Manager any issues arising.
It is the Boards view that having an active voting policy and a process for the monitoring by the Board of the Managers exercise of those votes, especially in relation to controversial issues, aids the efficient exercise of the Companys governance responsibilities.
