Statement of Cor Statement of Corp porate Governance orate Governance commercial and professional experience, within an Introduction international perspective.
The Company is committed to a high standard of corporate governance.
The Board sets the Companys values and objectives and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders are met.
The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Board met describe how they have complied with the principles of the seven times and there was a separate strategy meeting as UK Corporate Governance Code published in May 2010 the well as three Board Committee meetings.
The primary focus Governance Code, which is available on the Financial at regular Board Meetings is a review of investment Reporting Councils website: www.
The Governance performance and associated matters, including gearing, asset Code covers the annual re-appointment of Directors, Board allocation, marketing and investor relations, peer group diversity, external evaluation, the Boards responsibilities in information and industry issues.
Between these meetings, the relation to risk, and a clear explanation of business model Board maintains regular contact with the Manager.
"formally adopted a schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for decision, thus ensuring that it maintains The Association of Investment Companies AIC has also full and effective control over appropriate strategic, financial, published a Code of Corporate Governance ""AIC Code"" and operational and compliance issues."
These matters include: a Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide which are available on the AICs website: the maintenance of clear investment objectives and risk www.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC management policies.
Guide, addresses all of the principles set out in Section 1 of the monitoring of the business activities of the Company the Governance Code, as well as setting out additional ranging from analysis of investment performance through principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific to annual budgeting and quarterly forecasting and variance relevance to investment trusts.
Companies Act requirements such as the approval of the The Board considers that reporting against the principles and interim and annual financial statements and approval and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the recommendation of the interim and final dividends AIC Guide which incorporates the Governance Code will respectively.
provide better information to shareholders.
setting the level of gearing which the Manager may operate.
Application of the AIC Code Board appointments and removals and the related terms The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for subject to appropriate shareholder approval.
good governance and this statement describes how the appointment and removal of the Manager and the terms principles identified in the AIC Code have been applied by the and conditions of the management and administration Company.
Save for the exception noted below, the Company agreements relating thereto.
has complied with the provisions set out in the AIC Code and terms of reference and membership of Board Committees.
the relevant provisions of the Code throughout the year Stock Exchange UK Listing Authority Financial Services ended 31 December 2011.
Authority responsibility such as approval of all circulars, listing particulars and approval of all releases concerning The Board matters decided by the Board.
The Board consists of five non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered to be independent of the Manager In addition there were three meetings of the Audit Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited or the Manager and Committee, one meeting of the Remuneration Committee, free of any relationship which could materially interfere with one meeting of the Management Engagement Committee, the exercise of their independent judgement on issues of three meetings of the Nomination Committee and two other strategy, performance, resources and standards of conduct.
should be noted that: The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director.
the Chairman was independent on appointment and, in Mr Shedden is the senior independent non-executive compliance with the AIC Code, continues to be so: Director.
the Company does not have an internal audit function Governance Code Provision C3.5.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Biographies of the Directors appear on pages 23 and 24 of Companys expense.
The Directors have access to the advice this report and indicate their range of high level industrial, and services of the corporate Company Secretary through its 30 Murray International Trust PLC appointed representatives who are responsible to the Board: during the year.
The Board intends to undertake an externally facilitated evaluation of itself during the next year.
for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with: under the direction of the Chairman, for ensuring good External Agencies information flows with the Board and its committees, as The Board has contractually delegated to external agencies, well as facilitating induction and assisting with professional including the Manager and other service providers, certain development as required: and, services: the management of the investment portfolio, the for advising through the Chairman on all corporate custodial services which include the safeguarding of the governance matters.
assets, the registration services and the day to day accounting and company secretarial requirements.
Each of When a Director is appointed, an induction meeting is these contracts was entered into after full and proper arranged by the Manager.
Directors are provided, on a regular consideration by the Board of the quality and cost of services basis, with key information on the Companys policies, offered in so far as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
regulatory and statutory requirements and internal controls.
The Board receives and considers regular monitoring reports Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to from the Manager in respect of the delegated service the Board as they arise.
In addition ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as requested.
Directors have attended Board meetings and Committee meetings held during the year as shown below with their Committees eligibility to attend the relevant meeting in brackets : The composition of the Committees is shown below under the headings of each Committee.
Terms of reference for each Audit Other Regular Nom.
Committee are available on request and copies are also Board Com.
available on the Companys website.
K J Carter 7 7 3 3 1 1 2 2 Lady Balfour of 6 7 3 3 2 3 1 1 Nomination Committee Burleigh A Nomination Committee has been established with written J D Best 7 7 3 3 3 3 0 1 terms of reference copies of which are available upon request P W Dunscombe 4 4 1 1 2 2 1 1 from the Company Secretary and also on the Company's A C Shedden 7 7 3 3 3 3 1 1 website, and comprises the following members, all of whom J F H Trott 3 3 2 2 0 0 1 1 are independent from any relationship that would interfere Ella Brown 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 with impartial judgement in carrying out their Dr Carter was appointed Chairman on 28 April 2011 at which point he resigned responsibilities: from the Audit Committee but attended the remaining two meetings by invitation Appointed 29 April 2011 Retired 28 April 2011 and not a member of the Audit Committee Dr K J Carter Chairman of the Committee Appointed 29 April 2011 and resigned 17 June 2011 Lady Balfour of Burleigh Mr J D Best To enable the Board to function effectively and allow Mr P W Dunscombe Directors to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely Mr A C Shedden access is given to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this consists of a comprehensive set of The Committee makes recommendations to the Board on papers, including the Managers review and discussion the following matters: documents regarding specific matters.
Directors have made further enquiries where necessary.
the identification and nomination of candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise for the approval of The Board and Committees have undertaken their annual the Board.
The identification of such candidates is carried performance evaluation, by means of general discussion and out in conjunction with the Board by an independent firm individual interviews between the Chairman and the other of consultants: Directors, to ensure that all Directors have devoted sufficient plans for succession: time and contributed adequately to the work of the Board the re-appointment of any non-executive Director at the and Committees.
As part of the Directors evaluation process conclusion of their specified term of office: the training needs of Directors, if any, were discussed and the re-election by shareholders of any Director under the agreed.
The Chairman has been satisfactorily evaluated by retirement by rotation provisions in the Companys Articles his fellow Directors.
The Board is satisfied with its current of Association: balance, performance and the contributions of its Directors the continuation in office of any Director at any time: and Murray International Trust PLC 31 Statement of Corporate Governance continued the appointment of any Director to another office e. g. Mr A C Shedden Chairman of the Committee Chairman of the Audit Committee other than to the Lady Balfour of Burleigh position of Chairman, the recommendation for whom Mr J D Best would be considered at a meeting of the Board.
Mr P W Dunscombe During the year the Nomination Committee initiated a The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed search for two additional Directors using the services of an and re-assessed for their adequacy on an annual basis.
The Committee identified work undertaken by the Audit Committee during the year the specifications for the new Directors including the under review, in accordance with those terms of reference requisite skills and experience that would complement the included: existing Board and having due regard for the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The Committee considered several the review of the effectiveness of the internal control high quality candidates and identified Mr Peter Dunscombe environment of the Company to assist in this the and Ms Ella Brown as the preferred candidates due to their Company receives reports from the internal and external relevant investment experience and expertise.
Mr auditor on a regular basis: Dunscombe and Ms Brown were both appointed to the Board the review of the annual accounts and half yearly report: on 29 April 2011.
Subsequent to her appointment Ms Brown the review of the terms of appointment of the auditor resigned from the Board in June 2011 in order to pursue an together with their remuneration as well as non-audit opportunity in asset management overseas.
The Committee services provided by the auditor.
Although there is no fixed has retained the services of an external consultant to assist in rotation in place for the Companys auditor, the Companys the on-going process to search for a further new Director.
audit arrangements are reviewed on a periodic basis in order to confirm that the engagement terms remain in line The Boards overriding priority in appointing new Directors to with the market and competitive: the Board is to identify the candidate with the best range of the review of the scope and the results of the audit and the skills and experience to complement existing Directors.
The independence and objectivity of the auditor it should be Board recognises the benefits of gender diversity.
noted that the auditor, Ernst & Young LLP, changes the partner responsible for the audit every five years : The Committee met three times during the year.
The the review of the auditors management letter and the Committee also considered the re-election of Mr P W Managers and Directors responses: Dunscombe and the re-election of the other Directors at the the review of the Managers whistleblowing Annual General Meeting.
The Committee concluded that the arrangements: knowledge and experience of the Directors seeking election the review of the management agreement: and and re-election is greatly valued by the Board and meetings with representatives of the Manager.
recommended their election re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
Details of attendance at the Audit Committee meetings are shown on page 31.
In accordance with Principle 3 of the AICs Code of Corporate Governance which recommends that the directors of FTSE The Board receives a letter from Ernst & Young LLP, its 350 companies should be subject to annual re-election by auditor, which notes that Ernst & Young has policies and shareholders, all the members of the Board, with the procedures in place that instil professional values as part of exception of Mr P W Dunscombe, will retire at the its firms culture and ensure that the highest standards of forthcoming Annual General Meeting and will offer objectivity and independence and integrity are maintained.
Mr P W Dunscombe was Accordingly, the Board confirms its belief that Ernst & Young appointed during the year and will retire at the AGM and is independent in accordance with the Governance Code.
Management Engagement Committee Audit Committee As recommended by the AIC Code, a Management An Audit Committee has been established with written terms Engagement Committee has been established with written of reference, copies of which are available upon request from terms of reference, copies of which are available upon the Company Secretary and also on the Company's website, request from the Company Secretary and on the Company's and comprises the following members, all of whom are website, comprising the following members, all of whom are independent and free from any relationship that would independent and free from any relationship that would interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their interfere with impartial judgement in carrying out their responsibilities: responsibilities: 32 Murray International Trust PLC Dr K J Carter Chairman of the Committee Directors have discussed the re-election of Mr Shedden and, Lady Balfour of Burleigh notwithstanding that he is in his eleventh year of service Mr J D Best with the Company, confirm that he remains independent.
Mr P W Dunscombe Accordingly the other Directors are very pleased to Mr A C Shedden recommend to shareholders that they support the re-election of Mr Shedden.
The Committee meets annually in order to review matters concerning the management agreement which exists with Communication with Shareholders Aberdeen Asset Managers Limited.
Details of the The Company places a great deal of importance on management agreement are shown on page 28 of the communication with its shareholders.
The Manager has an Annual Report.
There was one meeting of the Committee annual programme of meetings with institutional during the year which was attended by all the Committee shareholders and reports back to the Board on these members.
Remuneration Committee The Company has adopted a nominee code, which ensures The Company has appointed a Remuneration Committee, that, when its shares are held in the name of nominee comprising the following members, which met once during companies and notification has been received in advance, the year: nominee companies will be provided with copies of shareholder communications for distribution to their Lady Balfour of Burleigh Chairman of the Committee customers.
Nominee investors may attend general meetings Mr J D Best and speak at meetings when invited by the Chairman.
Mr P W Dunscombe Mr A C Shedden Participants in the Savings Plan, whose shares are held in the nominee names of the plan administrator, are given the The Combined Code recommends that all the members of opportunity to vote by means of a Letter of Direction the Committee should be independent.
The remuneration of enclosed with the Annual Report.
The Letter of Direction is the Directors has been set in order to attract individuals of a forwarded to the administrator of the Savings Plan, who will calibre appropriate to the future development of the complete a proxy on behalf of the participants and forward it Company.
The Companys policy on Directors remuneration, to the Companys registrar for inclusion in the voting figures.
together with details of the remuneration of each Director, is Those participants who attend the Annual General Meeting detailed in the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 37 are given the opportunity to speak when invited by the and 38.
There was one meeting of the Committee during the Chairman.
As required under the Code, the Annual Report is year which was attended by all the Committee members.
posted to shareholders at least twenty business days before the Annual General Meeting.
Directors Terms of Appointment All non-executive Directors are appointed for an initial term The Notice of Meeting sets out the business of the meeting of three years, subject to re-election and Companies Act and the resolutions are explained more fully in the Directors provisions and, in accordance with the existing Articles of Report on pages 25 to 27.
Separate resolutions are proposed Association, stand for election at the first Annual General for each issue.
The Articles of Association state that Directors must offer themselves for reThe Board is very conscious that the Annual General Meeting election at least once every three years.
Any Director who is an event for all shareholders and encourages them to seeks re-election beyond six years will be subject to attend and participate.
The Manager makes a presentation to particularly rigorous review to ensure their performance the meeting outlining the key investment issues that affect continues to be effective.
All shareholders have the opportunity to put questions at the Companys Annual General Meeting.
The Policy on Tenure number of proxy votes is relayed to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, after each resolution has been dealt The Board takes the view that independence is not with on a show of hands.
necessarily compromised by length of tenure on the Board and that experience can add significantly to the Boards Shareholders also have direct access to the Company via the strength.
In line with best practice, the Boards policy is for free shareholder information telephone service run by the Directors who have been on the Board for more than nine Manager, and the Company and the Manager respond to years to retire at each subsequent Annual General Meeting letters from shareholders.
The Manager meets regularly with and submit themselves for annual re-election.
The other major shareholders and reports back to the Board on these Murray International Trust PLC 33 Statement of Corporate Governance continued visits.
A website from which the Companys reports and systems.
The implementation of any remedial action required other publications can be downloaded is maintained on is monitored and feedback provided to the Company.
The key components designed to provide effective internal control for the year under review and up to the date of this Accountability and Audit Report are outlined below: The Directors Statement of Responsibilities in respect of the financial statements is on page 36 and the Statement of the Manager prepares forecasts and management accounts Going Concern is included in the Directors Report on page which allow the Board to assess the Companys activities 28.
The Independent Auditors Report is on page 39. and review its investment performance: the Board and Manager have agreed clearly defined Disclosure and Transparency Rules investment criteria: Shareholders attention is drawn to the further information there are specified levels of authority and exposure limits.
on page 29 which is disclosed in accordance with the Reports on these issues, including performance statistics Companies Act 2006 and Rule 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and and investment valuations, are regularly submitted to the Transparency Rules.
The Managers evaluation procedure and financial analysis of the companies concerned include detailed Internal Control appraisal and due diligence: The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the as a matter of course the compliance department of Companys system of internal control and for reviewing its Aberdeen Asset Managers continually reviews the effectiveness.
Following the Financial Reporting Council's Managers operations: publication of Internal Control: Revised Guidance for written agreements are in place which specifically define Directors on the Combined Code the FRC guidance, the the roles and responsibilities of the Manager and other third Directors confirm that there is an ongoing process for party service providers and monitoring reports are received identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks from these providers when required: faced by the Company.
This process has been in place for the the Board has considered the need for an internal audit full year under review and up to the date of approval of the function but, because of the compliance and internal financial statements, and this process is regularly reviewed control systems in place at the Manager, has decided to by the Board and accords with the FRC Guidance.
place reliance on the Managers systems and internal audit procedures: and The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of twice a year, at its Board meetings, the Board carries out an internal control and, in particular, it has reviewed the process assessment of internal controls by considering for identifying and evaluating the significant risks faced by documentation from the Manager, including its internal the Company and the policies and procedures by which these audit and compliance functions and taking account of risks are managed.
events since the relevant period end.
The Directors have delegated the investment management of In addition, the Manager ensures that clearly documented the Companys assets to the Manager within overall contractual arrangements exist in respect of any activities guidelines and this embraces implementation of the system that have been delegated to external professional of internal control, including financial, operational and organisations.
compliance controls and risk management.
Internal control systems are monitored and supported by an internal audit The Head of Internal Audit of the Manager reports six function which undertakes periodic examination of business monthly to the Audit Committee of the Company and has processes, including compliance with the terms of the direct access to the Directors at any time.
management agreement, and ensures that recommendations to improve controls are implemented.
The internal control systems are designed to meet the Companys particular needs and the risks to which it is Risks are identified and documented through a risk exposed.
Accordingly, the internal control systems are management framework by each function within the designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure Managers activities.
Risk is considered in the context of the to achieve business objectives and, by their nature, can FRC Guidance and includes financial, regulatory, market, provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against operational and reputational risk.
This helps the internal audit material misstatement or loss.
risk assessment model identify those functions for review.
Any weaknesses identified are reported to the Company and timetables are agreed for implementing improvements to 34 Murray International Trust PLC to favour companies which pursue best practice in the above Proxy Voting and Stewardship areas, this must not be to the detriment of the return on the The Financial Reporting Council FRC published the UK investment portfolio.
Stewardship Code for Institutional shareholders on 2 July 2010.
The purpose of the Code is to enhance the quality of By order of the Board of Murray International Trust PLC engagement between institutional investors and companies to help improve long-term returns to shareholders and the efficient exercise of governance responsibilities.
Aberdeen Asset Management PLC Secretary The FRC is encouraging institutional investors to make a 40 Princes Street, statement of their commitment to the Code.
The Board has Edinburgh EH2 2BY delegated responsibility for actively monitoring the activities 28 February 2012 of portfolio companies to the Manager.
The Manager is responsible for reviewing, on a regular basis, the annual reports, circulars and other publications produced by the portfolio company, and for attending company meetings.
The Manager, in the absence of explicit instruction from the Board, is empowered to use discretion in the exercise of the Companys voting rights.
The Managers policy is to vote all shares held by the Company.
The Board has reviewed, and endorses, the Managers Corporate Governance Principles, which may be found on the Managers website, at: http: www.
nsf Lit  This sets out the Managers framework on corporate governance, proxy voting and shareholder engagement in relation to the companies in which the Manager has invested or is considering investing.
The Board has also reviewed the Managers Statement of Compliance with the Code, which appears on the Managers website, at: http: www.
nsf AboutUs  The Board receives from the Manager regular reports on the exercise by the Manager of the Companys voting rights.
Socially Responsible Investment Policy The Board is aware of its duty to act in the interests of the Company.
The Board acknowledges that there are risks associated with investment in companies which fail to conduct business in a socially responsible manner.
The Manager considers social, environmental and ethical factors which may affect the performance or value of the Companys investments.
The Directors, through the Companys Manager, encourage companies in which investments are made to adhere to best practice in the area of Corporate Governance.
They believe that this can best be achieved by entering into a dialogue with company management to encourage them, where necessary, to improve their policies in this area.
The Company's ultimate objective however is to deliver superior investment returns for its shareholders.
Accordingly, whilst the Manager will seek Murray International Trust PLC 35
