Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Cairns Commitment to Corporate Governance Appointment of the Chairman Cairn is committed to achieving compliance with the principles and Chief Executive and provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code and to The Company acknowledges that the appointment of Sir Bill Gammell ensuring that high standards of corporate governance are maintained.
from the role of Chief Executive to Non-Executive Chairman of the In 2011 the Board has reviewed the provisions of the UK Corporate Board is an exception to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
However Governance Code and where they have considered it appropriate have in making the appointment the Board agreed unanimously that looking enhanced the Companys principles and policies to ensure the Company forward this move was in the best interests of the Company and its complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code otherwise than as shareholders.
The Board believes that, in making this appointment, detailed in this statement.
the Nomination Committee undertook a robust process.
As part of this process, the Company consulted with its major shareholders Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied the who indicated their approval of the Board changes.
principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the year ended 31 December 2011.
The key considerations made when the Board and the nomination committee were considering the appointments were as follows: The Cairn Board h After 12 years on the Cairn Board and nine years as Chairman, Cairns business is international in scope and carries political, Norman Murray had decided to accept new challenges outwith commercial and technical risks.
Accordingly, particular attention is paid the Company and had been recently appointed as a director and to the composition and balance of the Board to ensure that it has wide chairman designate of Petrofac Limited.
experience of the sector and regulatory environment in which Cairn h The Board viewed Sir Bill Gammell as the best choice to replace operates, and appropriate financial and risk management skills.
In each Norman Murray as Non-Executive Chairman his knowledge of Board appointment, whether executive or non-executive, the Board the Company and experience gained over 30 years in the industry considers that objectivity and integrity, as well as skills, experience, were a very important resource for the Board which could continue ability and diversity that will assist the Board in its key functions, to be called upon in his new role.
h Given the Companys significant presence in South Asia, and at the time, the ongoing transaction with Vedanta, the Board considered The Board currently comprises the Chairman, the Chief Executive, experience in this area of the industry to be important to any new two Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors.
Given Sir Bills strong relationship with the GoI, The directors biographies are on pages 54 and 55.
As part of Cairns his profound understanding of India and his extensive experience succession policy over the past four years the Board has undergone and networks in the region, the Board believed that his continuing an extensive refreshment process evidenced by the appointment of management of the Vedanta negotiations would be of unique and four Non-Executive Directors during this time.
The Company considers vital importance in securing the successful completion of the periodic refreshment of the Board to be positive as it brings new ideas transaction.
As a result, Sir Bill continued to oversee the discussions to the Company as well as ensuring that the Board appoints directors with Vedanta, which ultimately led to the successful completion of with the right experience to meet its business needs.
The Board is also the transaction in December 2011. mindful that an appropriate balance between directors who can bring h Sir Bill was relinquishing his executive responsibilities with a view to a new perspective and those who provide continuity is essential for providing succession opportunities for other members of the senior a business like Cairn.
executive team, in particular Simon Thomson who succeeded Sir Bill as Chief Executive of the Company.
The Board is confident that Sir Diversity is a key element of the Cairn Board, with emphasis placed on Bill will work to support Simon in his new role as Chief Executive.
The Board demonstrates balance h The Board believes that, although Sir Bill does not meet the across all these elements with 22% female representation on the Board independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, and directors from the Netherlands, the USA and Canada, as well as the he nevertheless possesses all of the skills and qualities the Board UK, all bringing their international experience to the Board.
would look for in a new Chairman including his experience in the oil and gas industry and his experience gained as Chairman of Cairn India During the past year, there have been a number of changes on the a publicly listed company in India.
The Board also in 2010 appointed Board.
Following Norman Murrays decision to stand down as Nontwo new Non-Executive Directors, Ms M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC Executive Chairman of the Company, Sir Bill Gammell stepped down and Alexander Berger.
The Board recognises the importance of these as Chief Executive on 30 June 2011 and was appointed Non-Executive appointments in demonstrating its commitment to ensure there is Chairman of the Board with effect from 1 July 2011.
Simon Thomson a sufficient number of independent Non-Executive Directors on the was appointed as Chief Executive on 1 July 2011.
Furthermore, the Board is satisfied that any issues which may appointed Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer on 1 July 2011. arise as a result of Sir Bill not meeting the independence criteria are Philip Tracy, Group Engineering and Operations Director and Malcolm mitigated by the presence of a robust Senior Independent Director.
Thoms, Chief Operating Officer served on the Board during the year but h As the new Chairman of the Company, Sir Bill Gammell is fully aware also stepped down from their positions on the Board at the time of the of the change in his responsibilities, in a non-executive capacity, reorganisation.
The Nomination Committee report on pages 64 and 65 to lead the Board and ensure its effectiveness on all aspects of its further explains the appointment process undertaken by the committee role.
He is committed to continuing the Boards existing culture of and the selection criteria used for the appointment of the Chairman and openness and debate by facilitating the effective contribution of the Chief Executive.
Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 59 leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Continued Performance Evaluation Appointment of the Chairman The Board has in place a formal rigorous process for annual performance and Chief Executive Continued evaluation for the Board, Audit, Nomination and Remuneration In relation to the succession for the Chief Executive, the Nomination Committees and individual directors.
In 2011 the performance evaluation Committee and the Board considered that Simon Thomson was the process was carried out internally.
In accordance with the UK Corporate natural and best candidate for the role having worked for the Company Governance Code, the Board will implement the new requirement that for 15 years and having worked together with Sir Bill and the other the performance evaluation of the Board will be externally facilitated executive team members on the Board since 2006.
He has also played every three years.
It is proposed that this external review will be carried an instrumental role in the Companys development, in particular in out in 2012. accessing the opportunities that Greenland offers and in the delivery of value from the Vedanta transaction, as well as other corporate and The process during 2011, which was led by the current Chairman, asset transactions undertaken by the Company in recent years.
The focused on conducting a thorough review of the commitment, skills Board is confident that Simon is best placed to lead the Company and and experience of each member of the Board and of the strengths and the Executive Team to develop the business and the Companys portfolio weaknesses of the Board as a whole.
The performance evaluation was of assets.
primarily based upon answers to a questionnaire which focused on the performance of the Board.
The questionnaire was prepared internally by The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief the Deputy Company Secretary and the Chairman and was distributed Executive in particular have been scrutinised by the Board at the time to all Board members.
The areas covered by the questionnaire included of the reorganisation and a clear division of responsibilities is set out the effectiveness of the Board and Board committees, strategy setting, in writing.
The Chairman is responsible for the effective running of the performance against key objectives set for the Board and each of the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full and constructive part in the directors and the level and quality of information available to the Board.
determination and development of the Groups strategy and acting as Once a questionnaire had been completed by each member of the guardian and facilitator of the Boards decision making process and Board, the Chairman held a meeting with each director, as appropriate, ensuring effective implementation of the Boards decisions.
The to discuss their responses.
Chairman is also responsible for ensuring effective communications with shareholders and understanding their issues and concerns.
The Chief The Executive Directors also have their performance individually Executive is responsible for managing the Groups business, proposing reviewed by the Remuneration Committee against objectives which and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives are set annually.
The bonuses payable to the Executive Directors under in consultation with the Board.
As leader of the Executive Team he is the Companys cash bonus scheme described further in the Directors also responsible for implementing the decisions of the Board and its Remuneration Report on pages 69 to 87 are linked directly to the results committees and ensuring successful and efficient achievement of these reviews.
Together with the Chairman, he provides coherent leadership of the Company, including representing the Group Following the performance evaluation process conducted in 2011, to shareholders, financial institutions, employees, governments, the the Board and its committees are satisfied that they are operating media, the wider community and the general public.
effectively and that each director has performed well in respect of their individual roles on the Board.
Following the results of the individual Senior Independent Director performance evaluations, the Board believes that all of the directors Iain McLaren continues to be Cairns Senior Independent Non-Executive performance all of whom are proposed for re-election at the AGM Director committing a substantial amount of time and effort to carrying continues to be effective and that they each demonstrate commitment out this role effectively and efficiently.
The main responsibilities of the to the role.
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director are as follows: h to provide a sounding board for the Chairman and to serve as an Independence of Non-Executive Directors intermediary with other directors when necessary: The Board evaluation and review process also covered the independence h to be available to shareholders if they have concerns through which of each of the Non-Executive Directors, taking into account their integrity, contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive objectivity and contribution to the Board and its committees.
The Board or other Executive Directors has failed to resolve or for which such believes that the following behaviours are essential in order for a director contact is inappropriate: and to be considered independent: h to meet with the other Non-Executive Directors without the h provides an objective, robust and consistent challenge to the Chairman present at least annually in order to appraise the assumptions, beliefs and views of senior management and the Chairmans performance.
other directors: h questions intelligently, debates constructively and challenges Re-Election of Directors rigorously and dispassionately: In terms of the Articles of Association of the Company, all of the h acts at all times in the best interests of the organisation and its directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first AGM after shareholders: their appointment to the Board and to re-election by shareholders at h has a detailed and extensive knowledge of the Groups business, least once every three years.
Furthermore they are subject to re-election the industry and the market as a whole which provides a solid annually if they have held office with the Company, other than background in which the Non-Executive Directors can consider employment or executive office, for a continuous period of nine years the Groups strategy objectively and help the Executive Directors or more at the date of the relevant AGM.
In accordance with the UK develop proposals on strategy: and Corporate Governance Code, all of the Companys directors will however h has no close ties or material relationships with the Company, be subject to annual re-election by shareholders with effect from the either directly or indirectly.
The Company acknowledges that Todd Hunt has been a member of the Board for ten years: however in view of the number of new Non-Executive Directors on the Board the Company considers it appropriate to retain Todd Hunt to provide continuity and stability to the Board.
His continued contribution to the Board is considered to be invaluable and therefore he is being proposed for re-election.
60 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Continued Information and Support Independence of Non-Executive Directors Continued The Board has full and timely access to all relevant information to Having reviewed the independence of each of the Non-Executive enable it to perform its duties.
The Company Secretary and Deputy Directors against this criteria and the characteristics of independence Company Secretary are responsible for advising the Board, through the set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board concluded that Chairman, on all corporate governance matters.
In addition, each director all of the Non-Executive Directors of the Company with the exception has access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and of the Chairman demonstrated each of the required competences to a Deputy Company Secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the high level and are therefore each considered independent.
The Board Board for directors, in furtherance of their duties, to take independent acknowledge that the Chairman has previously held the position of professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, up to a Chief Executive and so is not to be considered as independent.
The appointment of M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC and Alexander Berger in 2010 emphasised the Boards commitment to ensuring Directors and Officers Liability Insurance the independence of the Companys Non-Executive Directors and the The Company has directors and officers liability insurance in place.
valuable contribution and perspective they each bring to the Board.
Conflicts of Interest The Company acknowledges that Todd Hunt will have entered his tenth The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and year as a member of the Board following the 2012 AGM.
The Company authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts with the Companys has taken account of the UK Corporate Governance Codes criteria of interests.
All directors are aware of the requirement to submit details independence, as well as its own test, and has concluded that Todd to the Company Secretary of any current situations appointments or Hunt continues to remain robustly independent.
In making its decision, otherwise which may give rise to a conflict, or potential conflict, of the Board took account of his contribution to Board and committee interest.
Notifications have been received from all of the current directors discussions, in which he demonstrates independent judgement and robust and there are no conflict matters which require to be authorised.
The scrutiny, the results of the Board evaluation process, which did not identify Board will continue to monitor and review potential conflicts of interest any concern relating to his independent behaviour, and the fact that Todd on a regular basis.
Hunt will have entered into his tenth year on the Board following the upcoming AGM.
The Board is satisfied that no long-standing personal Matters Reserved to the Board or professional relationships exist between Todd Hunt and any of the and Delegation of Authority Executive Directors.
During the past year the composition of the directors The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it on the Board has changed extensively Todd Hunt provided an element for decision.
These reserved matters include determination of the overall of continuity and stability to the Board during this period.
strategy of the Group and approval of the Annual Report and Accounts and any other financial statements, the Groups annual budget and Induction and Development amendments to that budget over a particular amount, borrowing and New directors receive a full and appropriate induction on joining the security, acquisitions and disposals, capital expenditure over a specified Board.
This involves meetings with other Board members in particular amount, amendments to the organisational structure of the Group and the the Chairman, senior management and the Companys principal Board, approval of significant changes to accounting policies and approval advisers.
In addition, a new director is provided with an induction pack of management incentive schemes and Group policy on pensions.
which contains background materials and general information on the Company, the Companys policies and procedures, financial information, The Company has during 2011 constituted two new non-Board an operational review and a briefing on directors legal and regulatory committees the Management Team and the Corporate Team responsibilities.
to support the Board and the Executive Directors in the day to day operational management of the Company.
The Company provides on an on-going basis the necessary resources for developing and updating its directors knowledge and capabilities.
The Management Team is comprised of six members of the senior In particular, the Company is committed to the provision of continuing management team and its objective is to lead the delivery of the professional development training to its directors and in 2011 held a Companys strategic objectives, including generating and updating number of seminars for Board members, which are regularly presented the business plan to be recommended to the Board, ensuring that all by the Companys external advisers and guest speakers, on subjects work programmes are executed, managed and reported, and being appropriate to the Companys business, including changes to legislation, responsible for the risk management process for all assets, functions regulation and market practice.
These seminars were held at the end and new venture proposals.
of Board meetings and were attended by all directors present at such meetings.
This process is continuing in 2012.
Any director may request The Corporate Team comprises members of the senior management that a particular subject is covered in a seminar.
In addition, all media team and is responsible for enabling and maintaining the Companys articles relating to the Company and all brokers and analysts reports access to the capital markets and new opportunities in line with the on the Company are distributed to all directors.
Companys strategic objectives and is charged with promoting and protecting the Companys reputation as a well run business.
In 2011, the Corporate Team has focused on the following key areas: external communications, corporate responsibility, investor relations strategy, security and internal control and assurance.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 61 leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Continued Matters Reserved to the Board Directors Attendance at Board and Delegation of Authority Continued and Board Committee Meetings Both the Corporate Team and the Management Team formally meet The table below sets out the attendance record of each director at fortnightly and regularly report direct to the Executive Directors.
scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2011: The other non-Board committees previously constituted in 2010 the Audit Remuneration Nomination strategy review group and the technical advisory board continue to Board Committee Committee Committee support the Companys operational management and strategic decision Meetings held during 2011 6 4 5 2 making process.
Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings attended attended attended attended The strategy review group meets on an ad hoc basis and comprises five members of the senior management team including the three Executive Executive Directors 7 Directors and two Non-Executive Directors.
It provides advice to the Simon Thomson 6 n a n a n a Board on strategic options open to Cairn to fulfil its next phase of growth.
Dr Mike Watts 5 n a n a n a Jann Brown 5 n a n a n a The technical advisory board meets at least three times per year and 3 Malcolm Thoms 3 n a n a n a currently comprises three Executive Directors and two independent 4 Phil Tracy 3 n a n a n a technical experts.
It provides an independent forum for expert technical advice and peer group review of technical programmes, including new Non-Executive Directors ventures proposals, in the context of the agreed exploration strategy.
Sir Bill Gammell 6 n a n a 2 The technical advisory board also provides advice on technical excellence Iain McLaren 6 4 4 1 and appropriate new technology to assist in developing the Companys 5 growth strategy.
Norman Murray 3 n a n a 1 Todd Hunt 6 n a 5 2 In October 2011, a HSE leadership team was also established, chaired Dr James Buckee 6 4 5 n a by the Managing Director and comprising key managers across the Alexander Berger 6 n a n a 1 business.
The aim of the HSE leadership team is to provide leadership 6 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC 6 4 1 n a on HSE issues and drive initiatives to improve HSE performance across the group.
Notes: n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee Board Meetings 1 During 2011, certain directors who were not committee members attended During 2011, six scheduled meetings of the Board were held, all of meetings of the Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination which were held at the Companys registered office in Edinburgh.
These details have not been included in the table.
2 W here a director was unable to attend meetings of the Board or of Board Details of attendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings committees, he reviewed the relevant papers for the meetings and provided his of Board committees, are set out in the table on the right.
comments to the Board or the Board committees in advance of such meetings.
3 Malcolm Thoms retired as a member of the Board on 30 June 2011.
During the year, a significant number of other meetings took place to The number of meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date.
deal with specific matters that required to be considered at short notice.
4 P hil Tracy retired as a member of the Board on 30 June 2011.
The number of When a specific matter requires consideration at short notice, there is meetings he attended is stated up to and including that date.
5 N orman Murray retired as a member of the Board and the Remuneration and a procedure that sets out when those matters must be considered at Nomination Committees on 30 June 2011.
The number of meetings he attended a short notice Board meeting and when they may be dealt with by a is stated up to and including that date.
committee of the Board comprising at least two Non-Executive 6 M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on Directors, one of whom must be the Chairman or the Senior 13 October 2011.
The number of committee meetings she attended is stated from Independent Non-Executive Director, and two Executive Directors.
7 Simon Thomson was appointed to the Nomination Committee on 13 October 2011.
No meetings of the Nomination Committee have taken place since this date.
Any director who is physically unable to attend Board or committee meetings is given the opportunity to be consulted and comment in Board Committees advance of the meeting by telephone or in writing.
Video and telephone The Board has established an Audit Committee, a Remuneration conferencing facilities are also used when directors are not able to attend Committee and a Nomination Committee, each of which has formal meetings in person.
terms of reference approved by the Board.
The terms of reference for each of these committees satisfy the requirements of the UK Corporate The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting, which regularly Governance Code and are reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by includes presentations from senior operational management, is set by the Board.
Copies of the terms of reference are available on the the Chairman in consultation with the Chief Executive and the Company Companys website.
In particular, the agenda for each Board meeting in 2011 included a detailed update on matters in respect of the Groups Indian The committees are provided with all necessary resources to enable business from those directors of the Company who sat in a nonthem to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
The Company executive capacity on the board of Cairn India Sir Bill Gammell, Jann Secretary acts as secretary to the committees and the minutes of all Brown and Malcolm Thoms.
The Chief Executive Officer of Cairn India, committee meetings are circulated to all directors.
Rahul Dhir, also attended part of each meeting to ensure that the Board was kept fully briefed on matters relating to Cairn India.
Formal minutes Set out below are reports from the Audit Committee, Remuneration of all Board and committee meetings are circulated to all directors prior Committee and Nomination Committee.
to the next Board meeting and are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In addition, the members of the Board are in frequent contact between meetings to progress the Groups business.
The Non-Executive Directors also meet informally, without any executives present, on a regular basis to discuss matters in respect of the business.
62 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Continued Board Committees Continued The Audit Committee has established a policy in relation to the supply 1.
Audit Committee Report of non-audit services by the external auditors and other third parties.
The Audit Committee currently comprises three Non-Executive The Company will engage an external adviser to provide non-audit Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
services on the basis of the skills and experience required for the work, The Board is satisfied that all members of the committee have recent where benefit will be derived as a result of the third partys knowledge and relevant financial experience.
These advisers may include the Companys external auditors for a restricted list of non-audit services, although, The members of the committee during the year were as follows: before the engagement commences, the Company must be satisfied h Iain McLaren Chairman : that the auditors objectivity and independence would not be h Dr James Buckee: and compromised in any way as a result of being instructed to carry out those h M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC.
If the cumulative fees to be paid to an external adviser for the provision of non-audit services are below a certain level, the adviser may The Audit Committee met four times in 2011.
At the request of the be engaged in accordance with the Companys financial delegations Audit Committee, the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer of authority after a quotation has been received.
If the fees payable are and senior members of the Finance Department attended each of these expected to exceed that level on a cumulative basis, the engagement meetings.
In addition, all four meetings were attended by the external must be approved by the Audit Committee in advance after following auditors and by the internal auditors.
The Audit Committee must also be satisfied that the engagement is the most effective and efficient means of procuring such The external auditors receive copies of all Audit Committee papers non-audit services.
including papers to be considered at meetings when they are not in attendance and minutes of all committee meetings.
In addition, the KPMG LLP has been appointed by the Audit Committee to supervise Chairman of the committee regularly meets with the external audit and co-ordinate the Companys internal audit function.
At the beginning partner to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
of each year, an internal audit plan is developed by the internal auditor, in consultation with senior management, based on a review of the outcome The role of the committee includes: of the previous years internal audit, the significant risks in the Group Risk h monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company Matrix and identified mitigation measures.
The internal auditor also and formal announcements relating to the Companys financial participates in meetings of the Group Risk Management Committee to performance and reviewing any significant financial reporting maintain an understanding of the business activities and associated risks judgements contained in them: and to update the committee on the internal audit work plan.
The Audit h reviewing accounting policies, accounting treatments and disclosures Committee also receives updates on the internal audit work plan on an in financial reports: ongoing basis.
The external auditors do not place any reliance on the h reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and internal work undertaken by the Companys internal audit function due to the control and risk management systems: nature of the scope and the timing of their work.
The external auditors h monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys do, however, attend all Audit Committee meetings where internal audit internal audit function: updates are given.
h overseeing the Companys relationship with the external auditors, including making recommendations to the Board as to the The Company monitors its auditors performance on an ongoing basis, appointment or reappointment of the external auditors, reviewing including an annual assessment carried out by the Audit Committee their terms of engagement, and monitoring the external auditors with input from the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer independence, objectivity and effectiveness: and and other key members of the Finance Department.
Following such h reviewing the Companys whistleblowing procedures and ensuring assessment, the Audit Committee meets to discuss what actions, that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent if any, require to be taken.
In addition to this, the Ernst & Young LLP investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial senior audit partner working with Cairn is subject to rotation.
The current reporting and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
audit partner has worked with the Company on the 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011 year-end process.
Of the four Audit Committee meetings held during 2011, the first two meetings were in respect of the 2010 year-end process the second two The Company updated its Whistleblowing Policy during 2009 and the meetings were in respect of the 2011 interim accounts and planning for new policy was subsequently rolled out across the organisation and the 2011 year-end process.
At the first of these meetings, issues which reviewed by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee is satisfied may impact on the financial statements are raised by both the senior that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and independent management and the external auditors.
The auditors also present their investigation of possible improprieties in respect of financial reporting audit plan.
Audit Committee guidance is sought on accounting policies and other matters and for appropriate follow-up action.
and assumptions to be adopted in preparing the financial statements.
After discussing and challenging the issues raised, the Audit Committee Since the year end 31 December 2011, the Board agreed that recommends the policies to be adopted or directs senior management to M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC would stand down as a member of the produce further information if deemed necessary.
Audit Committee and be replaced by Alexander Berger with effect from close of business of the Audit Committee meeting held on 12 March At the second meeting in respect of the year-end process, the external 2012.
This change allows M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC to fulfil her duties auditors report their audit results to the Audit Committee, including as newly appointed Chair of the Remuneration Committee and the a summary of any significant accounting and auditing issues, internal reconstituted Corporate Governance and Nomination Committee control findings and a summary of audit differences identified.
The as detailed on pages 64 and 65.
Audit Committee considers any disagreements in accounting treatment between management and the auditors, should any arise.
The Audit Committee also considers disclosures made in the Financial Statements, challenging the materiality of both those items included in the Financial Statements and those excluded.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 63 leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Continued The UK Corporate Governance Code requires there to be a formal, Board Committees Continued rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors, 2.
Remuneration Committee Report which should be meritocratic and made against objective criteria.
For this The Remuneration Committee currently comprises four Non-Executive purpose, the Board has established the Nomination Committee, whose Directors, all of whom are considered by the Board to be independent.
role includes considering the composition, balance and skills of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on these matters, on the The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year were appointment of new directors and on the reappointment and orderly as follows: succession of existing directors.
The Nomination Committee also takes h Dr James Buckee Chairman : into account the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
h Todd Hunt: Cairn currently has two exceptionally well-qualified women on its Board, h Iain McLaren: one executive and one non-executive.
The Board is also diverse in terms h Norman Murray stepped down as a Non-Executive Director of the range of experience and nationality of its members.
and member of the committee on 30 June 2011 : and h M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC joined the committee on In order to ensure a continuing focus on good governance within the 13 October 2011.
Company and reflect emerging market practice, it was agreed at the Board meeting held on 6 March 2012 that the remit of the Nomination The Remuneration Committee met five times during 2011.
The Chief Committee should be expanded to include a corporate governance Executive, at the request of the committee, attends its meetings.
In function, thereby forming a Corporate Governance and Nomination addition, he is consulted by the committee on its proposals.
The members of this committee are M. Jacqueline other of the Executive Directors attended meetings of the committee Sheppard QC chair, Iain McLaren, Todd Hunt, Alexander Berger, as observers on being invited to do so by the committee.
None of the Sir Bill Gammell and Jann Brown, with Simon Thomson attending members of the committee, nor the Chief Executive nor the Chairman, by invitation.
This new committee will meet at least twice annually.
participated in any meetings or discussions relating to their own remuneration.
Board Changes As mentioned previously, a number of changes to the composition The role of the committee includes: of the Board were announced in June 2011 which became effective on h determining and agreeing with the Board the remuneration policy for 1 July 2011.
The key change was the resignation of Norman Murray as all the Executive Directors, the Chairman, and the Companys PDMRs: Chairman of the Board and as a Non-Executive Director of the Company h within the terms of the agreed policy, determining the total individual and the appointment of Sir Bill Gammell as his successor as Nonremuneration package for each Executive Director: Executive Chairman of the Board.
Prior to implementing these changes h determining the level of awards made under the Companys share the Board discussed the various options and proposals extensively, option plans and long-term incentive plans and the performance taking into account the best interests of the Board in the context of the conditions which are to apply: skills and experience of all Board members and the future plans of the h determining bonuses payable under the Companys annual cash Company.
The Company also announced that: bonus scheme: h Simon Thomson, previously the Legal and Commercial Director, h determining the vesting of awards under the Companys long-term has been appointed as Chief Executive: incentive plans and exercise of share options: and h Jann Brown, previously Finance Director, has been appointed h determining the policy for pension arrangements, service as Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer: agreements and termination payments for Executive Directors.
h Malcolm Thoms, Chief Operating Officer, had stepped down as an Executive Director: and Details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and h Phil Tracy, Engineering and Operations Director, had stepped down compensation payments are given in the Directors Remuneration Report as an Executive Director.
All of the changes were thoroughly considered and approved by the Since the year end 31 December 2011, the Board agreed that after a Nomination Committee led by Iain McLaren as the Senior Independent three year term as chairman of the Remuneration Committee it was Non-Executive Director and were considered to be in the best interests appropriate for Dr James Buckee to stand down from this position and of the Company and its shareholders.
Norman Murray did not participate to be replaced by M. Jacqueline Sheppard QC, albeit that he remains a in any discussions regarding the appointment of his successor as member of the Remuneration Committee.
This change took effect from Chairman.
All appointments received the unanimous support of the 5 March 2012.
Prior to the Companys announcement of the appointment of Sir Bill Gammell as Non-Executive Chairman the Company also 3.
Nomination Committee Report consulted with its major shareholders who indicated their approval of The Nomination Committee currently comprises the Chairman, three the Companys decision to appoint Sir Bill Gammell as Non-Executive independent Non-Executive Directors and to ensure input from the Chairman and the other Board changes.
executive team the Chief Executive.
Succession Planning The members of the Nomination Committee during the year were The Nomination Committee regularly reviews the structure, size and as follows: composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required h Iain McLaren Chairman with effect from 13 October 2011: member of the Board and makes recommendations to the Board, as appropriate.
prior to that : The Board has satisfied itself that the Nomination Committee has in h Todd Hunt: place appropriate plans for orderly succession to the Board and senior h Sir Bill Gammell: management positions as well as procedures to ensure an appropriate h Alexander Berger joined the committee on 13 October 2011 : balance of skills within the Company and on the Board and its committees.
h Simon Thomson joined the committee on 13 October 2011 : and h Norman Murray stepped down as a Non-Executive Director and The Board and Nomination Committee are satisfied that the individuals member of the committee on 30 June 2011. currently fulfilling key senior management positions in the organisation have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience.
The Nomination Committee met twice in 2011.
In addition to the members listed above, certain other Non-Executive Directors attended meetings on being invited to do so by the committee.
64 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Continued Board Committees Continued In order to ensure that the members of the Board develop an 3.
Nomination Committee Report continued understanding of the views of major shareholders, there is regular Organisational Planning dialogue with institutional shareholders, including meetings after the 2011 was an exceptionally busy year, with drilling operations in announcement of the year-end and half-yearly results.
Resourcing remained a key focus area in this respect: over is available to attend a number of these meetings.
At the Board meeting the course of the year the organisation grew its staff headcount by 22% immediately following these meetings, a detailed report is given to all and further engaged with a large number of specialist consultants to directors who were not in attendance at those meetings.
In addition, ensure that the organisation was fit-for-purpose and ably equipped to the Company maintains an external relations database which details manage operations.
all meetings attended by the directors with third party stakeholders.
All analysts and brokers reports on the Company are also distributed As in 2010, the Edinburgh office was the base for an Emergency to all directors.
Cairn responds to all correspondence from shareholders Response Group ERG for Edinburgh-directed operations in addition to and its website contains a wide range of information on the Company, the Crisis Response Team CRT and dedicated fully-equipped response including a dedicated investor relations section.
rooms were set up from which to manage any emergencies or crises that may arise.
The ERG CRT teams undertook a number of emergency A list of the Companys major shareholders can be found in the Directors training exercises throughout the year including with the participation Report on page 58. of the Greenland emergency services to ensure they were fully trained and equipped to deal with a live emergency.
The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal In addition to operations, the Company continued to focus on employee channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive or Managing Director and engagement and conducted a pulse check staff survey in January 2010.
Chief Financial Officer has failed to resolve, or for which such contact The response rate from staff increased from the initial 2008 survey from is inappropriate.
74% to 80% which was in itself an indication of enhanced levels of engagement.
We were delighted that the results across seven of the Each of the Non-Executive Directors is available to attend meetings eight engagement factors showed increased engagement levels: with major shareholders without the Executive Directors present, however, lower levels of engagement were reported in the area of if requested by such major shareholders.
Continued efforts across all the engagement factors have continued in 2011.
These have included the introduction of a gym AGM and fitness allowance for employees, the provision of total reward The Board uses the AGM to communicate with private and institutional statements for staff and giving six staff not involved in the Greenland investors and welcomes their participation.
It is policy for all directors to assets the opportunity of a trip to Greenland.
This was in addition to attend the AGM if at all possible.
Whilst this may not always be possible the continuation of our free fruit Fridays, lunch and learn programme, for business or personal reasons, in normal circumstances the Chairmen six-month joiner surveys with new staff and other successful of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees will attend the engagement initiatives implemented since the original survey AGM and be available to answer questions.
It is policy to involve shareholders fully in the affairs of the Company Following our 2010 Investors in People re-accreditation, in 2011 we and to give them the opportunity at the AGM to ask questions about introduced succession planning, mentoring and coaching to our talent the Companys activities and prospects.
and people development activities and continued with our performance management, people development and leadership development Details of resolutions to be proposed at the AGM on 17 May 2012 can interventions which form the fulcrum of our people management be found in the Notice of Annual General Meeting which is contained in activities at Cairn and upon which the Investors in People Award is based.
the Circular posted with this report.
Further explanation of the resolutions can also be found in the Circular.
Equality and diversity continues to be an important factor in all that we do.
A comprehensive suite of diversity policies were implemented The proxy votes for and against each resolution, as well as abstentions, in 2009 and further training to all staff and contractors on equality and will be counted before the AGM and the results will be made available diversity in the workplace is scheduled for 2012.
Over the past year, while at the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution on our headcount comprises marginally more women than men 53%:47%, a poll.
The Form of Proxy for the AGM includes a vote withheld option the number of women in managerial roles has increased from 26.83% in respect of each resolution, to enable shareholders to abstain on any to 27.27%.
Our workforce also comprises a diverse range of ethnicities particular resolution.
It is explained on the Form of Proxy that a vote currently 2.86% and employees with a disability total 2.14%.
withheld is not a vote in law and will not be counted in the calculation of the proportion of the votes for or against a resolution.
Relations with Shareholders Communications with shareholders are given high priority by the Board.
Cairn sends both its Annual Report and Financial Statements and Half-yearly Report to all shareholders.
This year the Company has also implemented the provisions of the Companies Act 2006 regarding electronic communications with its shareholders, in order to give shareholders more choice and flexibility in how they receive information from the Company.
The initial consultation took place with shareholders in February 2012 and it is intended to implement this with shareholders who have elected to receive information electronically in 2012.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 65 leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Continued Directors Responsibility Statement Internal Control The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the system of internal Group and Company financial statements in accordance with applicable control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The Company has in place United Kingdom law and those IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
an Integrated Internal Control and Assurance Framework, which plays a critical role in managing the risks towards the achievement of corporate Under Company Law the directors must not approve the Group and vision, strategy and objectives, and is also central to safeguarding Company financial statements unless they are satisfied that they present shareholders interests and Company assets.
This system of internal fairly the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the control is in accordance with the guidance of the Turnbull Committee and Group and Company for that period.
In preparing those financial is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve statements, the directors are required to: business objectives and can only provide reasonable but not absolute h select suitable accounting policies in accordance with IAS 8: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors and then apply them consistently: The process has been in place in respect of the Group for the 2011 h present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that accounting period and up to the date of approval of the report and provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable accounts.
The Board has carried out a review of the effectiveness of the information: system of internal controls during 2011 and will ensure that such reviews h provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific are performed in 2012.
In so doing, the Board has taken into account the requirements in IFRSs is insufficient to enable users to understand assurance provided by the Chief Executive in respect of the effectiveness the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on of the system of internal control within the Company.
The Board is the Groups financial position and financial performance: accordingly satisfied that effective controls are in place and that risks h state that the Group and Company has complied with IFRSs, subject have been mitigated to an acceptable level.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and The Company is subject to a variety of risks which derive from the nature h make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent.
of the oil and gas exploration and production business and relate to the countries in which it conducts its activities.
The directors believe that The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records Cairn derives its competitive edge by focusing activities in areas where that are sufficient to show and explain the Group and Companys they believe they have a technical and commercial advantage and the transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the experience gained over many years enables the Company to manage financial position of the Group and Company and enable them to ensure these risks effectively.
that the Group and Companys financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006 and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also Operations in any country are only possible when values are shared, responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Group and Company and and the directors believe that the Groups values of integrity, social hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of and environmental responsibility, teamwork and nurturing of individuals, fraud and other irregularities.
creativity, risk management and alliances with key partners are all ingredients that are central to the Companys success.
The ability to Directors Statement Pursuant to the Disclosure recognise the value of working as a partnership with host governments, and Transparency Rules both nationally and regionally, has also been a critical ingredient in this Each of the directors, whose names are listed in the Board of Directors approach and success.
section on pages 54 and 55 confirms to the best of his knowledge that: h the financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, 2011 was another year of change.
The Company focused on conducting liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group and an exploration drilling programme in Greenland and supporting its Company: and subsidiary company Cairn India in progressing the Mangala Field and h the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and other discoveries in Rajasthan.
There were also changes in the leadership performance of the business and the position of the Group and of the Company with a number of Board changes mid-year including the Company, together with a description of the principal risks and appointment of a new Chairman and Chief Executive.
Particular attention uncertainties that it faces.
has been placed by Group management on ensuring that a robust system of internal control has been maintained during 2011 in relation The beneficial interests of each of the directors in the ordinary shares to the significant risks in the Groups business activities.
of the Company are set out on page 56.
CIL is subject to the rules, regulations and guidelines of the Securities Information Pursuant to the Takeovers Directive Exchange Board of India SEBI and to its listing agreement with the The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR Bombay Stock Exchange BSE and National Stock Exchange of India 7.2.
7 directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of Limited NSE.
Under the terms of a relationship agreement between directors: powers of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights the Company and Cairn India entered into at the time of the IPO the regarding control of the Company in the Directors Report.
Relationship Agreement, both companies have also agreed to use reasonable endeavours to ensure that they can comply with their Going Concern respective obligations to SEBI, the Financial Services Authority FSA, The directors have considered the factors relevant to support a the BSE, the London Stock Exchange LSE and the NSE and under the statement on going concern.
They have a reasonable expectation that SEBI Insider Trading Regulations and UK regulation and legislation relating the Group has adequate financial resources to continue in operational to the disclosure of information or dealing in respect of listed securities existence for the foreseeable future and have therefore continued to use or corporate governance.
This has included adopting and following the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
the principles and policies of corporate governance, including risk management, which enable each company to comply with these obligations.
The Relationship Agreement ceased to be in effect from the date of the completion of the Vedanta transaction on 8 December 2011, at which time the Company became a minority shareholder in Cairn India.
66 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 Discover Cairn Business Review Leadership and Governance Financial Statements Additional Information leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Continued It does this by ensuring that the framework for the identification, Internal Control Continued assessment, mitigation and reporting on all areas of risk is fit for The following describes the key elements of the framework and the purpose and that appropriate assurance arrangements are in place processes used by the Board during 2011 to review the effectiveness in relation to these risks.
of the internal control system.
It also describes the approach to be taken in 2012.
The Group Business Risk Management System GBRMS defines the processes through which Cairn seeks to systematically identify, 1.
Strategic Direction analyse, assess, treat and monitor the business risks faced by the Group.
The Group business model is conventional in that strategy and The GBRMS also identifies the risk management organisational structure business plan are set by the directors and approved by the Board and through which business risks are managed and regularly reviewed at its implementation is delegated to the Executive Team.
Since its listing operating, asset, country and group levels.
on the BSE and NSE in January 2007, CIL has been a subsidiary of the Company with its own Board of Directors.
The Company has previously In 2011 the GRMC was chaired by Simon Thomson, the Legal and had three Non-Executive Directors on the Board of Cairn India including Commercial Director during the first half of 2011 and subsequently Sir Bill Gammell as Chairman and, therefore, had input to Cairn Indias the Chief Executive.
The GRMC comprises Executive Directors and strategy.
Following the completion of the Vedanta transaction on senior functional management.
The Non-Executive Chairman of the 8 December 2011, the Companys three Non-Executive Directors Audit Committee is a member of the GRMC and the internal auditor appointed to the board of Cairn India resigned and the Company also attends meetings, in order to ensure internal audits integration has no further input into Cairn Indias strategy other than through with the risk management process.
As part of the reorganisation in its residual shareholding.
July 2011, the corporate and functional risk management sub committee was replaced by regular joint Management Team and Corporate Team 2.
Operating Management meetings which managed the assessment and treatment of business risks Outside of CIL, the Group, through its unlisted wholly-owned subsidiary outside of CIL that may affect the Companys ability to deliver its strategy.
Capricorn, operates several business units in different countries and with various partners.
Capricorn has a matrix organisation where the assets Subsequent to its listing, CIL operates its own Risk Management are the principal focus tasked with delivering objectives for their Committee RMC in line with its Business Risk Management System particular asset, with functional departments providing support to the BRMS under the chairmanship of the Chief Operating Officer and assets in delivering their objectives.
reporting to the Cairn India Board.
Risk management sub committees have also been set up reporting to the Cairn India RMC to consider In July 2011, the Company announced a reorganisation through which the specific risks associated with operations, finance, exploration, the Chief Executives Committee was disbanded and three bodies were commercial, and the Rajasthan upstream and midstream projects.
The established to manage the business in the future.
The Executive Team, Cairn India BRMS is substantially similar to that of the Company and, which comprises the three Executive Directors, has the primary role of under the terms of the Relationship Agreement, copies of the CIL risk devising strategy, sanctioning the business plan and work programmes report and RMC minutes are routinely submitted for review at the and budget, and overall responsibility for investor relations, corporate Companys GRMC, at which a senior representative from Cairn India is governance matters and implementing the communications strategy.
present to provide explanation and take questions.
As the Relationship Reporting to the Executive Team are two teams: the Management Team Agreement ceased to be in effect from the date of the completion of the who are primarily responsible for day to day management of the delivery Vedanta transaction on 8 December 2011, Cairn India no longer provides of the approved business plan and work programmes: and the Corporate the Company with risk information.
Team who are responsible for maintaining market reporting and communications and ensuring corporate governance processes are Business risks, together with the identified mitigating measures effectively implemented.
Further information on the Management Team and responsibilities, are recorded in asset, country and departmental and the Corporate Team can be found earlier in this statement on page risk registers and then consolidated into the Group risk register, 61.
The directors have also appointed Group Functional Department which is regularly reviewed by the GRMC to ensure that the business Heads whose roles include providing input and challenge to the work understands the key risks it faces and that there is an embedded programmes, budgets and business plans, and supplying the relevant risk management approach in place across the Group.
director with full and accurate information and to make statements on the adequacy of internal control.
The GRMC reports on the Groups risk profile to both the Audit Committee and the Board.
Additionally, the Audit Committee and Board A business plan with a five year outlook and annual work programmes receive internal reviews of the effectiveness of internal control relative to and budgets are prepared annually to meet the Group strategy, starting the key risks.
The conclusion of the Board following these reviews during at asset level before being consolidated at Group level.
A detailed 2011 is that the internal controls in respect of key risks are effective.
business plan is also prepared to meet the agreed annual work programme and budget.
This sets out detailed objectives and KPIs for 4.
Assurance each asset and supporting functional departments, and is consolidated The internal control framework adopted by the Board provides for into the Companys annual business plan.
After an iterative process, three levels of assurance against the risks facing the Group: first of all the business plan and budget are presented to the Executive Team at the operational level: secondly through overview by Group functional and the Board for approval.
management and the GRMC: and thirdly through internal, external or JV audits.
The asset management teams then have the required authority to implement the business plan and to deliver the agreed work The integrated internal control and assurance framework was updated programmes within the approved budget and delegations of and distributed throughout the Company in October 2010.
Following the authority, and in accordance with the internal control framework.
conclusion of the Vedanta transaction in December 2011, a new version reflecting the changes made to the risk organisation will be issued in 3.
The framework document includes a description of the The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC, established by Companys business and assurance models, organisation and the Board in 1999, continues to be responsible for the development Committee structure and defines responsibilities.
of risk management strategy and processes within the Company and for overseeing the implementation of the requirements of this strategy.
Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011 67 leadership and Governance Corporate Governance Statement Continued Internal Control Continued Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code 4.
Assurance continued Throughout 2011 the Company complied with the provisions of the UK The framework also defines the key policies procedures which govern Corporate Governance Code, except in the following area: the way in which Cairn conducts its business and are therefore a core Provision of the UK part of its system of internal control.
Corporate Governance Code Company position Explanation A.
3.1 Sir Bill Gammell, The Board firmly A separate Group HSE, Risk and Compliance Department was the chief executive previously Chief believes that Sir Bill established in January 2010 reporting to the Managing Director and officer should not Executive, was Gammell is the best Chief Financial Officer and continued to provide independent verification go on to be the appointed Noncandidate for the role of the corporate responsibility, business risk and compliance activities chairman of the Executive of Chairman and the during 2011.
During 2011, the Company also maintained two advisory same company.
Chairman with effect appointment received committees, the technical advisory board and the strategic planning from 1 July 2011 the unanimous support group both described earlier in this statement on page 62 to facilitate following consultation of the Board.
Prior to independent advice on strategic and technical issues.
with the Companys the appointment the major shareholders.
Company also During 2011, the directors reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups consulted with its system of financial and non-financial controls, including operational and major shareholders.
compliance controls, risk management and the Groups high level internal Further detailed control arrangements.
The directors derive assurance from the following explanation of this internal and external controls during 2011 or until 8 December 2011 appointment is given in the case of CIL through: on pages 59 and 60 h a regularly updated schedule of matters specifically reserved for of this statement.
a decision by the Board: h implementation of policies and procedures for key business activities: h an appropriate organisational structure: h control over non-operated JV activities through delegated representatives: h specific delegations of authority for all financial and other transactions: h segregation of duties where appropriate and cost effective: h business and financial reporting, including KPIs: h functional management reviews: h nomination of various directors of the Company to the Cairn India board in a non-executive capacity and to certain of its committees.
The Board also receives copies of minutes of meetings of the Cairn India Board of Directors: h a Relationship Agreement with Cairn India, which, inter alia, contains provisions for the supply by Cairn India to the Company of such information and confirmations as the Company may require to comply with legal, regulatory and reporting obligations: h an annual letter of assurance process, through which asset and functional managers confirm the adequacy of internal financial and non-financial controls and their compliance with Group policies and report any control weaknesses identified in the past: h a letter of assurance from the Chief Executive confirming the adequacy of internal controls within the Company in line with its policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the past year: h a letter of assurance from Cairn Indias Chief Executive Officer confirming the adequacy of internal controls within CIL in line with its policy, and reporting of any control weaknesses identified in the past year: h Group internal audits to assess compliance the internal auditor implements a number of audits during the year in line with the annual internal audit plan approved by the Audit Committee and Board: h reports from the Group Audit Committee and GRMC, including reports from the Cairn India RMC and Cairn India Audit Committee : h reports from the new advisory committees on technical and strategic options: h reports from the Group external auditor on matters identified during its statutory audit: h reports from audits by host governments and co-venturers: and h independent third party reviews.
68 Cairn Energy PLC Annual Report 2011
