GOVERNANCE DIRECTORS REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND OTHER MATTERS We continued to refresh the Boards membership during 2011, with the recruitment of Eva Castillo and the retirement at our Annual General Meeting of two of our long-standing non-executive directors, Nigel Andrews and Rudi Bogni.
We were also pleased to welcome Nku Nyembezi-Heita to the Board in March 2012.
The Board spent a considerable amount of time during the year addressing strategic issues and the sale of the Groups Nordic business, which we anticipate will complete later in March 2012.
This transaction, along with the sale of the US Life business which completed in the first half of 2011, has contributed towards achieving the restructuring objectives that we announced in 2010, enabling the Board now to focus on the longer-term future of the Group.
Old Mutual views good During the year, the Board reviewed output from the first Group-wide survey of culture and values, which provided governance as a vital a helpful benchmark on current strengths and weaknesses.
ingredient in operating a We hope to improve the Groups culture over the coming years as these surveys are repeated annually.
The Board continued to monitor relationships with regulators Patrick OSullivan and received a report from our supervisory regulator, the Chairman FSA, on findings from its most recent ARROW visit, which showed an improved picture of theGroups governance andfinancial stability.
We  training onthe important  for our life insurance operations.
An externally facilitated review of Board effectiveness took place towards the end of the year under the auspices of an independent firm, IDDAS.
This has provided us with some useful suggestions for how to improve Board performance in the future.
During the first half of 2011, we implemented a transition to paperless meetings through posting of materials on a Sharepoint site with access via iPads.
The timeliness and accessibility of information provided to the Board and its Committees have benefited as a direct result of this.
I intend to continue to ensure over the coming year that directors time is spent on issues that make a real difference to the Group.
Patrick OSullivan Chairman To see Glossary terms please go topage 290 96 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information Responsibilities of the Board Approach to governance The Boards role is to exercise stewardship of the Company Old Mutual views good governance as a vital ingredient within a framework of prudent and effective controls that in operating a successful business, so that it can provide enables risk to be assessed and managed.
The Board sets assurance to shareholders, customers and regulators the Companys strategic aims, reviews whether the that the Groups businesses are being properly managed necessary financial and human resources are in place for and controlled.
it to meet its objectives and monitors management During 2011, steps were taken to embed around the Group performance.
It is kept informed about major developments our Group Operating Model, under which we now operate affecting the Group through the Group Chief Executives a strategic controller model steered from our head office.
monthly reports and also holds regular strategy sessions This Model establishes clear principles of delegation and at which high-level strategic matters are debated.
escalation that are designed to provide appropriate levels of assurance about the control environment, while retaining The Board has overall authority for the conduct of the business of the Group and the Group Operating Model sets flexibility for our businesses to operate efficiently.
out matters that are specifically reserved for Board decision Compliance with the UK Corporate and protocols that govern escalation of issues to it and Governance Code delegation of powers from it in a manner that is designed to ensure clarity about where responsibility for decisionAs the Companys primary listing now known in the UK making lies.
Further detail is set out under the heading as a premium listing is on the London Stock Exchange, Group Operating Model below.
this report mainly addresses the matters covered by the UK Corporate Governance Code, but the Company also 2011 operations has regard to governance expectations in the four other Board meetings were held regularly during 2011.
As usual, territories where its shares are listed South Africa, Malawi, scheduled meetings were co-ordinated with the Companys Namibia and Zimbabwe.
The Companys major South reporting calendar to allow for detailed consideration African subsidiaries are also subject to applicable local of interim and final results and interim management governance expectations, including those contained statements.
Sessions were also devoted to strategy in King III and, in the case of Nedbank Group Limited, and business planning and the Board met ad hoc, the Listings Requirements of the JSE Limited.
as required, to deal with specific matters requiring its consideration.
In all, ten Board meetings of which eight Throughout the year ended 31 December 2011 and in the preparation of this Annual Report and these were scheduled and two convened ad hoc were held during the year.
Accounts, the Company has complied with the main and supporting principles and provisions set out in the UK Monthly management accounts were circulated to each Corporate Governance Code as described in the following member of the Board within three weeks of the month sections of this Report.
The Companys compliance with end, containing detailed analysis of the businesses financial UK Corporate Governance Code provisions C1.1, C2.1, C3.1 performance, including comparisons against budget.
Any to C3.7, and the statement relating to the going concern issues arising from these are addressed at Board meetings basis adopted in preparing the financial statements set out or can be raised directly with management.
at the end of this section of this report, have been reviewed by the Companys auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in accordance The Board calendar ensures that all key matters are with guidance published by the Auditing Practices Board.
scheduled for attention over the course of the year, including presentations on the Groups major businesses.
Board of Directors During 2011, the Board held three meetings at the Membership Groups South African and one meeting at its US The Old Mutual Board currently has 12 members, two businesses premises.
of whom are executive and ten of whom are non-executive directors.
All of the current directors, except for Eva Castillo In addition to its normal agenda items, the Board addressed who was appointed to the Board in February 2011, and the following matters, among others, during the year: Nku Nyembezi-Heita who joined the Board in March 2012, served throughout the year ended 31 December 2011.
Q Progress against the Groups strategic targets for Nigel Andrews and Rudi Bogni both retired from the Board the end of 2012: at the end of the AGM in May 2011, having each served Q Training on the implications for the Group of the nine years.
introduction of Solvency II: and Q Hedging strategy and scenario-planning for Old Mutual Bermuda.
Old Mutual plc 97 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED New directors receive induction upon their appointment agreement with Nedbank Group Limited in 2004 setting to the Board, with an extensive list of briefing sessions out the Companys requirements and expectations as its available about the Groups businesses in conjunction majority shareholder.
The text of that relationship agreement with other directors, members of senior management is available on the Companys website.
Nedbank has also and external advisers such as the auditors.
These now adopted the Group Operating Model, subject to arrangements applied particularly to Alan Gillespie and certain waivers in acknowledgement of its separately-listed Eva Castillo, as the most recent appointees, during 2011. and regulated status, which sits alongside that agreement.
All directors have access to the Group Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board Rotation and re-election of directors procedures are complied with.
Facilities are available for The Articles of Association of the Company require that the directors to take independent professional advice any newly-appointed directors should be subject to election at the Companys expense for the furtherance of their at the next following AGM and also that the Chairman, duties, whether as members of the Board or of any of along with at least one third of the directors excluding those its committees.
The Company maintains directors and appointed by the Board during the year, should retire by officers liability insurance in respect of legal action rotation each year.
However, it has been decided this year, againstits directors and senior managers.
in line with recommended best practice under the UK Corporate Governance Code, that all of the directors will Delegation of certain responsibilities stand for election or re-election at the 2012 AGM.
In accordance with the Group Operating Model, the Board The Board, having received and reviewed reports including has delegated its executive powers to the Group Chief input from the externally facilitated Board effectiveness Executive, with power to sub-delegate, and also to the review on the performance of the directors and the Approvals Committee.
In his co-ordination and stewardship contributions that they have each respectively made, of the Group, the Group Chief Executive is advised by the recommends that they each be elected or re-elected Group Executive Committee, a consultative management as directors at the AGM.
Biographical details of all of the committee.
Details of members of the Group Executive directors are contained in the Board of Directors section Committee accompany their photographs on pages 94 of this Annual Report and in the explanatory notes in the and95 of this Annual Report.
The Board has also AGM circular.
delegatedspecific responsibilities for certain matters to Board committees.
The principal Board committees Board performance review haveresponsibility for Nomination, Remuneration, Group The Board conducts a review of its performance on an Audit and Board Risk matters, subject to their respective terms of reference.
The Board receives reports from annual basis.
The review is designed to ensure, among other things, that each director continues to contribute these committees on the subjects that they have covered.
The matters addressed by the principal Board committees effectively and to demonstrate commitment to his or her role including commitment of time for Board and in 2011 are outlined below under the heading Board Committees and, for the Remuneration Committee, in committee meetings and any other duties.
The results ofthe review are considered by the Board and appropriate theRemuneration Report.
Group Operating Model The review for 2011 was conducted externally through The objectives of the Group Operating Model are: IDDAS, an independent board effectiveness consultancy.
i to establish a clear and comprehensive governance It was undertaken in line with the Financial Reporting framework, with appropriate procedures, systems and Councils Guidance on Board Effectiveness, including the controls, facilitating the satisfactory discharge of the duties emphasis on a boards role in creating a high-performance and obligations of regulated firms, directors and employees culture and the behavioural aspects of board performance, within the Group: ii to provide a clear articulation of Old related to challenge and decision-making.
Consequently, Mutual plcs expectations as shareholder of business unit for the first time, the Boards performance review included boards when exercising their powers as set out in their psychometric assessment of Board members.
This was respective constitutions in force from time to time: iii to take designed to provide useful collective insights into how due account of the regulatory requirement that boards of to improve team dynamics, communication effectiveness regulated entities maintain proper controls over the affairs and constructive challenge further within the Boardroom.
of their respective businesses: and iv to protect the This insight information was reviewed by the whole Board interests of the Groups various stakeholders including its in a session facilitated by IDDAS and a plan to address shareholders, creditors, policyholders and customers.
recommendations arising from this review over the coming The governance relationship with the Groups majorityyear is currently under development.
owned subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, recognises the The Boards performance review is now externally facilitated latters own governance expectations as a separately-listed at least every three years in line with the UK Corporate entity on the JSE Limited and the fact that it has minority Governance Code.
The Company entered into a relationship 98 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information Separately from the formal Board meeting schedule, the Skills, experience and diversity Chairman holds meetings with the other non-executive directors, without any executives being present, to provide Plans for refreshing and renewing the Boards a forum for any issues to be raised.
He also conducts an composition are managed proactively by the Nomination annual one-to-one performance evaluation of each of the Committee so as to ensure that changes take place other non-executive directors, with any resulting action without undue disruption and that there is an appropriate points being reported to the Nomination Committee.
balance of experience and length of service.
That committee also considers, in making recommendations, Informal meetings among the non-executive directors, the independence of candidates and their suitability and without the Chairman or any executive being present, willingness to serve on other committees of the Board.
are also facilitated by the Company.
Among the activities During 2011, it also acknowledged explicitly the benefits carried out at such meetings is the annual review of the of promoting diversity on the Board and has used this as Chairmans own performance under the aegis of the Senior a criterion during its consideration of a number of senior Independent Director, who also obtains such input as he roles, as well as for the Board recruitment.
The current considers appropriate from the executive directors.
Board composition is considered by the Nomination Committee to be suitable for the requirements of the The assignment of responsibilities between the Chairman, Groups business.
However, such matters continue to be Patrick OSullivan, and the Group Chief Executive, Julian kept under active review, having regard to scheduled Roberts, is documented so as to ensure that there is a clear retirements of non-executive directors and the Groups division between the running of the Board and executive future strategy.
responsibility for running the Companys business.
The responsibilities of Patrick OSullivan as Chairman include In September 2011, the Company issued a statement in leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all response to the Davies Report on Women on Boards in aspects of its role and setting its agenda: ensuring that which we set a target of increasing female representation adequate time is available for discussion of all agenda items on the Board to at least two members by the end of 2013 in particular strategic issues, ensuring that the directors and to at least three members by the end of 2015.
The receive accurate, timely and clear information: ensuring Company has already achieved the target announced for effective communication with shareholders: promoting a the end of 2013.
It has also appointed Sue Kean to the culture of openness and debate by facilitating the effective Group Executive Committee from January 2012 and is contribution to the Board of non-executive directors in taking active steps through a variety of initiatives to particular: and ensuring constructive relationships between encourage female members of staff around the Group to the executive and non-executive directors.
progress to more senior positions.
The Board has determined that, in the absence of Executive and non-executive roles exceptional circumstances, non-executive directors While there are currently only two executive directors, all including the Chairman should serve a maximum of members of the Board have regular contact with the other nine years in office.
During 2011, the way in which these senior executive management including the most senior principles operate was changed so that, instead of a third executives of the main business units of the Group through three-year term, renewals after six years are now for up their periodic participation in Board meetings, other briefing to three further one-year terms.
sessions by the senior executives and Board visits to the locations where the Groups main businesses are based.
The renewal of non-executive directors engagements The Board also receives Minutes of the proceedings of the for successive terms is not automatic and the continued Group Executive Committee.
suitability of each non-executive director is assessed by the Nomination Committee before renewal of his or The executive element of the Board is balanced by an her appointment takes place.
The section of the independent group of non-executive directors.
The Board Remuneration Report entitled Non-Executive Directors as a whole approves the strategic direction of the Group, Terms of Engagement describes the current position scrutinises the performance of management in meeting of each of the non-executive directors with respect to agreed goals and objectives, and monitors the reporting of the duration of their office and how the extension process performance.
Procedures are in place to enable Board has been applied to them.
members to satisfy themselves about the integrity of the Groups financial information and to ensure that financial Independence of non-executive directors controls and systems of risk management are robust and Eight of the nine current non-executive directors other sustainable.
Non-executive directors on the Remuneration than the Chairman Mike Arnold, Eva Castillo, Russell Edey, Committee are responsible for determining appropriate levels Alan Gillespie, Roger Marshall, Bongani Nqwababa, of remuneration for the executive directors, other members Nku Nyembezi-Heita and Lars Otterbeck are considered of the Group Executive Committee and certain other senior by the Board to be independent within the meaning of, members of staff.
Members of the Nomination Committee and having regard to the criteria set out in, paragraph B.
1.1 have a primary role in recommending the appointment and, of the UK Corporate Governance Code ie independent where necessary, removal of executive directors.
in character and judgement and with no relationships Old Mutual plc 99 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear Senior Independent Director to affect, their judgement.
The other non-executive director, Alan Gillespie succeeded Rudi Bogni as the Senior Reuel Khoza, is not considered independent because Independent Director in May 2011.
The Senior Independent of his chairmanship of the Groups majority-owned Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, and the business that are unresolved after contact through the normal relationships between Aka Capital, in which he owns channels of the Chairman, Group Chief Executive or Group a stake, and Nedbank.
Finance Director or where such contact would not be appropriate.
The Senior Independent Directors contact The terms and conditions of engagement of each of the details can be obtained from the Group Company non-executive directors are available on the Companys Secretary martin.
These include details of the expected time commitment involved which each of the non-executive Directors interests directors has accepted.
Other significant commitments Details of the directors interests including interests of their of potential appointees are considered by the Nomination connected persons in the share capital of the Company Committee as part of the selection process and are and its quoted subsidiary, Nedbank Group Limited, at the disclosed to the Board when recommendation of an beginning and end of the year under review are set out in appointment is submitted.
Non-executive directors are also the following tables, while their interests in share options required to inform the Board of any subsequent changes and restricted share awards are described in the section to such commitments, which must be pre-cleared with of the Remuneration Report entitled Directors interests the Chairman if material.
There have been no changes to any of these interests between 31 December 2011 and 8 March 2012.
Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of Number of shares shares At 31 December 2011 Mike Arnold 12,725 1 Philip Broadley 412,178 Eva Castillo Russell Edey 25,000 2,604 Alan Gillespie Reuel Khoza 3,174 Roger Marshall 40,000 Bongani Nqwababa Patrick OSullivan 104,365 Lars Otterbeck 1 Julian Roberts 1,128,633 Nedbank Old Mutual plc Group Limited Number of Number of shares shares At 1 January 2011 or date of appointment as a director, if later Mike Arnold 12,725 1 Philip Broadley 55,353 Eva Castillo appointed on 4 February 2011 Russell Edey 25,000 2,604 Alan Gillespie 2 Reuel Khoza 1,374 Roger Marshall 20,000 Bongani Nqwababa Patrick OSullivan 100,000 Lars Otterbeck 1 Julian Roberts 1,591,644 Former directors at 1 January 2011 and date of resignation Nigel Andrews 7,000 Rudi Bogni 19,000 1 These figures do not include rights to restricted shares that have not yet vested, which are described in the Remuneration Report.
2 This figure does not include shares in the Aka-Nedbank Eyethu Trust, one of Nedbanks Eyethu BEE trusts.
These were disposed of during 2011.
100 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information The Committee met six times during 2011.
The main Directors conicts of interest matters addressed by the Committee included: Processes are in place for any potential conflicts of Q Significant accounting and actuarial issues affecting the interest to be disclosed and for directors to avoid IFRS and MCEV financial statements.
The Committee participation in any decisions where they may have any reviewed the accounting policies adopted by the Group such conflict or potential conflict.
The Companys and considered the approach to, and valuation of, procedures for dealing with directors conflicts of interest assets and liabilities, including the key actuarial have operated effectively during 2011. assumptions underpinning the insurance liabilities.
The Committee considers the most significant area of No director had a material interest in any significant judgement in preparing the 2011 accounts were: contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries the provision for Bermuda guarantees see Note A3 to during the year.
Additional details of various non-material the Accounts.
The Committee has reviewed, and is transactions between the directors and the Group are comfortable with, the process for determining that reported on an aggregated basis, along with other provision.
The eventual liability under the guarantees transactions by senior managers of the Group, in Note will depend on future events, most significantly G3 to the Accounts.
market developments, policyholder behaviour and the level of hedging undertaken.
Note A3 to the Accounts The executive directors are permitted to hold and retain also highlights the wide range of possible outcomes for their own benefit fees from one external non-Group impairment of the carrying value of US Asset non-executive directorship but not a chairmanship of another listed company, subject to prior clearance by the Management goodwill see Note F1 to the Accounts.
The Committee reviewed the assumptions used to Board and the directorship concerned not being in conflict or potential conflict with any of the Groups calculate the impairment and is comfortable with them businesses.
Neither Julian Roberts nor Philip Broadley currently holds any external non-executive directorships the appropriate level of tax provisions see Note F8 to of other publicly quoted companies.
the Accounts impairment provisions at Nedbank Board Committees the inclusion for the first time in the consolidated The Board has a number of committees to which various results of the Groups businesses in the Rest of Africa matters are delegated in accordance with their respective including Zimbabwe.
The Board also establishes committees Q Reports received from the internal audit function, on an ad hoc basis to deal with particular matters.
In doing including the results of key audits and other significant so, it specifies a remit, quorum and appropriate mix of findings relating to the Groups control environment, executive and non-executive participation.
Further and the adequacy of managements responses and the information on the principal standing committees of the timeliness of resolution.
Q The operation of the Groups external audit, including: audit plans for the year, key audit risks identified by Group Audit Committee external audit, changes in key external audit staff, Members and years of appointment to the committee arrangements for day-to-day management of the audit or its predecessor committee, the Group Audit and Risk relationship, the auditors arrangements to identify, Committee : Roger Marshall Chairman 2010, Mike Arnold report and manage any conflicts of interest, the nature 2009, Russell Edey 2004, Alan Gillespie 2010, Bongani and overall extent of non-audit services provided by Nqwababa 2007.
Other member during part of the year: the external auditors, the external auditors engagement Rudi Bogni 2002.
Secretary and year of appointment: letter for the year and fee proposal, and any major Martin Murray 1999. issues that arose during the course of the audit and their resolution.
As in prior years, the Committee All members of the Group Audit Committee are received an evaluation of the auditors effectiveness independent non-executive directors.
The Chairman, after the audit for 2010 had been completed, with input Roger Marshall, is a chartered accountant with a wide from the business units as well as from stakeholders range of recent and current relevant financial experience.
All members of this committee are expected to be Q Any significant findings or control issues of which the financially literate and to have relevant financial experience.
Committee became aware, including progress with the Financial Controls Initiative.
Roger Marshall has submitted the following report on behalf of the Group Audit Committee: Q Tax, litigation and contingent liabilities affecting the Group.
In addition, I sit on the Board Risk Committee, while the Chairman of that Committee also sits on the Group Audit Committee, so that the activities of the two committees can be closely co-ordinated.
I also liaise as appropriate with the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee so as to ensure Old Mutual plc 101 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED that I am able to draw to his attention any aspects of the In addition, during our meetings in 2011, we focused on: Groups results that the Group Audit Committee feels ought to be taken into account in setting levels of remuneration Q The Groups preparations for Solvency II, in particular through the integrated Capital, Risk and Financial for the executive directors and other senior executives.
Under this The Committee also reviewed the Groups whistleblowing programme, the Company is implementing: arrangements.
These enable employees of the Group and A revised Group-wide internal capital model others to report complaints on accounting, risk issues, compliant with Solvency II requirements: internal controls, auditing issues and related matters.
They A Group-wide risk reporting system which facilitates can do this in confidence, using a dedicated hotline easier aggregation and escalation of risks from operated by an independent firm of accountants.
Any business unit management to the Group Risk reports are investigated and escalated to the Committee department: as appropriate.
Efforts are made to educate staff around Risk-adjusted performance metrics linked to incentive the Group about the existence of the whistleblowing facility arrangements: and to help them detect the signs of possible fraudulent An own risk and solvency assessment: or improper activity.
Suitable education and training activities to ensure that these disciplines are well embedded and used The section later in this Report headed Auditors contains across the organisation.
information on our policy on auditor independence and Q The management of risks at Old Mutual Bermuda, non-audit fees and the Committees recommendation that in particular through the hedging programme which KPMG Audit Plc should be reappointed as the Companys it has established to manage the interplay between auditors for 2012. the Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefit liability under certain contracts with the asset allocations As a Committee, we hold private meetings with the external auditors once a year or more often, if requested by the selected under those contracts, and the resulting market and liquidity risks that arise from various auditors to review key issues.
As Chairman of the Committee, I also have regular interaction with the external hedging strategies.
auditors and the Group Internal Audit Director, as well as Q Regulatory risks arising as a result of business activities, with the chairmen of subsidiary audit committees and the in particular the Groups regulatory environment and Group Finance Director, and I have a continuing programme compliance status.
of visits to the Groups major subsidiaries arranged, so that I Q Stress and scenario testing, focusing on particular can remain abreast of issues as they arise during the year.
economic and business scenarios and their potential impact on the Groups finances.
The Committee can confirm that it has received sufficient, Q Risks arising from material corporate transactions being reliable and timely information from management during considered by the Group.
the year to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
In addition to its regular meetings, the Committee held two Board Risk Committee full-day workshops to enable discussions to take place on Members and years of appointment to the committee: Mike a wide range of issues relating to risk management within Arnold Chairman 2010, Philip Broadley 2010, Eva Castillo the Group.
2011, Reuel Khoza 2010, Roger Marshall 2010, Lars Otterbeck 2010.
Other member during part of the year: At the end of the year, the Committee produced a report Nigel Andrews 2010.
Secretary and year of appointment: for the Remuneration Committee commenting on the Martin Murray 2010. managements observance during the year of the risk appetite metrics agreed by the Board.
Mike Arnold has submitted the following report on behalf of the Board Risk Committee: The Committee also undertook a review of its terms of reference and its relationships with other Board The Committee met seven times during the year.
This led to some clarification of the Risk Director and the Head of Governance and Compliance Committees remit and the division of responsibilities attended each meeting and the Group Internal Audit between the Committee and the Group Audit Committee.
The external auditors were invited to attend four of the meetings.
As Roger Marshall has indicated in his report on the activities of the Group Audit Committee, I also sit on the The Committee received a report at each of its meetings Group Audit Committee and am therefore able to raise during 2011 from the Group Risk Director in which any matters at either committee as appropriate.
changes to the Groups risk profile were identified and discussed.
We also reviewed the risk appetite metrics operated by the Group and recommended to the Board some changes to the criteria to be used by the business units for their business planning over the three-year period 2012 to 2014.
102 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information I shall continue to have regular interaction with the Group management of the Group and proposed appointments Risk Officer and will attend some risk committee meetings to the boards and standing committees of principal of the Groups major subsidiaries in 2012.
In this way I will subsidiaries in line with the Group Operating Model.
remain close to any major risk issues that may arise during It is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, Patrick the coming year.
OSullivan, and a majority of its members seven out of ten are independent non-executive directors.
Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee seeks to ensure that its Members and years of appointment to the committee: process for identifying candidates for recommendation Russell Edey Chairman 2007, Eva Castillo 2011, to the Board as new directors is formal, rigorous and Alan Gillespie 2010, Bongani Nqwababa 2010, transparent.
Vacancies generally arise in the context Lars Otterbeck 2010.
Other members for part of the year: of either planned renewal of the Board, replacing directors Nigel Andrews 2002, Rudi Bogni former Chairman of the who are due to retire, or adjusting the Boards balance Committee 2005.
Secretary and year of appointment: of knowledge, skills or independence.
In identifying Martin Murray 1999. candidates, appropriate regard is paid to ensuring that Details of the role and activities of the Remuneration they will have sufficient time available in the light of their other commitments to discharge their duties as directors Committee and how it has applied the main and supporting principles and the Code Provisions in Section D of the UK of the Company.
Corporate Governance Code relating to remuneration During 2011, the Committee oversaw the processes for matters are provided in the Remuneration Report.
completing the recruitment to the Board of Ms Castillo whojoined the Board in February 2011 and for identifying Nomination Committee and recruiting Ms Nyembezi-Heita, who joined the Board Members and years of appointment to the committee: in March 2012.
It also considered and approved proposed Patrick OSullivan Chairman 2010, Mike Arnold 2010, changes to the membership of a number of subsidiary Eva Castillo 2011, Russell Edey 2005, Alan Gillespie boards and reviewed succession plans for the executive 2010, Reuel Khoza 2010, Roger Marshall 2010, directors of the Company and for various other senior Bongani Nqwababa 2010, Lars Otterbeck 2010, positions around the Group.
Other members for part of the year: Nigel Andrews 2005, Rudi Bogni 2003.
Secretary and Other committees year of appointment: Martin Murray 1999.
There are a number of executive committees which The Nomination Committee makes recommendations assistthe Group Chief Executive with the day-to-day to the Board in relation to the appointment of directors, management of the Group.
These include the Group the structure of the Board and membership of the Boards Executive Committee mentioned earlier in this report, the main standing committees.
It also reviews development Group Executive Risk Committee, whose responsibilities and succession plans for the most senior executive are described in the Risk and Capital Management report Board scheduled Group Audit Board Risk Remuneration Nomination Attendance record and ad hoc Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held: 106775 Mike Arnold 10 10 6 6 7 7 5 5 Philip Broadley 10 10 7 7 Eva Castillo 9 10 6 6 5 6 4 4 Russell Edey 8 10 4 6 6 7 5 5 Alan Gillespie 10 10 5 6 6 7 5 5 Reuel Khoza 9 10 7 7 5 5 Roger Marshall 10 10 6 6 7 7 4 5 Bongani Nqwababa 8 10 5 6 5 7 4 5 Patrick OSullivan 10 10 5 5 1 Lars Otterbeck 8 10 7 7 7 7 5 5 Julian Roberts 10 10 5 5 Former directors Nigel Andrews 4 4 3 3 3 33 3 Rudi Bogni 4 4 3 3 3 3 3 3 1 Lars Otterbeck did not participate in one Board meeting and part of another Board meeting during the year because of potential conflicts of interest arising from his position as a director of Skandia Insurance Company Limited publ and Skandia Liv while the Company was in active negotiations about the sale of the Groups Nordic business.
Old Mutual plc 103 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED earlier in this document: and the Group Capital Responsibility for internal control Management Committee, whose role is, inter alia, to agreecapital allocations within certain limits or make The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups recommendations to the Board regarding any allocations system of internal control and for reviewing its beyond such limits and to approve the capital plan of the effectiveness, while the implementation of internal control Group as part of the annual business-planning process.
systems is the responsibility of management.
Executive management has implemented an internal control system Attendance record designed to help ensure: The table on the previous page sets out the number of meetings held and individual directors attendance at Q The effective and efficient operation of the Group and meetings of the Board and its principal committees its business units by enabling management to basedon membership of those committees, rather respond appropriately to significant risks to achieving thanattendance as an invitee during 2011. the Groups business objectives: Q The safeguarding of assets from inappropriate use Auditors or from loss and fraud and ensuring that liabilities are During the year ended 31 December 2011, fees paid by identified and managed: the Group to KPMG Audit Plc, the Groups auditors, and Q The quality of internal and external reporting: and its associates totalled 13.7 million for statutory audit Q Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, services 2010: 14.1 million, 0.4 million for other audit and with internal policies on the conduct of business.
and assurance services relating to Old Mutual Market Consistent Embedded Value reporting 2010: 0.5 million, The system of internal control is designed to manage, and 3.4 million for tax and other services 2010: 6.0 rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve the million.
In addition to the above, Nedbank Group paid a Groups business objectives, and can only provide further 4.4 million 2010: 4.3 million to Deloitte in reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material respectof joint audit arrangements.
Detailed guidelines have been approved by the Group Audit Committee as part of the Groups policy on Theprocessaccords with the Turnbull guidance set out in non-audit services and a summary of the applicable Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the provisions can be found in the Corporate Governance Combined Code the Combined Code being the previous section of our website.
version of the UK Corporate Governance Code and is regularly reviewed by the Board.
KPMG Audit Plc have expressed their willingness to continue in office as auditors to the Company and, following The Groups actions to review the effectiveness of the a recommendation by the Group Audit Committee to the system of internal control include: Board, a resolution proposing their reappointment will be put to the AGM.
In reaching its decision to recommend the Q An annual review of the risk assessment procedures, reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditors, the Board control environment considerations, information and took into account the fact that the firm had been the communication and monitoring procedures at Group Companys auditors since the Group demutualised in 1999 level and within each business unit.
This review covers and that appropriate arrangements are in place for the all material controls, including financial, operational and rotation and renewal of key audit personnel.
The Company compliance controls and the risk management systems: has not entered into any contractual restriction preventing it from considering a change of auditors and the choice of Q A certification process, under which all business units are required to confirm that they have undertaken risk auditors is kept under review by the Board from year to year, taking into account appropriate benchmarking data.
management in accordance with the Group risk framework, that they have reviewed the effectiveness Arrangements have been made, in conjunction with of the system of internal controls, that internal policies KPMGAudit Plc, for appropriate audit director rotation have been complied with and that no significant risks in accordance with the requirements of the UK Auditing or issues are known which have not been reported Practices Board.
The current audit engagement director in accordance with policy: and in the UK, Philip Smart, assumed this role in April 2011.
Q Regular reviews of the effectiveness of the system of internal control by the Group Audit Committee, which Internal control environment receives reports from Group Internal Audit.
The Assessment of the system of internal control Committee also receives reports from the external An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, which include details of managing the significant risks faced by the Group has significant internal control matters that they have been in place for the year ended 31 December 2011 identified during the course of their work.
and up to the date of approval of this Report.
104 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information These activities are in addition to the regular risk Other Directors Report matters management activities which are performed on an Relations with shareholders and analysts ongoingbasis as described in more detail in the The Company gives high priority to regular, clear and RiskandCapital Management report elsewhere in direct communication with its shareholders, institutional thisdocument.
investors and sell-side analysts by means of a proactive Investor Relations IR programme.
The programme The certification process described above does not apply aims to facilitate communication with the global investment to certain joint ventures where the Group does not exercise community, both equity and debt, and to keep investors full management control.
In these cases, Old Mutual updated on the Companys performance, within the monitors the internal control environment and the potential constraints of the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure impact on the Group through representation on the board and Transparency Rules.
The Company has a dedicated IR team which runs its The Board reviewed the effectiveness of the system of IR programme.
Old Mutual continued to increase its internal control during and at the end of the year.
Our annual communication and engagement with the investment internal control assessment has not highlighted any material community during 2011.
A total of 331 meetings were failings.
We remain committed to having a robust internal heldduring the year with investors and analysts in the UK, control environment across the Group.
SouthAfrica, North America and continental Europe, comprising 218 individual institutions.
This compared with a Group Internal Audit total of 244 meetings held in 2010.
The majority of meetings Group Internal Audit GIA is responsible for providing involved the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance independent, objective assurance on the adequacy and Director or another member of the senior management effectiveness of Old Mutuals systems of governance, team, although greater use was made of group meetings risk management and internal control to the Board and inorder to improve efficiency and provide more institutions executive management and, in doing so, helps enhance with access to management and also to increase the the controls culture within the Group.
The work of GIA efficient use of managements own time.
The Company isfocused on the areas of greatest risk, both current continued to target smaller institutional investors and those andemerging, to Old Mutual as determined by a who manage funds for high-net-worth retail clients and comprehensive, risk-based planning process.
The charities in both Europe and South Africa with a view to GroupAudit Committee approves the annual internal diversifying its shareholder base.
auditplan and any subsequent amendments.
In addition, the Company presented at a number of There are internal audit teams in each of our major majorinvestor conferences around the world as well as businesses.
The heads of internal audit in the Groups hosting international investors to a visit to the Groups wholly-owned subsidiaries report directly to the Group South African businesses.
The Company also hosted Internal Audit Director GIAD.
The GIAD reports functionally theChairman of the Mandela Institute at its London to the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and office at an evening reception for investors and analysts administratively to the Group Finance Director.
The GIAD to discuss the prospects of investing in Agriculture, attends all meetings of the Group Audit Committee, and Infrastructure and Housing in Africa.
Copies of all has unrestricted access to the Group Chief Executive presentations and, where appropriate, transcripts are and to the Chairman of the Board, as well as open posted on the Companys website so that they are invitations to attend any meetings of the business unit accessible to shareholders generally.
Audit Committees, the Board Risk Committee and the Group Executive Risk Committee.
Currently 13 sell-side analysts from Europe and South Africa actively publish research on the Company.
Other Internal audit teams across Old Mutual use a single audit sell-side analysts are encouraged to cover the Company methodology which meets the standards set by the Institute to help investors assess the Groups valuation, its of Internal Auditors.
Issues raised by internal audit during performance and the business environment in which the course of its work are discussed with management, it operates, and also to make meaningful comparisons who are responsible for implementing agreed actions to with peers.
address the issues identified within an appropriate and agreed timeframe.
The Chairman makes contact with major investors and meets them as required.
The Senior Independent Director Formal reports are submitted by the GIAD to each meeting is also available for interaction with shareholders.
of the Group Audit Committee, summarising the results of internal audit activity, managements progress in addressing The Board is updated regularly by the IR team on issues and other significant matters.
issuesarising from communication with the investment community.
In addition to this, an independent survey is An assessment of the effectiveness of GIA is carried out commissioned regularly which provides the Board with the periodically by external advisers.
views of major investors on the Companys management and performance.
Old Mutual plc 105 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED General Meetings an initiative promoted by the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills in the UK to encourage prompt The Board uses the AGM to comment on the Groups settlement of invoices.
trading performance during the first quarter of the year.
Shareholders also have the opportunity to ask questions The total outstanding indebtedness of the Company and its of the Board.
The AGM is webcast and a record of the service company subsidiary, Old Mutual Business Services proceedings is also made available on the Companys Limited to trade creditors at 31 December 2011 amounted website shortly after the end of the meeting.
All items to 11,981,365, corresponding to 43 days payments when of formal business at the AGM are conducted on a poll, averaged over 2011. rather than by a show of hands.
The Companys registrars, Computershare Investor Services, ensure that all validly Charitable contributions submitted proxy votes are counted, and a senior member The Group made a wide range of significant donations to of Computershares staff acts as scrutineer to ensure that charitable causes and social development projects during votes cast are properly received and recorded.
2011, as described in more detail in the Responsible Business section of this document.
The Company, its Each substantially separate issue at the AGM is dealt with subsidiaries in the UK, and the Old Mutual Bermuda by a separate resolution and the business of the AGM Foundation collectively made charitable donations of always includes a resolution relating to the receipt and 216,000 during the year 2010: 191,000. adoption of the Report and Accounts.
The Chairmen of the Group Audit, Board Risk, Remuneration and Nomination Environmental matters Committees are available at the AGM to answer any A description of the Groups environmental impact and questions on the matters covered by those committees.
All the directors in office at the date of the meeting management during 2011 is contained in the Responsible Business section of this document.
The notice of AGM and related materials contained in the Employment policy Report and Accounts or Summary Financial Statements The Groups employment policies reflect our belief that are sent out to shareholders in time to arrive in the ordinary motivated and talented individuals are critical to our ability course of the post at least 20 working days before the to achieve our business objectives.
We recognise the value date of the AGM.
that a diverse workforce brings and believe that it should reflect the diversity of the markets in which we operate.
We Directors shareholdings and share dealings promote the fair and consistent treatment of all our The Remuneration Committee has established guidelines employees and encourage equal opportunities and diversity on shareholdings by executive directors of the Company.
Under these, the Group Chief Executive is expected to build up a holding of shares in the Company equal in value to at While local employment policies and procedures are developed by each business according to its own least 200% increased from 150% during 2011 of his annual base salary within five years of appointment: the equivalent circumstances, employees are recruited, retained, developed and rewarded solely on the basis of their figure for other executive directors is 150% increased from 100% during 2011 of their annual base salary.
Further suitability for the job, without discrimination in terms of race, religion, national origin, colour, gender, age, marital status or details of the executive directors shareholdings are set out under Directors Interests earlier in this report, and their sexual orientation, subject always to employment equity considerations in South Africa.
Further information on interests in awards under the Companys employee share plans are contained in the Remuneration Report.
The Board employee matters is set out in the Responsible Business section of this document.
has considered whether to adopt a shareholding requirement for non-executive directors, but does not Political donations consider this to be appropriate.
The Group made no EU or other political donations during Directors indemnities the year.
The Company has entered into formal deeds of indemnity Dividends and dividend policy in favour of each of the directors.
A specimen copy of the Given the continued progress in achieving our debt indemnities is available in the Corporate Governance section of the Companys website.
repayment programme, the Board has considered the position in respect of a final dividend for 2011, and is Supplier payment policy recommending the payment of a final 2011 dividend of 3.5p per share or its equivalent in other applicable currencies, In most cases, suppliers of goods or services to the Group do so under standard terms of contract that lay down terms which is equivalent to 4.0p per new ordinary share of 3 11 of payment.
In other cases, specific terms are agreed to 7p once the existing shares are consolidated following beforehand.
It is the Groups policy to ensure that terms the close of business on 20 April 2012.
A scrip dividend of payment are notified in advance and adhered to.
The alternative is not being made available in relation to this Company has signed the Better Payment Practice Code, dividend in view of the complexities involved in the share 106 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Business review Risk and responsibility Governance Financials statements Shareholder information consolidation, and the Board will consider later in 2012 share schemes at an average price of 62.51p each.
whether to reinstate a scrip dividend alternative for the Noshares were bought back during that period and the interim dividend for the current year.
239,434,888 shares held in treasury were cancelled on 13 January 2012.
As a result, the Companys issued share Further information on the final dividend for 2011 and of the capital at 8 March 2012 was 556,235,469.80 divided into special dividend to be paid after completion of the sale of 5,562,354,698 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The total the Groups Nordic business is contained in the number of voting rights at that date was also 5,562,354,698.
Shareholder Information section of this document.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares and The Board intends to pursue a progressive dividend policy related matters consistent with our strategy, having regard to overall capital The rights and obligations attaching the Companys requirements, liquidity and profitability, and targeting ordinary shares are those conventional for a publicly listed dividend cover of at least 2.5 times IFRS AOP earnings over UK company, and a summary of them along with certain time.
In future, we expect to set interim dividends routinely other information relating to dividends, directors and as 30% of the prior years full dividend.
amendments to the Companys Articles of Association is available in the Corporate Governance section of the Share capital Companys website.
The Companys current Articles The Company has a single class of share capital, which is of Association are also available there.
divided into ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
The Companys issued share capital at 31 December 2011 was significant agreements involving change of control 580,104,127.70 divided into 5,801,041,277 ordinary shares The following significant agreements to which the Company of 10 pence each 2010: 569,522,432.60 divided into is a party contain provisions entitling counterparties to 5,695,224,326 ordinary shares of 10 pence each.
During exercise termination or other rights in the event of a change the year ended 31 December 2011, 6,365,088 shares were of control of the Company: issued under the Companys employee share option schemes at an average price of 80 pence each, 69,122,462 Q 1,200 million Revolving Credit Facility the Facility shares were issued under the scrip dividend alternative for dated 21 April 2011 between the Company, various the final dividend for the year ended 31 December 2010 at syndicate banks the Banks and Banc of America an effective price of 1.3254 or its equivalent in other Securities Limited as agent the Agent.
If a person currencies each and 30,329,401 shares were issued under or group of persons acting in concert gains control the scrip dividend alternative for the interim dividend for the of the Company, the Company must notify the Agent.
six months ended 30 June 2011 at an effective price of The Agent and the Company will negotiate with a view 1.0672 or its equivalent in other currencies each.
to agreeing terms and conditions acceptable to the Company and all of the Banks for continuing the Facility.
At 31 December 2011, shareholder authorities were in force If such negotiations fail within 30-days of the original enabling the Company to make market purchases of, and notification to the Agent by the Company, the Banks or to purchase pursuant to contingent purchase contracts become entitled to declare any outstanding relating to each of the overseas exchanges on which the indebtedness repayable by giving notice to the Agent Companys shares are listed, its own shares up to an within 15 days of the 30-day period mentioned above.
No shares were bought On receiving notice for payment from the Agent, the back by the Company during 2011 or during the period up Company shall pay the outstanding sums within three to 8 March 2012. business days to the relevant Bank s. Q Old Mutual Capital Funding L. P. the Issuer $750 million Out of the 5,801,041,277 shares in issue at 31 December 8% Guaranteed Cumulative Perpetual Preferred 2011: Securities the Preferred Securities guaranteed on a subordinated basis by the Company.
Under the terms Q 239,434,888 shares were held by the Company in of the Preferred Securities, the Issuer is required to give treasury: and notice to the holders of such securities the Holders in Q 200,170,073 shares were held by African life and asset the event of a change of control of the Company.
In management subsidiaries of the Company.
Under UK such case the Issuer and the Company agree, to the company law, these shares cannot be voted while they extent that such action is within their reasonable control, are beneficially owned by subsidiaries of Old Mutual plc.
to vary the terms of the Preferred Securities and the Companys guarantee and to use all reasonable The total number of voting rights in the Companys issued endeavours to ensure that the entity that has acquired ordinary share capital at 31 December 2011 which control of the Company the Acquirer gives such excludes the 239,434,888 shares then held in treasury, undertakings as are necessary in order to preserve the but includes the shares held by the African life and asset rights of the Holders.
The Issuer and the Company shall management subsidiaries was 5,561,606,389. also take such steps as are in their reasonable control to ensure that the economic interests of the Holders are In the period 1 January to 8 March 2012, 748,309 further not adversely affected by the actions of the Acquirer shares were issued by the Company under its employee following the change of control.
Old Mutual plc 107 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Substantial interests in voting rights performance and economic conditions in the markets in which the Group operates.
The results show that the Group At 31 December 2011, the following substantial interests in should be able to operate, given its cash resources and its voting rights had been declared to the Company in level of available credit facilities and with an adequate level accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules: of capital, both at a Group level and within each of its major 31 Dec 2011 regulated entities.
To the extent that changes in trading Number of % of voting performance and economic conditions prove to be more voting rights rights severe than thought reasonably possible, the Group has Cevian Capital 410,748,581 7.38 evaluated and concluded on feasible management actions Public Investment that would be possible in such circumstances so as to Corporation of the Republic ensure that adequate levels of liquid and capital resources of South Africa 307,212,664 5.52 are maintained.
Sanlam Investment Management Pty Limited 305,691,719 5.50 After making enquiries, the Board of Directors has a BlackRock Inc 264,286,239 4.75 reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group Legal & General Group PLC 185,451,357 3.33 have adequate resources to continue in operational Old Mutual Life existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they Assurance Company continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing South Africa Limited 185,464,458 3.33 the Annual Report and Accounts.
Between 31 December 2011 and 8 March 2012, there have Disclosure of information to the auditors been no notifications to the Company of any changes to the The directors who held office at the date of approval of above disclosable interests nor any new such notifications this Directors Report on Corporate Governance and Other by other shareholders.
Matters confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information of which the Companys Going concern auditors are unaware, and each director has taken all the The Groups business activities, together with factors likely steps that he ought to have taken as a director to make to affect its future development, performance and position himself aware of any relevant audit information and to are set out in the Business Review.
The Business Review establish that the Companys auditors were aware of also explains the basis on which the Group generates that information.
and preserves value over the longer term and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Group.
The financial Governing law position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and The Group Chief Executives Statement, the Risk and borrowing facilities are described in the Group Finance Capital Management report, the Business Review, the Directors Statement.
In addition, Note E11 to the Accounts Group Finance Directors Statement, the Responsible includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes Business Report and this Directors Report on Corporate for managing its capital and sets out details of the risks Governance and Other Matters collectively comprise the related to financial instruments and insurance risks taken directors report for the purposes of section 463 1 a of the on by the Group.
The Remuneration Report set out in this Annual Report is the directors remuneration report for The Group continues to meet group and individual entity the purposes of section 463 1 b of that Act.
English law capital requirements and day-to-day liquidity needs through governs the disclosures contained in and liability for the its available free cash and credit facilities.
The Companys directors report and the directors remuneration report.
primary existing revolving credit facility of 1,200 million runs until April 2016.
The Company also had significant cash By order of the Board holdings, totalling 441 million, at the year end.
Martin Murray A number of factors, including the levels of world equity Group Company Secretary markets, defaults in corporate bond portfolios, currency 9 March 2012 fluctuations, demand for the Groups products and other economic factors, are considered individually and in combination in the Groups forecasts and projections, taking account of reasonably possible changes in trading 108 Old Mutual plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
