Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate governance The Board of Directors is committed to the principles of corporate governance contained in the UK Corporate Governance Code Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 and which is publicly available on their website at www.
Throughout the year ended 30 September 2011 the Company complied with the provisions of the Code.
DIRECTORS At the beginning of the year the Board of Directors comprised the Chairman, three executive and four non-executive directors.
A further independent non-executive director was appointed during the year.
All of the directors bring to the Company a broad and valuable range of experience.
All of the then directors were re-elected at the Annual General Meeting on 10 February 2010 and have submitted themselves for re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The names of the directors in ofce at the date of this report and their biographical details are set out on pages 14 and 15.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
There is a strong non-executive representation on the Board, including Edward Tilly, who has been nominated as the Senior Independent Director.
This provides effective balance and challenge.
The Board is responsible for overall Group strategy, for approving major agreements, transactions and other nancing matters and for monitoring the progress of the Group against budget.
All directors receive sufficient relevant information on financial, business and corporate issues prior to meetings and there is a formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board, which includes material asset acquisitions and disposals, granting and varying authority levels of the Chairman and the executive directors, determination and approval of the Groups objectives, strategy and annual budget, investment decisions, corporate governance policies and financial and dividend policies.
The Chairmans other business commitments are set out in the biographical details on page 14 and there have been no significant changes during the period to those commitments.
There were nine regular Board meetings during the year.
Robert Dench, Nigel Terrington, Nicholas Keen, John Heron and Alan Fletcher attended all nine of the Board meetings during the year ended 30 September 2011, Edward Tilly attended eight meetings, Terence Eccles and Christopher Newell attended seven meetings and Peter Hartill attended all meetings from the date of his appointment to the Board.
All of the non-executive directors are independent of management and all are appointed for xed terms.
They are kept fully informed of all relevant operational and strategic issues and bring a strongly independent and experienced judgement to bear on these issues.
In November 2010 Christopher Newells appointment, following nine years on the Board, was extended for a further twelve months to enable an orderly handover of the Chairmanship of the Audit and Compliance Committee after the expected appointment of an appropriately qualied person.
Mr Newell resigned from the Board on 31 October 2011.
The Board considers that Mr Newell remained independent throughout the year.
Prior to 1 October 2008 the Board approved a set of guiding principles on managing conicts and agreed a process to identify and authorise any conicts which might arise.
At each meeting of the Board actual or potential conicts of interest in respect of any director are reviewed.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that board procedures are complied with.
Both the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary are matters for the Board as a whole.
All directors are able to take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties whenever it is considered appropriate to do so and have access to such continuing professional development opportunities as are identied as appropriate in the Board appraisal process.
The Board also operates through a number of committees covering certain specic matters, these being: The Remuneration Committee, which during the year consisted of Edward Tilly who chaired the Committee until 27 July 2011, Alan Fletcher who chaired the Committee from 27 July 2011, Terence Eccles, Christopher Newell and Peter Hartill from 1 June 2011, all of whom are independent non-executive directors, and the Chairman of the Company, Robert Dench.
Corporate governance 39 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC During the year ended 30 September 2011 there were five meetings of the Remuneration Committee.
All meetings were attended by Alan Fletcher, four meetings were attended by Robert Dench, Christopher Newell and Edward Tilly, three meetings were attended by Terence Eccles and all meetings were attended by Peter Hartill following his appointment to the Committee.
Further information about the Remuneration Committee is given in the Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration on pages 25 to 35.
The Audit and Compliance Committee, which during the year consisted of Christopher Newell who chaired the Committee until 27 July 2011, Peter Hartill from 1 June 2011 and who chaired the Committee from 27 July 2011, Terence Eccles, Edward Tilly and Alan Fletcher.
The Board is satisfied that all members of the Committee have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Committee meets at least three times per year.
During the year ended 30 September 2011 there were three meetings of the Audit and Compliance Committee, all of which were attended by Alan Fletcher and, two of which were attended by Terence Eccles, Christopher Newell and Edward Tilly.
Peter Hartill attended the meeting of the Committee held following his appointment to the Committee.
Further information about the work of the Audit and Compliance Committee is given below.
The Nomination Committee, consisting of Robert Dench, who chairs the Committee, Nigel Terrington and all of the non-executive directors, ensuring that a majority of the Committees members are independent non-executive directors.
The Committee is convened as required to nominate candidates for membership of the Board, although ultimate responsibility for appointment rests with the Board.
There was one meeting of the Committee during the year to consider the appointment of a new non-executive director.
All members of the Committee attended the meeting.
The Committee only engages in the process of identication of suitable candidates for appointment to the Board when requested by the Board to do so.
There is a formal process for the appointment of directors, starting with a review of the Board structure, size and composition, leading to the preparation of a written job specication and the identication of suitable candidates.
The Nomination Committee ensures that prospective non-executive directors can devote sufficient time to the appointment.
The Board recognises the benets that can ow from non-executive directors holding other appointments but requires them to seek the agreement of the Chairman before entering into any commitments that might affect the time they can devote to the Company.
The choice of appointee would be based entirely on merit.
The Asset and Liability Committee, consisting of appropriate heads of functions and chaired by Nigel Terrington, the Chief Executive.
It meets regularly and monitors Group liquidity risks, interest rate risks, currency risks and treasury counterparty exposures.
Further information on the Groups financial risk management procedures and the Committees part in them is given in note 6 to the accounts.
The Credit Committee, consisting of appropriate heads of functions and chaired by Nicholas Keen, the Finance Director.
It meets regularly and is responsible for establishing credit policy and monitoring compliance therewith.
All Board committees operate within dened terms of reference and sufficient resources are made available to them to undertake their duties.
The terms of reference of the Remuneration Committee, Audit and Compliance Committee and Nomination Committee are available on request from the Company Secretary.
The composition of the Board and its committees is kept under review, with the aim of ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of power and authority between executive and non-executive directors and that the directors collectively possess the skills and experience necessary to direct the Company and the Groups business activities.
There is an established process for external appointments through the Nomination Committee.
Ultimately, the appointment of any new director is a matter for the Board.
Executive director appointments are based upon merit and business need.
Non-executive appointments are based upon the candidates proles matching those drawn up by the Nomination Committee.
In all cases the Board approves the appointment only after careful consideration.
The Board, individual directors and Board committees are appraised annually.
The performance of the Chief Executive is appraised by the Chairman.
The performance of the other executive directors is appraised by the Chief Executive in conjunction with the Chairman.
The results of these appraisals are presented to the Remuneration Committee for consideration and determination of remuneration.
During the year the Board conducted a formal and rigorous performance review, which was conducted internally.
All Board directors participated and discussed a list of questions on Board and Committee performance.
An externally facilitated evaluation had been carried out during the previous year.
40 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2011 At the Annual General Meeting the Chairman will confirm to shareholders, when proposing the re-election of any non-executive director, that, following formal performance evaluation, the individuals performance continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The non-executive directors meet at least annually to review the performance of the Chairman.
DIRECTORS REMUNERATION The Remuneration Committee reviews the performance of executive directors and members of senior management prior to determining its recommendations on annual remuneration, performance bonuses and share options for the Boards determination.
The Report of the Board to the Shareholders on Directors Remuneration is on pages 25 to 35.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board encourages communication with the Companys institutional and private investors.
All shareholders have at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which the directors and committee chairmen are available for questions.
The Annual General Meeting is held in London during business hours and provides an opportunity for directors to report to investors on the Groups activities and to answer their questions.
Shareholders will have an opportunity to vote separately on each resolution and all proxy votes lodged are counted and the balance for and against each resolution is announced.
The Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director have a full programme of meetings with institutional investors during the course of the year and investors comments are communicated to all members of the Board.
The Companys web site at www.
co. uk provides access to information on the Company and its businesses.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Detailed reviews of the performance of the Groups main business lines are included within the Chairmans Statement and Chief Executives Review.
The Board uses these, together with the Directors Report on pages 16 to 19 to present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects.
The directors responsibility for the financial statements is described on page 36.
An on-going process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, which is regularly reviewed by the Board, was in place for the year ended 30 September 2011 and to the date of these financial statements.
The directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control for this period and that these procedures accord with the guidance Internal Controls: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
The directors are responsible for the system of internal control throughout the Group, including the system of internal control over financial reporting, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement or loss and that assets are safeguarded against unauthorised use or disposition.
In assessing what constitutes reasonable assurance, the directors have regard to the relationship between the cost and benets from particular aspects of the control system.
The system of internal control includes documented procedures covering accounting, compliance, risk management, personnel matters and operations, clear reporting lines, delegation of authority through a formal structure of mandates, a formalised budgeting, management reporting and review process, the use of key performance indicators throughout the Group and regular meetings of the Asset and Liability and Credit Committees and senior management.
Corporate governance 41 The Paragon Group of Companies PLC Internal control over financial reporting within the Group is provided by a process designed, under the supervision of the Finance Director and senior financial management of the Group, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external reporting purposes, including the process of preparing the Groups consolidated financial statements.
Internal control over financial reporting includes polices and procedures intended to ensure that records are maintained that fairly, and in reasonable detail, reect transactions and dispositions of assets, to provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of the financial statements, to ensure that receipts and expenditures are only being made in accordance with management authorisation and to provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Internal control systems, no matter how well designed, have inherent limitations and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that internal controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may reduce.
The Board receives regular reports setting out key performance and risk indicators.
In addition the Board operates a formal risk management process, from which the key risks facing the business are identied.
The process results in reports to the Board on how these risks are being managed.
The Board has a programme of regular presentations from senior management to enable the Board to review the operation of internal controls in relation to the risks associated with their specic areas.
The system of internal control is monitored by management and by an internal audit function that concentrates on the areas of greater risk and reports its conclusions regularly to management and the Audit and Compliance Committee.
The internal audit work plan is approved annually by the Audit and Compliance Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal control annually and reports its conclusions to the Board.
AUDIT AND COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE The Audit and Compliance Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial reporting, reviews the Groups internal control and risk management systems, monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function, monitors the relationship between the Group and the external auditors and provides a forum through which the Groups external and internal audit functions report to the non executive directors.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that the system and controls for regulatory compliance are effective.
The Committee reviews the scope and the results of the annual external audit, its cost effectiveness and the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
In recommending the re-appointment of the external auditors, who have served since 1985, to the Board, the Committee have considered their performance and the requirements of the Groups financial control process and have concluded that the needs of the Group would not be best served by putting the external audit out to tender at this time.
The Committee has not identied any factors which might restrict its choice of external auditor.
Both the Audit and Compliance Committee and the external auditors have in place safeguards to avoid compromises of the independence and objectivity of the external auditors.
The Committee considers the independence of the external auditors annually and the Group has a formal policy for the engagement of its external auditors to supply non-audit services.
The policy is designed to ensure that neither the nature of the service to be provided nor the level of reliance placed on the services could impact the objectivity of the external auditors opinion on the Groups financial statements.
The policy precludes the appointment of the external auditors to provide any service where there is involvement in management functions or decision making, or any service on which management may place primary reliance in determining the adequacy of internal controls, financial systems or financial reporting.
The external auditors may only provide corporate finance and similar services, where there is no significant advocacy role, or tax services with the prior consent of the Committee, if the advice given or the position taken would be material to the Group.
Internal audit services may only be provided by the external auditor where acting under the instruction of Internal Audit management and with the prior consent of the Committee.
Other services may be procured by management without the prior consent of the Committee, but are reported to the Committee on an on-going basis.
42 Corporate governance Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Fees paid to the external auditors are shown in note 16 to the Accounts.
Other than services required to be provided by external auditors by legislation or regulation, non-audit services relate to taxation.
The Committee has considered the services provided and concluded that the understanding of the Group and the industry demonstrated by the advisers make them well placed to meet the Groups needs.
During the course of the year accounting rms other than the external auditors have been engaged for particular assignments.
At each meeting the Audit and Compliance Committee receives reports of reviews conducted throughout the Group by the Internal Audit and, from time to time, compliance functions.
The Chairman, the executive directors, Director of Financial Accounting and Group Company Secretary, Director of Business Analysis and Planning, Director of Legal Services, Head of Internal Audit and a partner and other representatives from the external auditors normally attend meetings of the Committee.
GOING CONCERN BASIS The business activities of the Group, its current operations and those factors likely to affect its future results and development, together with a description of its financial position and funding position, are described in the Chairmans Statement on pages 5 and 6 and Chief Executives review on pages 7 to 12.
The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the Group, and the steps taken to mitigate these risks are described on pages 44 and 45.
Note 5 to the accounts includes an analysis of the Groups working capital position and policies, while note 6 includes a detailed description of its funding structures, its use of financial instruments, its financial risk management objectives and policies and its exposure to credit, interest rate and liquidity risk.
Critical accounting estimates affecting the results and financial position disclosed in this annual report are discussed in note 4.
As described under Accountability and Audit above, the Group has a formalised process of budgeting, reporting and review, which provides information to the directors which is used to ensure the adequacy of resources available for the Group to meet its business objectives.
The securitisation funding structures described in note 6 ensure that substantially all of the Groups remaining loan portfolios are match-funded to maturity.
Repayment of the securitisation borrowings is restricted to funds generated by the underlying assets and there is no recourse to the Groups general funds.
The Groups only working capital debt is the 110.0 million corporate bond which does not mature until 2017.
As a consequence the directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group will have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the annual report and accounts.
