PERPETUAL INCOME AND GROWTH INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 27 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Corporate Governance Principles The Board is committed to maintaining the highest standards of Corporate Governance and is accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
In March 2009, the fourth edition of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code was published.
The Financial Reporting Council have confirmed that AIC member companies who report against the AIC Code and who follow the AICs Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide would meet their obligations in relation to the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Combined Code and paragraph 9.8.
6 of the Listing Rules relating to additional items to be included in the annual financial report.
Copies of the AIC Code and AIC Guide can be found on the AICs website at www.
The purpose of the AIC Code is to provide boards with a framework of best practice for the governance of investment companies including investment trusts.
The Board considers that reporting against the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code, and by reference to the AIC Guide provides confidence to shareholders, directors and regulators.
The Company has complied with the recommendations of the AIC Code and the relevant provisions of section 1 of the Combined Code, save in respect of those matters explained below under the relevant sections.
The Combined Code includes provisions relating to the role of the chief executive, executive directors remuneration and the need for an internal audit function.
For the reasons set out in the AIC Guide, and in the preamble to the Combined Code, the Board considers these provisions are not relevant to the Company, which is an externally managed investment company.
During the year under review, the schedule of matters reserved for the Board and, where appropriate, the terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Management Engagement Committee and the Nomination Committee were reviewed and updated to bring them in line with latest best practice and to ensure compliance with the AIC Code.
The Companys corporate governance procedures are considered regularly by the Board and amended as necessary.
This statement describes how the principles of the AIC Code and Guide have been complied with in the affairs of the Company.
Any reference to the AIC Code in this statement includes references to the AIC Guide.
Directors The Directors believe that throughout the period under review they have complied with the provisions of the AIC Code and, therefore section 1 of the Combined Code, save in respect of those matters explained below under the relevant sections.
Independence The Board comprises five non-executive Directors, four of whom are considered independent.
Sir Martyn Arbib was founder and chairman of Perpetual plc, which was acquired by Invesco Ltd in December 2000.
The Manager, Invesco Asset Management Limited IAML, is a subsidiary of Invesco Ltd.
In accordance with the AIC Code, a recent employee of the Manager, who is also a Director of the Company, should not be considered independent unless his employment ceased over five years ago.
Sir Martyns employment with Invesco Ltd ceased in 2002 and the Board are satisfied that he can be considered an independent Director.
Bob Yerbury is a Senior Managing Director of Invesco Ltd and a Director of IAML and, in accordance with the AIC Code, is therefore not considered independent.
The Board has considered the continued appointment of Sir Martyn Arbib and Antony Hardy in light of their having served on the Board for over nine years and has concluded that they continue, both collectively and individually, to be effective and make valuable contributions to the Board.
Notwithstanding their length of service, the Board consider that they each remain independent, a view which has been demonstrated by their actions on behalf of the Company and their other professional involvements.
28 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued Directors have a range of business, financial and asset management skills and experience relevant to the direction and control of the Company.
Brief biographical details are shown on page 12.
Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and ensuring its effectiveness on all aspects of the role.
The Chairman is Bill Alexander, a non-executive and independent Director who has no conflicting relationships.
Since all Directors are non-executive and day-to-day management responsibilities are sub-contracted to the Manager, the Company does not have a Chief Executive Officer.
Due to the size of the Board, the Board has not appointed a deputy chairman.
Senior Independent Director In his role as Senior Independent Director, Antony Hardy provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
He also provides a channel of communication for shareholders where contact through the Chairman or Company Secretary have failed to resolve or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Attendance at Board and Committee Meetings All the Directors are considered to have an excellent attendance record at scheduled Board and Committee Meetings of the Company.
The following table sets out the number of scheduled meetings held during the year and the number of meetings attended by each Director or member of each Committee.
In addition, Directors also attended a number of ad-hoc meetings as required between scheduled meetings.
AUDIT MANAGEMENT BOARD COMMITTEE COMMITTEE MEETINGS MEETINGS MEETINGS HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED HELD ATTENDED Bill Alexander 55 221 1 Sir Martyn Arbib 55 2 n a 1 n a Vivian Bazalgette 55 221 1 Antony Hardy 55 221 1 Bob Yerbury 54 2 n a 1 n a Appointment, Re-election and Tenure of Directors The Directors are responsible for reviewing the size, structure and skills of the Board and considering any necessary changes or new appointments.
No Director has a formal contract of employment with the Company.
Directors terms and conditions of appointment are set out in letters of appointment which are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the Company, can be found on the Managers website and will be available at the AGM.
The Board has formulated a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the selection and appointment of new Directors to the Board.
To date the Board has not used an executive search consultancy or open advertising when seeking new candidates for appointment as the Directors have considered that the candidates found from sources within the Company and through its advisers have been of a sufficiently high quality.
The Articles require that each Director shall retire at an AGM at least every three years after appointment or as the case may be last reappointment, and may offer themselves for re-election.
The new AlC Code of Corporate Governance, which the Company intends to comply with for the financial year ending 31 March 2012, contains a provision that recommends that all the Directors of FTSE 350 companies offer themselves for re-election on an annual basis.
The Board have decided to comply with this recommendation early and therefore all the Directors are standing for re-election at the Companys AGM.
The Board confirms that the performance of the Directors continues to be effective and demonstrates commitment to the role.
The Board therefore recommends to shareholders their support for resolutions 2 through to 6 relating to the Directors seeking re-election.
The Articles will be available at the AGM and can be inspected at the Registered Office address of the Company.
