24 REPORT OF THE DIRECTORS continued The Manager provides full company secretarial and administration services ensuring that the Company complies with all legal, regulatory and corporate governance requirements and attending on the Directors at Board meetings and shareholders meetings.
The Manager also maintains records of the Companys investment transactions and portfolio and all monetary transactions, from which the Manager prepares annual and half-yearly financial statements and interim management statements on behalf of the Company and various statistical reports and information throughout the year.
Assessment of the Investment Manager A regular annual review of the management contract is undertaken by the Management Engagement Committee: however, the performance of the Manager in its role of Investment Manager, Company Secretary and Administrator is subject to continual review by the Board.
The investment objective of the Company is to generate capital growth with a higher than average income from investment mainly in the UK equity market.
Overall, the investment process is aiming to achieve absolute return through a genuinely active fund management approach.
As the Managers philosophy does not seek to regard the FTSE All-Share Index as the benchmark for portfolio construction, the portfolio may look substantially different from this index.
This may lead to periods of underperformance as well as periods of outperformance.
The Board has formally reviewed the Managers performance and, taking into account the long-term performance of the portfolio, the other services provided by the Manager and the risk and corporate governance environment in which the Company operates, the Board considers that the continuation of the management contract is in the best interests of shareholders as a whole.
Report of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is responsible to the Board for reviewing each aspect of the financial reporting process: the systems of internal control and management of financial risks: the audit process: relationships with the Auditor the Companys processes for monitoring compliance with laws and regulations: its code of business conduct: and for making recommendations to the Board.
The Companys internal financial controls and risk management systems have been reviewed with the Manager against risk parameters approved by the Board.
The Audit Committee has also received a satisfactory report on the Managers internal operations from the Managers Compliance and Internal Audit Officers.
The audit programme and timetable are agreed with the Auditor in advance of the Companys financial year end.
At this stage, matters for audit focus are discussed and agreed.
These matters are given particular attention during the audit process and among other matters they are reported on by the Auditor in their audit review to the Audit Committee.
The audit review is considered by the Audit Committee and discussed with the Auditor and the Manager prior to approving and signing the financial statements.
The Audit Committee has reviewed the Financial Statements for the year ended 31 March 2011 with the Manager and the Auditor at the conclusion of the audit process.
Auditor The Audit Committee has considered the independence of the Auditor and the objectivity of the audit process and is satisfied that Deloitte LLP have fulfilled their obligations to shareholders.
Deloitte LLP are willing to continue in office and a resolution, in accordance with Section 489 of the Act, to re-appoint them will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
A separate resolution for the Directors to be authorised to set the Auditors remuneration will also be proposed at the AGM.
