D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce 41 41 The Payment of Creditors It has been and will remain the Companys policy for the forthcoming financial year to obtain the best terms for all business and therefore there is no single policy as to the terms used.
The Company and its subsidiarys policy is to settle all investment transactions in accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant market in which it operates.
In general the Company agrees with its other suppliers the terms on which business will take place and it is the Companys policy to abide by such terms.
There were no trade creditors at 30 April 2011.
Service Providers Apart from the arrangements with Polar Capital LLP to provide investment, company secretarial and administrative services including accounting, portfolio valuation and trade settlement, the Company also contracts directly with JP Morgan Chase NA which acts as global custodian for all the Companys investments.
The Company also retains the services of Cenkos Securities plc as corporate broker, Equiniti Limited as the registrars and  LLP as tax advisers and independent auditors.
HSBC Securities Services UK Limited has been retained by the Investment Manager to provide the accounting, valuation and trade settlement services and BNP Paribas Securities Services is retained by the Investment Manager, on behalf of the Company and at the Companys expense, to provide a share savings arrangement and an ISA.
Huguenot Services Limited provides web design and hosting services.
Auditors  LLP have expressed their willingness to continue in office as the Companys independent auditors.
A resolution to re-appoint  LLP as independent auditors to the Company will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
The fees paid in respect of the audit of the annual accounts amounted to 32,000 2010: 27,000.
The Company has also used  LLP to give advice on VAT recoverability, Section 1158, and other taxation issues.
These other taxation services are provided by the Newcastle office while the audit work is carried out by the Edinburgh office.
The fees paid for the taxation advice services amounted to 25,000 2010: 55,000.
The Directors do not consider the provision of this non-audit work to the Company affects the independence of the auditors.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held on 4 August 2011 at 12 noon at The Royal Automobile Club, 89 Pall Mall, London SW1Y 5HS.
Shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM as it provides an opportunity for them to hear a presentation from the Investment Manager and meet the Directors.
The separate Notice of Meeting contains resolutions to receive the accounts, approve the Directors remuneration report, re-elect retiring Directors and elect the new Directors, re-appoint the auditors and empower the Directors to set their fees.
As in previous years the Directors are also seeking powers to allot shares for cash and to buy back shares for cancellation.
The full text the resolutions and an explanation of each is contained in the separate Notice of Meeting.
Report on Corporate Governance The Directors are accountable to shareholders for the governance of the Companys affairs.
The UK Listing Rules require all listed companies to disclose how they have applied the principles and complied with the provisions of the 2008 Combined Code as published by the Financial Reporting Council Combined Code.
As an investment company most of the day to day responsibilities are delegated to outside parties as the Company has no employees and all the Directors are non-executive.
Many of the provisions of the Combined Code are not directly applicable to the Company and the Board has determined that reporting against the AIC Code of Corporate Governance AIC Code which incorporates the Combined Code, provides the most appropriate information to shareholders.
The Financial Reporting Council confirmed in 2009 that by following the AIC Code and the Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies produced by the AIC, boards of investment companies should fully meet their obligations in relation to the Combined Code and the UK Listing Rules.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 D Di iR Re eC CT To oR RS S R Re eP Po oR RT T 4 42 2 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Copies of these codes can be obtained from the relevant organisations.
The Companys policies on corporate governance can be found on its website.
The corporate governance report describes how the principles of the Combined Code and the Code of Corporate Governance issued by the AIC have been applied.
In May 2010 the FRC published the new UK Corporate Governance Code which is effective for accounting periods commencing on or after 29 June 2010.
The AIC updated its Corporate Governance Code in October 2010 which the FRC has endorsed.
Neither of these Corporate Governance Codes were effective for the accounting period to 30 April 2011 and therefore do not apply to this report.
Background and development The Board has considered the principles and recommendations of the AIC Code of Corporate Governance by reference to the AIC Corporate Governance Guide for Investment Companies AIC Guide.
The AIC Code, as explained by the AIC Guide, addresses all the principles set out in Section 1 of the Combined Code, as well as setting out additional principles and recommendations on issues that are of specific relevance to the Company.
Application of the AIC codes principles The Board attaches great importance to the matters contained in the AIC Code and observed the relevant requirements throughout the year under review.
The Board believes that the Companys current practices are consistent in all material respects with the principles of the AIC Code and where non compliance occurs, an explanation has been provided.
The Board will continue to observe the principles and recommendations set out in the AIC Code in future.
It should be noted that, as an investment trust where the Directors are non-executive, most of the Companys day to day duties are delegated to third parties.
The Company has agreed policies and operating procedures with the suppliers of these services.
Directors and Board: independence and composition The Board is responsible to shareholders for the overall management of the Companys affairs and currently consists of six non-executive Directors five of whom are considered independent.
All the Directors in office at the end of the financial year held office throughout the year.
The Board has announced the appointment of two further independent Directors, Ms Bates and Mr Hames who will join the Board on 30 June 2011.
Mr Wakeling will be retiring at the conclusion of the annual general meeting on 4 August 2011.
Following these changes the majority of the Board will continue to be independent of the Investment Manager and the Board considers that its overall composition is adequate for the effective governance of the Company.
Each Director has different qualities and areas of expertise on which they may lead where issues arise.
The Directors biographies, set out on pages 30 and 31, demonstrate the breadth of investment, commercial and professional experience relevant to their positions as Directors of the Company.
The Directors Remuneration Report is set out on pages 50 to 52.
The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity and believes that retaining Directors with sufficient experience of the Company, industry and the markets is of great benefit to shareholders.
The Board also recognises the value of progressive refreshing of and succession planning for company boards.
Accordingly the appointment of each Director retiring at the forthcoming AGM has been reviewed by the Nomination Committee prior to submission for re-appointment.
The Boards policy on tenure for Directors states that, in line with the Combined Code, any Director who has served for over nine years should stand for annual re-appointment.
The Board is of the opinion that long service does not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of Directors of investment trusts where continuity and experience can significantly benefit a board.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce 43 43 Election of Directors at the AGM The Board may appoint further Directors without shareholder approval but subject to any such Director standing for election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment in accordance with the Articles of Association.
Ms Bates and Mr Hames are to be appointed as Directors on 30 June 2011 and therefore offer themselves for election at the upcoming AGM.
Two Directors stand for re-election at the AGM in 2011 and the Nomination Committee of the Board has considered each Director.
Mr Dicks stands for annual re-election as he has served more than nine years.
He was appointed to the Board in 1996.
Mr Ashford-Russell, who has also been on the Board for more than nine years, stands for annual re-election as required by the Listing Rules due to his association with the Investment Manager.
Mr Ashford-Russell has been a Director since 1996.
The Nomination Committee, as part of the Director and Board performance evaluation, has carefully reviewed and rigorously assessed the contribution of each Director standing for re-election and their independence.
They determined that each Director continued to offer relevant experience, effectively contributed to the operation of the Board and had demonstrated independent views on a range of subjects.
All the Directors, with the exception of Mr Ashford-Russell, were considered independent of the Investment Manager and had no relationship or conflicts which were likely to affect their judgment.
The Board, on the recommendation of the Nomination Committee, supports each of the Directors standing for election or re-election.
Directors interests Mr Ashford-Russell is a partner of Polar Capital LLP and a shareholder in Polar Capital Holdings plc, the ultimate holding company of Polar Capital LLP and as such he has an interest in the investment management contract.
He is therefore not considered to be an independent Director.
However, the Board values the fact that Mr Ashford-Russell, although no longer actively involved in the day to day management of the portfolio, serves as a Director of the Company and gives the Directors and shareholders the benefit of his experience and knowledge.
The Chairman of the Company is a non-executive Director and has no conflicting relationships.
Mr Gamble and Mr Moule have a common directorship at another investment trust but this is not considered to affect their ability to act independently.
No Director, except Mr Brian Ashford-Russell, has any links with the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP.
There were no other contracts during or at the end of the year in which a Director of the Company is or was materially interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business.
Conflicts of interests Directors have a duty to avoid a situation in which they have or could have a conflict of interest or possible conflict with the interests of the Company.
With effect from October 2008 the Company introduced additional procedures to handle such situations.
Under the Companies Act 2006 public companies may authorise conflicts or potential conflicts if the Articles of Association contain provisions to this effect and the Companys Articles of Association contain such provisions.
The Board has always had in place policies to govern situations where a potential conflict of interests may arise, in particular where a Director is also a director of a company in which the Company invests or may invest.
Where such a situation arises, these Directors are excluded from any discussions or decisions relating to investments in their respective companies.
Each Director has provided the Company with a statement of all conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest.
These have been approved by the Board and recorded in a register.
The Board may impose conditions on authorising any conflict or potential conflict situations.
Each Director has agreed to notify the Chairman and the Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 D Di iR Re eC CT To oR RS S R Re eP Po oR RT T 44 44 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Company Secretary of any changes to his circumstances which would impact on the notified conflicts or potential conflicts and obtain approval before entering into any situation which might give rise to a conflict or potential conflict with the interests of the Company.
Directors are reminded at each Board meeting of their obligations to notify any changes in their statement of conflicts and also to declare any benefits from third parties in their capacity as a Director of the Company which might give rise to a conflict or potential conflict with the Companys interests.
No Director has declared receipt of any benefits other than his emoluments in his capacity as a Director of the Company.
Only Directors not involved in the conflict or potential conflict participate in the authorisation process.
Directors in deciding whether to authorise a situation take into account their duty to promote the Companys success.
The Board as part of its year-end has considered the register of conflicts, any conditions imposed on such conflicts or potential conflicts and the operation of the notification and authorisation process.
They concluded that the process has operated effectively since its introduction.
Except as disclosed above in relation to Mr Ashford-Russells interest in the contract with Polar Capital LLP there were no contracts subsisting during or at the end of the year in which a Director is or was interested and which is or was significant in relation to the Companys business or to the Director.
Role and responsibilities The Board meets regularly and seven scheduled Board meetings were held to deal with the stewardship of the Company and other matters including the setting and monitoring of investment strategy and performance, review of financial statements, approval of borrowing limits within which the Investment Manager has discretion to act, and shareholder issues including investor relations.
The level of share price discount or premium to Net Asset Value together with policies for re-purchase or issuance of new shares including the use of treasury shares are kept under review along with matters affecting the industry and the evaluation of third party service providers.
A strategy meeting is held each year where past performance attribution is examined and future investment ideas are discussed.
Additional meetings of the Board are arranged as required.
The Board has delegated to a number of standing committees specific remits for consideration and recommendation but the final responsibility in these areas remains with the Board.
A formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the full Board has been defined and a procedure has been adopted for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company.
No such advice has been sought during the past year.
The number of formal meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the financial year and the attendance of individual Directors are shown below.
1 May 2010 to 30 April 2011 Board & Management Strategy Audit Engagement Nomination Remuneration Number of Meetings 8 3 1 2 1 R Wakeling 8 3 1 2 n a B Ashford-Russell 8 3 1 2 n a P Dicks 7 3 1 2 1 D Gamble 8 3 1 2 n a M Moule 8 3 1 2 1 R Montagu 8 3 1 2 1 Not a member but attended part of the meeting by invitation Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce 45 45 All Directors in office at the date of the meeting attended the 2010 AGM, held on 28 July 2010 and Mr Wakeling and Mr Dicks attended the general meeting held on 11 February 2011 for the approval of the issue of subscription shares.
A number of ad hoc special purpose Board and committee meetings were held during the year for the approval of documents, the issue of new shares and approval of regulatory announcements.
Mr Dicks missed a Board meeting in July 2010 due to being overseas on another business commitment.
Investment Manager The Board has contractually delegated the management of the portfolio to the Investment Manager, Polar Capital LLP the Investment Manager.
It is the Investment Managers sole responsibility to take decisions as to the purchase and sale of individual investments other than unquoted investments where the Board is consulted.
The Investment Manager has responsibility for gearing, asset allocation and sector selection within the limits established and regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Board has directly appointed the custodian and the registrars, both of which the Investment Manager monitors and the Investment Manager provides or procures the provision of accountancy services, company secretarial and administrative services and the share savings scheme arrangements.
The Investment Manager also ensures that all Directors receive in a timely manner all relevant management, regulatory and financial information.
Representatives of the Investment Manager attend each Board meeting enabling the Directors to probe further on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain issues.
The Directors have access to the advice and services of the corporate company secretary through its appointed representative who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Board and Investment Manager operate in a supportive, co-operative and open environment.
Senior Independent Director The Board elected Mr Dicks to act as the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Dicks can be contacted via the Registered Office of the Company.
Board Committees The Board has created four standing committees whose terms are described below.
The Board also creates ad hoc committees from time to time to enact or approve policies or actions agreed in principle by the whole Board.
Copies of the terms of reference for each of the standing committees are available on the Companys website.
The composition of the standing committees will be reviewed following the appointment of two independent Directors on 30 June 2011.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee meets three times a year and comprises of all the independent non-executive Directors under the chairmanship of Mr Moule.
Mr Wakeling who was the chairman of the Committee until April 2010 remained on the Committee due to his experience as he has previously served as a finance director of two public companies.
The Chairmanship of the Audit Committee will be considered following Mr Moules appointment as Chairman of the Board on 4 August 2011.
None of the members of the Committee has any involvement in the preparation of the accounts of the Company, as this has been contracted to the Investment Manager.
The Chairman of the Committee will be present at the AGM to answer questions relating to the financial statements.
The Audit Committee is responsible for reviewing the scope of the annual audit, the annual accounts and the interim report, the terms of appointment of the auditors and their remuneration as well as any non-audit services provided by the auditors.
It meets with representatives of the Investment Manager and receives reports on the quality and effectiveness of the accounting records and management information maintained on behalf of the Company.
The Committee also considers the internal controls and risk management systems applicable to the Company.
The Audit Committee has direct access to the auditors and to the key senior staff of the Investment Manager and it reports its findings and recommendations to the Board which retains the ultimate responsibility for the financial statements of the Company.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011 D Di iR Re eC CT To oR RS S R Re eP Po oR RT T 46 46 D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s R Re ep po or rt ts s B Bu us si ine fines ss s R Re ev vi ie ew w a an nd d t the he R Re ep po or rt t o on n C Co or rp po or ra ate te G Go ov five er rn na an nce ce DIRECTORS REPORT INCLUDING THE BUSINESS REVIEW AND THE REPORT ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued The Audit Committee meets with the auditors each April to review the scope of the annual audit work and meets again each June to review the findings of the auditors and the annual report and accounts prior to approval by the Board.
The Committee also meets, without the auditors present, in December to consider the half-year report.
The independence and effectiveness of the auditors and the nature of the services provided have therefore been assessed throughout the year and the provision of non-audit services provided by the auditors have been kept under review.
These nonaudit services comprised the provision of specialist tax advice on matters relating to Section 1158 of the Corporation Tax Act 2010, VAT recovery and recovery of withholding taxes which was provided by a separate office of the audit firm.
Details of fees paid to the auditors are given in note 9 on page 68.
The Audit Committee annually reviews the performance of  LLP, the Companys external auditor.
In doing so the Audit Committee considers a range of factors including the quality of service, the auditors specialist expertise and the level of audit fee.
The Audit Committee remains satisfied with their effectiveness and therefore has not considered it necessary, to date, to require the external auditors to tender for the audit work.
A new audit partner was introduced for this years audit of the financial statements.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the choice of external auditor.
Under Company Law the reappointment of the external auditor is subject to shareholder approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Audit Committee has recommended the reappointment of the auditors at the AGM.
Management Engagement Committee The Management Engagement Committee meets at least annually and at such other times as may be necessary.
All independent non-executive Directors are members of the Management Engagement Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee is responsible for the review of the terms of the investment management contract which is reviewed annually and the Committee also considers, prior to making its recommendation to the Board, whether the retention of the Investment Manager is in the interests of shareholders.
The Committee also considers other matters to do with the relationship with the Investment Manager.
Nomination Committee The Nomination Committee comprises of all the independent non-executive Directors and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets at least annually and is responsible to the Board for the size and structure of the Board as well as succession planning and tenure policy for Directors.
Succession planning will be conducted bearing in mind the balance of skills, knowledge and experience existing on the Board and the Committee will make recommendations to the Board when the further recruitment of non-executive Directors is required.
The Chairman does not participate in any discussion or decision on his role or replacement.
Once a decision has been made that additional directors are to be recruited then candidates will be drawn from suggestions put forward by the other Directors and by the use of external agencies.
The final selection will be made by the Board following recommendations by the Committee.
The Committee also reviews the performance of the Board as a whole and each individual Director.
Re-appointment as a Director is not automatic and will follow a process of evaluation of each Directors performance.
The Board acknowledges the rationale of the Combined Code for the rigorous review of Directors serving over six years and annual re-appointment after nine years.
Nevertheless the Board shares the view of the AIC that length of service will not necessarily compromise the independence or contribution of directors of investment trusts where continuity and experience can significantly strengthen a board.
All Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, subject to re-appointment and Companies Act provisions.
In accordance with the Articles of Association, Directors will stand for election at the first AGM following their appointment and will retire at every third AGM after their last election.
The Directors who are subject to annual reappointment due to length of service would be subject to rigorous assessment of their contribution.
The Nomination Committee, assisted by Trust Associates, undertook the selection of the new Directors and led the discussion on the appointment of the new Chairman.
Polar Capital Technology Trust plc Annual Report & Financial Statements for the year ended 30 April 2011
