60 DIRECTORS REPORT: gOvERnanCE GOvernance The uK Corporate governance Code the Code sets out guidance on how to operate a good corporate governance structure.
Companies listed in the uK are required to disclose how they have applied the provisions of the Code during the year and explain any areas of non-compliance.
John van Kuffeler, Chairman Contents deAr shAreholders 60 Chairmans letter Last year I reported that we intended to implement certain changes to the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code in advance of their effective date.
Having implemented the changes 61 Summary of key Code provisions the board continues to believe that the new Code, which was published in June 2010, represents 62 Leadership the essence of good governance practice.
63 Effectiveness During the year the board has again reviewed its various processes, particularly in light of the 64 accountability new provisions of the Code, and has taken action where necessary to ensure that what it does 64 Remuneration fully reflects and complies with the principles and provisions of the Code.
64 Relations with shareholders As I have said previously, the Code principles establish good governance practice and are the most important part of the Code.
In the next few pages, I seek to explain how they have been applied by the board.
I will begin by highlighting a number of important areas that have been the subject of further development during the year.
boArd membership diversity boArd eFFeCtiveness The mix of individuals on the board largely The board has noted and supports following the external review in 2010 determines the quality of the board as a whole the Davies Review Women on Boards we carried out a comprehensive internal so, consequently, through the nomination together with the financial Reporting board evaluation in 2011 using an online committee, we pay a good deal of attention to Councils statement on proposed changes questionnaire developed in conjunction with the composition of the board and succession to the Code relating to gender diversity on Independent audit Limited.
When considering the composition boards.
The board recognises the benefits to consulted on matters such as the role of the of the board, we look for the right mix of the company of diversity in its workforce and in directors and the board, board composition, knowledge, experience and key skills whilst the composition of the board itself.
However, the contribution made by and the performance always giving due consideration to diversity.
diversity is not simply about gender or race of non-executive and executive directors, It is important that the right balance is the board aims to have a broad range of skills, quality of board meetings, leadership by the achieved which enhances the workings of backgrounds and experience and will pursue Chairman, quality of information provided, the board.
I believe the current composition a policy of appointing the best people for and various corporate governance issues.
of the board has the right mix of executive relevant roles whilst recognising the benefits The actions identified from the evaluation and non-executive directors which achieves of greater diversity when considering any will be implemented through 2012. further the appropriate degree of challenge on both particular appointment.
details can be found on page 63. operational and strategic issues.
Whilst there is more than 20% representation as Chairman I also have a meeting with the of women in management positions, the board independent non-executive directors to review recognises the benefits from increasing the the issues raised during the board evaluation representation of female employees at the process and I also meet with the senior most senior levels in the company.
The board independent director to review any issues currently comprises 14% women and the aim raised concerning my performance.
is to ensure that a target of 25% is reached by The next external board evaluation will 2015 as well as a target of 25% women within be carried out in 2013. the wider senior management group.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 61 AnnuAl re-eleCtion oF boArd summAry oF key Code prinCiples at the annual general Meeting in 2011, in accordance with the Code, all our directors leAdership & strAtegy Having carried out a full external review in offered themselves for reappointment and 2010 in line with the Code, we conducted board Composition were re-elected by shareholders.
an internal review in 2011 using an online The board comprises the non-Executive remunerAtion questionnaire developed in conjunction with Chairman, three Executive Directors and During 2011, our remuneration committee Independent audit Limited.
In outline, the three Independent non-Executive Directors: carried out a thorough review of our 2011 conclusion of the review was that the board one of whom is a woman.
Experience, senior executive remuneration policy to ensure and the committees are operating effectively both current and past, ranges across it was consistent with and promoted effective with its members possessing all the skills various sectors of the financial services risk management using the remuneration risk the company requires.
There is a positive and retail markets in the uK.
In addition framework established by the risk advisory working environment with appropriate levels to significant strengths in the development committee.
In 2012, the remuneration of openness, support and challenge.
and implementation of strategy, the board committee will consistently apply the 2011 However, opportunities for further collectively also has significant experience senior executive remuneration policy, making improvement were identified.
in finance management, risk control, changes only to the nature and extent of the corporate governance, regulatory and Further information about the evaluation targets under the companys long-term corporate affairs issues.
process, its recommendations and results incentive schemes.
This will ensure we are not is set out on page 63. rewarding poor performance or conduct which Biographical details of the members of the exposes the group to excessive risk and that board are set out on pages 58 and 59. mitigation of risks and uncertainties the targets generate long-term behaviour and Our internal control systems cover all major issues discussed in 2011 interests linked to the long-term interests of material controls including financial, a wide range of topics was reviewed by shareholders.
further details are set out in the operational and compliance as well as the board during the year including the remuneration report on pages 81 and 82. risk management systems, in accordance groups medium and long-term strategy: with the Turnbull guidance and the Code.
performance against the 2011 budget: risk the budget for 2012 and profit plan for We put a significant emphasis on monitoring Further information about the internal 2013-2016: operational reports on the the level of risk through the work of our audit control, risk management and the related groups divisions: renewal of the groups committee and risk advisory committee.
financial reporting process is set out on syndicated bank facilities and establishment The outputs of this are visited in greater detail pages 70 to 72. of a retail deposits programme: risk on pages 70 to 72.
We remain committed For our principal risks see pages 73 to 75. management and internal and external to building upon and indeed improving audit reports: pension arrangements and our understanding of the key risks facing Communication with investors the issues arising from the reduced annual the group and refining our appetite and Communicating with shareholders is a key allowance: group tax and treasury policies: tolerance of such risks.
The Chairman and health and safety, including an annual Senior Independent Director are responsible CompliAnCe review by the groups lead insurer: the for ensuring that the board is accessible to The company complied with the provisions groups 2010 annual Report and financial major shareholders and that channels for of the Code throughout 2011.
Statements: interim results and interim communication are open.
They are also management statements: dividend strategy: John van kuffeler responsible for ensuring that the board investor relations activity in both the uK and Chairman is aware of any concerns raised by major uSa: board composition and performance: shareholders and that their views are corporate social responsibility: developments considered.
The group Chief Executive, in corporate governance and significant new finance Director and Head of Investor legislation and regulation.
Relations met regularly with our investors in 2011 and carried out roadshows in the Further information about the board, uK and uSa.
In addition, an investor day its meetings, governance structure and was arranged in 2011 at the vanquis Bank committees is set out on pages 62 to 64. contact centre in Chatham, giving investors The activities of each of the boards access not only to the operations of vanquis committees are summarised on page Bank but also to its senior management.
The presentation from the Investor Day eFFeCtiveness in November 2011 is accessible at how effective has the board been in 2011?
com a performance review is carried out annually which covers the effectiveness of the board, its committees and its individual members.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 62 DIRECTORS REPORT: gOvERnanCE GOvernance Applying the mAin prinCiples AttendAnCe At boArd And Committee meetings oF the Code audit nomination Remuneration Risk advisory Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Leadership Total number of meetings in 2011 9 5 2 5 3 the board John van Kuffeler 9 1 - The board of directors is responsible to Peter Crook 9 2 shareholders for the long-term success of andrew fisher 9 3 the company and ensuring that the company Chris gillespie 9 is appropriately managed.
The board meets Rob anderson 9 5 2 5 3 regularly to discuss the companys strategic direction, to review its financial performance, Robert Hough 8 4 2 5 3 and to ensure that risk management and Manjit Wolstenholme 9 5 2 5 3 internal control systems are appropriately aligned with its strategic objectives.
Chairman In addition the board has an annual The board has approved terms of reference The Chairman is responsible for: i chairing two-day strategy planning conference which which contain a schedule of matters specifically the board meetings and monitoring their is dedicated to reviewing and developing the reserved to it for decision, including corporate effectiveness: ii chairing the agM: and groups strategy and progress is monitored strategy, approval of budgets and financial iii chairing the nomination committee.
He is half yearly by the board.
The percentage of results, new board appointments, proposals also responsible for ensuring that an effective time spent and range of topics discussed at for dividend payments, the approval of all strategy is approved by the board and that an board meetings in 2011 is set out in the major transactions and authorisation of annual evaluation of the board is carried out.
following table: directors interests that conflict, or may The Chairman also chairs the boards of Treasury 5% conflict, with the interests of the company.
Hyperion Insurance group Limited and Marlin Corporate affairs 6% The boards five committees also have written financial group Limited.
These appointments terms of reference which can be found on the Investor Relations 12% involve no more than two and a half days companys website.
In addition, the group work per week.
There have been no material Corporate governance 12% has detailed corporate policies which set out changes in his other commitments since Strategy 16% authority levels within the group and which the year end.
finance Management 25% were last reviewed and updated in June 2011.
Chief executive Divisional boards are required to report on funding 8% The Chief Executive is primarily responsible compliance with the corporate policies on Operational Matters 16% for implementing the companys strategy, as a biannual basis.
well as being a focal point for communication Company secretary The executive committee, comprising the three with shareholders.
He also chairs the board all directors are able to consult with the executive directors, normally meets at least of vanquis Bank Limited.
Company Secretary, who is secretary to all once a week, and more frequently as required.
The appointment meetings The executive committee deals with matters and removal of the Company Secretary is a During 2011, the board had nine meetings.
relating to the running of the group, other matter for the board.
additional meetings are called when required than those reserved to the board and those and there is frequent contact between meetings, specifically assigned to the other committees.
independent advice where necessary, to progress the companys There is a formal schedule of matters reserved There is a formal procedure by which any business.
Each director receives all relevant to it for decision.
director may take independent professional reports and papers so that he she has advice relating to the performance of his her sufficient time to review them.
attendance duties at the companys expense.
at board and committee meetings during insurance 2011 is set out in the table above.
The company has arranged appropriate Directors and Officers liability insurance in respect of legal action against directors.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 63 policy on other board appointments The results of the evaluation, which were effectiveness The boards policy on other directorships is discussed by the board as a whole at its designed to ensure that all directors remain meeting in December 2011, confirmed that The board currently comprises three executive able to discharge their responsibilities to the board of directors was balanced and no directors, three non-executive directors and the company.
However, a non-executive Chairman and has a clearly the following actions were identified and will defined division of responsibilities between The letters of appointment of the nonbe fully considered in 2012: the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
executive directors state that any proposed In light of the growing significance of appointment to the board of another company non-executive directors vanquis Bank to the groups performance, will require the prior approval of the board.
Each of the three non-executive directors has a detailed review of the senior management The companys policy is that a non-executive been formally determined by the board to be succession options will be carried out and director should have sufficient time to fulfil independent for the purposes of the effective this will include an assessment of whether his her duties to the company, including governance of the group, in line with the it is necessary to appoint an additional chairing a committee.
The board will consider all independence expectations of the Code.
executive to the board in the future.
requests for permission for other directorships The board believes that there are no current carefully, subject to the following principles: allocation of more time for the audit or past matters which could materially committee meetings around the interim interfere with their independent judgment.
a non-executive director would not be and full year results, possibly involving expected to hold more than four other non-executive directors are currently appointed additional meetings.
material non-executive directorships: and for fixed periods of three years, subject to Company Secretary to assist directors if he she holds an executive role in a fTSE appointment by shareholders.
The initial with time management on board and 350 company, he she would not be expected three-year period may be extended for one committee meeting dates.
to hold more than two other material nonfurther three-year period and, in exceptional executive directorships.
a performance evaluation of the board, the cases, further extended, subject always to board committees and individual directors annual reappointment by shareholders.
Their In line with the Code, an executive director will continue to be conducted annually, letters of appointment may be inspected at the will be permitted to hold one non-executive although the process for such evaluations companys registered office or can be obtained directorship and to retain the fees from that will be reviewed by the board on an ongoing on request from the Company Secretary.
appointment provided that the board considers basis in order to optimise the process.
that this will not adversely affect his executive Robert Hough is the senior independent director responsibilities.
The board would not permit an We will continue to carry out an external and is available to consult with shareholders if executive director to take on the chairmanship evaluation every three years, the next such they have concerns which contact through the of a fTSE 100 company.
evaluation to be carried out in 2013. normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive or finance Director has failed to resolve or for any request for an exception to this policy training which such contact is inappropriate.
is considered on its merits.
appropriate training and briefing is provided to all directors on appointment to the board, taking In December 2011, the Chairman met with the performance evaluation into account their individual qualifications and non-executive directors without any executive following the external board performance experience.
Ongoing training is arranged to suit director present and the non-executive directors evaluation in 2010, the board completed their individual needs including environmental, met without the Chairman present to discuss the ninth evaluation of its performance in social and governance training as appropriate the Chairmans performance.
The senior november 2011 and that of its committees and the Chairman regularly reviews and independent director discussed comments and individual directors.
The process was agrees with each director their training and arising with the Chairman.
carried out by means of an online questionnaire development needs.
The Chairman discussed service developed by Independent audit reappointment of directors training and development plans with all Limited.
The process included confidential, under the companys articles of association, directors in 2011. unattributable, online questionnaires each director should retire, but may be completed by each director, covering corporate reappointed, at least at every third agM, as governance: development of strategy and well as at the first agM following appointment.
alignment with risk: board and committee also, after nine years, a director must offer effectiveness, composition, development and himself herself for reappointment annually.
succession planning: board operation and In accordance with the recommendations dynamics: collective and individual capabilities of the Code, all directors offered themselves and contribution: management information for reappointment at the 2011 agM and and operational oversight.
biographical details of the directors were supplied in the shareholders circular and notice of the 2011 agM.
all directors will offer themselves for reappointment at the 2012 agM and at all future agMs.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 64 DIRECTORS REPORT: gOvERnanCE GOvernance nominAtion Committee accountabiLity remuneration Members: The board presents the companys position remunerAtion Committee John van Kuffeler Chairman and prospects by means of an annual report, full details of the composition and work of the Rob anderson interim reports, interim management remuneration committee are set out on page Peter Crook statements and in circulars and reports to 78 of the directors remuneration report.
These documents are posted on Manjit Wolstenholme The committee has a formal schedule the companys website.
announcements made of matters reserved to it for decision.
The nomination committee ensures that the by the company to the London Stock Exchange It determines, within the framework agreed balance of directors remains appropriate as are also posted on the companys website.
with the board, the specific remuneration the group develops and that there is effective risk management and internal control packages and conditions of service of the succession planning for senior positions within The board is responsible for the alignment of Chairman, the executive directors and the the group.
It has a formal schedule of matters strategy and risk and for maintaining a sound Company Secretary, including their service reserved to it for decision.
system of risk management and internal agreements.
It also monitors the level and In 2010, the committee reviewed and controls.
Details of the groups risks, together structure of the remuneration of the most approved a detailed succession plan for with the controls and procedures in place to senior management below board level within the executive directors, the Chairman and the mitigate the risks, can be found in the risk the company.
no director is involved in persons discharging managerial responsibility.
management and internal control section determining his her own remuneration.
The plan specifically identified those candidates of this report on pages 70 to 75. who are capable, or would be capable with reLations with Anti-bribery and corruption training and development, of filling the roles following the introduction of the Bribery act identified.
Bespoke training and development sharehoLders in July 2011, the risk advisory committee plans have been prepared and are being reviewed the groups approach to bribery and ongoing investor relations implemented as appropriate.
The groups corporate policies were The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that in January 2012, the committee: updated and a corporate hospitality register appropriate channels of communication are reviewed the actions identified in the established using a risk-based approach.
The established between directors and shareholders succession plan agreed in 2010 and initial risk assessment confirmed that as a and that all directors are aware of any issues progress made in 2011: Business to Consumer organisation the risks and concerns that major shareholders may reviewed the composition of the board, and for the group arising from the Bribery act were have.
The company has a comprehensive in particular the succession options for both low.
all business units are, however, required investor relations programme in both the the Chairman and Chief Executive: to undergo appropriate training and instruction uK and the uSa, through which the group to ensure that they have effective anti-bribery developed specific succession plans for the Chief Executive and finance Director and corruption policies and procedures in senior management teams in both divisions: engage regularly with the companys place.
Compliance will be regularly monitored largest shareholders on a one-to-one basis.
formally considered its effectiveness in by the risk advisory committee and will be In addition, the board considers an investor 2011 and on the basis of the board and subject to periodic review by the internal relations report at each board meeting committee evaluation undertaken, the overall audit function.
which covers the general nature of matters view was that the committee was working communicated and discussed.
However, effectively: and whistleblowing it is important that the board has a number The group has a system by which staff may, carried out a review of the performance of channels which provide access to in confidence, raise concerns about possible of Rob anderson and recommended to shareholder views, and independent reviews wrongdoing in financial reporting or other the board an extension of his term of office.
of shareholder views are commissioned matters.
During 2011 the system was operational at the board meeting in february 2012, his annually and reviewed by the board.
Procedures are in place term of office was extended to 30 March in 2011, an investor day was held at the to ensure issues raised are addressed in a 2015, subject to reappointment at the vanquis Bank contact centre in Chatham, confidential manner.
The Company Secretary agM in May 2012. giving investors access to its operations and is required to report to the audit committee in its senior management, as well as to the group December on the integrity of these procedures, Chief Executive and the finance Director.
the state of ongoing investigations and conclusions reached.
During 2011 group The Chairman of the remuneration employees used this system to raise concerns committee writes to major shareholders, about two separate issues, both of which were when appropriate, to update them on the appropriately responded to through the groups subject of remuneration policy and invites human resources function.
them to comment on any particular areas of concern.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 65 Agm direCtors interests in shAres other stAtutory And Regular dialogue with shareholders is The beneficial interests of the directors in the regulAtory inFormAtion important for good governance.
at the centre of issued share capital of the company were direCtors the companys engagement with its shareholders as follows: The directors of the company as at 31December is the agM, which provides a forum for meeting 2011, are listed on pages 58 and 59.
They all number of shares with all shareholders.
The chairman of each served as directors throughout 2011 and up to 31 31 December December of the board committees is available to answer the date of signing of the financial statements.
2011 2010 questions from shareholders at the agM and During the year no director had a material John van Kuffeler 18,000 14,000 there is an opportunity for shareholders to ask interest in any contract of significance to which 1 Peter Crook 706,404 621,365 questions on each resolution proposed.
The the company or a subsidiary undertaking was company has thousands of shareholders, most 1 andrew fisher 489,197 452,207 a party.
of whom do not wish or are unable to attend 1 Chris gillespie 457,825 435,555 the actual meeting.
However, all shareholders direCtors indemnities Rob anderson 3,500 3,500 have the opportunity to ensure that their votes The companys articles of association permit Robert Hough 7,500 7,500 are cast.
To help facilitate this we provide it to indemnify directors of the company or the following: of any associated company in accordance Manjit Wolstenholme 5,663 5,663 with the Companies act 2006.
The company Electronic and postal voting shareholders 1 These interests include conditional share awards granted may fund expenditure incurred by directors in can vote on all the resolutions either under the LTIS, awards under the PSP and deferred defending proceedings against them.
If such shares under the Deferred Bonus Scheme as detailed on electronically via our website or by post.
pages 82 to 86 of the directors remuneration report.
funding is by means of a loan, the director Questions & answers all shareholders must repay the loan to the company if he she no director had any non-beneficial holdings have the opportunity to submit questions is convicted of any criminal proceedings or at 31 December 2011 or at any time up to by email or post.
judgment is given against him her in any civil 28 february 2012.
Results we publish the results of the proceedings.
The company may indemnify any voting on all resolutions on our website There were no changes in the beneficial or nondirector of the company or of any associated and through an RnS announcement.
beneficial interests of the directors between company against any liability.
company may not provide an indemnity The 2011 agM was held for the first time in against any liability incurred by the director the companys new head office building in ConFliCts oF interest to the company or to any associated company: Bradford.
The company proposed separate The board has put procedures in place to deal or against any liability incurred by the director resolutions on substantially separate issues with situations where a director has a conflict to pay a criminal or regulatory penalty: or and will continue to do so.
It is the companys of interest.
as part of these procedures against any liability incurred by the director in policy to give shareholders in excess of 20 the board: defending criminal proceedings in which he working days notice of the agM.
considers each conflict situation she is convicted: or in defending any civil separately based on its particular facts: Those who are able to attend our agM have proceedings brought by the company or an the opportunity to ask questions and hear the considers any conflict situation in associated company in which judgment is views of other shareholders before deciding conjunction with the other duties of given against him her: or in connection how to cast their votes.
The Code requires that directors under the Companies act 2006: with certain court applications under the all directors are subject to annual re-election keeps records and board minutes as to Companies act 2006. no indemnity was by shareholders and, as a consequence, all authorisations granted by directors and provided and no payments pursuant to these members of the board stood for re-election in the scope of any approvals given: and provisions were made in 2011 or at any time 2011 and will continue to do so in future years.
up to 28 february 2012. regularly reviews conflict authorisations.
The 2012 agM will be held on 2 May 2012 The board has complied with these procedures at the companys head office in Bradford and during the year.
shareholders are encouraged to attend and raise any questions they may have on this governance report and other matters covered by the resolutions to be put to the meeting.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 66 DIRECTORS REPORT: gOvERnanCE GOvernance shAre CApitAl provident Financial plc 2007 provident Financial employee benefit trust increase in issued ordinary share capital employee benefit trust the ebt the pF trust During the year, the ordinary share capital The EBT, a discretionary trust for the The Pf Trust, a discretionary trust for the in issue increased by 1,554,530 shares to benefit of group directors and employees, benefit of group directors and employees, was 137,226,391 shares.
Details are set out on was established on 11 September 2007.
The established on 31 January 2003 and operates page 133 in note 23 of the notes to the trustee, Kleinwort Benson Jersey Trustees in conjunction with the PSP.
Limited, is not a subsidiary of the company.
Provident financial Trustees Performance The EBT operates in conjunction with the LTIS Share Plan Limited, is a subsidiary of the rights of ordinary shares and has previously purchased shares in the company.
The number of shares held by all of the companys issued ordinary shares market for the purpose of the LTIS.
following the Pf Trust at any time, when added to are fully paid up and rank equally in all respects the passing of a resolution at the 2008 agM, the number of shares held by any other trust and there are no special rights with regard to the EBT is able to subscribe for the issue of established by the company for the benefit of control of the company.
The rights attached new shares.
The number of shares held by the employees, will not exceed 5% of the issued to them, in addition to those conferred on their EBT at any time, when added to the number of share capital of the company.
as at 31December holders by law, are set out in the companys shares held by any other trust established by 2011, the Pf Trust had no interest in any shares articles of association.
There are no restrictions the company for the benefit of employees, will in the company 2010: nil.
on the transfer of ordinary shares or on the not exceed 5% of the issued share capital of exercise of voting rights attached to them, The Pf Trust subscribes for shares for the the company.
The EBT is funded by loans from except: i where the company has exercised purpose of satisfying awards granted under the the company which are then used to acquire, its right to suspend their voting rights or to PSP.
When the Pf Trust subscribes for shares, either via market purchase or subscription, prohibit their transfer following the omission it is funded by loans from the company which ordinary shares to satisfy conditional share of their holder or any person interested in are then used to acquire ordinary shares for awards granted under the LTIS.
for the them to provide the company with information the purposes of satisfying awards granted purpose of the financial statements, the EBT requested by it in accordance with Part 22 of under the PSP.
for the purposes of the is consolidated into the company and group.
the Companies act 2006: or ii where their financial statements, the Pf Trust is as a consequence, the loans are eliminated holder is precluded from exercising voting consolidated into the company and group.
and the cost of the shares acquired is rights by the financial Services authoritys as a consequence, the loans are eliminated and deducted from equity as set out in note 25 fSa Listing Rules or the City Code on the cost of the shares acquired is deducted on page 137 of the financial statements.
from equity as set out in note 23 on page 133 as the EBT operates in conjunction with of the financial statements.
awards were made employee savings-related the LTIS, the beneficial interest in shares under the PSP on 4 March 2011 and a loan share option schemes is transferred from the EBT to directors and of 65,242 was made to the Pf Trust for the The current scheme for employees resident 8 employees when conditional share awards are purposes of acquiring ordinary shares of 20 11p in the uK is the Provident financial plc made.
full vesting of such shares is subject in the company to satisfy these awards.
Employee Savings-Related Share Option to the achievement of the performance targets Scheme 2003 the 2003 scheme.
The Pf Trust operates in conjunction with set out on page 81 of the directors the PSP and the beneficial interest in shares The current scheme for employees resident remuneration report.
is transferred from the Pf Trust to directors and in the Republic of Ireland is the Provident On 2 March 2011, the company provided a employees when awards are made.
full vesting financial plc International Employee loan of 183,256 to the EBT for the purpose of such shares is subject to the achievement Savings-Related Share Option Scheme.
of acquiring ordinary shares of 20 8 11p in of the performance target set out on page 86 executive share incentive schemes the company.
The EBT subscribed for the of the directors remuneration report.
Options are outstanding under the Provident issue of 884,129 new shares on 4 March Authority to purchase shares financial Executive Share Option Scheme 2011 in order to satisfy the awards made at the 2011 agM, shareholders authorised 2006 the ESOS.
awards are also outstanding under the LTIS on 4 March 2011. the company to purchase up to 13,693,701 under the Provident financial Long Term as at 31 December 2011 the EBT held the of its ordinary shares up until 3 november Incentive Scheme 2006 the LTIS and the non-beneficial interest in 2,969,888 shares 2012 or, if earlier, the conclusion of the next Provident financial Performance Share Plan in the company 2010: 2,638,457.
EBT may exercise or refrain from exercising purchased pursuant to this authority.
a further as set out on page 81 of the directors any voting rights in its absolute discretion authority for the company to purchase its own remuneration report, the remuneration and is not obliged to exercise such voting shares will be sought from shareholders at the committee did not grant any options during rights in a manner requested by the forthcoming agM to be held on 2 May 2012. the year under the ESOS or theLTIS.
Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 67 power to allot shares for cash employee involvement pensions at the 2011 agM, shareholders authorised the The group systematically provides employees The group operates two pension schemes.
directors to allot equity securities as defined with information on matters of concern to Employee involvement in the group defined by the Companies act 2006 for cash up to them, consulting them or their representatives benefit pension scheme is achieved by the an aggregate nominal amount of 1,419,165. regularly, so that their views can be taken into appointment of member-nominated trustees and a further authority for the directors to allot account when making decisions that are likely by regular newsletters and communications equity securities for cash will be sought from to affect their interests.
Employee involvement from the trustees to members.
In addition, shareholders at the forthcoming agM to be in the group is encouraged as achieving a there is a website dedicated to pension matters.
held on 2 May 2012. common awareness on the part of all employees The trustees manage the assets of the defined of the financial and economic factors affecting benefit pension scheme, which are held under substAntiAl shAreholdings the group plays a major role in maintaining its trust separately from the assets of the group On the basis of the information available to competitive position.
The group encourages the and each trustee is encouraged to undertake the company as at 28 february 2012, the involvement of employees by means of operating training.
Regular training sessions on topical following investment managers through company newsletters, weekly performance issues are carried out at meetings of the segregated managed funds have interests updates, regular management team briefings, trustees by the trustees advisors which is though not necessarily beneficial ownership staff meetings and conferences including based on the Pension Regulators Trustee in aggregate amounting to over 3% 5% for trade union meetings in those companies Knowledge and understanding requirements investment trusts and collective investment which recognise unions.
The company also and tailored to any skill gaps.
The trustees companies in the issued ordinary share carries out employee engagement surveys.
have a business plan and, at the start of each capital of the company: Details of the surveys are included in the year, review performance against the plan and Invesco Limited 27.01% corporate responsibility report on pages objectives from the previous year in addition 26 to 32. to agreeing its objectives and budget for the M&g Investment current year.
The trustees are committed to Management Limited 7.02% save as you earn clear member communication and also have The company operates two savings-related Marathon asset a risk register and associated action plan and share option schemes referred to on page 66, Management Limited 6.26% a conflicts of interest policy and register, aimed at encouraging employees involvement Tweedy Browne Company LLC 5.89% all of which are reviewed at least annually.
and interest in the financial performance and BlackRock Inc. 4.15% success of the group through share ownership.
The group also operates a stakeholder pension 1,008 employees are currently saving to buy plan for employees who joined the group from Baillie gifford & Co. 3.46% shares in the company under these schemes 1 January 2003.
Employees in this plan have Legal & general Investment 2010: 1,398. access to dedicated websites which provide Management Limited 3.46% information on their funds and general training information about the plan.
Interests as at 31 December 2011 The company is fully committed to encouraging were as follows: employees at all levels to study for relevant In 2011, the company established an educational qualifications and to training unfunded unapproved Retirement Benefit Invesco Limited 26.28% employees at all levels in the group.
Scheme uuRBS, known as the Provident M&g Investment financial Top up Scheme for the benefit Management Limited 7.09% of those employees who were affected by Marathon asset the restricted annual allowance of pension Management Limited 6.31% contributions to registered pension schemes which was introduced in October 2010.
Tweedy Browne Company LLC 5.89% The uuRBS offers an alternative to a cash Legal & general Investment payment in lieu of the benefit over the Management Limited 3.48% annual allowance.
BlackRock Inc. 3.40% Baillie gifford & Co. 3.54% Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 68 DIRECTORS REPORT: gOvERnanCE GOvernance environmentAl, soCiAl discloses its CR performance via an annual equAl opportunities And governAnCe mAtters CRreport and through making regular The group is committed to employment During the year, the company made donations submissions to mainstream sustainability policies, which follow best practice, based for charitable purposes of 1,291,459 2010: indices such as the fTSE4good and Dow Jones on equal opportunities for all employees, 1,190,619.
The group invested a further Sustainability Indexes.
The CRprogramme is irrespective of sex, race, colour, disability or 377,888 2009: 277,368 in support subject to an ongoing programme of independent marital status.
The group gives full and fair of community programmes based on the assurance to reassure stakeholders that the consideration to applications for employment London Benchmarking groups guidelines.
programme is well managed, in line with from disabled persons, having regard to their no political donations were made during the legislation and best practice, and particular aptitudes and abilities.
arrangements are made for the continued employment and training, career development further information on the groups corporate heAlth And sAFety and promotion of disabled persons employed responsibility activities is set out on pages The group attaches great importance to the by the group.
If members of staff become 26 to 32 and on the companys website.
health and safety of its employees, to the disabled, every effort is made by the group self-employed agents it engages and other The significance of environmental, social and to ensure their continued employment, either people who may be affected by its activities.
governance ESg matters to the businesses of in the same or an alternative position, with the group is regularly considered by the board.
The board has approved a group-wide health appropriate retraining being given if necessary.
a corporate affairs activity report, which covers and safety policy and a framework for health and supplier poliCy stAtement corporate responsibility and community affairs, safety.
Each divisional board is responsible for The company agrees terms and conditions for is presented at each board meeting.
The Chief the issue and implementation of its own health its business transactions with suppliers and Executive, Peter Crook, has responsibility for and safety policy in order to comply with the payment is made in accordance with these, this area.
divisions day-to-day responsibility for health subject to the terms and conditions being and safety.
Health and safety is considered The groups risk management processes, met by the supplier.
regularly at divisional board meetings and each details of which are set out on pages 70 to 72, divisional board produces a formal written The company acts as a holding company and enable the board to review and manage material report on compliance with the group-wide had no trade creditors at 31 December 2011 risks arising from ESg matters.
The board health and safety policy and framework or at 31 December 2010.
The average number has systems in place to identify and manage which is reviewed annually by the board at of days credit taken by the group during the significant ESg risks and considers that it its meeting in february.
has adequate information relating to these.
an annual audit of the health and safety FinAnCiAl instruments There are no specific remuneration incentives in policies established by the Consumer Credit Details of the financial risk management the group based on ESg matters.
However, the Division CCD, in particular those relating to objectives and policies of the group and the annual bonus scheme for executive directors agent safety, is carried out by the companys exposure of the group to credit risk, liquidity comprises specific personal objectives, and insurer, Chartis.
The results of the 2011 risk, interest rate risk and foreign exchange ESg matters are considered when setting audit indicated that there continued to be rate risk are included on pages 102 to 104 these objectives.
Details are set out on pages an excellent understanding of company of the financial statements.
79 to 80 of the directors remuneration report.
expectations, rules and procedures in relation Details of training for directors are set out on Appointment And replACement oF to health and safety throughout CCD, with page 63 of this report.
direCtors communication and training on health and Rules about the appointment and replacement The company has been managing its corporate safety matters working effectively.
The of directors are set out in the articles and on responsibility CR impacts for over ten years majority of the recommendations made as a page 63 of this report.
The directors powers which helps ensure that the group is a result of the audit in 2010 were implemented are conferred on them by uK legislation and responsible citizen and treats its customers in 2011 and further recommendations to by the articles.
Changes to the articles must in a fair manner.
The programme continues to enhance the current processes following the be approved by shareholders passing a special be informed by the feedback it receives from its 2011 audit will be implemented during the resolution and must comply with the provisions key stakeholders which enables the group to course of 2012.
In addition, an audit of the of the Companies act 2006 and the fSas respond to the social, environmental and vanquis Bank contact centre in Chatham Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
economic issues that are material to its was carried out by Chartis in 2011 which operations.
Through the CR programme, which confirmed that there was a high standard of is overseen centrally with support provided health and safety across all functions in the by a range of working groups, the group contact centre.
Recommendations made by is able to manage a range of customer, local Chartis will be implemented by vanquis Bank community, employee-related, environmental during 2012. and supply chain issues.
The company publicly Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011 Company number 668987 Directors report: Governance 69 signiFiCAnt Agreements The directors are also required by the fSas disClosure oF inFormAtion to Auditors There are no agreements between any group Disclosure and Transparency Rules to include In accordance with section 18 of the Companies company and any of its employees or any a management report containing a fair review act 2006, each person who is a director at director of any group company which provide of the business of the group and the company the date of this report confirmed that: for compensation to be paid to an employee and a description of the principal risks and i so far as the director is aware, there is or a director for termination of employment uncertainties facing the group and company.
no relevant audit information of which or for loss of office as a consequence of the companys auditors are unaware: and The directors are responsible for keeping a takeover of the company.
proper accounting records that are sufficient to ii he she has taken all reasonable steps that There are no significant agreements to which show and explain the companys transactions ought to have been taken as a director in the company is a party that take effect, alter and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any order to make himself herself aware of any or terminate upon a change of control following time the financial position of the company relevant audit information and to establish a takeover bid for the company.
and group and enable them to ensure that that the companys auditors are aware of the financial statements and the directors that information.
direCtors responsibilities in relAtion remuneration report comply with the Auditors to the FinAnCiAl stAtements Companies act 2006 and, as regards the  LLP PwC, the The following statement, which should be read group financial statements, article 4 of the auditors for the Company, have indicated in conjunction with the independent auditors IaS Regulation.
They are also responsible their willingness to continue in office and report on pages 141 and 142, is made to for safeguarding the assets of the company a resolution proposing their reappointment distinguish for shareholders the respective and the group and hence taking reasonable will be proposed at the forthcoming agM.
responsibilities of the directors and of the steps for the prevention and detection of auditors in relation to the financial statements.
AnnuAl generAl meeting The directors are responsible for preparing the The agM will be held at 11.30am on 2 May The annual Report & financial Statements annual report, the directors remuneration report 2012 at the offices of Provident financial plc, 2011 will be published on the companys and the financial statements in accordance no.
1 godwin Street, Bradford, West yorkshire website in addition to the normal paper with applicable law and regulations.
The notice of Meeting, together version.
The directors are responsible for the with an explanation of the items of business, The Companies act 2006 requires the maintenance and integrity of the companys will be contained in a circular to shareholders directors to prepare financial statements for website.
Legislation in the united Kingdom to be dated 23 March 2012. each financial year.
under this act, the directors governing the preparation and dissemination have prepared the group and company financial of financial statements may differ from statements in accordance with International legislation in other jurisdictions.
financial Reporting Standards IfRS as disClosure And trAnspArenCy rules adopted by the European union.
under dtr stAtement this act, the directors must not approve the Each of the directors, whose names and financial statement unless they are satisfied functions are set out on pages 58 and 59, that they give a true and fair view of the state confirms that, to the best of his her knowledge, of affairs of the group and company and of the group financial statements, prepared in the profit or loss of the group for that period.
accordance with IfRS as adopted by the Eu, In preparing these financial statements, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, the directors are required to: financial position and profit of the group and company, and that the directors report i select suitable accounting policies and then contained in this annual Report and financial apply them consistently: ii make judgments Statements 2011 includes a fair review of the and accounting estimates that are reasonable development and performance of the business and prudent: iii state that the financial and the position of the company and group, statements comply with IfRS as adopted by together with a description of the principal the European union, subject to any material risks and uncertainties it faces.
departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and iv prepare the The directors report is the management financial statements on a going concern basis, report for the purposes of DTR 4.1.
5R unless it is inappropriate to presume that the and DTR 4.1.
group will continue in business, in which case there should be supporting assumptions or qualifications as necessary.
Company number 668987 Provident Financial Plc annual rePort & Financial StatementS 2011
