Governance Governance | Corporate governance 113 Corporate governance Compliance with the Corporate Governance Codes The Board has Terms of Reference which specifically set out UK Corporate Governance Code matters reserved for its decision.
The Terms of Reference are Prudential plc has a premium listing on the London Stock regularly reviewed and enable the Board to exercise effective Exchange and is subject to the UK Corporate Governance Code control over the Groups affairs.
These include approval of the the UK Code.
The UK Code was published by the Financial annual and interim results, strategy and corporate objectives, Reporting Council FRC in May 2010 and is applicable to operating plans, significant transactions and matters affecting financial reporting periods beginning on or after 29 June 2010. the Companys share capital.
Under the internal governance framework, all business units are required to seek approval from A copy of the UK Code can be viewed on the FRCs website the Board for matters above pre-determined authority limits.
cfm The executive directors are responsible for running the business For the financial year ended 31 December 2011, the Board operations and the non-executive directors for bringing confirms that it has complied with the provisions of the UK Code.
Code on Corporate Governance Practices Hong Kong The Board may exercise all powers conferred on it by the Articles Prudential plc also has a primary listing on the main board of the of Association and the Companies Act 2006.
This includes the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and is subject to the Code on powers of the Company to borrow money and to mortgage or Corporate Governance Practices the HK Code in Appendix 14 charge any of its assets subject to the limitations set out in the to the Rules Governing the Listing of Securities on the Stock Companies Act 2006 and the Companys Articles of Association Exchange of Hong Kong Limited the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
and to give a guarantee, security or indemnity in respect of a debt or other obligation of the Company.
The HK Code is issued by the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong and can be viewed on their website www.
hk eng In performing its duties, the Board has direct access to the services of the Company Secretary who advises on corporate rulesreg listrules mbrules documents appendix 14. pdf governance matters, Board procedures and compliance with The Board confirms that it has also complied with the HK Code applicable rules and regulations.
Directors have the right to seek throughout the period other than in respect of the Terms of independent professional advice at the Companys expense and Reference of the Remuneration Committee as regards making copies of such advice are circulated to other directors where recommendations to the Board in respect of the remuneration of applicable and appropriate.
It would be inconsistent with the principles of the UK Code for the Remuneration Committee to be In the ordinary course of business, Board and Committee papers involved in setting the fees of non-executive directors.
are provided to the Directors approximately one week in advance of each meeting.
The principles of the UK and HK Codes the Corporate Governance Codes have been applied as set out below and Chairman and Chief Executive in the Directors remuneration report, which can be found on The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are separate pages 134 to 157. and clearly defined.
The scope of these roles is approved and kept under regular review by the Board so that no individual has Leadership unfettered decision-making powers.
Role of the Board The Chairman is responsible for the leadership and governance The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Group and provides leadership within a framework of effective controls, of the Board and the Group Chief Executive for the management of the Group and the implementation of Board strategy and enabling appropriate risk management.
The Board is responsible for setting strategic objectives and for ensuring the Group is policy on the Boards behalf.
In discharging his responsibilities, the Group Chief Executive is advised and assisted by the Group adequately placed and resourced to achieve those objectives, and for ensuring obligations to its shareholders, and wider Executive Committee which comprises all the business unit heads and a Group Head Office team of functional specialists.
stakeholders, are met in a manner consistent with its statutory duties.
Senior Independent Director The Board has approved a governance framework which Paul Manduca has been the Senior Independent Director maps out the internal approvals processes and those matters throughout the year.
The role includes maintaining contact with which may be delegated.
These principally relate to the shareholders with a view to understanding their concerns and operational management of the Groups businesses and include issues, as well as providing ongoing support to the Chairman and pre-determined authority limits delegated by the Board to the acting as an intermediary for the other non-executive directors if Group Chief Executive for further delegation by him in respect of required.
Paul is accessible to all stakeholders who have matters which are necessary for the effective day-to-day running concerns and where contact through the normal channels may and management of the businesses.
The chief executive of each have failed or would be inappropriate.
business unit has authority for the management of that business The senior independent director is also responsible for leading unit and has established a management board comprising its most senior executives.
the performance evaluation of the Chairman.
114 Governance | Corporate governance | continued Corporate governance Meetings The table below details the number of Board and Committee The Board held twelve meetings during 2011 and a separate meetings attended by each director during the year.
A detailed forward agenda has been in operation directors were not able to attend a meeting, their views were for a number of years.
This is kept updated to reflect not only canvassed by the Chairman prior to the meeting.
scheduled regular items of business but also any topical matters The Chairman met with the non-executive directors without the arising during the year.
executive directors being present seven times during the year At least one board meeting a year is usually held at a Group and the non-executive directors met once during the year without the presence of the Chairman.
All directors in office at business operation in order to facilitate a fuller understanding of that business.
In 2011, the Board held one meeting in Hong the time of the Annual General Meeting held on 19 May 2011 attended the AGM with the exception of Keki Dadiseth and Kong and undertook two overseas visits, with board meetings in Nashville, USA and Hanoi, Vietnam.
On each overseas visit, Michael Garrett.
the directors met with senior members of the management teams in those countries and attended presentations on each of the businesses.
Meeting attendance for 2011 Group Audit Remuneration Nomination Group Risk Board Committee Committee Committee Committee 6 Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Meetings Number of meetings in a year 12 10 7 8 5 Chairman Harvey McGrath 11 12 8 8 Executive directors Tidjane Thiam 12 12 Nic Nicandrou 12 12 Rob Devey 12 12 John Foley 12 12 Michael McLintock 12 12 Barry Stowe 12 12 4 Mike Wells 11 12 Non-executive directors 5 Keki Dadiseth 9 12 5 7 Howard Davies 12 12 10 10 5 5 Michael Garrett 12 12 7 7 Ann Godbehere 11 12 10 10 5 5 1 Bridget Macaskill 8 8 5 5 2 3 Paul Manduca 12 12 10 10 7 7 7 8 Kathleen ODonovan 11 12 8 10 7 8 2 James Ross 4 4 2 2 0 1 3 Lord Turnbull 12 12 7 7 6 6 5 5 Figures in brackets indicate the maximum number of meetings which the individual could have attended in the period in which they were a Board or Committee member.
Notes 1 C eased to be Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and a member of the Nomination Committee on 14 June 2011, ceased to be a director on 30 September 2011.
2 Retired as a director and ceased to be a member of the Group Risk and Nomination Committees on 19 May 2011.
3 Appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee and as a member of the Nomination Committee on 14 June 2011.
4 Was unable to attend one meeting due to a pre-existing commitment.
5 Was unable to attend certain of the meetings due to illness.
6 Two board meetings were unscheduled and called at short notice.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 115 Effectiveness The Board believes that the non-executive directors bring a wide Composition range of business, financial and international experience to the At the date of this report, the Board comprised the Board and its committees.
The executive directors, who head Chairman, seven executive directors and nine independent up the main businesses of the Group, each bring an in-depth non-executive directors.
understanding to the Board of their particular business, its markets and its challenges, ensuring coverage of the breadth and On 1 January 2012, Kai Nargolwala and Alistair Johnston joined depth of the Groups principal activities.
the board as non-executive directors.
Kathleen ODonovan will step down from the Board on 31 March 2012 after serving almost Succession planning nine years, and Harvey McGrath, Chairman of the Board, has The Board is actively engaged in succession planning for both signalled his intention to retire once a suitable successor has executive and non-executive roles to ensure that Board been found.
composition is regularly refreshed and that the Board retains John Foley and Mike Wells were appointed as executive its effectiveness at all times.
This is delivered through an directors on 1 January 2011.
John became the Group Chief Risk established review process that is applied across all businesses Officer and Mike took over as President and Chief Executive and covers both director and senior management succession and Officer of Jackson National Life Insurance Company.
development and also through the work of the Nomination Committee as described more fully on page 122.
The Board James Ross retired as a non-executive director at the conclusion considers annually the outcome of the review and actions arising of the 2011 Annual General Meeting on 19 May.
He had been from the review are implemented as part of the management succeeded as the senior independent director by Paul Manduca development agenda.
Bridget Macaskill stepped down as a director on 30 September 2011.
She was succeeded as Chairman of the Gender diversity Remuneration Committee by Lord Turnbull on 14 June 2011.
The The Company seeks, through its diversity policy, to encourage biographies of all current directors are set out on pages 108 to 112. the recruitment and retention of talented women at all levels.
The Board, or the members in a general meeting, may appoint Furthermore, the Board remains committed to inclusion in all its directors up to a maximum total number of 20 as set out in the forms and believes that leading companies seek out, and not Companys Articles of Association.
The removal and resignation simply tolerate, diversity.
of the Companys directors is governed by the relevant The inclusion of women extends to the plc Board and is an provisions of the Companies Act 2006, the UK and HK Codes important consideration during searches for new Board and the Companys Articles of Association.
Prudential embraces the proposition that more women on boards would be advantageous to companies as well Terms of appointment for non-executive directors as to society at large.
We remain duty bound to recruit the best Non-executive directors are usually appointed for an initial available talent, and although the Board does not endorse three-year term commencing with their election by shareholders quotas, it does commit to having an increasing representation at the first Annual General Meeting following their appointment of women in senior positions in the Company and on the Board.
Each appointment is reviewed towards the end of the three-year term against performance and the requirements Independence of the Groups businesses.
The terms and conditions of all The independence of the non-executive directors is determined directors appointments are available for inspection at the with reference to the UK and HK Codes.
Prudential is required to Companys registered office during normal business hours affirm annually the independence of the non-executive directors and at the Annual General Meeting.
under the Hong Kong Listing Rules and also the independence of its Audit Committee members under the Sarbanes-Oxley Non-executive directors are typically expected to serve for two terms of three years from their initial election by shareholders legislation.
The Board has appropriate processes in place to manage any potential conflicts of interest.
although the Board may invite them to serve for an additional period.
Directors serving a third term are subject to rigorous Throughout the year the non-executive directors were annual review.
considered by the Board to be independent in character and judgement and met the provisions for independence as set out in Re-election the UK and HK Codes.
The Company has received confirmation Directors appointed to the Board since the 2011 Annual General of independence from each of the independent non-executive Meeting will stand for election for the first time and, in directors as required by the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
accordance with the provisions of the UK Code, all other directors will offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 17 May 2012.
116 Governance | Corporate governance | continued Corporate governance Keki Dadiseth and Barry Stowe serve as non-executive directors Ongoing professional development was undertaken by all of ICICI Prudential Life Insurance Company Limited, an Indian directors during 2011.
This included a number of sector-specific company which is owned 26 per cent by Prudential.
In addition, and business issues as well as legal, accounting and regulatory Keki serves, at Prudentials request, as a non-executive director changes and developments.
A number of business unit chief of ICICI Prudential Trust Limited, an Indian company which is executive officers together with relevant senior executives gave owned 49 per cent by Prudential.
The Board does not consider presentations to the Board during the course of the year on the that these appointments in any way affect Kekis status as an challenges and opportunities currently faced by their business independent director of Prudential.
In addition, senior managers within certain head office functions presented to the Board on the key issues currently Alistair Johnston was a partner in the Companys auditor, KPMG, facing their function and directors received regular briefings on from 1986 to 2010.
However, he did not audit the Prudential Solvency II.
In addition, members of the Group Audit Committee Group and he no longer has any financial or other interest in have the option to attend meetings of the business unit audit KPMG.
The Board does not consider that this former relationship committees to aid their understanding of topical matters of with KPMG affects Alistairs status as an independent director interest to them and how they are handled by the Group.
Prudential is one of the UKs largest institutional investors and Performance evaluation the Board does not believe that this situation compromises the Prudential continued its programme of annual evaluation of the independence of those non-executive directors who are on the performance of the Board and its Committees in respect of 2011, boards of companies in which the Group has a shareholding.
The in line with the requirements of the UK Code.
The aim is to Board also believes that such shareholdings should not preclude continue to improve the effectiveness of the Board and its the Company from having the most appropriate and highest Committees and enhance the Groups performance.
The review was carried out by an external evaluator, Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom Review, in consultation with the Chairman, Induction and development the Senior Independent Director and the Group Chief Executive.
The Company Secretary supports the Chairman in providing Boardroom Review has no other connection with the Company.
tailored induction programmes for new directors and ongoing The findings of the review will be discussed by the Board in development for all directors.
On appointment, all directors March and an action plan will be implemented during the year.
embark upon a wide-ranging induction programme covering, among other things, the principal bases of accounting for the In addition, the performance of the non-executive directors and Groups results, the role of the Board and its key committees and the Group Chief Executive is evaluated by the Chairman in the ambit of the internal audit and risk management functions.
The Chairman also leads the non-executive addition, they receive detailed briefings on the Groups principal directors in a performance assessment of the executive directors businesses, its product range, the markets in which it operates and the Senior Independent Director leads the non-executive and the overall competitive environment.
Other areas addressed directors in a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
include the directors obligations under the different listing Executive directors are subject to regular review and the Group regimes, legal issues affecting directors of financial services Chief Executive individually appraises the performance of each companies, the Groups governance arrangements and its of the executive directors as part of the annual Group-wide investor relations programme as well as its remuneration policies.
performance evaluation of all staff.
Throughout their period in office directors are regularly updated on the Groups businesses and the regulatory and Conflicts of interest industry-specific environments in which it operates, as well as on Directors have a statutory duty to avoid conflicts of interest with their legal and other duties and obligations as directors where the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association allow the appropriate.
These updates can be in the form of written reports directors to authorise conflicts of interest and the Board has to the Board, presentations by senior executives or by external adopted a policy and effective procedures on managing and, advisers where appropriate.
In order to enhance their knowledge where appropriate, approving conflicts or potential conflicts of and effectiveness throughout their term in office, non-executive interest.
Under these procedures directors are required to directors serving on key committees are updated regularly declare all directorships or other appointments to companies on matters specific to the relevant committee and receive which are not part of the Group, as well as other situations which presentations from senior executives on topics of interest could result in conflicts or could give rise to a potential conflict.
The Nomination Committee, or the Board where appropriate, evaluates and approves each such situation individually where applicable.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 117 Directors interests Accountability Individual directors interests are set out on page 147 of the Internal control and risk management Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board has overall responsibility for the system of internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness.
External appointments The framework setting out the Groups approach to internal Directors may hold directorships or other significant interests control, risk management and corporate responsibility comprises in companies outside the Group which may have business the following: relationships with the Group.
Group governance framework: Documents the Groups Executive directors may accept external directorships and retain internal control policies and processes in an online manual, any fees earned from those directorships subject to prior including the Groups risk framework, code of business conduct discussion with the Group Chief Executive and always provided and detailed policies on key operational and financial risks.
this does not lead to any conflicts of interest.
In line with the UK Business units are also required to follow any additional Code, executive directors would be expected to hold no more processes necessary to comply with local statutory and than one non-executive directorship, nor the chairmanship, regulatory requirements.
Some of our executive directors hold Group risk framework: Provides an overview of the Group-wide directorships or trustee positions of unquoted companies or philosophy and approach to risk management and sets out the institutions.
Details of any fees retained are included in the key risk management processes which support the Groups Directors remuneration report on page 146 and major compliance with internal, statutory and regulatory requirements.
commitments of our executive directors are detailed in their biographies on pages 108 and 109.
Corporate responsibility framework: Provides an overview of the Group-wide philosophy and approach to corporate Non-executive directors may serve on a number of other boards responsibility: supports the Groups commercial focus and the provided that they are able to demonstrate satisfactory time increasing challenges faced including changes in stakeholder commitment to their role at Prudential and that they discuss any expectations.
A key element is the Group Code of Business new appointment with the Chairman prior to accepting.
This Conduct which sets out the ethical standards the Board requires ensures that they do not compromise their independence and of itself, employees, agents and others working on behalf of the that any potential conflicts of interest and any possible issues Group, in their dealings with employees, customers, arising out of the time commitments required by the new role shareholders, suppliers, and competitors, in the wider can be identified and addressed appropriately.
The major community and in respect of the environment.
commitments of our non-executive directors are detailed in their biographies set out on pages 110 to 112.
The Business Review provides further detail on Prudentials risk appetite and exposures on pages 80 to 90 and corporate The Board was satisfied that during 2011 the Chairmans other responsibility activities on pages 95 to 106. commitments did not hinder the day-to-day performance of his duties for the Group and that he had the commitment and Further details on the procedures for the management of risk capability to make himself available under unforeseen and the systems of internal control operated by the Group are circumstances.
The major commitments of the Chairman, given in the section on Risk Governance on pages 124 and 125. including changes during the year where applicable, are detailed The governance framework principally relates to the in his biography on page 108. operational management of the Groups businesses and includes pre-determined authority limits delegated by the Directors indemnities and protections Board in respect of matters which are necessary for the effective The Company has arranged appropriate insurance cover in day-to-day running and management of the business.
The Group respect of legal action against directors and senior managers of Chief Executive has been delegated management authority by companies within the Prudential Group.
In addition, the Articles the Board and in turn grants authority to the executive, including of Association of the Company permit the directors and officers the chief executive officers of each business unit who report to of the Company to be indemnified in respect of liabilities incurred him for the management of that business unit.
In addition, each as a result of their office.
Prudential also provides protections for of those chief executives has established a management board directors and certain senior managers of companies within the comprising the business units most senior executives.
Group against personal financial exposure they may incur in their capacity as such.
These include qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined where relevant by the Companies Act 2006 for the benefit of directors of Prudential plc and other such persons including, where applicable, in their capacity as directors of other companies within the Group.
These indemnities were in force during 2011 and remain in force.
118 Governance | Corporate governance | continued Corporate governance The system is regularly reviewed and complies with the UK and In line with the Turnbull guidance, the certification provided HK Codes.
In complying with the UK Code, the Group follows above does not apply to certain material joint ventures where the the 2005 Turnbull Guidance relating to the sections of the Code Group does not exercise full management control.
In these dealing with risk management and internal control.
The Board cases, the Group satisfies itself that suitable governance and risk reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal control in management arrangements are in place to protect the Groups February 2012, covering all material controls, including financial, interests.
However, the relevant Group company which is party operational and compliance controls, risk management systems to the joint venture must, in respect of any services it provides in and the adequacy of the resources, qualifications and experience support of the joint venture, comply with the requirements of the of staff of the issuers accounting and financial reporting Groups internal governance framework.
The system is designed to manage, rather than The internal control and risk management systems described eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives above and also under the sections on Risk Governance on and gives reasonable, but not absolute assurance.
The Board pages 124 and 125 and the Group Audit Committee on page 120, confirms that there is an ongoing process for identifying, cover the Companys financial reporting process and the Groups evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group, process for the preparation of consolidated financial statements.
which has been in place throughout the period and up to the date of this report.
Committees The chief executive and chief financial officer of each business The Board has established audit, remuneration, nomination and unit, as well as the senior management in Group head office, risk committees as principal standing committees of the Board.
annually certify compliance with the Groups governance, Each committee has written terms of reference which are kept internal control and risk management requirements.
The risk under regular review.
These committees are key elements of the management function reviewed any matters identified by the Groups corporate governance framework and reports on each certification process, and also assessed the risk and control committee are included below.
issues that arose and were reported during the year.
This included: routine and exception-based risk reporting: matters identified and reported by other Group head office oversight functions and the findings from the work of the internal audit function, which executes risk-based audit plans throughout the Group.
The results were reported to and reviewed by the Group Audit Committee.
Prudential plc Board Chairman Nine non-executive directors Seven executive directors Group Audit Committee Nomination Committee Group Risk Committee Remuneration Committee Five non-executive The Chairman and three Four non-executive Five non-executive directors non-executive directors directors directors As at 12 March 2012.
Kathleen ODonovan will retire from the Board, the Group Audit Committee and the Nomination Committee on 31 March 2012.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 119 In performing its duties, the Committee has access to employees Group Audit Committee report and their financial or other relevant expertise across the Group The responsibilities of the Group Audit Committee the and to the services of the Group-wide Internal Audit Director Committee and the activities it carried out during the year and the Company Secretary.
The Committee may also seek are set out below.
external professional advice at the Groups expense.
The Committees terms of reference, which are approved by the Role of the Committee Board and kept under regular review, are available on our The Committees principal responsibilities consist of oversight over financial reporting, the effectiveness of the website at www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru internal control systems and monitoring auditor corporategovernance Alternatively, copies may be obtained by independence.
Its duties include gaining assurance on the writing to the Company Secretary at the registered office.
control over financial processes and the integrity of the Groups financial reports, monitoring the performance, Membership objectivity and independence of the external auditor, and The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive reviewing the work of the internal auditor.
directors as set out below: Responsibilities Ann Godbehere Chairman The Committees principal business during the year Howard Davies consisted of the following: Alistair Johnston from 1 January 2012 Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, including the review of halfand full-year results, the Paul Manduca annual report and accounts and other significant Kathleen ODonovan to 31 March 2012 financial announcements and reviewing the critical accounting policies and key judgmental areas The membership is selected to provide a broad set of financial, contained therein: commercial and other experience relevant to meet the Monitoring of the framework and effectiveness of the Committees objectives.
Groups systems of internal control, including the The Board has determined that Ann Godbehere and Kathleen Turnbull compliance statement and Sarbanes-Oxley ODonovan have recent and relevant financial experience in procedures: respect of the financial reporting period under review and for the Monitoring auditor independence and the external purposes of the UK Code and the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
In auditors plans and audit strategy, the effectiveness March 2011, the Board designated Ann Godbehere as its audit of the external audit process, the external auditors committee financial expert for Sarbanes-Oxley Act purposes.
qualifications, expertise and resources, and making This will be reviewed during 2012 in conjunction with the recommendations for the re-appointment of the publication of Form 20-F. external auditor: Reviewing the internal audit plan and resources, and Full biographical details of the members of the Committee are set monitoring the audit framework and effectiveness of the out in their biographies on pages 110 to 112. internal audit function: Meetings Monitoring the effectiveness of compliance processes The Committee meets at least five times a year and gives and controls, and performance against the Group Compliance Plan: consideration to the financial statements of the Group and the Groups system of internal control, as well as its internal and Reviewing the anti-money laundering procedures in external audit providers.
place, as well as the review of procedures operated for handling allegations from whistleblowers: and By invitation, the Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Reviewing the effectiveness of the business unit Executive, the Chief Financial Officer, the Group General audit committees.
Counsel and Company Secretary, the Group-wide Internal Audit Director, the Group Chief Risk Officer and other senior staff from the group finance, internal audit, risk, compliance and security functions attended some of the meetings to contribute to the discussions relating to their respective areas of expertise.
The lead and other partners of the external auditor also attended the meetings.
During 2011, the Committee met on 10 occasions and details of Committee members attendance is set out on page 114.
A detailed forward agenda has been in operation for a number of years and is reviewed and updated continually to ensure all matters for which the Committee is responsible are addressed at the appropriate time of year.
120 Governance | Corporate governance | continued Corporate governance The Committee also received in-depth presentations on a range minor variations to address local requirements or particular of topics and received the minutes of both the Disclosure requirements of the business.
The terms of reference of those Committee and the Assumptions Approval Committee.
Further committees were reviewed during the year and all include information on the Disclosure Committee appears under the escalation of significant matters to the Committee, heading US corporate governance and regulations on page 128. recommendations for approval of the business unit internal audit The Assumptions Approval Committee reviews the economic plans and overseeing the adequacy of internal audit resources.
assumptions to be used for EEV reporting, business planning, During the year the business unit audit committees reviewed forecasting and the IAS19 valuation of the three UK defined their respective internal audit plans, resources and the results of benefit pension schemes.
internal audit work, and both external and internal auditors were able to discuss any relevant matters with the Chairman and The Committee Chairman reported to the Board on matters of members of the Committee as required.
particular significance after each meeting and the minutes were circulated to all Board members.
The Committee regularly Effectiveness of business unit audit committees reviews its Terms of Reference, which were last refreshed and Group-wide Internal Audit has reviewed the effectiveness recommended to the Board for approval in December 2011. of each business unit audit committee using an established The Committee recognises the need to meet without the evaluation tool.
The evaluation comprises an annual review presence of executive management.
Such sessions were held questionnaire which is divided into specific areas for appraisal with the external auditor in February and July 2011, and with the and a walk through of each committees terms of reference, internal auditor in February and October 2011.
At all other times assessing whether these are appropriate for the business unit management and auditors had open access to the Chairman and and if the committee has fulfilled its responsibilities under the the Committee.
A memorandum summarising the findings of the review, as well as any action points, is compiled for each business unit Financial reporting audit committee.
As part of its review of financial statements prior to The findings were reviewed by the Group-wide Internal Audit recommending their publication to the Board, the Committee business unit audit director in conjunction with the Chairman focused on the critical accounting policies and practices, and any and discussed by the respective business unit audit committees.
changes or decisions requiring a major element of judgement, In addition, the Chairman of each business unit audit committee unusual transactions, clarity of disclosures, significant audit has confirmed that, in their opinion, the current members have adjustments of which there were none in 2011, the going the appropriate balance of skills, knowledge and expertise to concern assumption, compliance with accounting standards, and oversee the relevant business unit.
compliance with obligations under applicable laws, regulations and governance codes.
On completion of the review, Group-wide Internal Audit concluded that the overall arrangements for the business unit In addition, the Committee is regularly briefed by management audit committees remained appropriate for the nature and on developments in International Financial Reporting Standards.
purpose of each business unit and that each business unit audit committee continued to meet the responsibilities as set out in Confidential reporting their respective terms of reference.
One of the standing agenda items of the Committee is to review a report on the use of the confidential reporting procedures, which Internal control and risk management are available to employees to enable them to communicate The Committee reviewed the Groups statement on internal confidentially, and anonymously if they so wish, on matters of control systems prior to its endorsement by the Board.
concern and actions taken in response to these communications.
No material control implications were raised through these Pursuant to the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanesprocedures during the year.
Oxley Act, the Group undertakes an annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
Further Business unit audit committees details are provided below.
Each business unit has its own audit committee to provide oversight to the respective business unit and to assist the Group-wide Internal Audit Committee in its oversight responsibilities for the Group.
The The Committee regards its relationship with the internal audit members and chairmen are comprised primarily of senior function as pivotal to the effectiveness of its own activities.
management who are independent of the respective business Group-wide Internal Audit plays an important role in supporting unit.
The minutes of these committees are reported regularly the Committee to fulfil its responsibilities under the UK and to the Committee and their meetings are attended by senior HK Codes, as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, and provides management of the respective business unit, including the independent assurance on the Companys processes of business units heads of finance, risk, compliance and identification and control of risk.
Each of the Groups business Group-wide internal audit.
Business unit audit committees have units has an internal audit team, the heads of which report to the adopted standard terms of reference across the Group with Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
Internal audit resources, Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 121 plans and work are overseen by the Committee and by the to be permissible for the external auditor to undertake as defined business unit audit committees.
Total approved internal audit by the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Committee reviewed the headcount across the Group was 136 at 31 December 2011. non-audit services being provided to the Group by KPMG at The Group-wide Internal Audit Director reports functionally regular intervals during 2011.
A summary of fees payable to the to the Committee and for management purposes to the Chief auditor for the year ended 31 December 2011 is provided in Financial Officer.
Note I6 to the Group financial statements.
The Committee assesses the effectiveness of the internal audit Auditor performance and independence function by means of regular reviews, some of which are carried As part of its work during the year, the Committee assessed the out by external advisers, and through ongoing dialogue with performance of the external auditor, its independence and the Group-wide Internal Audit Director.
An external review objectivity, and the effectiveness of the audit process.
In of Group-wide internal audit arrangements and standards addition to questioning the external auditor, which is a regular was undertaken in respect of the period 1 January 2010 to feature of meetings, the review of the effectiveness of the 31 March 2011, the findings of which were reported to the external audit process was conducted through a  in detail in July 2011.
The purpose of the review based exercise administered by Group-wide Internal Audit.
The was to ensure that the activities and resources of internal audit Committee reviewed the external audit strategy and received continue to be effectively organised to support the oversight reports from the auditor on its own policies and procedures responsibilities of the Committee.
The review, performed by regarding independence and quality control, including an annual PwC, confirmed that Group-wide Internal Audit is Generally confirmation of its independence in line with industry standards.
Conforming with the Institute of Internal Auditors IIA International Standards, the highest classification available.
Re-appointment of auditor The Committee approved the Group-wide Internal Audit annual The Group operates a policy under which at least once every audit plan of assurance work to be undertaken during 2012. five years a formal review is undertaken by the Committee to assess whether the external audit should be re-tendered.
The External audit external audit was last put out to competitive tender in 1999 The Committee has a key oversight role in relation to the external when the present auditor was appointed.
Since 2005 the auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, whose primary relationship is with the Committee has annually considered the need to re-tender the Committee.
The Groups Auditor Independence Policy ensures external audit service.
It again considered this in February 2012 that the independence and objectivity of the external auditor is and concluded that there was nothing in the performance of the not impaired.
The policy sets out four key principles which auditor requiring a change.
In line with the Auditing Practices underpin the provision of non-audit services by the external Board Ethical Statements and the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the lead auditor, namely that the auditor should not: audit partner, who was appointed by KPMG Audit Plc in 2007, will be replaced by a new lead audit partner in respect of the audit its own firms work, 2012 financial year.
make management decisions for the Group, Following its review of the external auditors effectiveness and have a mutuality of financial interest with the Group, or independence, the Committee has recommended to the Board that KPMG Audit Plc be re-appointed as auditor of the Company be put in the role of advocate for the Group.
and a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as All services provided by the auditor under this policy are auditor of the Company will be put to a shareholder vote at the provided in accordance with a pre-approved budget and are Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2012. reviewed by the Committee and approved where necessary.
The Committee regularly reviews and updates the policy to Review of Committee effectiveness ensure alignment with the latest standards and best practice As part of the performance evaluation of the Board, the in establishing, maintaining and monitoring auditor Committee undertook an externally facilitated performance independence and objectivity.
assessment of the qualitative aspects of its performance during the year.
The results of this assessment will be reviewed by the Fees payable to the auditor Board in March 2012.
In addition, an internal evaluation was During the year ended 31 December 2011 the Committee carried out addressing compliance with various regulations and approved fees of 13.3 million to its auditor, KPMG Audit Plc, codes of conduct applicable to the Committee, and the results of for audit services and other services supplied pursuant to that assessment were reported to the Committee in December relevant legislation.
In addition, the Committee approved fees 2011.
The Committee is satisfied, taking into account the findings of 2.9 million to KPMG for services not related to audit work of the internal review, that it had been operating as an effective which accounted for 18 per cent of total fees paid to the external audit committee throughout the year.
Further reviews of the auditor in the year.
In accordance with the Groups Auditor effectiveness of the Committee will be undertaken regularly and Independence Policy, all services were approved prior to work will from time to time be conducted by external consultants.
commencing and each of the non-audit services was confirmed 122 Governance | Corporate governance | continued Corporate governance The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the Board Nomination Committee report and kept under regular review, are available on our website at The responsibilities of the Nomination Committee the www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru corporate Committee and the activities it carried out during the year governance Alternatively, copies may be obtained by writing are set out below.
to the Company Secretary at the registered office.
Role of the Committee Membership The Committee in consultation with the Board, evaluates The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the directors and the Chairman, as set out below: Board, taking into account the Groups business and with due regard for the benefits of diversity, including gender, Harvey McGrath Chairman identifies the roles and capabilities required to meet the Bridget Macaskill to 14 June 2011 demands of the business.
Candidates are considered on merit against specific criteria and the Committee makes Paul Manduca recommendations to the Board regarding suitable Kathleen ODonovan to 31 March 2012 candidates for appointment to the Board.
James Ross to 19 May 2011 The Committee also reviews the conflicts of interest or potential conflicts of interest raised by directors between Lord Turnbull from 14 June 2011 Board meetings or for prospective new Board members.
In cases where there might be an actual or potential conflict of Meetings interest the Committee has powers to authorise any such The Committee meets at least twice a year to consider the Board actual or potential conflict situation on behalf of the Board, composition and membership of the principal Committees and imposing any terms and conditions it deems appropriate, or to consider the suitability of all directors standing for re-election to make recommendations to the Board as to whether the at the AGM.
In addition, the Committee meets to consider conflict or potential conflict should be authorised and on candidates for appointment to the Board.
The Group Chief what terms.
Executive is closely involved in the work of the Committee and Responsibilities is invited to attend and contribute to meetings.
The Committees principal business during the year During 2011, the Committee met on eight occasions and details consisted of the following: of Committee members attendance is set out on page 114.
Reviewing the size, structure and composition of the Board, including the skills, knowledge, experience The appointments of Kai Nargolwala and Alistair Johnston, made and diversity of Board members, and making by unanimous decision of the Board, was the culmination of a recommendations to the Board with regard to comprehensive search process which commenced in the first any changes: half of the year under the direction of the Committee.
With the assistance of external search consultants, a number of Identifying and nominating candidates for appointment to the Board, based on merit and against candidates meeting the criteria set by the Committee were objective criteria: identified.
As part of the process, Alistair and Kai met the Chairman and Group Chief Executive, as well as a number of Making recommendations on the appointment and other directors prior to being appointed to the Board.
The removal of any members of the audit, risk, remuneration and nomination committees in consultation with the Committee will continue to play a key role in the search for a Chairman of those Committees: and successor to the current Chairman, Harvey McGrath.
Considering and, where necessary, authorising any The Committee Chairman reported to the Board on matters of actual or potential situational conflicts, upon such terms particular significance after each meeting.
and conditions as the Committee considered appropriate, arising out of a proposed new appointment, the changed circumstances of an existing appointment or that of a directors connected person.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 123 The Committees terms of reference, which are set by the Board Group Risk Committee report and kept under regular review, are available on our website at The responsibilities of the Group Risk Committee the www.
Role of the Committee Membership The Committee provides leadership, direction and oversight The Committee is comprised of independent non-executive in relation to the Groups overall risk appetite and tolerance directors as set out below: and the risk management framework.
Oversight of the framework includes reviewing the Groups risk policies and Howard Davies Chairman standards, supporting risk limits, methodologies adopted Ann Godbehere and the processes and controls in place for assessing the Groups risks.
Kai Nargolwala from 1 January 2012 The Committee also provides oversight in respect of the James Ross to 19 May 2011 Group Chief Risk Officers responsibilities and the Group Lord Turnbull Chief Risk Officer has open access to the Committee Chairman and the Committee.
Meetings In performing its duties, the Committee has access to The Committee meets at least four times a year to consider the employees and their relevant expertise across the Group Groups risk appetite and provide oversight to the management and to the services of the Group Chief Risk Officer, the of risk within the Group.
The Chairman of the Committee is a Group-wide Internal Audit Director and the Company member of the Group Audit Committee and works closely with Secretary.
The Committee may also seek external that Committee in fulfilling the Committees responsibilities.
professional advice at the Groups expense.
The Chairman of the Board, the Group Chief Executive, the Responsibilities Chief Financial Officer and the General Counsel and Company The Committees principal business during the year Secretary are invited to attend the meetings.
The Group Chief consisted of the following: Risk Officer is closely involved in the work of the Committee Reviewing the Group risk, capital and liquidity and is invited to attend and contribute to the meetings.
The management framework, as well as the Groups risk Group-wide Internal Audit Director and the Group Risk Director appetite, its risk policies and standards, including the are also invited to attend.
parameters used and methodologies and processes adopted for identifying and assessing risks: During 2011, the Committee met on five occasions and details of Committee members attendance is set out on page 114.
Reviewing the material and emerging risk exposures of the Group, including market, credit, insurance, The Committee was constituted in November 2010 and agreed operational, liquidity and economic and regulatory the work plan for its first year of operation early in 2011.
The capital risks as well as regulatory and compliance Committee undertook a comprehensive analysis of the Groups matters: key risks and received presentations by the relevant managers in Overseeing the Groups processes and policies for these areas.
The Committee further received presentations from determining risk tolerance and reviewing managements certain of the business units on the particular risks inherent in measurement and effectiveness of the Groups risk those businesses, as well as the systems and controls in place to tolerance levels: monitor and manage those risks.
The Group Chief Risk Officer Receiving and reviewing Group-wide Internal Audit briefed the Committee on the structure and organisation of the Reports on the risk management function: Group Risk function.
The Committee worked closely with the Assisting the Board in reviewing the risks inherent in the Group Audit Committee to ensure any risk assurance relevant to business plans: and financial reporting was referred to the Group Audit Committee and with the Remuneration Committee on providing risk Providing qualitative and quantitative advice to the adjustment measures for executive remuneration.
Remuneration Committee on risk weightings applied to performance objectives incorporated in executive The Chairman reviewed the work of the Committee, and the risk remuneration and evaluating whether the remuneration framework with the Financial Services Authority as part of the approach for senior executives was positioned within the regular processes of supervision.
The Committee received Groups overall risk appetite framework.
regular reports from the Group-wide Internal Audit Director, the Group Executive Risk Committee, the Group Operational Risk Committee and the Group Credit Risk Committee.
Further information on these committees appears on pages 124 and 125.
The effectiveness of the Committee was reviewed as part of the externally facilitated review of the Board and its committees.
The findings will be discussed by the Board in March 2012.
The Committee Chairman reported to the Board on matters of particular significance after each meeting and the minutes were circulated to all Board members.
124 Governance | Risk governance Risk governance Group-level framework Board Board Nomination Remuneration Group Risk Group Audit Committee Committee Committee Committee 1st Line of Defence 2nd Line of Defence3rd Line of Defence Executives Group CEO GEC GERC Group CRO BSCMC CFO Management GCRC GORC STOC Group Group Group-wide Group compliance risk internal audit security Key Board-level Committees Direct Reporting Line GEC Group Executive Committee BSCMC Balance Sheet & Capital Management Committee Executive personnel Regular Communication GERC Group Executive Risk Committee and Escalation Exec Management Committee GCRC Group Credit Risk Committee GORC Group Operational Risk Committee GHO Functions STOC Solvency II Technical Oversight Committee permanent successor to Technical Assurance Committee Organisation Risk management 1st LoD : Prudentials risk governance framework requires that all of Balance Sheet and Capital Management Committee: the Groups businesses and functions establish processes for Meets monthly to monitor the Groups liquidity and oversee the identifying, evaluating and managing the key risks faced by activities of Prudential Capital.
The framework is based on the concept of three lines of defence LoD : risk management, risk oversight and Risk oversight 2nd LoD : independent assurance.
Risk exposures are monitored and reviewed by Group-level risk committees chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer or the Chief The diagram above outlines the Group-level framework.
As described in this Corporate Governance Report, primary Group Executive Risk Committee: Meets monthly to oversee responsibility for strategy, performance management and risk the Groups risk exposures market, credit, liquidity, insurance control lies with the Board, which has established the Risk and operational risks and to monitor capital.
Committee to assist in providing leadership, direction and oversight, and with the Group Chief Executive and the chief Group Credit Risk Committee: Reports to the Group executives of each business unit.
Executive Risk Committee and meets monthly to review the Groups investment and counterparty credit risk positions.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 125 Group Operational Risk Committee: Reports to the Group The Group has five objectives for risk and capital management: Executive Risk Committee and meets quarterly to oversee the Framework: Design, implement and maintain a capital Groups non-financial operational, business environment and management and risk oversight framework consistent with the strategic risk exposures.
Groups risk appetite and Risk-Adjusted Profitability model.
Solvency II Technical Oversight Committee: Will be created Monitoring: Establish a no surprises risk management culture when the Solvency II programme is complete, to provide ongoing by identifying the risk landscape, assessing and monitoring risk technical oversight and advice to the executive and the Board in exposures and understanding change drivers.
carrying out their duties with regard to the Groups Internal Model.
Control: Implement risk mitigation strategies and remedial actions where exposures are deemed inappropriate and manage The committees oversight is supported by the Group Chief Risk the response to extreme events.
Officer with functional oversight provided by: Communication: Communicate the Group risk, capital and Group Security: Develop and deliver appropriate security profitability position to internal and external stakeholders and measures to protect the Groups staff, physical assets and rating agencies.
Culture: Foster a risk management culture, providing quality Group Compliance: Verify compliance with regulatory assurance and facilitating the sharing of best practice risk standards and inform the Groups management and the measurement and management across the Group.
Board on key regulatory issues affecting the Group.
Group Risk: Establish and embed a capital management and Reporting risk oversight framework and culture consistent with Prudentials The Groups economic capital position and overall position risk appetite that protects and enhances the Groups embedded against risk limits is reviewed regularly by the Group Executive and franchise value.
Key economic capital metrics, as well as risk-adjusted profitability information, are included in business Independent assurance 3rd LoD : plans, which are reviewed by the Group Executive Committee Group Audit Committee: The committee, supported by and approved by the Board.
Group-wide Internal Audit, provides independent assurance and The Group Risk Committee is provided with regular reports oversight of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal on the activities of the Group Risk function and where it affects control and risk management.
the results of assurances under Turnbull, the Group Audit Committee receives appropriate reporting.
Reports to the Group Principles and objectives Risk Committee include information on the activities of the Risk is defined as the uncertainty that Prudential faces in Group Executive Risk Committee, the Group Operational Risk successfully implementing its strategies and objectives.
Committee and Group Credit Risk Committee, as well as reports This includes all internal or external events, acts or omissions from Group-wide Internal Audit.
that have the potential to threaten the success and survival of Prudential.
Group Head Office oversight functions have clear escalation criteria and processes for the timely reporting of risks and The control procedures and systems established within the incidents by business units.
As appropriate, these risks and Group are designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk incidents are escalated to the various Group-level risk of failure to meet business objectives.
They can only provide committees and the Board.
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and focus on aligning the levels of Internal business unit routine reporting requirements vary risk-taking with the achievement of business objectives.
according to the nature of the business.
Each business unit is responsible for ensuring that its risk reporting framework meets Material risks will only be retained where this is consistent with both the needs of the business unit for example, reporting to Prudentials risk appetite framework and its philosophy towards the business unit risk and audit committees and the minimum risk-taking, that is: standards set by the Group for example, to meet Group-level the retention of the risk contributes to value creation: reporting requirements.
the Group is able to withstand the impact of an Business units review their risks as part of the annual preparation adverse outcome: and of their business plans, and review opportunities and risks against business objectives regularly with Group Head Office.
Group Risk the Group has the necessary capabilities, expertise, processes reviews and reports to Group Head Office on the impact of large and controls to manage the risk.
transactions or divergences from the business plan.
Remuneration The report on the responsibilities and activities of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Directors Remuneration Report, which is set out on pages 134 to 157.
126 Governance | Relations with shareholders Relations with shareholders Communication with shareholders subject to the request and must set a date for the meeting not As a major institutional investor, the Company is very aware more than 28 days from the date of the issue of the notice.
of the importance of maintaining good relations with its Shareholders can also require the Company to circulate a shareholders.
Discussions are held regularly with major statement of not more than 1,000 words on the subject matter shareholders and a programme of meetings took place of the resolution.
Shareholders need not cover the costs of throughout the year.
In addition, Prudential also held an circulating such statements where the requests relate to the investor conference in November in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
annual general meeting of a public company and provided sufficient requests to require the circulation are received prior Board members regularly receive copies of the latest analysts to the financial year end preceding the meeting.
Written and brokers reports on the Company and the sector to further shareholder requests should be addressed to the Company develop their knowledge and understanding of external views Secretary at the registered office.
The Chairman and the non-executive directors provided feedback to the Board on topics raised with Company constitution them by major shareholders.
Should major shareholders wish The Company is governed by the Companies Act 2006, other to meet newly appointed directors, or any of the directors applicable legislation and regulation as well as by provisions generally, they are welcome to do so.
of its Articles of Association.
The Memorandum and The Group maintains a corporate website www.
co. uk Articles of Association are available on our website at containing a wide range of relevant information for private and www.
co. uk prudential-plc aboutpru memorandum institutional investors, including the Groups financial calendar.
Any change to the Articles must be approved by special The shareholder information section on pages 476 and 477 resolution of the shareholders in accordance with the provisions contains further details which may be of interest to shareholders.
There were no changes to the Companys constitutional documents during 2011.
Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting will be held in the Churchill Share capital Auditorium at The Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, On 31 December 2011, the Companys issued share capital, Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on which is set out in note H11 on page 337, consisted of 17 May 2012 at 11.00am.
2,548,039,330 2010: 2,545,594,506 ordinary shares of 5 pence The Company believes the Annual General Meeting is an each, all fully paid up and listed on the London Stock Exchange and the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong.
Subject to applicable important forum for both institutional and private shareholders and encourages all its shareholders to vote.
Shareholders are local securities law, the Companys shares may be registered on the main register in the UK or the Companys branch registers in given the opportunity during annual general meetings to put questions to the Board on matters relating to the Groups Ireland or Hong Kong.
The number of accounts on the share registers at 31 December 2011 was 63,338 2010: 66,048.
Company maintains secondary listings on the New York Stock At the 2011 Annual General Meeting the Company continued Exchange in the form of American Depositary Receipts which are its practice of calling a poll on all resolutions.
The voting results referenced to ordinary shares on the main UK register, under a and all proxies lodged prior to the meeting were displayed at the depositary agreement with J. P. Morgan, and on the Singapore meeting and published on the Companys website.
This practice Stock Exchange in the form of interests in shares, which are provides shareholders present with sufficient information referenced to the shares on the Hong Kong register under a regarding the level of support and opposition to each resolution depository agreement with the Central Depository Pte Limited and ensures all votes cast either at the meeting or through the CDP.
proxies are included in the result.
In compliance with the Hong Kong Listing Rules, the Company Shareholders holding 5 per cent or more of the fully paid up has maintained a sufficiency of public float throughout the period.
issued share capital of the Company, are able to require the A number of dividend waivers are in place and these relate to directors to hold a general meeting.
If the shareholders request identifies a resolution to be moved at the meeting, the resolution shares issued but not allocated under the Groups employee share plans.
These shares are held by the Trustees and will, in must be included in the notice of meeting.
Where such a request has been duly lodged with the Company, the directors are due course, be used to satisfy requirements under the Groups employee share plans.
obliged to call a general meeting within 21 days of becoming Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance 127 Rights and obligations Significant shareholdings The rights and obligations attaching to the Companys shares As at 31 December 2011, the Company had received notification are set out in full in the Companys Articles of Association.
There of interests in the shares of Prudential plc, in accordance with are currently no voting restrictions on the ordinary shares, all of Rule 5.1.
2 R of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the which are fully paid, and each share carries one vote on a poll.
Financial Services Authority, from Capital Research and If votes are cast on a show of hands, each shareholder present Management Company, BlackRock Inc. Norges Bank and in person or by proxy, or in the case of a corporation, each of its Legal and General Group plc that they held 9.91 per cent, duly authorised corporate representatives, has one vote except 4.99 per cent, 4.03 per cent and 3.99 per cent respectively that if a proxy is appointed by more than one member, the proxy of the Companys ordinary issued share capital at the time has one vote for and one vote against if instructed by one or of notification.
No further notifications have been received more members to vote for the resolution and by one or more between the end of 2011 and the date of this report.
members to vote against the resolution.
Authority to issue shares Where, under an employee share plan operated by the The directors require authority from shareholders in relation to Company, participants are the beneficial owners of the shares the issue of shares by the Company.
Whenever shares are issued but not the registered owners, the voting rights are normally the Company has to offer the shares to existing shareholders exercisable by the registered owner in accordance with the pro rata to their holdings unless it has been given authority by relevant plan rules.
Trustees may vote at their discretion, but shareholders to issue shares without offering them first to do not vote on any unawarded shares held as surplus assets.
The Company seeks authority from its As at 12 March 2012, Trustees held 0.31 per cent of the shareholders on an annual basis to issue shares up to a maximum issued share capital of the Company under the various plans amount and to issue up to 5 per cent of its issued share capital in operation.
without observing pre-emption rights, in line with relevant regulations and best practice.
Dis-application of statutory Rights to dividends under the various schemes are set out in pre-emption procedures is also sought for rights issues.
Companys existing authorities to issue shares and to do so without observing pre-emption rights are due to expire at Restrictions on transfer the end of this years Annual General Meeting.
An ordinary In accordance with English company law, shares may be resolution and a special resolution to approve the renewal transferred by an instrument of transfer or through an electronic of these authorities respectively will be put to shareholders system currently CREST and transfer is not restricted except at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2012. that the directors may in certain circumstances refuse to register transfers of shares, but only if such refusal does not prevent Details of shares issued during 2011 and 2010 are given in dealings in the shares from taking place on an open and proper note H11 on page 337. basis.
If the directors make use of that power, they must send In accordance with the terms of a waiver granted by the Hong the transferee notice of the refusal within two months.
Kong Stock Exchange, the Company confirms that it complies Certain restrictions may be imposed from time to time by with the applicable law and regulation in the UK in relation to applicable laws and regulations for example, insider trading the holding of shares in treasury and with the conditions of the laws and pursuant to the Listing Rules of both the Financial waiver in connection with the purchase of own shares and any Services Authority and the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, as treasury shares it may hold.
well as Prudentials own share dealing rules, whereby directors and certain employees of the Company require the approval Authority to purchase own shares of the Company to deal in the Companys ordinary shares.
The directors also require authority from shareholders in relation to the purchase of own shares by the Company.
The Company Some of the Companys employee share plans include seeks authority by special resolution on an annual basis for the restrictions on transfer of shares while the shares are subject buyback of its own shares in accordance with the relevant to the plan.
All directors are required to obtain a number of provisions of the Companies Act 2006 and other related qualification shares within one year of appointment, which they guidance.
The Company has not made use of that authority since would also be expected to retain under guidelines approved it was last granted at its Annual General Meeting in 2011.
This by the Board and as described on page 143 of the Directors existing authority is due to expire at the end of this years Annual Remuneration Report.
A special resolution to approve the renewal of this authority will be put to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting on 17 May 2012.
128 Governance | Relations with shareholders | continued Relations with shareholders Model code for securities transactions by directors In discharging these objectives, the Committee helps to support The Company confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct the certifications by the Group Chief Executive and the Chief regarding securities transactions by directors on terms no less Financial Officer of the effectiveness of disclosure procedures exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong Listing and controls required by Section 302 of the Act.
Rules, and that the directors of the Company have complied with The provisions of Section 404 of the Act require the Companys this code of conduct throughout the period.
management to report on the effectiveness of internal controls over financial reporting in its annual report on Form 20-F, which US corporate governance and regulations is filed with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
To As a result of the listing of its securities on the New York Stock comply with this requirement to report on the effectiveness Exchange, the Company is required to comply with the relevant of internal control, the Group has documented and tested its provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act 2002 the Act as they internal controls over financial reporting in the format required apply to foreign private issuers and has adopted procedures to by the Act.
The annual assessment and related report from the ensure this is the case.
external auditor will be included in the Groups annual report on Form 20-F.
In particular, in relation to the provisions of Section 302 of that Act, which covers disclosure controls and procedures, a In addition, the Disclosure Committee evaluates whether or Disclosure Committee has been established reporting to the not a particular matter requires disclosure to the market, taking Group Chief Executive, chaired by the Chief Financial Officer into account relevant regulations and reviews all forward and comprising members of senior management.
of this Committee are to: assist the Group Chief Executive and the Chief Financial Officer in designing, implementing and periodically evaluating the Companys disclosure controls and procedures: monitor compliance with the Companys disclosure controls and procedures: review and provide advice to the Group Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer with regard to the scope and content of all public disclosures made by the Company which are of material significance to the market or investors: and review and consider, and where applicable follow up on, matters raised by other components of the disclosure process.
These may include, to the extent they are relevant to the disclosure process, any matters to be raised with the Group Audit Committee, the internal auditors or the external auditor on the Companys internal controls.
Prudential plc Annual Report 2011 Governance Governance | Corporate responsibility governance 129 Corporate responsibility governance The Board is committed to achieving the highest standards of corporate responsibility in directing and controlling the business.
In terms of the governance of our corporate responsibility strategy, Harvey McGrath, Chairman, has Board level responsibility for social, environmental and ethical risk management.
The Board discusses Prudentials performance in these areas at least once a year and also reviews and approves Prudentials corporate responsibility report and strategy on an annual basis.
Below Board level, the Responsibility Committee is a specialist Group-wide committee.
This committee is responsible for reviewing Prudentials business conduct and social and environmental policy and ensures consistency of approach across the Groups international businesses.
Consideration of environmental, social and community matters is embedded in our Code of Business Conduct and supported by our corporate responsibility philosophy and programme, which takes into account local cultures and requirements across our businesses.
The Corporate Responsibility team, which is located in our Group Head Office, develops Prudentials corporate responsibility strategy and works closely with individual business units to provide advice.
The team also assists with the development and adaptation of Group-wide initiatives so that they not only fit with our overall Group principles but are also adapted to meet local needs.
