36 Cape plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance report continued Audit Committee The following served as members of the Audit Committee of Old Cape throughout the period 1 January 2011 to 17 June 2011, except where otherwise shown: Michael Merton appointed as a member 1 February 2011, appointed Committee Chairman 28 February 2011 David McManus David Robins resigned as Committee Chairman 28 February 2011 and as a member 2 March 2011 The following were members of the Audit Committee of New Cape from admission to the Main Market on 17 June 2011 until 31December 2011 except where indicated: Michael Merton appointed Committee Chairman 10 June 2011 David McManus appointed 10 June 2011 Brendan Connolly appointed 16 November 2011 Brendan Connolly stepped down from the Committee on 29 March 2012 following his appointment as acting Chief Executive in place of Martin K May, who stepped down as a Director on that date.
Michael Merton has recent and relevant financial experience and his biography is set out on page 21 of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The remit of the Audit Committee is set out in its Terms of Reference and includes responsibility for internal control and risk management, financial reporting, internal audit and external audit including auditor independence.
The Audit Committee met 10 times during the year.
At the invitation of the Audit Committee, other Group Board Directors, the Company Secretary, the Group Financial Controller, the Director of Internal Audit and the Companys external auditors  LLP PwC were invited to attend meetings.
The Audit Committee also met separately with the external and internal auditors.
The Audit Committee undertook the following activities during the year as part of its normal duties: reviewed the interim and annual results and considered any matters raised by management and the external auditors: reviewed and approved the audit plans for the external and internal auditors: monitored the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit: discussed the results of internal audit reviews, significant findings and management action plans: monitored the introduction of an Anti-Bribery Policy and the implementation of appropriate training procedures throughout the Group: and reviewed reports on the Groups risk management measures and actions.
The Company has a policy in place to monitor and maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
The policy requires prior approval of the Audit Committee for non-audit work above a threshold level of 50,000.
In addition to the audit related services, PwC provided the following services during the year: tax compliance and advisory services: and support of the Companys application to be admitted to the full list of the London Stock Exchange.
Details of the amounts paid to PwC are set out in note 8 to the financial statements.
The external auditors have confirmed to the Committee that they remain independent and maintain internal safeguards to ensure their objectivity.
The Committee is comfortable that the external auditors remain independent.
