Audit Committee report Committee members The current members of the audit committee are the independent non-executive directors Oliver Corbett chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, David Harrel and Kathryn Matthews.
The Board is satisfied that at least one member of the committee has recent and relevant financial experience.
The chairman is a chartered accountant whilst other members have extensive experience of financial matters and of the financial services industry.
The committee met on seven occasions in 2011 2010: five.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 47.
Role and responsibilities of the committee These are set out in the terms of reference of the committee, which are reviewed annually.
Financial reporting The committee considers: the significant financial reporting issues and judgements made in connection with the Companys financial reporting: the Groups accounting policies and any proposed changes: narrative statements and disclosures to ensure that they are reasonable and consistent with the reported results: and regulatory financial reporting.
Internal controls and risk management systems The review of the effectiveness of the Groups internal financial controls is achieved primarily by the assessment of the work of the Group internal audit department, reports produced by the compliance functions, the half year and annual financial statements, the scope and findings of the annual external audit and periodic reviews of identified risks and mitigating controls undertaken by senior management.
During 2011, the committee discussed a number of issues including the 2010 audit process, segmental reporting, Financial Services Compensation Scheme levies, pension scheme actuarial valuation assumptions, the effectiveness of the annual report and capital modelling.
It also undertook a detailed review of the 2012 and longer term internal audit review programmes.
A separate risk management report considers risk management issues see page 23.
Internal audit The Group internal audit department reviews Group operations on a continuing basis.
The frequency of reviews is determined by an internal risk-based audit programme which is approved by the audit committee.
This ensures that, whilst the focus is on higher risk areas, all parts of the business are covered over a three year cycle.
Regular updates are given to the committee on the findings of internal audit reviews, the status of scheduled work and on the follow-up of reviews to ensure that agreed recommendations are acted upon promptly.
The committee sees all reviews containing a high risk-related recommendation and a sample of other reviews.
The internal audit department will also undertake occasional ad hoc reviews at the request of management or the committee.
The committee regularly reviews the resources and authority of the Group internal audit department.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 59 Audit Committee report continued External audit The committee is responsible for reviewing external audit arrangements and for any recommendation to the Board regarding change of audit firm.
This review includes consideration of the external auditors period in office, their compensation and the scope, quality and cost-effectiveness of their work.
The committee reviews the independence and the nature of non-audit services supplied by the auditor and non-audit fee levels relative to the audit fee.
Prior approval by the committee is required where the fee for an individual non-audit service is expected to exceed 25,000.
Fees for non-audit services paid to the auditor should not, in aggregate, exceed 50% of the audit fee in any year without the prior written approval of the committee.
Non-audit fees payable to the auditor in 2011 were 114,000.
This represents 23.2% of the fees for assurance services of 491,000, which includes the audit of regulatory returns and of the interim statement 2010: 301,000, 67.3% of 447,000.
The committee recognises that, given their knowledge of the business, there are often advantages in using the auditor to provide certain non-audit services.
The committee is satisfied that the independence of the auditor has not been impaired by providing these services.
Details of the auditors fees are shown in note 7 to the consolidated financial statements.
The committee also reviews the audit engagement letters each year and has discussions with the auditor with no management present.
Regarding the 2011 audit, presentations were received from the auditor on audit progress, findings and recommendations and any adjusted and unadjusted errors.
Confidential reporting policy The committee annually reviews the Groups Public Interest Disclosure Act 1998 confidential reporting policy and approves any changes to the document.
It also receives details of any reports made.
Other On invitation, the finance and other executive directors, compliance officers, senior finance and internal audit staff and the external auditor attend meetings to assist the committee to fulfil its duties.
The committee can access independent professional advice if it considers it necessary.
The committee performs an annual review of its performance and this is also reviewed by the Board.
60 Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011
