Nomination Committee report Committee members The current members of the nomination committee are Mark Nicholls chairman, Kate Avery, Caroline Burton, Oliver Corbett, David Harrel, Kathryn Matthews and Andy Pomfret.
The committee met formally on one occasion in 2011 2010: two.
Details of attendance by members are set out on page 47.
The principal issues discussed were the terms of reference of the committee, the Board performance evaluation and succession planning.
It also had informal discussions on a number of other occasions during the year.
Role of the committee The committee considers and makes recommendations to the Board for the appointment of directors: the Board as a whole decides upon any such appointment.
An external search consultancy and or open advertising are used when recruiting new directors.
When considering possible candidates, the committee evaluates the skills, knowledge and experience of the candidates and, in the case of non-executive appointments, their other commitments.
The committee is mindful of the benefits of a diverse Board with a broad range of skills and experience and this has been reflected in recent Board appointments.
Regarding succession planning, the Board is exposed to senior management below Board level during visits to other offices, attendance at internal meetings and presentations by senior managers to the Board.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all directors are required to seek election by the members at the AGM following their appointment, and re-election every year thereafter.
A non-executive director is not appointed for a fixed term but would not normally serve as a director for more than nine years.
The committee is mindful of the UK Corporate Governance Code requirement that any term beyond six years for a nonexecutive director should be subject to particularly vigorous review and should take into account the need for progressive refreshing of the Board.
Rathbone Brothers Plc Report and accounts 2011 61
