62 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Corporate governance Compliance with the Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Board leadership Governance Code Consistent with previous years, the Board continues to support the need to Capita plc and its subsidiaries the Group continue to be committed to segregate the responsibility for operating the Board and managing the maintaining high standards of corporate governance.
The UK Corporate underlying business.
Martin Bollands role as Non-Executive Chairman and Paul Governance Code 2010 the Code applies to accounting periods beginning on or Pindars role as Chief Executive are separate.
after 29 June 2010 and replaces the Combined Code on Corporate Governance Martin Bolland as Chairman and Nigel Wilson as Senior Independent Director 2008.
A copy of the Code is available from the Financial Reporting Councils also held meetings solely comprising the Non-Executive Directors during 2011. website www.
Throughout the accounting period to which this report Both Martin and Nigel are also available to meet with shareholders when relates, the Company applied all of the principles set out in Sections A to E of the requested.
Code except as detailed below: Role of the Board Code provision Area of non-compliance Position at 31 December 2011 The Companies Act 2006 requires Directors to act in a way they consider, in B.
1.2 Composition of the During the period the Board The balance was 5 Executive good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company for the Board had an imbalance of Directors and 3 Independent benefit of shareholders as a whole.
In doing so, the Directors must have regard Executive Directors to Non-Executive Directors, a amongst other matters to: Independent Non-Executive Non-Executive Chairman and Directors.
the likely consequences of any decision in the long term As noted above, the balance of independent Non-Executives to Executives is not the interests of the Companys employees equal.
However, in accordance with the Code June 2010, B.
1 Supporting the need to foster business relationships with suppliers, customers and others Principles the Board needs to be appropriate in size and experience to manage the impact of the Companys operations on the community and the the complexities it faces.
We believe that the number of our Board Directors and environment their range of skills is appropriate for the scale and scope of the business and to the desirability of the Company maintaining a reputation for high standards of ensure effective board processes.
The Board has the broad range of experience business conduct that is essential to ensure effective execution of strategy and management of risk, whilst also ensuring that the balance of skills is appropriate for the committees.
the need to act fairly between shareholders of the Company.
Our Executives recognise all of their responsibilities and do not solely represent In addition to their statutory duties, the Directors must ensure that the Board the activities they have within the Group which adds to open and constructive focuses effectively on all its accountabilities.
debate, as well as demonstrating the overall strength of the Board.
The Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to best This area of non-compliance is expected to remain throughout 2012. support the delivery of long term value, providing overall strategic direction For each appointment the Board undertook a formal appointment process, led within an appropriate framework of rewards, incentives and controls.
The Board by the Nomination Committee and, where appropriate, the assistance of is collectively responsible for the success of the Company: the Executive independent external search consultants.
Directors are directly responsible for running the business operations and the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for bringing independent judgement Board changes in the year and scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors must On 10 January 2011, Vic Gysin and Andy Parker were appointed to the Board as satisfy themselves on the integrity of financial information and that financial Joint Chief Operating Officers and Simon Pilling stood down.
controls and systems of risk management are robust.
Following presentations by executive management and a disciplined process of review and challenge by the Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors Board, clear decisions on the policy or strategy are adopted, and the executive January 2011 Paul Pindar Martin Bolland management are fully empowered to implement those decisions.
Gordon Hurst Nigel Wilson Maggi Bell Paul Bowtell Vic Gysin Martina King Andy Parker Paddy Doyle Independent in accordance with the Code.
As announced in January 2012 Paddy Doyles date of retirement is 31 March 2012.
