58 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Board members Board members The Board currently comprises of ten Directors, made up of the Chairman, Chief Executive and four other Executive and four Non-Executive Directors.
We continue to believe we have a talented and substantial team in place to support our continued growth.
However, as the Group continually grows and diversifies, we will continue to regularly review the Board composition to ensure it meets the needs of the business.
Martin Bolland Nigel Wilson Paddy Doyle Martina King Paul Bowtell Non-Executive Chairman Senior Independent Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Joined the Board in March 2008 and Joined the Board in May 2010 and became Joined Capita in 1992 and was appointed Joined the Board in January 2005 and is Joined the Board in June 2010 and is became Chairman on 1 January 2010.
A Senior Independent Director upon to the Board in 1994.
As Group currently the Managing Director of currently the Chief Financial Officer of Chartered Accountant, Martin previously appointment.
Nigel is Group Chief Operations Director he was responsible Aurasma, a division of Autonomy.
Paul was previously on held a number of senior operational Financial Officer of Legal & General for the ongoing operational management previously held a number of senior the Board of Tui Travel PLC as Chief positions within the Lonrho Group and Group Plc, appointed in September 2009. of the Groups business units.
From positions in marketing and online media, Financial Officer and was also on the was also a founder and partner of Having held many senior management August 2006 to the end of July 2008 he including Managing Director roles at Board of First Choice Holidays PLC.
He is a Alchemy Partners for 11 years.
Martin positions across varied sectors, including was Joint Chief Operating Officer before Yahoo!
Her broad Chartered Accountant and has extensive continues to be a member of both his roles as Chief Financial Officer and moving to a part-time Executive position.
knowledge and extensive experience of experience across the UK retail sector.
He Alchemys Investment Committee and Deputy Chief Executive of United Business He became a Non-Executive Director management, new technology and sales brings significant financial and commercial Monitoring Board.
He is also currently Media plc.
Nigels extensive financial and from 1 March 2010.
Paddy has been and marketing brings a different range of knowledge to the Board.
He is also a Chairman of QHotels Group Limited and commercial experience further instrumental to Capitas success.
In expertise to the Board and is of value in Non-Executive Director and Chairman of RecyCoal Holdings Limited.
Nigel retired as the January 2012 Paddy decided to retire and our continued growth.
Martina is also a the Audit Committee at SThree PLC.
Senior Independent Director of Halfords will step down from the Board at the end Non-Executive Director of Cineworld PLC Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Group plc on 31 March 2011. of March 2012. and Debenhams Plc.
Nomination Committee Chairman Audit Committee Chairman Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Committee memberships: Remuneration Committee Nomination Committee Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Chair Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Audit Committee Nomination Committee 014881 AR11 p57-59.
