Capita plc Business review 33 Controlling & measuring growth At Group level, risk management is Management responsibilities Management Operations Careful risk management Maintaining independently facilitated and and processes Business MOB review Managed risk-taking is an important challenged by the Group Risk and ingredient in our growth and success.
strong leadership Our Group Board is responsible for The MOB review process encapsulates Business Assurance function.
In We are, therefore, focused on establishing, maintaining and the performance of each business unit respect of financial services regulated and controls comprehensively assessing risks and reviewing the Groups strategy, risk in each division and tracks performance businesses, there is also a Group understanding which risks can be appetite, financial performance and against business plans.
The process Our management structure, Compliance function.
Both of these controlled and mitigated and which systems of internal control.
enables the management of each business reporting and risk control functions report to the Group are outside of our control.
Where we division to present details of The Joint Chief Operating Officers Finance Director and independently to management processes ensure believe there is a sensible balance of performance across all their business and the Divisional Directors are the Audit Committee.
In addition, for that management are informed reward against any potential risk, then units to the Groups Executive Board responsible to the Group Board for regulated financial services, there is a we will proceed with specific business Directors.
This monthly review and responsive to performance business development and Financial Services Governance Forum developments including new process consists of three tiers of and trends in the business and operational performance.
They which assists with the Boards contracts and acquisitions.
meetings: communicate and monitor the the wider marketplace and can oversight of risk in this sector.
Systems and procedures are in place application of Group-wide business pre-pre MOBs: Management of each make informed strategic and across the Group to identify, assess objectives, policies, procedures and business unit reviews and prepares a tactical decisions.
and mitigate major business risks that standards.
They work with, and report regarding the operational and could impact the delivery of our delegate responsibility to, their financial performance of their unit growth strategy.
exposure to risk is an integral part Each of our business units prepares a pre-MOBs: Divisional Directors and of the MOB process.
their management teams assess The MOB process is supplemented This includes monthly revenue and each units performance against plan across many of our businesses, cost forecasts for the year ahead, and discuss its ongoing development, including all the regulated financial taking into account new service and determining how planned targets services businesses, by formally product developments and changes in will be met.
These are forums to constituted risk committees.
The share knowledge and identify Hat process is additionally in place to business units financial plans feed challenges early, develop tactics, discuss and seek Group Board into the Group financial model.
reallocate resources and refresh approval regarding acquisitions and strategies.
MOBs: Divisional Directors and representatives of their management teams report on progress to the Groups Executive Board Directors.
This ensures that the Group Executive Board members have a detailed knowledge of the progress of the divisions and a monthly view of actual and anticipated performance against business plans.
indd 33 12 03 2012 21:09 34 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Controlling & measuring growth Key risk categories Potential impacts Mitigating activities include Principal risk categories, potential impacts and Adverse effect on financial performance and brand reputation.
Financial performance of each business unit is monitored monthly Financial Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous monitoring and budgetary controls.
examples of mitigations Reputation risk and financial loss e. g. disruption to supply chain: service Rigorous risk-based due diligence processes for the selection of key delegates and wider counterparties Delegates and interruption.
counterparty failure Failure to meet contractual Service Level Agreements Risk committees and Group Board escalation of risks issues Operational risks Financial penalties MOB process escalation Potential loss of contracts Operating performance indicators in place Brand reputation impacted.
Business resilience arrangements in place Risk-based independent assurance Centralised proactive and reactive PR team provides full issues management communications support.
Planned synergies not achieved Rigorous risk-based due diligence Acquisitions and Adverse impact on financial growth and performance Black Hat process: organic growth Financial penalties.
Fit with strategy and pricing is subject to review and approval by the Group Board Appropriate contractual terms to ensure fair risk reward profile Robust integration and transition process.
Weaker economic conditions are a key driver for outsourcing, however, Focus on 10 diverse public and private sector markets Regulatory and extreme economic uncertainty can result in a delay in buying decisions Focus on widening scope of existing contracts to help clients save money economic landscape and lower discretionary spend across some market segments Supply of services that support essential client functions rather than discretionary activities Changes to regulation in different jurisdictions could potentially impact Initiatives to increase the efficiency of Group operations businesses located there.
Increased compliance and risk monitoring of potential changes across all jurisdictions we are active in.
Lack of appropriate resources may lead to inability to develop and execute Training and development Attract and retain staff business plans Continual development through objective setting and appraisals Poor staff morale Competitive incentive and bonus plans Competitive disadvantage.
Succession planning Comprehensive vetting process in line with roles.
Contractual and regulatory penalties Appropriate policies and procedures Loss of sensitive or Adverse media comment and reputation impact on brand.
Robust information security framework, including policies and processes confidential data or Escalation to risk committees and subsidiary boards failure to protect Training and monitoring programme across businesses consumers funds Swift adoption of Group policies and protocols by newly acquired businesses Sharing of best practice and issues through cross-Group forums Regular monitoring through risk-based audits and follow-up of actions Centralised proactive and reactive PR team.
Potential for civil and criminal penalties for business and or Senior Officers Appropriate policies and procedures in place including a speak up policy Fraud, bribery and Potential prohibition from bidding for public sector contracts in EU Anti corruption culture and a zero tolerance approach with a robust disciplinary process corruption Media comment and reputation impact.
Risk assessments of vulnerabilities Monitoring and audit Centralised proactive and reactive PR team.
Non-compliance with the requirements of the FSA and other financial Appropriate policies and procedures Financial services services regulators, including procedures to protect clients assets Monitoring by Risk, Business Assurance and Regulatory Compliance teams regulation Regulatory, financial and contractual penalties Escalation of risks to risk committees and subsidiary boards Adverse impact on reputation.
Risk-based assurance and actions for improvement Independent reporting to Group Audit Committee and Group Financial Services Governance Forum.
Non-compliance with health and safety regulations Rigorously applied health and safety policy and processes Health and safety Adverse impact on wellbeing of our employees.
Health and safety training Comprehensive Group wide health and safety audits undertaken twice a year.
As a low impact company our key environmental impacts are energy use, Raising awareness of environmental issues and Group sustainability initiatives Environmental business travel, resource use and waste management which we manage Continue to measure and manage our carbon footprint and achieve energy reductions proactively.
Environmental management system in place Environmental site audits carried out twice a year Reduction of paper use and increase in recycling.
