Capita plc Governance 65 Corporate governance I am pleased to present the report on the activities of the Audit Committee for Committee activities during 2011 Audit Committee the year to 31 December 2011.
Set out below is a summary of the work carried The Committee met five times during the year.
Meetings are planned around the out by the Committee.
report financial calendar for the Company and the meeting held in May is specifically to focus on the risk, internal control and compliance agendas.
Audit Committee During the year the Committee undertook the following activities: Throughout 2011 the members of the Audit Committee were Paul Bowtell Chairman, Martina King and Nigel Wilson, all of whom are independent February: At the meeting to review the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts, the Non-Executive Directors.
Paul Bowtell is a Chartered Accountant and has recent Committee considered the level of non-audit services being provided by the and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and the FRCs Groups Auditors in order to satisfy itself that the objectivity and independence Guidance on Audit Committees.
The Board has reviewed the performance of the of the Auditors were safeguarded Committee and is satisfied that the combined knowledge and experience of its February: Reviewed and approved the Representation Letter required by the members is such that the Committee discharges its responsibilities in an Auditors effective, informed and challenging manner.
February: Met with the Auditors independently of the Executive Directors and Audit Committee meetings are by invitation and generally attended by: the also separately met with the Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance Non-Executive Chairman: Chief Executive: Executive Directors: Director, Group February: Update from Group Compliance and Group Risk and Business Compliance: Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance and by representatives Assurance including Group safety, health and environment of the external Auditors.
May and ongoing: Monitored the internal controls that are operated by The Chairman of the Committee is directly available to and holds regular management to ensure the integrity of information reported to shareholders meetings with the Group Compliance Director, Deputy Company Secretary, who May: Discussion and update on the Anti-Bribery Act and the processes and acts as Secretary to the Committee, the Director, Group Risk and Business policies implemented across the Group Assurance and external Auditors.
May: A review of the terms of reference was undertaken and no changes were Role and responsibilities proposed.
The terms of reference include the approval of the appointment of The Audit Committee assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities in the Director, Group Risk and Business Assurance respect of the Company and the Group.
The Committees key responsibilities are: July: Contract wins to date in the year were reviewed i t o review the reporting of financial and other information to the shareholders July: Review of Half Yearly Accounts for 2011.
This included consideration of of the Company and monitor the integrity of the financial statements both financial and non-financial aspects of the accounts ii t o review the effectiveness and objectivity of the external audit process, September: Review of the Groups risk appetite and risk maps assess the independence of the auditors and ensure appropriate policies and November: Report from the External Auditors on the audit planning for the procedures are in place to protect such independence year-end audit process.
iii t o review and assess the adequacy of the systems of internal control and risk management which includes monitoring the Companys internal audit function and monitor the risk profile of the business.
The Audit Committee terms of reference set out in full the role, responsibilities and authority of the Committee and can be found on the Companys website at www.
indd 65 12 03 2012 21:14 66 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Corporate governance In line with its responsibilities, the Committee reviewed the annual business Auditor independence assurance programme and ensured that the Group Risk and Business Assurance The Committee takes seriously its responsibility to put in place safeguards to function was adequately sponsored and resourced.
The Group Risk and Business Auditor objectivity and independence.
It has therefore established a policy on Assurance business plan was presented to the Committee in January 2012 and the provision of services by the Groups Auditors.
The policy describes the approved.
circumstances in which the Auditors may be permitted to undertake non-audit Ongoing: Reviewed a wide range of financial reporting and related matters work for the Group.
The Committee oversees compliance with the policy and during the year, including the half year and annual accounts prior to their considers and approves requests to use the Auditors for non-audit work.
Any submission to the Board.
The Committee focused in particular on critical assignment where the expected fee is above the relevant threshold requires accounting policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas specific approval from the Committee or a member of the Committee.
The of judgement that materially impact on reported results.
At each meeting an Deputy Company Secretary deals with day-to-day administration of the policy, update was also received from Group Compliance and Group Risk and Business facilitating requests for approval by the Committee.
The policy is reviewed by Assurance.
The Committee is also responsible for the policies on whistle blowing the Committee annually.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are given in note 7 speak up and the provision of the non-audit services by the external Auditors.
Both policies are published on the Companys intranet.
The Company is committed to ensuring appropriate independence in its relationship with the Auditors and the key safeguards are: Statutory Auditors the Group Finance Director monitors the independence of the Auditors as part The Committee provides a forum for reporting by the Groups Auditors, and it of the Groups assessment of auditor effectiveness and reports to the Audit advises the Board on the appointment, independence and objectivity of the Committee Auditors and on the remuneration for both statutory audit and non-audit work.
It also discussed the nature, scope and timing of the statutory audit with the the Audit Committee routinely benchmarks the level of the Group audit fee Auditors.
The Audit Committee annually performs an independent assessment against other comparable companies both within and outside of the Groups of the suitability and performance of the Auditors in making its recommendation sector, to ensure ongoing objectivity in the audit process to the Board for their re-appointment.
the Group Finance Director monitors the level and nature of non-audit fees The Committee discussed the performance of KPMG during the period and was accruing to the Auditors, and specific assignments are discussed in advance satisfied that the level of communication and reporting was in line with with the Auditors and flagged for the approval of the Audit Committee as requirements.
The evaluation of KPMG also included the planning of the audit appropriate and in accordance with the Companys policy on the provision of and a post audit evaluation.
Particular importance was placed on this review as non-audit services by the Auditors.
The Audit Committee reviews, in this was the first full year that KPMG had been appointed.
aggregate, non-audit fees of this nature on an annual basis and considers implications for the objectivity and independence of the relationship with the A resolution to re-appoint KPMG Audit Plc as the Auditors of the Company will Auditors be put forward at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
the Auditors undertook various non audit work such as assistance on The lead audit partner is rotated on a five-yearly basis as a minimum.
acquisitions and bids across our business.
Disclosure of information to Auditors Ensuring conflicts of interest are avoided is a fundamental criterion in the The Directors who held office at the date of the approval of this Director's report selection of any third party auditor for assignments with which the Group is confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant audit information involved.
Such conflicts may arise across public or private sector clients and key of which the Company's Auditors are unaware: and each Director has taken all supplier relationships, for example, and are a key determinant in the award steps that they ought to have taken as a Director to make themselves aware of process for external audit assignments.
any relevant audit information and to establish that the Company's Auditors are Paul Bowtell aware of that information.
indd 66 12 03 2012 21:14 Capita plc Governance 67 Corporate governance Remuneration Committee The Corporate Communications team has effective day-to-day responsibility for managing shareholder communications and always acts in close consultation Details of the Remuneration Committee and its activities are given in the with the Board.
A Disclosure Committee consisting of the Corporate Directors remuneration report on pages 75 to 85.
Communications Director, Chief Executive and Group Finance Director ensures Board and Committee members, frequency of meetings and attendance all appropriate communications are made to the London Stock Exchange and During 2011 the Board met nine times, excluding ad hoc meetings, solely to deal shareholders.
Shareholders can also access up-to-date information through with procedural matters.
The Nomination Committee and the Remuneration the Groups website at www.
A telephone helpline, Committee met two and five times during the year, respectively.
The Audit 0871 664 0300, provides a contact point directly to the Groups registrars.
Committee met five times during the year.
Attendance is recorded in the table All members of the Board, including the Non-Executive Directors, receive below: a report on any significant discussions with shareholders and feedback that follows the annual and half-yearly presentations to investment analysts Nomination Remuneration Audit Committee Committee Committee and shareholders.
All analyst reports concerning Capita are circulated to Board meetings meetings meetings meetings the Directors.
Scheduled meetings 9 2 5 5 Directors, including the Chairmen of the various committees, are present at Martin Bolland 9 2 the Annual General Meeting to answer any questions.
The Board particularly Paul Pindar 9 encourages communication with and the participation of private investors at Gordon Hurst 9 the Annual General Meeting.
Andy Parker 9 Internal control Vic Gysin 9 The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for Maggi Bell 8 regularly reviewing its effectiveness.
Procedures have been designed for, inter Nigel Wilson 8 2 5 5 alia, the safeguarding of assets against unauthorised use or disposition, maintaining proper accounting records and the reliability of financial information Paul Bowtell 9 2 5 5 used within the business or for publication.
Such a system is designed to manage Martina King 8 2 5 5 rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can Paddy Doyle 8 2 only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material errors, Due to the nature of the acquisition and bid strategy, consideration of meeting times has to include flexibility to losses or fraud.
There is an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating and hold meetings outside of this timetable and meetings of this nature tend to be held by telephone.
managing the key risks faced by the Group, which has been in place throughout Any Directors absence from Board meetings or meetings of the Audit, the year under review and up to the date of approval of the 2011 Annual Report Remuneration or Nomination Committees was previously agreed with the and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by the Board.
The Groups key Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive or the Chairman of the relevant internal control procedures include the following: committee.
the Board has responsibility to set, communicate and monitor the application Dialogue with shareholders of policies, procedures and standards in areas including operations, finance, legal, commercial and regulatory compliance, human resources and health and The Board encourages and seeks to build a mutual understanding of objectives safety, information security and property management and corporate social between the Group and its shareholders.
As part of this process the Executive responsibility and the environment and these policies are cascaded to the Directors make regular presentations and meet with institutional shareholders to businesses via the MOB review process and additional internal discuss the Groups business model and growth strategy, address any issues of communication channels concern, obtain feedback and consider corporate governance issues.
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Annual General Meeting and information for shareholders is available on the Company's website www.
All the Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders to understand their views more fully.
The Chairman is personally available to the significant shareholders in the Group.
indd 67 12 03 2012 21:14 68 Business review Governance Accounts Capita plc Corporate governance authority to operate the individual businesses comprising the Divisions that the Group Risk and Business Assurance function reports to the Group Finance make up the Group who then delegate to Managing Directors, within limits set Director and independently to the Audit Committee.
In addition to by the Group, including the recruitment of the underlying management teams.
independently facilitating the Groups risk management framework, it delivers The Board establishes key operations, functional and financial reporting a risk-based internal audit programme, to provide assurance on the standards for application across the whole Group and this is cascaded through effectiveness of the internal control structures operating across the business.
These are supplemented by operational standards set The annual audit programme is focused on areas of greatest risk to the Group, by local management teams, as required for the type of business and as determined by the Group risk framework, and an independent view of those geographical location of each subsidiary and business unit risks is taken by the Group Risk and Business Assurance function.
Work continues to further segregate the internal audit function that reviews FSA comprehensive annual financial plans are prepared at the individual business regulated financial services businesses with a reporting line into the FS unit level and summarised at a Divisional and Group level.
Financial plans are Governance Forum, as described previously reviewed and approved by the Board following challenge within the MOB review process.
Capital expenditure is subject to rigorous budgetary control in addition, regulatory risks and compliance matters are overseen by the Group beyond specified levels and detailed written proposals have to be submitted to Compliance Director reporting through the Group Finance Director and the Board.
Expenditure on acquisitions is the subject of appropriate independently to the Audit Committee.
Dedicated compliance teams within consideration, review and approval by the Board the relevant businesses independently monitor regulatory compliance by way of risk-based work programmes and support operations in identifying and results are monitored routinely by means of comprehensive management mitigating regulatory risks as an integral part of the Group risk framework accounts and actual progress against plan is challenged directly by Executive Directors of the Board on a Group-wide basis and at the business unit level both the Group Compliance function and Group Risk and Business Assurance each month.
The Non-Executive Directors challenge the Executive Directors at function routinely apprise the Groups senior management and the Audit each Board meeting Committee of their work programmes and findings.
a framework is in place to identify, assess and mitigate the major business risks, The Board keeps under review the effectiveness of this system of internal control.
including credit, liquidity, operations, reputation, information security, The key mechanisms used by the Board to achieve this include regular MOB regulatory and fraud.
The framework also includes specific provision for review reports, periodic updates from the Audit Committee based on its review risk-based due diligence in respect of business acquisitions and new customer of risk management, business assurance and compliance reports by the relevant contracts.
Exposure to business risk is monitored as an integral part of the Group functions: discussions with and reports from the external auditors and MOB review process and by the Audit Committee other advisers.
the MOB process is supplemented across many of the Groups businesses, Through the above mechanisms, the Board and the Audit Committee have including all the regulated financial services businesses, by a number of performed a Group-wide review of the effectiveness of the internal control formally constituted risk committees.
These committees provide an system, including financial and operational controls and risk management in appropriate means to routinely monitor the risk profile for these businesses, accordance with the Code for the period from 1 January 2011 to the date of including regulatory risks, and for proposed mitigating actions to be challenged approval of this Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board and the Audit and tracked.
During the course of 2011 a new Group Financial Services FS Committee is satisfied with the process of monitoring the effectiveness of Governance Forum was established to provide enhanced Group oversight of all internal controls and complies with the Internal Control Guidance for Directors financial services business streams.
The forum is chaired by Vic Gysin, will have in the Code issued by the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and an independent member and when fully established will meet quarterly Wales and in the revised Turnbull Guidance 2005.
Risk management and governance is also referred to on pages 32 to 34.
