RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 26 The Directors present their Corporate Governance Report for the year ended 31 March 2011.
Apart from certain matters reported below, the Directors believe that the Company has complied with the relevant provisions of Section 1 of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance published in 2008 by the Financial Reporting Council the Code throughout the period under review.
The contents of this report are intended to address the subjects required under the Code in accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
Where appropriate, reference is also made to the Companys compliance with the main principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code published in May 2010.
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company is an investment trust managed by its Board of Directors the Board currently comprising eleven Directors, three of whom are executive Directors including the Chairman and the remaining eight are independent non-executive Directors.
The full membership of the Board and the biographical details of each of the Directors are set out on pages 19 and 20.
The Board has a formal Schedule of Reserved Matters, which may be viewed on the Companys website www.
This is designed to prescribe the responsibilities of the Board in managing the Companys business within a framework of prudent and effective controls to facilitate assessment and management of risk.
The Board is responsible for setting the Companys strategic aims for its long-term success and ensuring that the necessary resources are in place to these ends, delegating as appropriate to the Companys executive management.
In general terms, the executive management of the Company is responsible for the implementation and execution of the Boards strategic directives relating to investment management, the Companys governance and administration.
The Board met formally on five occasions in the year ended 31 March 2011.
The attendance of the Directors holding office on 31 March 2011 was as follows: No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended Lord Rothschild 5 5 Mikael Breuer-Weil 5 4 Duncan Budge 5 5 Michael Marks 5 5 John Cornish 5 5 Lord Douro 3 3 John Elkann 5 2 James Leigh-Pemberton 5 4 Lord Myners 3 3 Sandra Robertson 5 5 Rick Sopher 1 1 The non-executive Directors participate in discussions regarding the Companys strategy and performance.
They also meet on one occasion each year without any executive directors present to consider the conclusions of the annual Board evaluation exercise and the performance of the Chairman.
In addition, there are now five permanent Board committees a majority of whose membership is comprised of non-executive directors.
The composition of the committees is set out on page 20.
Each committee has its own Terms of Reference which may be viewed on the Companys website.
The permanent committees are as follows: The Audit and Risk Committee The Audit and Risk Committee comprises three non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent of the Company.
It is chaired by John Cornish, a former partner at Deloitte LLP, who is also the chairman of the audit committees of three other public companies, and whom the Board considers has appropriate financial experience.
27 The Audit Committee was renamed the Audit and Risk Committee on 1 April 2011 to reflect the expansion of its remit and focus on the identification and management of risk covering principally operational, financial, reputation and regulatory matters.
The Committee meets at least twice each year to review the Companys interim and annual financial statements, to consider reports thereon from the external audit process and to review any issues arising with the Companys management.
The Committee monitors the adequacy of the Groups accounting policies and financial reporting, which are discussed with the external auditors.
The Committee also considers the external auditors independence, objectivity and the cost effectiveness of the audit process.
The level of non-audit services provided to the Company by the auditors is monitored as is the auditors objectivity in providing such services to ensure that the independence of the audit team from the Company is not compromised.
Nonaudit services provided by  LLP in the year ended 31 March 2011 were primarily in relation to taxation services.
The Committee also meets on a separate and dedicated basis to review the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal controls at least annually by reference to reports prepared and compiled by management.
The remaining matters in the Audit and Risk Committees Terms of Reference are considered as and when necessary.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring the Companys whistleblowing procedures for staff to follow in the event that they might have any concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
The procedures in place provide for staff to have direct recourse to the Audit and Risk Committee, through its Chairman.
The current membership of the Committee is set out on page 20.
The Committee met formally on three occasions in the year ended 31 March 2011 with attendance as follows: No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended John Cornish 3 3 James Leigh-Pemberton 3 2 Lord Myners 2 2 Charles Bailey 1 1 The Conflicts Committee The Conflicts Committee meets at least once a year on a formal, scheduled basis and on other occasions as and when required.
The Committee is chaired by Lord Douro.
The Committees principal responsibilities cover proposed co-investment related party transactions and the approvals of cost sharing arrangements with parties related to Lord Rothschild or any other director as described in Note 28.
The Committee is responsible for monitoring and pre-approving any arrangements entered into between the Company and any of its Directors, or their connected interests, to ensure that any conflicts of interest are avoided or pre-approved and managed appropriately.
The membership of the Committee is set out on page 20.
The attendance of the members at the four meetings of the Committee in the year to 31 March 2011 was as follows: No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended Lord Douro 3 3 Charles Bailey 1 1 John Cornish 4 4 James Leigh-Pemberton 3 2 Michael Marks 3 3 The Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee comprises four Directors, three of whom are independent and nonexecutive and the fourth is Lord Rothschild, who is the Chairman of the Committee.
The Committee meets at least once a year on a formal basis, and on additional occasions as required.
Its remit, as set RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 28 out in its Terms of Reference, includes leading the process for appointments to the Board, to ensure that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria and to review the suitability of those Directors who are standing for re-election.
The Committee also monitors the composition of the Board on an ongoing basis, with a view to succession planning and the maintenance of an appropriate balance of skills and experience within the Company and on the Board.
The attendance of the members at the three meetings of the Committee in the year to 31 March 2011 was as follows: No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended Lord Rothschild 3 3 Charles Bailey 2 2 Lord Douro 1 1 James Leigh-Pemberton 3 3 Michael Marks 3 3 The Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee comprises four non-executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
The Committee meets at least once each year on a formal basis, and on additional occasions as may be required.
Its primary responsibilities include the creation and maintenance of remuneration policies designed to attract, retain and motivate directors appropriately.
This includes the review of the total remuneration packages of the executive Directors and senior management, ensuring an appropriate balance between fixed and performance-related elements.
This exercise is conducted in part by reference to other companies of similar size and business objectives.
The Remuneration Committee seeks the advice of remuneration consultants as and when appropriate.
The Committee is also responsible for monitoring the fees paid to the non-executive Directors, by reference to the roles and time commitment of each individual concerned, although the final determination of the fees payable to non-executive directors is a matter for the Board of Directors as a whole.
It is also the responsibility of the Committee to determine the policy for the pension arrangements of the executive Directors.
The attendance of the members at the two meetings of the Committee in the year to 31 March 2011 was as follows: No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended Lord Douro 2 2 John Cornish 2 2 James Leigh-Pemberton 2 2 Michael Marks 2 2 The Valuation Committee At 31 March 2011, the Valuation Committee comprised three Directors, two of whom were non-executive and one was an executive Director.
The Committee is chaired by John Cornish.
Lord Myners joined the Committee as an additional non-executive member on 1 April 2011.
The Committee meets at least twice each year and additionally as may be required.
Its principal responsibility is to review the Companys unlisted investments so that they are presented in the annual and half-yearly accounts at a fair valuation.
The Committee met formally on two occasions in relation to the year ended 31 March 2011 and the attendance was as follows: No.
of meetings Member invited to attend attended John Cornish 2 2 Sandra Robertson 2 1 Duncan Budge 2 2 29 CHAIRMAN WITH EXECUTIVE RESPONSIBILITIES Lord Rothschild is both Chairman of the Board and an executive Director.
The Board recognises that this is at variance with the recommendations of the Code, which are concerned with the potential problems of combining the running of the Board with the executive responsibility for the running of the Company.
The Board believes that the current arrangements are appropriate for a self-managed investment trust and are in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders on an ongoing basis.
The Company has in place a structure of permanent board committees, described above, which are designed to devolve responsibility and control of certain key areas of Board responsibility away from the Chairman.
The Audit and Risk Committee, the Conflicts Committee and the Remuneration Committee are comprised entirely of independent non-executive Directors.
Whilst the Nominations Committee is chaired by Lord Rothschild and a member of the Valuation Committee is an executive Director, independent non-executive Directors represent a majority of their number in both cases.
The Board is therefore of the view that the Company is not at risk from a concentration of power caused by the Chairman having executive responsibilities and believes that Lord Rothschild is well qualified for both roles.
As Chairman, Lord Rothschild is responsible for the leadership of the Board and its effectiveness in dealing with the matters reserved for its decision with adequate time for discussion.
This includes ensuring a culture of openess and debate and that Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings.
He is also responsible for ensuring effective communication with shareholders, making Directors aware of any concerns raised by shareholders and for facilitating the full and effective contribution of the non-executive Directors.
BOARD BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE As described above, the Board is comprised of eleven Directors of whom three are executive and eight are non-executive and independent.
This balance is intended to limit the scope for an individual, or a small group of individuals, to dominate the Boards decision-making.
More than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, therefore comprise non-executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
The size and composition of the Board is considered to be suitable for the Companys size and business, whilst not being so large as to be unwieldy.
APPOINTMENTS TO THE BOARD The Nominations Committee is responsible for the process of appointment of new directors to the Board.
The Board, through the Nominations Committee, recognises the need to consider, on an ongoing basis, the appointment of new Directors to bring fresh impetus, diversity and objectivity.
Such appointments will be made on merit and ability to devote such time as is necessary to the position, as described in each Directors letter of appointment.
The Committee will also be mindful of succession planning and board balance when recommending future appointments to the Board.
Neither open advertising nor external search consultancies have been used for non-executive Director appointments in the past, as the Board and Nominations Committee identify and assess candidates on the basis of their potential contribution to the Company.
Non-executive Directors are not appointed for specified terms.
Since periodic re-election requirements are in place, neither the Nominations Committee nor the Board consider that such contractual limitations would be in the best interests of the Company.
Appropriate training on listed company governance and on the Company is provided to new Directors on their first appointment.
INFORMATION AND PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information through the Company Secretary, J. Rothschild Capital Management Limited.
This is effected through regular oral and written communication, including detailed papers provided for each of the Companys scheduled board meetings.
Such communication is intended to update Directors knowledge and familiarity with the Company and its business, to enable them to fulfil their respective roles on the Board or its committees.
The Directors have access to the Company Secretary for advice and services.
The RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 30 Chairman, the Nominations Committee and the Company Secretary have formulated a full, formal and tailored induction process for new directors on their joining the Board.
All Directors are entitled to take independent professional advice, including legal advice, at the Companys expense where they judge it necessary to discharge their responsibilities as Directors, up to a maximum of 25,000 per annum.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures and applicable rules and regulations are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on corporate governance matters.
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION The Code requires the Company to report on the means by which performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and its individual Directors has been conducted.
The Board has determined that the completion of a questionnaire by each of the Directors covering the processes, efficiency and composition of each of the Board, its committees and the Directors, followed by discussion of the summarised responses is the most appropriate for the Companys circumstances.
This exercise was conducted between January and March 2011, when the responses were evaluated and considered by the Board and separately by the non-executive Directors in a meeting without any executive Directors being present.
The Company will be required to report on its compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code in its future annual reports.
This new Code will require the evaluation of the boards of FTSE 350 companies to be externally facilitated at least every three years.
RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS The Company has in the past complied with the Code requirements for each Director to stand for reelection at least once every three years and that any non-executive Director serving more than nine years since first elected should stand for re-election annually.
The new UK Corporate Governance Code incorporates a requirement that all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be put forward for re-election every year.
Accordingly, all directors of the Company will stand for election or re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, save for Mr Elkann, who has notified the Company of his decision not to stand for re-election.
The Notice of Annual General Meeting is enclosed on page 91, and the summary of AGM business is contained in the Explanatory Notes on page 95.
Following the performance evaluation of the Board described above, it is confirmed that the performance of each Director, including those standing for re-election, continues to be satisfactory.
The re-election of those Directors standing at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting is therefore recommended by the Board.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board and executive management maintain a dialogue with both institutional shareholders and analysts and also respond promptly to other shareholders enquiries.
Shareholders are invited to ask questions at the Annual General Meeting and, as far as is practicable, the chairmen of the Audit and Risk Committee, the Conflicts Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Valuation Committee will be available to answer any questions from shareholders.
Apart from when the Company is in a close period, its net asset value is disclosed on a monthly basis to the London Stock Exchange to enable shareholders and analysts to follow the progress of the Company.
The Company also maintains a website at www.
co. uk where shareholders have access to the latest monthly financial data released by the Company, together with historical information and financial statements.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT Statement of the Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
31 Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have elected to prepare the group and parent company financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of RIT Capital Partners plc and the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable IFRSs as adopted by the European Union have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the company will continue in business.
The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Company's transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and the Directors' Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
12 Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed on pages 19 and 20 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group and the Companys financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the Group and Company: and the Directors Report contained in the Annual Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
Internal Control The Board of Directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control although it has delegated the supervision of the system to the Audit and Risk Committee.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and, as such, can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated to executive management the implementation of the system of internal control within an established framework applicable throughout the Group.
The system of internal control is reviewed annually.
The Board considers that the necessary procedures have been implemented to satisfy the requirements of the Financial Services Authority with respect to the Turnbull guidance Internal Control: Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued in September 1999 and revised in 2005.
The Board, through the Audit and Risk Committee, reviews the need to establish a separate internal audit function annually.
The Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the role of the Companys Compliance Officer with specific regard to the monitoring and evaluation of the Companys internal controls.
This role amounts to a proportion of an internal audit function.
The precise scope and depth of the remit will continue to be reviewed and, as appropriate, expanded.
Clear and direct reporting lines between the Compliance Officer and the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and Senior Independent Director have been established to maximise the independence of the Compliance Officer from executive management.
RIT CAPITAL PARTNERS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 32 The Compliance Officer also monitors the compliance of external managers with the terms of their investment management agreements as well as reviewing their internal control procedures.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the key systems of internal control in operation during the financial period and up to the date of this report through the monitoring processes set out below.
During the course of its review of the system of internal controls, the Audit and Risk Committee has not identified or been appraised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Control Environment The Group has established an organisational structure which allocates defined levels of authority and reporting responsibility in respect of the operational, compliance, financial and taxation affairs of the Group to a small number of senior executives who meet regularly to discuss matters of importance to the Group.
Risk Management The ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing major business risks is carried out by the Board and the Audit and Risk Committee in conjunction with the relevant executives.
The mitigation and monitoring of risks identified is undertaken by the Board or the executive management as appropriate.
Timetables are agreed for implementing any required improvements to systems and progress against these timetables is monitored.
Detailed portfolio valuations are undertaken every week and these form the basis for risk control decisions regarding equity exposure, liquidity, market risk and exchange rate risk.
Further information relating to financial risk management is contained in Note 26 to the financial statements.
The system of internal control and risk management is embedded into the operations of the Company, and the action taken to mitigate any weaknesses is carefully monitored.
Social, Environmental and Ethical SEE Responsibility The Board is responsible for investment strategy and related questions of SEE policy.
It has delegated the supervision of SEE related matters to the Audit and Risk Committee, and day-to-day responsibility resides with executive management.
As an investment trust, the Board considers that the Companys direct SEE impact is low.
However, SEE risk is considered on a case-by-case basis where management believes that investments made internally, as opposed to those made by external managers, would create a SEE risk exposure.
Potential SEE risk is also considered in the selection of external investment managers.
Financial Reporting and Control Procedures There is a budgeting system with an annual budget approved by the executive management.
Monthly actual results are reviewed and reported against budget and reviewed regularly by the executive management.
The Group maintains guidelines in relation to the key controls exercised over its financial and operating affairs.
Duties are segregated to the extent commensurate with the size of the Groups organisation and business environment.
STATEMENT ON GOING CONCERN The Directors have assessed the ability of the Company and the Group to continue as a going concern with reference to guidance issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2009.
The Company and the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans Statement on pages 4 to 6.
Further details of the financial position of the Company and the Group can be found in the Investment Review on pages 7 to 18.
In addition, note 26 to the financial statements includes details of the Companys objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
As at the year-end the Group had cash at bank of 65.6 million, money market funds of 33.5 million and government bonds of 242.9 million.
In addition to these liquidity balances the Group held quoted equities of 291.5 million.
The Groups borrowings totalled 249.0 million under a facility that expires in December 2013.
The Directors confirm that they are satisfied that the Company and the Group have adequate resources, an appropriate financial structure and suitable management arrangements in place to continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
