Report of the directors continued Safety, health and wellbeing The Group continues to do significant work and address challenges Ensuring the safety, health and wellbeing of employees and customers is across five key themes: Fair banking, Supporting enterprise, Employee an important responsibility for the Group.
engagement, Safety and security and Citizenship and environmental sustainability.
For more information on the Group Sustainability The Group is committed to ensuring legal compliance and managing programme, see page 30. health and safety risks.
During 2011, increased focus on leadership, governance and the effectiveness of controls delivered improvements in Going concern health and safety performance.
The Groups business activities and financial position, the factors likely to affect its future development and performance and its objectives and A wide range of health benefits and services are in place to help policies in managing the financial risks to which it is exposed and its employees maintain good physical and psychological health, and support capital are discussed in the Business review.
The risk factors which could them if they do become unwell.
A number of these services have been materially affect the Groups future results are set out on pages 451 to enhanced and promoted in response to the impact of the economic 464.
The Groups regulatory capital resources and significant environment.
developments in 2011 and anticipated future developments are detailed on pages 110 to 115.
The liquidity and funding section on pages 116 to Pre-employment screening 130, describes the Groups funding and liquidity profile, including The Group has a comprehensive pre-employment screening process to changes in key metrics, the build up of liquidity reserves and the outlook guard against possible infiltration and employee-related fraud for all direct for 2012. and non-direct staff engaged on Group business.
Having reviewed the Groups forecasts, projections and other relevant Code of conduct evidence, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group and The code of conduct applies to everyone who works for RBS.
It promotes the company will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable honest and ethical conduct, including the handling of actual or apparent future.
Accordingly, the financial statements of the Group and of the conflicts of interest between personal and professional relationships.
The company have been prepared on a going concern basis.
Group recognises that personal conduct, business integrity and the Groups security are crucial, and the code of conduct serves to inform BBA disclosure code those who work for us of the Groups expectations of their behaviour and In September 2010, the British Bankers Association published its Code practices.
The code sets out five disclosure principles together with supporting guidance.
The principles are that the The code of conduct is available on the Groups website www.
com Group and other major UK banks will provide high quality, meaningful and will also be provided to any person without charge, upon request, by and decision-useful disclosures: review and enhance their financial contacting RBS Secretariat at the telephone number listed on page 487. instrument disclosures for key areas of interest to market participants: assess the applicability and relevance of good practice recommendations Sustainability to their disclosures acknowledging the importance of such guidance: Sustainability is central to the way the Group is managed.
Sustainability seek to enhance the comparability of financial statement disclosures is not just about the many responsibilities and obligations that the Group across the UK banking sector: and clearly differentiate in their annual has in a legal sense, but about specific issues that need to be addressed reports between information that is audited and information that is to ensure that the Group is a healthy and respected business operating unaudited.
The Groups 2011 financial statements have been prepared on a sustainable basis.
There is a clear governance structure for Group in compliance with the codes principles.
Sustainability that oversees and aligns the Group's approach to the range of ethical, social and environmental issues which confront the business Corporate governance on a daily basis.
For more information on the governance structure, see The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
Details are given in the Corporate governance report on pages 252 to 295.
The Corporate governance report and compliance report pages 296 and 297 form part of this Report of the directors.
Share capital Details of the ordinary and preference share capital at 31 December 2011 and movements during the year are shown in Note 27 on the consolidated accounts.
