Compliance report Statement of compliance The company is committed to high standards of corporate governance, business integrity and professionalism in all its activities.
Throughout the year ended 31 December 2011, the company has complied with all of the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in May 2010 the Code except in relation to the provision D. 2.2 that the Group Remuneration Committee should have delegated responsibility for setting remuneration for the Chairman and executive directors.
The company considers that this is a matter which should rightly be reserved for the Board.
No director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own remuneration.
Information on how the company has applied the main principles of the Code can be found in the Corporate governance report on pages 252 to 295.
A copy of the Code can be found at www.
The company has also implemented the recommendations arising from the Walker Review.
The company has also complied in all material respects with the Financial Reporting Council Guidance on Audit Committees issued in December 2010.
Under the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, specific standards of corporate governance and business and financial disclosures apply to companies with securities registered in the US.
The company complies with all applicable sections of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
Internal control The Board of directors is responsible for the Groups system of internal control that is designed to facilitate effective and efficient operations and to ensure the quality of internal and external reporting and compliance with applicable laws and regulations.
In devising internal controls, the Group has regard to the nature and extent of the risk, the likelihood of it crystallising and the cost of controls.
A system of internal control is designed to manage, but not eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against the risk of material misstatement, fraud or losses.
The Board has established a process for the identification, evaluation and management of the significant risks faced by the Group, which operated throughout the year ended 31 December 2011 and to 22 February 2012, the date the directors approved the Report and Accounts.
This is confirmed by a semi-annual Control Environment Certification process which requires senior members of the executive and management to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control framework and the compliance of their business with Group policies and associated standards in accordance with the Group Policy Framework, and they meet the requirements of Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 and the UK Corporate Governance Code Section C2.
The policies that govern these processes, and reports on internal controls arising from them, are regularly reviewed by the Board and meet the requirements of the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code issued by the Financial Reporting Council in October 2005.
Enhancements have been made to the Risk Management framework throughout 2011 and further improvements will be made in 2012.
The effectiveness of the Groups internal controls are reviewed regularly by the Group Board, the Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk Committee.
Executive management committees or boards of directors in each of the Groups businesses also receive regular reports on significant risks facing their business and how they are being controlled.
In addition, the Group Board receives monthly risk management reports.
Details of the Groups approach to risk management are given in the Risk and balance sheet management section, on pages 100 to 249 of the Business review.
The Group Audit Committee has received confirmation that management has taken, or is taking, the necessary action to remedy any failings or weaknesses identified through the operation of the Group framework of controls.
The Groups independent auditors present to the Group Audit Committee reports that include details of any significant internal control matters which they have identified.
The system of internal controls of the authorised institutions and other regulated entities in the Group is also subject to regulatory oversight in the UK and overseas.
Additional details of the Groups regulatory oversight are given in the Supervision and Regulatory developments and reviews sections on pages 443 and 444.
RBS Group 2011 296 Internal control over financial reporting The Group is required to comply with Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and assess the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2011.
The Group assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of 31 December 2011 based on the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control - Integrated Framework'.
Based on its assessment, management has concluded that, as of 31 December 2011, the Group's internal control over financial reporting is effective.
The Group's auditors have audited the effectiveness of the Group's internal control over financial reporting and have given an unqualified opinion.
Management's report on the Group's internal control over financial reporting will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission at the same time as the Annual Report on Form 20-F. Disclosure controls and procedures As required by US regulations, the effectiveness of the company's disclosure controls and procedures as defined in the rules under the Exchange Act have been evaluated.
The evaluation concluded that the company's disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective and designed to ensure that material information relating to the company and its consolidated subsidiaries would be made known to them by others within those entities.
Changes in internal control There was no change in the company's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the period covered by this report that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the company's internal control over financial reporting.
The New York Stock Exchange As a foreign issuer with American Depositary Shares representing ordinary shares, preference shares and debt securities listed on the New York Stock Exchange the NYSE, the company must disclose any significant ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US companies under the NYSE corporate governance listing standards.
In addition, the company must comply fully with the provisions of the listing standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of Audit Committees.
These provisions incorporate the relevant rules concerning audit committees of the Exchange Act.
The company has reviewed its corporate governance arrangements and is satisfied that these are consistent with the NYSEs corporate governance listing practices, with the exception that the Chairman of the Board is also the Chairman of the Group Nominations Committee, which is permitted under the Code since the Chairman was considered independent on appointment.
The companys Group Audit, Board Risk, Group Remuneration and Group Nominations Committees are otherwise composed solely of non-executive directors deemed by the Group Board to be independent.
The NYSE corporate governance listing standards also require that a compensation committee has direct responsibility to review and approve the Group Chief Executives remuneration.
As stated at the start of this Compliance report, in the case of the company, the Group Board, rather than the Group Remuneration Committee, reserves the authority to make the final determination of the remuneration of the Group Chief Executive.
The Group Audit Committee complies with the provisions of the NYSE corporate governance listing standards that relate to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees.
In April 2011, the company submitted its required annual written affirmation to the NYSE confirming its full compliance with those and other applicable provisions.
More detailed information about the Group Audit Committee and its work during 2011 is set out in the Group Audit Committee report on pages 263 to 267.
This Compliance report forms part of the Corporate governance report and the Report of the directors.
