Executive Committee Stephen Hester, Group Chief Executive New York, San Francisco, and Melbourne.
Brian is a graduate of Bruce Van Saun, Group Finance Director Princeton University and holds joint US and Australian citizenship.
Brian For biographies see page 253 will leave the RBS Group in summer 2012.
Ellen Alemany age 56 John Hourican age 41 Chief Executive, Citizens and Head of Americas Chief Executive, Markets & International Banking Ellen Alemany joined the RBS Group in June 2007 as Head of RBS John Hourican was appointed Chief Executive, Markets & International Americas.
She became Chief Executive Officer of Citizens Financial Banking in January 2012 having served as Chief Executive of its Group, Inc. in March 2008 and Chairman in March 2009.
Prior to these predecessor, Global Banking & Markets, since October 2008.
Prior to this appointments, Ellen was the chief executive officer for Global Transaction John held a variety of positions across the RBS Group, including Chief Services at Citigroup, one of Citis 12 publicly reported product lines.
Financial Officer of ABN AMRO Group, Head of Leveraged Finance and Ellen joined Citibank in 1987 and held various positions including Chief Operating Officer of Global Banking & Markets.
John received a executive vice-president for Commercial Business Group, chairman and degree in Economics and Sociology from the National University of chief executive officer for Citibank International plc and Citibanks Ireland and received a Postgraduate Diploma in Accounting from Dublin European bank.
She also served on the Citibank, N. A.
Board of City University before starting his career at Price Waterhouse, where he Directors.
Ellen was elected to serve on the Board of Directors of worked in Dublin, London and Hong Kong.
He is a fellow of the Institute Automatic Data Processing, Inc. beginning in January 2012. of Chartered Accountants in Ireland.
Nathan Bostock age 51 Chris Sullivan age 54 Head of Restructuring & Risk Chief Executive, UK Corporate Nathan Bostock joined the RBS Group in June 2009.
He is Head of Chris Sullivan was appointed Chief Executive of the UK Corporate Restructuring and Risk with responsibility for Risk Management, Legal & Banking Division including Global Transaction Services in August 2009.
Regulatory Affairs, Global Restructuring Group and the Asset Protection His previous role was Chief Executive of RBS Insurance.
Before joining RBS, Nathan spent eight years with Abbey Chris was Chief Executive of Retail and Deputy Chief Executive of Retail National plc in several roles and was latterly the chief financial officer and Markets.
Chris is a member of the CBI Presidents Committee, vicemain board director responsible for Products & Marketing, HR, Insurance chairman of the Global Banking Alliance for Women, a governor of the and Cards.
Before joining Abbey in 2001, Nathan spent ten years with IFS and a governor of Ashridge Management College.
Chris is also RBS in a number of roles, including Chief Operating Officer of Treasury chairman of the Interalpha group of banks.
He spent five years as chief and Capital Markets and Group Risk Director.
A Chartered Accountant, executive of Lombard Asset Finance and under his leadership it attained Nathan worked with Coopers & Lybrand, before starting his career in a leading position in the UK and Europe.
Chris Sullivan earned his banking.
He spent seven years in Chase Manhattan Bank in a variety of Fellowship of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland for his areas and functions.
He also holds a BSc Hons in Mathematics.
Paul Geddes age 42 Ron Teerlink age 51 Chief Executive, RBS Insurance Chief Administrative Officer Paul Geddes was appointed as Chief Executive of RBS Insurance in Ron Teerlink joined the RBS Group in April 2008 as Chief Executive of August 2009, and is leading a significant transformation of the business Business Services, becoming the Group Chief Administrative Officer in ahead of its planned divestment from the Group.
Prior to his move to February 2009.
At the same time he was re-appointed to the Managing Insurance, Paul was CEO of RBS Group's UK retail banking business, Board of ABN AMRO to oversee the integration programme.
Ron started having joined RBS Retail in 2004 as Managing Director with responsibility his career with ABN Bank in 1986 as an IT Systems analyst and held for products and marketing.
Before financial services, Paul held a number various functional positions before becoming Chief Operating Officer of of senior roles in multi-channel retailing in the GUS and Kingfisher the Wholesale Clients Business in 2002.
He was appointed Chief groups.
Paul started his career in Marketing with Procter & Gamble in UK Executive Officer of Group Shared Services in 2004 and joined ABN and European roles.
Paul read PPE at Oxford, graduating in 1990, and AMROs Managing Board in January 2006, where he was responsible for remains a supporter of his college through music scholarships.
He is a Services and Market Infrastructure.
Ron holds a Masters degree in Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Bankers in Scotland, a member of the Economics from Amsterdams Vrije Universiteit.
ABI Board and a member of the FSA Practitioner Panel.
Management Committee Brian Hartzer age 45 The Management Committee, comprising our major business and Chief Executive, UK Retail, Wealth and Ulster Bank functional leaders, meets regularly, up to four times annually, as a vehicle Brian Hartzer h as been the Chief Executive Officer for Retail, Wealth and for strategy and business performance review.
He joined RBS from ANZ in Australia, where he was chief executive officer Australia, as well as global segment It comprises members of the Executive Committee plus a number of lead for retail and wealth.
Brian joined ANZ in 1999 as managing director, other senior executives.
Full details of membership of the Management consumer finance, and later ran ANZs personal banking division.
Prior to Committee can be found on the Groups website www.
joining ANZ, Brian spent ten years as a financial services consultant in RBS Group 2011 257
