Our Board Chairman Philip Hampton age 58 External appointments Date of appointment: appointed to the Board on 19 Non-executive director of Anglo American January 2009 and to the position of Chairman on 3 plc February 2009 Board Committee membership Previously chairman of J Sainsbury plc and group Group Nominations Committee Chair finance director at Lloyds TSB Group, BT Group plc, BG Group plc, British Gas and British Steel plc, an executive director of Lazards and a non-executive director of RMC Group plc and Belgacom SA.
He is also a former chairman of UK Financial Investments Limited, which manages the UK Governments shareholdings in banks.
Executive directors Group Chief Executive Stephen Hester age 51 External appointments Date of appointment: appointed to the Board on 1 Trustee of The Foundation and Friends of October 2008 and to the position of Group Chief the Royal Botanical Gardens, Kew Executive on 21 November 2008 Board Committee membership Previously chief executive of The British Land Company Executive Committee PLC, chief operating officer of Abbey National plc and prior to that held positions with Credit Suisse First Boston including chief financial officer, head of fixed income and co-head of European investment banking.
In 2008 he served as a non-executive director of Northern Rock plc.
Group Finance Director Bruce Van Saun age 54 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 October 2009 ConvergEx Holdings, LLC Over 25 years of financial services experience.
From Board Committee membership 1997 to 2008 he held a number of senior positions with Executive Committee Bank of New York and later Bank of New York Mellon, most recently as vice-chairman and chief financial officer and before that was responsible for Asset Management and Market Related businesses.
Prior to that he held senior positions with Deutsche Bank, Wasserstein Perella Group and Kidder Peabody & Co.
He has served on several corporate boards as a non-executive director and has been active in numerous community organisations.
RBS Group 2011 253 Our Board continued Independent non-executive directors Sandy Crombie age 63 External appointments Senior Independent Director Chairman of Creative Scotland Date of appointment: 1 June 2009 Member and vice-chairman of the Board of Governors of The Royal Conservatoire of Previously group chief executive of Standard Life plc.
He Scotland was also previously a director of the Association of President of the Cockburn Association British Insurers, a member of the former Chancellor of the Exchequers High Level Group on Financial Services Board Committee membership and Chairman of the Edinburgh World City of Literature Group Sustainability Committee Chair Trust.
In 2007 he was the Prince of Wales Ambassador Board Risk Committee for Corporate Social Responsibility in Scotland.
Group Nominations Committee Group Remuneration Committee Alison Davis age 50 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 Member of the Advisory Board of City National Bank Former director of First Data Corporation and chair of the Non-executive director of Unisys board of LECG Corporation.
She previously worked at Corporation McKinsey & Company, AT Kearney, as chief financial Chair of the Governing Board of Womens officer at Barclays Global Investors now BlackRock and Initiative for Self Employment managing partner of Belvedere Capital, a private equity firm focused on buy-outs in the financial services sector.
Board Committee membership Group Nominations Committee Group Remuneration Committee Tony Di Iorio age 68 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 September 2011 None Has worked for a variety of financial institutions starting Board Committee membership with Peat Marwick now KPMG and then Goldman Board Risk Committee Sachs, ultimately as controller of the global firm.
He was Group Audit Committee chief financial officer of the investment bank of Group Nominations Committee NationsBank now Bank of America before joining Paine Webber and then Deutsche Bank where he became chief financial officer in 2006.
After retiring in 2008 he served as senior adviser to Ernst & Young working with the firms financial services partners in the UK, Europe, the Middle East and Africa.
Penny Hughes, CBE age 52 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 January 2010 Senior independent director of Cable & Wireless Worldwide plc Previously a director and chairman of the Remuneration Non-executive director of Wm Morrison Committee of Skandinaviska Enskilda Banken AB and a Supermarkets plc non-executive director of Home Retail Group plc and Trustee of the British Museum chairman of its Remuneration Committee.
She spent the majority of her executive career at Coca-Cola where she Board Committee membership held a number of leadership positions, latterly as Group Remuneration Committee Chair President, Coca-Cola Great Britain and Ireland.
Former Group Nominations Committee non-executive directorships include Vodafone Group plc, Reuters Group PLC and The Gap Inc.. RBS Group 2011 254 Independent non-executive directors Joe MacHale age 60 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 September 2004 Trustee of MacMillan Cancer Support Chairman of Prytania Holdings LLP Held a number of senior executive positions with J. P. Morgan between 1979 and 2001 and was latterly chief Board Committee membership executive of J P Morgan Europe, Middle East and Africa Board Risk Committee Region.
Previously held non-executive roles at The Group Nominations Committee Morgan Crucible Company plc and Brit Insurance Holdings plc.
He is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants.
John McFarlane age 64 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 October 2008 Non-executive director of Westfield Holdings Limited Former chief executive officer of Australia and New Deputy chairman and chairman designate Zealand Banking Group Limited.
Previously he was a of Aviva plc group executive director of Standard Chartered and head of Citicorp Citibank in the UK and Ireland.
Former Board Committee membership president of the International Monetary Conference and Group Nominations Committee a former chairman of the Australian Bankers Association Group Remuneration Committee and has previously served as a director of the London Stock Exchange and a member of the Auditing Practices Board.
Brendan Nelson age 62 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 April 2010 Non-executive director and chairman of the Audit Committee of BP plc Former global chairman, financial services for KPMG.
Board member of Financial Skills Previously held senior leadership roles within KPMG Partnership including as a member of the KPMG UK board from Member of the Financial Reporting Review 1999 to 2006 and as vice chairman from 2006.
Chairman Panel of the Audit Committee of the Institute of Chartered Vice President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland from 2005 to 2008.
Accountants of Scotland Board Committee membership Group Audit Committee Chair Board Risk Committee Group Nominations Committee Baroness Noakes, DBE age 62 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 August 2011 Non-executive director and chairman of Audit Committee of Severn Trent plc An experienced director on UK listed company boards Senior independent director and chairman with extensive and varied political and public sector of Audit and Nominations Committees of experience.
A qualified chartered accountant, she Carpetright plc previously headed KPMGs European and International Trustee of the Thomson Reuters Founders Government practices and has been President of the Share Company Ltd Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales.
She was appointed to the House of Lords in 2000 Board Committee membership and has served on the Conservative front bench in Group Audit Committee various roles including as shadow treasury minister Group Nominations Committee between 2003 and May 2010.
Previously held nonexecutive roles on the Court of the Bank of England, Hanson, ICI, John Laing and SThree.
RBS Group 2011 255 Our Board continued Independent non-executive directors Arthur Art Ryan age 69 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 October 2008 Non-executive director of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals Inc. Former chairman, chief executive officer and president of Active member of numerous community Prudential Financial Inc.
Previously he held senior boards positions with Chase Manhattan Bank N. A. and was a founding member of the Financial Services Forum.
He is Board Committee membership a non-executive director of Citizens Financial Group, Inc. Group Nominations Committee Philip Scott age 58 External appointments Date of appointment: 1 November 2009 Non-executive director and chairman of the Audit Committee of Diageo plc Wide-ranging experience of financial services and risk management, including previous responsibility for Board Committee membership Avivas continental European and International life and Board Risk Committee Chair long-term savings businesses.
He held a number of Group Audit Committee senior executive positions during his career at Aviva Group Nominations Committee including his role as group finance director until January 2010.
President Elect of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries and Fellow of the Association of Certified Public Accountants.
Group Secretary Aileen Taylor age 39 Date of appointment: 1 May 2010 A qualified solicitor, joined RBS in 2000.
She was She is a fellow of the Chartered Institute of appointed Deputy Group Secretary and Head of Group Bankers in Scotland, a fellow of the Industry Secretariat in 2007, and prior to that held various legal, and Parliament Trust and a member of the secretariat and risk roles including Head of External European Corporate Governance Council.
Risk, Retail, Head of Regulatory Risk, Retail Direct and Head of Legal and Compliance at Direct Line Financial Services.
