Corporate governance The Role of the Board The Board is aware of the other commitments of its directors and is The Board is the main decision-making forum for the company.
It is satisfied that all directors allocate sufficient time to enable them to collectively responsible for the long-term success of the company and is discharge their responsibilities effectively.
accountable to shareholders for financial and operational performance.
The Board has established procedures for ensuring that the Boards The Board has overall responsibility for: powers for authorising directors conflicts of interest are being operated effectively.
With effect from 1 October 2008, the Companies Act 2006 establishment of Group strategy and consideration of strategic introduced a statutory duty on directors to avoid conflicts of interest challenges: unless authorised.
Since that date, the Board has considered, and where appropriate authorised, any actual or potential conflicts of interest that management of the business and affairs of the Group: directors may have.
The Board reviews its conflicts register annually.
ensuring the Group manages risk effectively through the approval Election and re-election of directors and monitoring of the Groups risk appetite: In accordance with the provisions of the Code, all directors of the company, with the exception of John McFarlane, will stand for election or considering stress scenarios and agreed mitigants and identifying re-election by shareholders at the companys Annual General Meeting.
longer term strategic threats to the Groups business operations: John McFarlane will step down from the Board on 31 March 2012.
Further information in relation to the companys Annual General Meeting the allocation and raising of capital: and can be found in the Chairmans letter to shareholders which accompanies the notice of meeting.
the preparation and approval of the Groups annual report and accounts.
Board balance and independence The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are distinct and The Boards terms of reference includes key aspects of the companys separate, with a clear division of responsibilities.
The Chairman leads the affairs reserved for the Boards decision and are reviewed bi-annually.
Board and ensures the effective engagement and contribution of all The terms of reference are available on the Groups website executive and non-executive directors.
The Group Chief Executive has www.
responsibility for all Group businesses and acts in accordance with the authority delegated by the Board.
There are a number of areas where the Board has delegated specific responsibility to management, including the Group Chief Executive and The non-executive directors combine broad business and commercial the Group Finance Director.
These include responsibility for the experience with independent and objective judgement.
The nonoperational management of the Groups businesses as well as reviewing executive directors provide independent challenge to the executive high level strategic issues and considering risk appetite, risk policies and directors and leadership team.
The balance between non-executive and risk management strategies in advance of these being considered by the executive directors enables the Board to provide clear and effective Board and or its Committees.
Specific delegated authorities are also in leadership and maintain the highest standards of integrity across the place in relation to business commitments across the Group.
All directors participate in discussing strategy, performance and the The Board considers that the Chairman was independent on appointment financial and risk management of the company.
Meetings of the Board and that all non-executive directors are independent for the purposes of are structured to allow sufficient time for consideration of all items and the the Code.
The standard terms and conditions of appointment of nonChairman encourages constructive challenge and debate.
executive directors are available on the Groups website www.
com and copies are available on request from RBS Secretariat.
Membership of the Board The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two executive directors and ten independent non-executive directors, one of whom is the Senior Independent Director.
The Board functions effectively and efficiently and is considered to be of an appropriate size.
The directors provide the Group with the knowledge, mix of skills and experience required.
The Board Committees comprise directors with a variety of relevant skills and experience so that no undue reliance is placed on any individual.
The names and biographical details of the members of the Board are shown on pages 253 to 256.
RBS Group 2011 258 Board meetings In 2011, nine Board meetings were scheduled and individual attendance An annual programme of divisional presentations is agreed by the Board by directors at these meetings is shown in the following table.
During 2011, the Board received in-depth presentations from Board meetings took place overseas during Board visits to the Global Transaction Services, Non-Core division, Global Banking & Netherlands in May 2011 and the United States in September 2011.
Markets, RBS Insurance, Citizens, UK Retail and Ulster Bank.
These presentations enhance the Boards knowledge of the Groups key In addition to the nine scheduled meetings, 24 additional meetings of the divisions and afford directors the opportunity for discussion and debate Board and Committees of the Board were held, including meetings to with divisional senior management.
Other key areas of focus for the consider and approve financial statements.
The Chairman and the nonBoard during 2011 included the Independent Commission on Banking executive directors meet at least once per year without executive reports, Recovery and Resolution Planning and other regulatory reports directors present.
and updates and these will continue to be key areas of focus for the Board during 2012.
Attended Total number of Board meetings in 2011 scheduled Board Committees Sandy Crombie 9 9 In order to provide effective oversight and leadership, the Board has Alison Davis 1 4 4 established a number of Board Committees with particular Tony Di Iorio 2 3 3 responsibilities.
The Committee chairmanship and membership are Philip Hampton 9 9 reviewed on a regular basis.
The names and biographies of all Board Stephen Hester 9 9 Committee members are set out on pages 253 to 256.
Penny Hughes 9 9 Joe MacHale 9 9 The terms of reference of the undernoted committees are available on John McFarlane 8 9 the Groups website www.
com and copies are available on request.
Brendan Nelson 9 9 Baroness Noakes 1 4 4 The Board Committees are discussed in their individual reports: Art Ryan 9 9 Philip Scott 9 9 Group Audit Committee - pages 263 to 267 Bruce Van Saun 9 9 Board Risk Committee - pages 268 to 271 Group Remuneration Committee - pages 272 to 293 Former director Colin Buchan 3 6 6 Information, induction and professional development Notes: All directors receive accurate, timely and clear information on all relevant 1 Joined the Board on 1 August 2011. matters.
All directors also have access to the advice and services of the 2 Joined the Board on 1 September 2011.
3 Retired from the Board on 5 August 2011.
Group Secretary who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for advising on all governance matters.
In Principal activities of the Board during 2011 addition, all directors are able, if necessary, to obtain independent In advance of each Board meeting, the directors were supplied with professional advice at the companys expense.
comprehensive papers in hard copy and electronic form.
In line with the recommendations of the Walker Review of Governance in At each Board meeting, the Chairman provided a verbal update and the Banks and Financial Institutions the Walker Review and the Code, the Group Chief Executive provided a written report on business activities.
Group Secretary has reviewed the induction programme for new directors.
Each new director receives a formal induction on joining the The directors also received reports on the Groups financial performance, Board, including visits to the Groups major divisions and meetings with capital, funding and liquidity position, risk management and government directors and senior management and key stakeholders.
The induction is lending commitments together with regular reports on strategy, risk tailored to the directors specific requirements.
appetite, litigation and treating customers fairly.
Specific strategy sessions and updates were considered in June, August and December.
Drawing on the previous experiences of the new directors appointed to the Group Board in 2011, the Group Secretary created tailored induction Members of the executive management team attend and make regular programmes for each of Alison Davis, Baroness Noakes and Tony Di presentations at meetings of the Board to give the directors greater Iorio which were designed to give them an in-depth insight into the range insight into the business areas.
of businesses of the Group.
Each induction programme included a mandatory element which comprised 12 meetings, visits and sessions.
The remainder of the induction programme included in excess of 30 meetings with key executives and their teams, stakeholders and visits to divisions, businesses and Group Functions, both in the UK and overseas.
RBS Group 2011 259 Corporate governance continued The Group Secretary also provides a comprehensive and ongoing Findings of performance evaluation 2011 professional development programme for directors.
Directors are advised The Board has considered and discussed reports on the outcomes of the of appropriate external training and professional development evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the evaluation was opportunities and undertake the training and professional development conducted.
they consider necessary to assist them to carry out their duties as directors.
Internal training is also provided, tailored to the business of the The evaluation concluded that the Board is strong, operating effectively Group.
As part of their ongoing development in 2011, the directors and meeting its objectives.
Headed by an excellent Chairman, the Board received briefings on the UK Bribery Act 2010, the European Commission is currently viewed as an appropriate size, although Board composition Green Paper on the EU Corporate Governance Framework, various should be kept under continual review.
Meetings are of an appropriate Financial Reporting Council Consultations, amendments to the Code, the length and frequency with sufficient opportunity for debate and Capital Requirements Directive IV, a Group Treasury presentation on discussion, although it was suggested the Board continue to make use of Balance Sheet Management and Capital Management & Term Funding evening and lunch slots to facilitate further debate and discussion on key and participated in a business visit to Group Technology.
areas such as strategy and risk management.
Business visits are also arranged as part of the Group Audit Committee A summary of the objectives and actions proposed to be taken to address and Board Risk Committee schedule and all non-executive directors are the objectives arising from the 2011 performance evaluation is set out invited to attend.
During 2011, visits were made to Group Internal Audit, below: RBS N. V. Restructuring and Risk and RBS Insurance.
Key themes Proposed action In light of John McFarlane stepping down Performance evaluation from the Board in March 2012 the In accordance with the Code, an external evaluation of the Board takes Board role and composition of the Board and Board place every three years with the last externally facilitated evaluation composition committees should be reviewed to ensure having taken place in 2009. the current balance of skills, experiences, independence and knowledge is maintained.
The 2010 evaluation was conducted internally and a number of initiatives were implemented aimed at improving the overall performance and The Board should continue the focus on effectiveness of the Board.
These included further improvements to the Group strategy in the short, medium and flow of information to the Board, both in terms of the quality of papers and Strategy long term to ensure the strategy is the use of new technology to deliver these to directors.
The 2011 appropriate and sustainable in the current evaluation concluded that the recommendations from the 2010 evaluation environment.
had been implemented in full.
Risk reporting should continue to be Performance evaluation process developed to ensure the Group Board has Risk management The directors agreed that the 2011 evaluation of the Board and its key adequate oversight of risk management and Board Committees be conducted internally, led by the Group Secretary.
The Group Secretary undertook a formal and rigorous evaluation by: Group executives should be invited to the Group Board to discuss bench strength and circulating a detailed framework of questions to all directors and Succession planning succession planning in their respective regular meeting attendees: functions.
collating the responses and conducting structured individual Individual director and Chairman effectiveness reviews meetings with each director and regular meeting attendees: Within the performance evaluation questionnaires, directors were asked to provide feedback on their fellow directors.
This feedback was shared discussing the outcomes and recommendations with the Chairman: with each director by the Chairman, who met with each director and individually to discuss their own performance and ongoing professional development.
Separately, the Senior Independent Director canvassed the agreeing the recommendations and outcomes with the Board and views of the executive directors and met with the non-executive directors Board Committee members.
as a group, without the Chairman present, to consider the Chairmans performance.
Feedback was sought on governance and stewardship of Amongst the areas reviewed were Board role and composition, Group the Group, relationships with key external and internal stakeholders, strategy, risk management, Board meetings and processes, external execution of the Groups Strategic Plan and delivery of value and return relationships, Board committees, directors support and information, and to shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director also canvassed views continuing professional development.
from United Kingdom Financial Investments Limited UKFI, the FSA and the Asset Protection Agency.
The results of the Chairman effectiveness review were then shared with the Chairman who agreed to consider the points raised and provide separate responses in due course.
RBS Group 2011 260 Group Nominations Committee The table below sets out the tenure of non-executive directors.
Role of the Group Nominations Committee The Group Nominations Committee is responsible for: Tenure of non-executive directors reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Board and 60 making recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes: 50 assisting the Board in the formal selection and appointment of 40 directors executive and non-executive having regard to the overall 30 balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity on the Board: 20 reviewing membership and chairmanship of Group Board 10 Committees: 0 0-2 years 2-4 years 4 years considering succession planning for the Chairman and the executive and non-executive directors, taking into account the skills and Length of service expertise which will be needed on the Board in the future.
No director is involved in decisions regarding his or her own succession: and Principal activity of the Group Nominations Committee during 2011 Appointment of new non-executive directors making recommendations to the Board concerning the re-election by During 2011, the Group Nominations Committee focussed on changes to shareholders of directors under the provisions of the Code.
In so the Boards composition and succession planning for the executive doing, they will have due regard to their performance and ability to directors.
continue to contribute to the Board in light of the knowledge, skills and experience required and the need for progressive refreshing of The Group Nominations Committee reviewed the structure, size and the Board.
composition of the Board and agreed that the composition of the Board could be enhanced with the recruitment of candidates with financial The terms of reference of the Group Nominations Committee are services expertise and experience of European and regulatory issues.
It available on the Groups website www.
was also agreed that non-UK based candidates should be considered, ideally from the US or Europe.
It was recognised that investment banking The Group Nominations Committee engages with external consultants, as well as governmental experience would be useful.
considers potential candidates and recommends appointments of new directors to the Board.
To ensure the Group had access to a wide pool of suitable candidates, the Chairman and Group Secretary contacted two executive search firms Membership of the Group Nominations Committee with a role profile and a description of the skills required to enhance the All non-executive directors are members of the Group Nominations Board composition.
The Chairman considered a number of candidates Committee which is chaired by the Chairman of the Group.
The Group before submitting several shortlists to the Group Nominations Committee Chief Executive is invited to attend meetings.
The Group Nominations for consideration.
Following discussion, it was agreed that the Committee holds at least two scheduled meetings per year, and also combination of skills, knowledge and experience of Alison Davis, meets on an ad hoc basis as required.
In 2011, five meetings of the Baroness Noakes and Tony Di Iorio would enhance the composition of Group Nominations Committee were held.
The Chairman and members the Board.
of the Committee during 2011, together with their attendance at meetings in 2011, is shown below.
Board and Committee membership When considering the appointment of Alison Davis, Baroness Noakes Attended Total number of meetings in 2011 scheduled and Tony Di Iorio, and the retirement of Colin Buchan, the Group Philip Hampton Chairman 5 5 Nominations Committee also reviewed the membership of the Group Sandy Crombie 5 5 Board Committees.
Based on the expertise of the incoming nonPenny Hughes 4 5 executive directors, the Group Nominations Committee agreed to Joe MacHale 5 5 strengthen the Group Board Committees with additional members.
John McFarlane 5 5 Brendan Nelson 5 5 Art Ryan 5 5 Philip Scott 5 5 Former member Colin Buchan 1 5 5 Note: 1 Retired from the Board on 5 August 2011.
RBS Group 2011 261 Percentage of nonexecutive directors Corporate governance continued Diversity Relations with shareholders At its meeting in June 2011, the Group Nominations Committee The Chairman is responsible for ensuring effective communication with considered a letter from Lord Davies recommending that a Board shareholders.
The company communicates with shareholders through the discussion be held prior to the announcement of aspirational diversity Annual Report and Accounts and by providing information in advance of targets in September 2011.
The statement released in September 2011 the Annual General Meeting.
Individual shareholders can raise matters announced that the Group is supportive of Lord Davies relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group at any time recommendations and aspires to meet the target of 25 per cent female throughout the year by letter, telephone or email via the Groups website board representation in 2012 as set out in Lord Davies report and www.
confirmed that the Group will continue to meet or exceed this standard.
In December 2011, in accordance with the recommendations contained Shareholders are given the opportunity to ask questions at the Annual within Lord Davies report, the Board established a boardroom diversity General Meeting or can submit written questions in advance.
Directors policy including measurable objectives for implementing the policy.
including the chairs of the Group Audit, Board Risk, Group Remuneration and Group Nominations Committees are available to answer questions at The Group understands the importance of diversity and recognises the the Annual General Meeting.
The Senior Independent Director is also importance of women having greater representation at key decision available.
The search for Board candidates will continue to be conducted, and nominations appointments made, with due Communication with the company's largest institutional shareholders is regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
However, all undertaken as part of the Investor Relations programme: appointments to the Group Board are based on merit, measured against objective criteria, and the skills and experience the individual can bring to the Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director meet the Group Board.
regularly with UKFI, the organisation set up to manage the Governments investments in financial institutions, to discuss the The balance of skills, experience, independence, knowledge and diversity strategy and financial performance of the Group.
The Group Chief on the Board, and how the Board operates together as a unit is reviewed Executive and Group Finance Director also undertake an extensive annually as part of the Board evaluation.
Where appropriate, findings annual programme of meetings with the companys largest from the evaluation will be considered in the search, nomination and institutional shareholders.
If appropriate, additional targets on diversity will be developed in due course.
the Chairman independently meets with the Groups largest institutional shareholders annually to hear their feedback on Further details on the Groups approach to diversity can be found on management, strategy, business performance and corporate page 299. governance.
Additionally, the Chairman, Senior Independent Director and chairs of the Board Committees met with the Succession planning governance representatives of a number of institutional The Group Nominations Committee considers succession planning on an shareholders during the year.
The Board considered talent and succession planning for the Group Chief Executive and each member of the Executive Committee the Senior Independent Director is available if any shareholder has at a meeting in June 2011.
The meeting concluded that the executive concerns that they feel are not being addressed through the normal team was extremely strong and the Board should continue to monitor the channels.
position as industry developments progress.
the Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee consults Group Sustainability Committee extensively with institutional shareholders in respect of the Groups The Group Sustainability Committee GSC is chaired by the Senior remuneration policy.
Independent Director and meets quarterly.
The GSC is responsible for reviewing the Groups overall sustainability strategy, values and policies Throughout the year, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, Group and aligning the Groups approach to ethical, social and environmental Finance Director and Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee issues.
All key business areas are represented on the GSC and it is communicate shareholder feedback to the Board and the directors attended by the Group Chairman.
For more information on the receive independent analyst notes and reports reviewing share price governance framework which supports the GSC see page 30.
Further movements and the Groups performance against the sector.
Detailed details of the Groups sustainability policies are available on the Groups market and shareholder feedback is also provided to the Board after website www.
com sustainability and in the Annual Sustainability major public announcements such as results announcements.
arrangements used to ensure that directors develop an understanding of the views of major shareholders are considered as part of the annual Board evaluation.
