Report of the Board Risk Committee Letter from Philip Scott, Chairman of the Board Risk Committee Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to bring you this report on the activity of the Board Risk interaction with the Group Remuneration Committee.
Chair of the Group Remuneration Committee, and I sponsored a project in 2011 to review and improve interaction between both As one would expect, managing the risks presented by the challenging committees.
This has led to clarification of responsibilities, improved external market conditions that have continued throughout 2011 has planning and the identification of additional trigger points outwith pay been a key priority of the Committee.
Market, credit and liquidity risk have cycles where risk should be taken into consideration: featured prominently in the discussions of the members in the period.
The regulatory agenda has continued to exert pressures on the organisation improvement of reporting standards: and the Committee has sought to understand the global implications of proposed regulation while managing and overseeing remediation of promotion of a risk awareness culture: and known issues.
The Committee has continued to build upon existing relationships with the Groups regulators globally, wherever possible.
oversight of the enhancement of the risk governance framework that supports the Committee at an executive level.
Tony Di Iorio joined the Committee with effect from 1 September 2011.
It is my pleasure to welcome Tony to the Committee.
I am certain that his The activity of the Committee is set out more fully in the Report of the broad background in financial services and global investment banking will Board Risk Committee below.
However, while progress has been made, prove to be immensely useful to the Committee, particularly in managing the work of the Committee is in no way complete and these risk areas will the complex risks presented by the Groups new Markets and remain a key area of focus and refinement in 2012.
The risk appetite International Banking Division.
Colin Buchan retired from the Group framework must be fully embedded across divisions and the Committee Board in August 2011 and I would like to thank Colin for his contribution recognises that development of an economic capital model must be to the Committee during the first half of the year.
Furthermore, the difficulties being experienced in Europe and the US will necessitate a continued focus on market and The Board Risk Committee was created in January 2010 following the sovereign risk in the year ahead.
recommendations set out in the Walker Review and it is therefore a relatively new committee to the Group.
Notwithstanding the challenges It is not yet possible to determine the impact of the recommendations presented by external market forces, it was important that the Committee, contained within the Report of the Independent Commission on Banking.
during its second year of operation, continued to fully refine and enhance The recommendations are complex and it will take time to fully consider its approach to risk oversight and its interaction with other senior Board what they mean for the Group and any corresponding strategic and Committees.
I am pleased to report that during 2011 the Committee has organisational change.
The Board Risk Committee will monitor made progress in the following areas: developments and will fully consider the risk implications of any decision in this regard.
further development of a risk appetite framework and methodology: development of a new conduct risk appetite framework: Philip Scott enhancement of the Group Policy Framework.
This has been a Chairman of the Board Risk Committee major project for the Group in 2011 and the Board Risk Committee 22 February 2012 has provided oversight of the project which has now completed its critical initial phase: RBS Group 2011 268 Report of the Board Risk Committee Principal activity of the Board Risk Committee during 2011 Role of the Board Risk Committee Risk strategy and policy The Board Risk Committee is responsible for providing oversight and The Board Risk Committee is fully engaged in the risks deriving from the advice to the Board in relation to current and potential future risk recently announced organisational changes to form the new Markets and exposures of the Group and future risk strategy, including determination International Banking division and consideration of the impact of the of risk appetite and tolerance.
The Committee reviews the performance of FSAs Recovery and Resolution programme and where possible the ICB the Group relative to risk appetite and provides oversight of the proposals on the wider Group, will be a priority of the Committee over the effectiveness of key Group policies.
The Board Risk Committee has course of 2012 and beyond.
responsibility for promoting a risk awareness culture within the Group.
Development of the Group Policy Framework has been a major project Authority is delegated to the Board Risk Committee by the Group Board for the Group in 2011 and the Board Risk Committee has provided and the Committee will report and make recommendations to the Group oversight and direction to the project.
Standards have now been Board as required.
The terms of reference of the Board Risk Committee developed, benchmarked and are now being implemented across the are available on the Groups website www.
com and these are organisation.
The Board Risk Committee will continue to ensure that the considered annually by the Board Risk Committee and approved by the standards are properly embedded globally and will review the output of Board.
assurance testing to ensure that the standards are operating effectively.
Risk governance across the Group, including the operation of the Board Meetings and visits Risk Committee, will be reviewed pursuant to the Corporate Governance The Board Risk Committee held six scheduled meetings and three Policy standard and the Committee will take forward any additional ad hoc meetings in 2011.
Meetings are held alongside Group recommendations from that review during the course of 2012.
Audit Committee meetings to ensure that the work of the two Committees is coordinated and consistent.
Board Risk Committee meetings are The Committee has overseen the development of a conduct risk appetite attended by relevant executive directors, risk management and finance statement and framework during 2011.
The Committee regards conduct executives and the internal auditors.
External advice may be sought by risk to be a fundamental tenet of risk and will receive reports in 2012 on the Board Risk Committee where considered appropriate.
During 2011, the implementation of the standard and framework across the the members of Board Risk Committee in conjunction with the members organisation, including how conduct risk is considered from the point of of the Group Audit Committee took part in an annual programme of visits product inception to conclusion of a relationship with a customer.
The to the Group's business divisions and control functions.
Details about the terms of reference of the Committee have been extended to cover programme of visits is set out in the Report of the Group Audit Committee conduct risk specifically.
Risk profile Membership The Committee receives a detailed report on key risks and metrics at The Board Risk Committee is comprised of at least three independent each meeting and receives an oral report from the Chief Risk Officer at non-executive directors.
The Chairman and members of the Committee, each meeting on the key risks to the organisation.
This enables the together with their attendance at meetings, are shown below.
Committee to identify the key risk areas where more focus should be directed.
The Committee reported to the Board following each meeting on Attended its consideration of the risk profile of the Group and any longer term scheduled macro or perceived strategic threats to the Group and made Philip Scott chairman Independent 6 6 recommendations as appropriate.
Sandy Crombie Independent 5 6 Tony Di Iorio 1 Independent 1 1 The Board Risk Committee has assumed responsibility on behalf of the Joe MacHale Independent 6 6 Group Board for considering key areas of risk in a deeper level of Brendan Nelson Independent 6 6 granularity.
In particular, during 2011 it has played an important governance role in the oversight and remediation of regulatory issues in Former member the RBS Americas region.
Brendan Nelson has personally provided Colin Buchan 2 Independent 4 5 oversight of the Executive Steering Group established with responsibility Notes: for remediation of known issues in the region and the Committee receives 1 Joined the Committee on 1 September 2011.
2 Retired from the Committee on 5 August 2011. regular reports on progress.
Philip Scott, Tony Di Iorio and Brendan Nelson are also members of the In response to market events, the Committee has reviewed its controls Group Audit Committee.
This common membership ensures effective for potential weaknesses from a rogue trading perspective.
This review governance across all Finance and Risk issues, and that agendas are identified that most controls were effective and the Committee will aligned and overlap is avoided.
oversee the remedial work that is underway to resolve all potential weaknesses identified.
RBS Group 2011 269 Report of the Board Risk Committee continued The Committee has also considered the risks inherent within large While some progress has been made, significant work is still required to strategic transactions such as the proposed transfers of a substantial part fully develop an operational economic capital model for the Group.
This of the business activities of RBS N. V. to the Royal Bank.
will be an area of focus for the Committee over the coming year.
The Committee reviewed the capital and liquidity position of the Group Risk management operating model regularly during 2011 in light of external conditions and has reviewed the Culture is key to driving the correct behaviours from a risk perspective.
output of stress tests, including the Group results under the EU wide In recognition of this, the Committee received regular updates during stress testing exercise of the European Banking Authority, the results of 2011 on the One Risk programme, including the risk management vision which were published in July 2011.
It has considered and made and values.
The Committee has reviewed the calibre of senior risk recommendations to the Group Board in relation to the Individual Liquidity personnel and succession planning arrangements.
It has also reviewed Adequacy Assessment and the Individual Capital Adequacy Assessment the adequacy of that resource alongside its review of the scope and required by the FSA.
nature of work undertaken by the risk management function.
Regulatory risk has featured highly on the agenda of the Committee.
The During 2011, the risk governance model has been extensively reviewed members have received reports on the status of ongoing regulatory and streamlined at executive level.
The role of the Executive Risk Forum investigations and have considered individual remuneration impacts if has been clarified.
The Executive Risk Forum has responsibility for any, as those investigations progress.
Regulatory developments have consideration of strategic risk and policy issues in advance of the Board been monitored and the regulatory risks associated with the sale of Risk Committee and aims to provide an effective filter of the key risks for complex products to certain customers have been considered.
the consideration of the Board Risk Committee.
Operational risks inherent in the Groups processes have also been considered and the Committee has specifically considered continuity and Risk architecture data control.
The Committee has sought continually to drive improvements to reporting standards and has implemented new guidance for the presentation of The difficulties being experienced in Europe and the US necessitated a papers for the consideration of the Committee.
It has held separate continued focus on market and sovereign risk over the course of 2011. discussions to refine and enhance the quality of the key risk report and The Committee received additional reports in this regard and will continue metrics and following those discussions a revised risk report will be to closely monitor and manage these risks in 2012. operational in 2012.
Work is ongoing to develop risk reporting at entity level in addition to reporting at a Group and divisional level.
Risk appetite, framework and limits The Committee has kept the Group Board appraised of the considerable The Committee has monitored the standards of data quality across the progress made in relation to development of a risk appetite framework Group and the programmes in place to improve management information and methodology during 2011 and it has made recommendations to the and reporting.
In particular, the Committee has tracked progress of the Board in this regard.
The Committee will ensure this framework is fully Finance and Risk Transformation Programme designed to develop a aligned with the conduct risk framework and is rolled out and embedded golden source of data for use in reporting across the Group.
Remuneration As set out in the Group Audit Committee report on page 265 a framework The Board Risk Committee has continued to strengthen its relationship of Divisional Risk and Audit Committees are responsible for reviewing the with the Group Remuneration Committee with the aim of ensuring that business of each division and reporting to the Group Audit Committee risk is adequately reflected in objectives and compensation arrangements and Board Risk Committee.
The risk agenda of these committees and decisions.
Significant improvements have been made in 2011 continues to evolve alongside the Board Risk Committee agenda.
In including clarification of responsibilities, improved planning and the 2011, a quarterly risk assessment process was introduced to raise identification of additional trigger points outwith pay cycles where risk awareness and understanding of risk appetite at divisional level.
While should be taken into consideration.
This improved interaction has led to a this assessment has had some success, risk reporting at a divisional number of additional meetings of the Board Risk Committee specifically level has been further refined and aligned with regulatory process.
A new to consider the risk implications of remuneration decisions.
Material Risk Assessment process will be implemented within the divisions in 2012 and will be overseen by the Divisional Risk and Audit Committees.
This will streamline reporting and standardise structure across the divisions.
Progress will be closely monitored by the Board Risk Committee in 2012.
RBS Group 2011 270 Performance evaluation Divisional Risk and Audit Committees: implementing the changes to An internal review of the effectiveness of the Board Risk Committee the risk assessment process and reporting: during 2011 was conducted.
Amongst the areas reviewed were the role of the Committee, composition, meetings and processes, performance enhance the bench strength of the Risk Management function: and and reporting, policy and procedures, divisional committees, induction and continuing professional development and communication.
The the Committees interaction with the Executive Risk Forum.
Committee has considered and discussed the report on the outcomes of the evaluation and is satisfied with the way in which the evaluation has been conducted, the conclusions and the recommendations for action.
The outcomes of the evaluation have been reported to the Board, and during 2012, the Committee will place focus on driving improvements to: the structure of the agendas to ensure the Committee is focused on consideration of the key issues - while recognising the remit of the Philip Scott Committee is extremely onerous: Chairman of the Board Risk Committee 22 February 2012 RBS Group 2011 271
