Our governance structure Group Board and Board committee structure Group Board Group Audit Board Risk Group Group Group Executive Committee Committee Remuneration Nominations Sustainability Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Board is the main decision making forum at Group level, setting Group Remuneration Committee has oversight of the Groups policy on the strategic direction of the Group and ensuring that the Group manages remuneration.
It also considers senior executive remuneration and makes risk effectively.
The Group Board is accountable to shareholders for recommendations to the Group Board on remuneration of executive financial and operational performance.
Group Audit Committee assists the Group Board in discharging its Group Nominations Committee assists the Group Board in the selection responsibilities for the disclosure of the financial affairs of the Group.
It and appointment of directors.
It reviews the structure, size and reviews the accounting policies, financial reporting and regulatory composition of the Group Board, and membership and chairmanship of compliance practices of the Group and the Groups system and Group Board committees.
standards of internal controls, and monitors the Groups processes for internal audit and external audit.
Group Sustainability Committee is responsible for reviewing the Groups overall sustainability strategy, values and policies and aligning the Board Risk Committee provides oversight and advice to the Group Board Groups approach to ethical, social and environmental issues.
on current and potential future risk exposures of the Group and risk strategy.
It reviews the Groups performance on risk appetite and Executive Committee is responsible for managing Group-wide issues and oversees the operation of the Group Policy Framework.
those operational issues that affect the broader Group.
It reviews strategic issues and initiatives, monitors financial performance and capital allocations and considers risk strategy, policy and risk management.
