Report of the Group Audit Committee Letter from Brendan Nelson, Chairman of the Group Audit Committee Dear Shareholder, I am pleased to bring you this report following my first full year as The oversight role of the Committee in these areas is explained in more Chairman of the Group Audit Committee.
detail in the Committees full report given below.
I would like to begin by welcoming Baroness Noakes and Tony Di Iorio It is clear that 2012 will be as challenging as 2011.
External conditions, who joined the Committee in August and September 2011, respectively: internal change and the remediation of known and future issues, while coinciding with Colin Buchans retirement from the Group Board.
They managing the regulatory agenda, will make business as usual extremely bring with them a wealth of experience and knowledge.
The Committee will continue to monitor compliance with the Colin for his commitment to the Committee.
Groups current regulatory requirements and monitor the implications of proposed future regulatory change, including the Independent 2011 has been a difficult year for the industry and for the Group and the Commission on Bankings recommendations as they develop through Committee has concentrated its efforts on key emerging issues.
Internal organisational change will also present challenges and the particular, it has considered and, where appropriate, made Committee will provide oversight of the revised control framework within recommendations to the Group Board in respect of: the new Markets and International Banking division as it fully embeds.
the continued market turmoil and its effect on the Groups I am pleased to report the recent appointment of Nicholas Crapp as our businesses, in particular the GBM division: new Head of Group Internal Audit.
Nicholas joined the Group at the beginning of 2012 and I look forward to his contribution to this challenging the ongoing Eurozone crisis and impairment of the Groups agenda.
Overall, I am confident that with the continued commitment of sovereign debt exposure: my fellow colleagues and the support of the Group executive, the Committee is well placed to meet the challenges of 2012. impairment charges in the UK Corporate and Ulster Bank divisions: Payment Protection Insurance PPI provision: the implications, including the capital, risk and control assumptions Brendan Nelson and dependencies of the proposed structured transfer of the assets Chairman of the Group Audit Committee and liabilities of RBS N. V. to RBS plc: 22 February 2012 the adequacy of internal change processes and controls: the activity, performance and findings of Internal and External Audit: and the quality and transparency of disclosures contained in external financial statements.
RBS Group 2011 263 Report of the Group Audit Committee continued Report of the Group Audit Committee Brendan Nelson, Tony Di Iorio and Philip Scott are also members of the The role and responsibilities of the Group Audit Committee Board Risk Committee facilitating the effective governance of finance and The Group Audit Committees primary responsibilities, as set out in its risk issues and the alignment of agendas.
The Group Audit and Board terms of reference, are to assist the Board in discharging its Risk Committees also have strong links with the Group Remuneration responsibilities in respect of: financial reporting and policy: systems of Committee ensuring that levels of compensation reflect relevant finance internal control: processes for Internal and External Audit and oversight of and risk considerations.
the Groups relationship with its regulators.
The terms of reference of the Group Audit Committee are reviewed annually by the Group Audit The members of the Group Audit Committee are selected with a view to Committee and approved by the Board.
They are available on the the expertise and experience of the Group Audit Committee as a whole.
The Board is satisfied that all Group Audit Committee members have recent and relevant financial experience, and that each member of the Meetings and visits Group Audit Committee is an Audit Committee Financial Expert' and is A total of seven meetings of the Group Audit Committee were held in independent, each as defined in the SEC rules under the US Securities 2011, including meetings held immediately before the submission of the Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act and related guidance.
Full annual and interim financial statements and the quarterly Interim biographical details are set out on pages 253 to 256.
Management Statements to the Board.
Group Audit Committee meetings are attended by relevant executive directors, the Internal and External Principal activity of the Group Audit Committee during 2011 Auditors and Finance and Risk management executives.
Other Financial reporting executives, subject matter experts and external advisers are also invited During 2011, the Group Audit Committee received regular updates on to attend the Group Audit Committee, as required, to present and advise accounting issues and developments from both the Group Chief on reports commissioned by the Committee.
At least twice per annum the Accountant and from the External Auditors who presented for approval Group Audit Committee meets privately with the External Auditors.
The their audit plan, their audit fee proposal and engagement letter, as well as Committee also meets privately with the Internal Audit function.
confirmation of their independence and a comprehensive report of all non-audit fees.
The annual programme of joint visits by the Group Audit and Board Risk Committees to the Group's business divisions and control functions The Group Audit Committee focused on a number of salient judgments continued in 2011.
The object of the programme is to promote the and reporting issues in the preparation of the 2011 accounts, including: Committees understanding of the Group: invitations to attend are extended to all non-executive directors.
The programme of visits is valuation methodologies and assumptions for financial instruments considered annually.
The Group Audit Committee and the Board Risk carried at fair value including the Group's credit market exposures: Committee undertook four visits - to Group Internal Audit, RBS N. V. Restructuring and Risk and RBS Insurance - during 2011. disclosures, including those in relation to forbearance and sovereign debt: Membership of the Group Audit Committee The Group Audit Committee comprises at least three independent nonimpairment losses in the Group's loans and advances and availableexecutive directors.
The Chairman and members of the Committee, for-sale securities: with particular emphasis on Eurozone issues, together with their attendance at meetings, are shown below.
sovereign debt exposures, Ulster Bank and UK Corporate impairment: Attended scheduled PPI provision: Brendan Nelson chairman Independent 7 7 Tony Di Iorio 1 Independent 2 2 actuarial assumptions for the Group Pension Fund and the Groups Baroness Noakes 2 Independent 3 3 general insurance claims reserves: Philip Scott Independent 7 7 impairment of goodwill: and Former member Colin Buchan 3 Independent 5 5 the Groups tax position, including the recognition of deferred tax Notes: assets.
1 Joined the Committee on 1 September 2011.
2 Joined the Committee on 1 August 2011.
3 Retired from the Committee on 5 August 2011.
The Committee sought to understand and to challenge in a robust manner managements accounting judgments and estimates.
It reviewed the conclusions of the External Auditors and, where applicable, other experts and satisfied itself that disclosures in the financial statements about these judgements and estimates are transparent and appropriate.
RBS Group 2011 264 Internal Control The Group Audit Committee also considers Group Internal Audits annual In 2011, the Group Audit Committee tracked progress in the development plan and the adequacy of its resources and budget.
During 2011, the and implementation of the new Group Policy Framework across the Group Audit Committee actively supported the development of the Group and will continue to monitor progress in embedding the framework Internal Audit vision and strategy and the transition to thematic reporting throughout 2012.
It will review the results of assurance activity in respect and the development of centres of excellence.
It has supported increased of the new framework in the latter half of the year.
resources for the function and has been directly involved in the process for the appointment of the new Head of Group Internal Audit.
The Group Audit Committee reviewed the control framework in place to ensure that it is operating effectively and specifically reviewed progress An external review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit takes against its plan for a number of large strategic initiatives such as the place every three to five years, in line with best practice, with internal Finance and Risk Transformation Programme.
It also tracked progress in reviews continuing in intervening years.
In January 2012, the Group Audit relation to mandatory and remedial projects including the Groups AntiCommittee undertook an internal evaluation of Group Internal Audit.
The Money Laundering Programme and the progress of the Groups US evaluation concluded that Group Internal Audit had operated effectively regulatory initiatives.
The Committee reviewed the effectiveness of the Group New Product External audit Approval Process, the Credit Quality Assurance Process and considered Deloitte LLP have been the companys auditors since March 2000.
There the operation of the Group Notifiable Event Process as it applies in are no contractual obligations restricting the company's choice of external specific circumstances.
The Committee received reports and considered the Groups compliance During 2011, the External Auditors provided the Group Audit Committee with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
It was regularly with reports summarising their main observations and conclusions arising advised of: whistle-blowing events which occurred within the Group: from their year end audit, their half year review and their work in complaints raised with members of the Groups executive team: and connection with the first and third quarters and their recommendations for significant internal investigations undertaken within the Group.
enhancements to the Groups reporting and controls.
Deloitte also presented for approval to the Committee their audit plan, their audit fee Divisional Risk and Audit Committees have been established with proposal and engagement letter, as well as confirmation of their responsibility for reviewing the business of each division and reporting to independence and a comprehensive report of all non-audit fees.
the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee.
Given the size and complexity of the Group, these committees are an essential The Group Audit Committee undertakes an annual evaluation to assess component of the governance framework that supports the effective the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors and the operation of the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant across the organisation.
The Committee has agreed changes to the professional and regulatory requirements.
The annual evaluation is Divisional Risk Reporting framework and these improvements will be carried out following completion of the annual accounts and audit.
Quarterly reports are received by the Group assessing the effectiveness of the Groups External Auditors, the Group Audit Committee and Board Risk Committee from each Divisional Audit Committee has regard to: Committee.
the experience and expertise of the senior members of the Internal audit engagement team: The Group Audit Committee oversees the work of Group Internal Audit, and receives a quarterly report from the Head of Group Internal Audit.
the proposed scope of the audit work planned and executed: This report rates the quality of the control environment of all the Groups divisions and of managements level of awareness on these matters.
It the quality of dialogue between the External Auditors, the offers the Group Audit Committee oversight of Group Internal Audits Committee and senior management: work, and allows the Group Audit Committee to monitor the level of internal control within the Group by reporting on areas where the clarity, quality and robustness of written reports presented to the improvements are required to the control environment.
Committee setting out the External Auditors findings arising form the audit: During 2011, the Committee sought to enhance further management responsiveness to Group Internal Audit findings and has developed a the quality of observations provided to the company by the External process to invite management to respond, either directly or in writing, to Auditor on the Groups systems of internal control: and the Committee regarding identified deficiencies.
The Group Audit Committee monitors these findings and management responses ensuring the views of management on the performance of the External that issues raised are dealt with in a timely and appropriate manner.
RBS Group 2011 265 Report of the Group Audit Committee continued In addition to the annual evaluation performed by the Group Audit management functions or human resources: Committee, the External Auditors also conduct their own annual review of audit quality.
Twelve service criteria for the audit have been defined by broker or dealer, investment adviser, or investment banking services: the External Auditors to measure their performance against the quality commitments set out in their annual audit plan, under the headings of legal services and expert services unrelated to the audit: or quality of audit, approach and conduct, independence and objectivity, quality of the team and value added.
Feedback will be obtained and other services determined to be impermissible by the US Public discussed with the relevant internal stakeholders.
The results of this Company Accounting Oversight Board.
exercise will be presented to the Group Audit Committee, with actions defined and agreed to address any areas where performance has fallen The Group Audit Committee reviews the policy annually and below expected standards.
prospectively approves the provision of audit services and certain nonaudit services by the External Auditors.
Annual audit services include all The Group Audit Committee is responsible for making recommendations services detailed in the annual engagement letter including the annual to the Board in relation to the appointment, re-appointment and removal audit and interim reviews including US reporting requirements and of the External Auditors.
In order to make a recommendation to the periodic profit verifications.
Board, the Group Audit Committee considers and discusses the performance of the External Auditor in the previous year, taking account Annual audit services also include statutory or non-statutory audits of the outcomes of the annual evaluation carried out.
The Board submits required by any Group companies that are not incorporated in the UK.
the Group Audit Committee's recommendations to shareholders for their Terms of engagement for these audits are agreed separately with approval at the Annual General Meeting.
The Board has endorsed the management, and are consistent with those set out in the audit Group Audit Committee's recommendation that shareholders be engagement letter insofar as local regulations permit.
During 2011, requested to approve the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as External prospectively approved non-audit services included the following classes Auditors at the Annual General Meeting in 2012.
The Group Audit of service: Committee has considered the proposals for reform of the audit market as published by the EU Commission.
It will continue to monitor capital raising, including consents, comfort letters and relevant developments in this regard including the potential implications for reviews of registration statements: External Auditor appointment in the UK.
provision of accounting opinions relating to the financial statements The Group Audit Committee approves the terms of engagement of the of the Group: External Auditors.
The Group Audit Committee also fixes the remuneration of the External Auditors as authorised by shareholders at provision of reports that, according to law or regulation, must be the Annual General Meeting.
rendered by the External Auditors: Audit and non-audit services tax compliance services: The Group Audit Committee has adopted a policy on the engagement of the External Auditors to supply audit and non-audit services, which takes permissible services relating to companies that will remain outside into account relevant legislation regarding the provision of such services the Group: by an external audit firm.
restructuring services relating to the Group's customers: and In particular, the Group may not engage the External Auditors to provide any of the non-audit services described below: reports providing assurance to third parties over certain of the Group's internal controls prepared under US Statement of Auditing bookkeeping or other services related to the accounting records or Standards 70 or similar auditing standards in other jurisdictions.
financial statements: For all other permitted non-audit services, Group Audit Committee financial information systems design and implementation: approval must be sought, on a case by case basis, before the provision of the service commences.
The Group Audit Committee reviews and appraisal or valuation services, fairness opinions or  the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors when kind reports: it approves non-audit work, taking into consideration relevant legislation, ethical guidance and the level of non-audit services relative to audit actuarial services: services.
The approval process is rigorously applied to prevent the External Auditors from functioning in the role of management, auditing internal audit outsourcing services: their own work, or serving in an advocacy role.
RBS Group 2011 266 During 2011, the Group Audit Committee approved changes to the Groups non-audit services policy.
Tax compliance services, permissible services to companies that will remain outwith the Group and restructuring services will require ad hoc approval of the Group Audit Committee in 2012.
In addition, a competitive tender process will be required for all proposed engagements where the fees are expected to exceed 100,000.
Engagements below 100,000 may be approved by the Chairman of the Group Audit Committee: as an additional governance control all engagements have to be approved by the Group Chief Accountant and Group Sourcing and Vendor Management.
Ad hoc approvals of non-audit services are ratified by the Group Audit Committee each quarter.
During 2011, the External Auditor was approved to undertake certain significant engagements which are categorised and explained more fully below: Summary of category of engagement Reason for selection of External Auditor Provision of advice, best-practice options The External Auditor was appointed in relation to these engagements because it was the market leader and support to management on a number of in the subject matter or because the external audit team included personnel who were uniquely projects four engagements positioned, experienced and qualified to provide the necessary advice.
A full tender process was undertaken in relation to two engagements and the External Auditor was appointed following presentation of a thorough proposal and a willingness to leverage existing knowledge to ensure a competitive price proposition.
Assurance testing RBS, NatWest and Ulster The External Auditors prior experience and ability to make use of previous work made them a Bank customer charters and the Groups competitive choice for the assurance of the various customer charters.
Corporate Governance Policy three engagements A selective tender was undertaken to provide support and advice to the Group Secretary for the assurance of the Group Corporate Governance Policy.
The External Auditor was judged to be both financially competitive and provided the clearest, and most comprehensive approach to supporting the Group Secretary in this assignment.
Agreed upon procedures AUP review for The External Auditor was experienced in this field and had performed three previous AUP reviews.
Wealth Management Timing was also an issue for this request but a competitive tender process will be considered prior to one engagement the next review.
Tax and accounting advice The External Auditor was appointed for one of the engagements following submission of a detailed two engagements proposal document, formal presentation and lengthy discussion with RBS management.
Given the nature of the engagement it was determined that appointment of the External Auditor was appropriate.
Following a tender process in the other instance the External Auditor was judged to be the best firm to employ and was agreed by the co-sponsors to the engagement.
Information on fees paid in respect of audit and non-audit services carried out by the External Auditors is detailed in Note 5 on the Groups consolidated accounts.
The Group Board met with the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston Groups relationship with its regulators The Group Audit Committee has a responsibility to monitor the Groups collectively in this regard during 2011.
The Chairman of the Group Audit relationship with the Financial Services Authority FSA and other Committee also met with the US regulator on an individual basis.
During 2011, it received regular reports on the Groups relationship with all its regulators and significant developments or Performance evaluation changes to those interactions.
It receives reports on regulatory actions An external review evaluating the effectiveness of the Group Audit and investigations.
Over the course of the year the chairmen of the Committee takes place every three to five years, with internal reviews by Groups Senior Board Committees met with the FSA on an individual the Board in intervening years.
An internal review took place during 2011 basis and also participated in certain Regulatory College meetings with covering the role of the Committee: its composition, meetings and the Groups primary regulators.
The non-executive directors also processes, performance and reporting, policy and procedures: induction collectively participated in meetings with the FSA on two occasions and and continuing professional development: communication: and divisional the FSA were invited to attend certain discussions of the Board.
Overall the review concluded that the Committee continued to operate effectively.
The non-executive directors closely monitor the Groups relationship with its international regulators and during 2011 significant time has been Brendan Nelson, dedicated in particular to understanding the regulatory requirements in Chairman of the Group Audit Committee the US and the implications on the Groups US operations and structure.
