Report of the directors The directors present their report together with the audited accounts for Business review the year ended 31 December 2011.
Activities The Group is engaged principally in providing a wide range of banking, Group structure insurance and other financial services.
Further details of the The company is a holding company owning the entire issued ordinary organisational structure and business overview of the Group, including share capital of The Royal Bank of Scotland plc, the principal direct the products and services provided by each of its divisions and the operating subsidiary undertaking of the company.
The Group comprises competitive markets in which they operate, are contained in the Business the company and all its subsidiary and associated undertakings, including review on pages 36 to 38.
Details of the strategy for delivering the the Royal Bank and NatWest.
Details of the principal subsidiary companys objectives can be found on pages 14 and 15. undertakings of the company are shown in Note 8 on page 427.
Risk factors Following placing and open offers in December 2008 and in April 2009, The Groups future performance and results could be materially different HM Treasury HMT owned approximately 70.3% of the enlarged ordinary from expected results depending on the outcome of certain potential risks share capital of the company.
In December 2009, the company issued a and uncertainties.
Certain risk factors the Group faces are summarised further 25.5 billion of new capital to HMT.
This new capital took the form on page 39.
Fuller details of these and other risk factors are set out on of B shares, which do not generally carry voting rights at general pages 451 to 464. meetings of ordinary shareholders but are convertible into ordinary shares and qualify as Core Tier 1 capital.
The reported results of the Group are also sensitive to the accounting policies, assumptions and estimates that underlie the preparation of its In 2011, the company issued 770.3 million ordinary shares in connection financial statements.
Details of the Groups critical accounting policies with employee share schemes.
At 31 December 2011, HMTs holding in and key sources of accounting judgments are included in Accounting the companys ordinary shares had reduced to 66.9%.
Results and dividends The Groups approach to risk management, including its financial risk The loss attributable to the ordinary and B shareholders of the company management objectives and policies and information on the Groups for the year ended 31 December 2011 amounted to 1,997 million exposure to price, credit, liquidity and cash flow risk, is discussed in the compared with a loss of 1,125 million for the year ended 31 December Risk and balance sheet management section of the Business review on 2010, as set out in the consolidated income statement on page 307. pages 100 to 249.
The company did not pay a dividend on ordinary shares in 2010 or 2011.
Financial performance A review of the Group's performance during the year ended 31 December The Group has undertaken that, unless otherwise agreed with the 2011, including details of each division, and the Group's financial position European Commission, neither the company nor any of its direct or as at that date is contained in the Business review on pages 40 to 95. indirect subsidiaries other than companies in the RBS Holdings N. V. group, which are subject to different restrictions, see below will pay RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO Holding N. V. external investors any dividends or coupons on existing hybrid capital In 2007, RFS Holdings B. V. which was jointly owned by the Group, the instruments including preference shares, B shares and upper and lower Dutch State successor to Fortis and Santander together, the tier 2 instruments for a period of two years from 30 April 2010 the Consortium Members completed the acquisition of ABN AMRO Holding Deferral Period, or exercise any call rights in relation to these capital N. V. instruments between 24 November 2009 and the end of the Deferral Period, unless there is a legal obligation to do so.
Hybrid capital On 6 February 2010, the businesses of ABN AMRO Holding N. V. instruments issued after 24 November 2009 will generally not be subject acquired by the Dutch State were legally demerged to a newly to the restriction on dividend or coupon payments or call options.
established company, ABN AMRO Bank N. V. which on 1 April 2010 was transferred to ABN AMRO Group N. V. itself owned by the Dutch State.
The Group has agreed that RBS Holdings N. V. will not pay investors any Following legal separation, RBS Holdings N. V. formerly ABN AMRO coupons on, or exercise any call rights in relation to, specified hybrid Holding N. V. has one operating subsidiary, The Royal Bank of Scotland capital instruments for an effective period of two years from 1 April 2011, N. V. RBS N. V., a fully operational bank within the Group.
RBS N. V. is unless in any such case there is a legal obligation to do so.
RBS Holdings independently rated and regulated by the Dutch Central Bank.
Certain N. V. and its group companies are also subject to restrictions on the assets within RBS N. V. continue to be shared by the Consortium exercise of call rights in relation to their other hybrid capital instruments.
