Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Introduction : Risk governance continued The key risk responsibilities of each of these committees as well as their The committees that sit below the Group Risk Committee were membership are set out in the table below.
Further information on the streamlined significantly, aligned more closely to key risk types and given Group Board and Board Committees is available on page 252. clearer empowerment and accountability where required.
These committees are supported at a divisional level by a risk A Capital and Stress Testing Committee was created as a sub-committee governance structure embedded in the business.
These committees play of the Group Asset and Liability Management Committee to cover risk a key role in ensuring that the Groups risk appetite is supported by and capital matters.
effective risk management frameworks, limits and policies, together with clear accountabilities for approval, monitoring, oversight, reporting and The improvements made in 2011 provide further clarity of roles and escalation.
responsibilities, as well as clear reporting lines and accountabilities.
They promote clearer and timelier decision making and more effective risk During 2011, the roles and responsibilities of the Executive Risk Forum management and oversight.
and its supporting committees were reviewed and more clearly defined, to meet the future needs of the Group.
The role and remit of the Group committees is set out below.
These committees are supported at a divisional level by a risk governance In particular, the Executive Risk Forum was repositioned as a strategic structure embedded in the business.
committee focusing on strategic level risks and issues, and retaining the approval authority for the most material risk limits and decisions.
The Group Risk Committee was refocused to operate primarily as an oversight committee across risk types, concentrating particularly on thematic and emerging risks and issues.
Board Committee Risk focus Membership Group Board The Group Board ensures that the Group manages risk The Board of directors effectively through approving and monitoring the Groups risk appetite, considering Group stress scenarios and agreed mitigants and identifying longer-term strategic threats to the Groups business operations.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee considers recommendations on Group Chief Executive risk management matters referred by the Executive Risk Group Finance Director Forum and or Group Risk Committee, including Chief Administrative Officer recommendations on risk appetite, risk policies and risk Chief Executive Officers of divisions management strategies.
Head of Restructuring and Risk Board Risk Committee The Board Risk Committee provides oversight and advice to At least three independent non-executive directors, the Group Board on current and potential future risk one of whom is the Chairman of the Group Audit exposures of the Group and future risk strategy, including Committee.
determination of risk appetite and tolerance.
It also provides a risk review of remuneration arrangements and provides advice to the Remuneration Committee.
It operates under delegated authority from the Group Board.
unaudited RBS Group 2011 104 Board Committee Risk focus Membership Group Audit Committee The Group Audit Committee reviews accounting policies and At least three independent non-executive directors, at practices, controls and procedures established by least one of whom is a financial expert as defined in management for compliance with regulatory and financial the SEC rules under the US Exchange Act and one of reporting requirements and requirements of external whom is Chairman of the Board Risk Committee.
It has responsibility for monitoring relationships with regulatory authorities.
Group Remuneration The Group Remuneration Committee is responsible for the At least three independent non-executive directors Committee overview of the Groups policy on remuneration and receives advice from Risk Management and the Board Risk Committee to ensure that there is thorough risk input into incentive plan design and target setting as well as risk review of performance bonus pools and clawback.
Executive Risk Forum The Executive Risk Forum operates as a committee of the Group Chief Executive Executive Committee with full authority to act on all risk and Group Finance Director control matters across the Group.
Chief Administrative Officer Chief Executive Officers of divisions The Executive Risk Forum approves the most material limits Head of Restructuring and Risk and decisions above defined thresholds and delegates Deputy Chief Risk Officer decisions below these thresholds to sub-committees and appropriate individuals.
Group Asset and Liability The Group Asset and Liability Management Committee Group Finance Director Management Committee GALCO is a sub-committee of the Executive Risk Forum Group Treasurer and is responsible for identifying, managing and controlling Chief Executive Officers of divisions Group balance sheet risks in executing its chosen business Head of Restructuring and Risk strategy.
Key Group Finance function heads Global Head of Markets Group Risk Committee The Group Risk Committee is a sub-committee of the Deputy Chief Risk Officer Executive Risk Forum.
It is an oversight committee which Divisional Chief Risk Officers reviews and challenges risks and limits across the functional Key Group Risk function heads areas and plays a key role exercising and demonstrating effective risk oversight across the Group.
It reviews risks and issues on a thematic as well as a specific basis and focuses on forward-looking, emerging risks.
It considers the overall risk profile across the Group and identifies any key issues for escalation to the Executive Risk Forum.
RBS Group 2011 105 Business review Risk and balance sheet management continued Introduction : Risk governance continued Board Committee Risk focus Membership Capital and Stress Testing The Capital and Stress Testing Committee is a subGroup Finance Director Committee committee of the Group Asset and Liability Management Key Group Finance function heads Committee and focuses on the broad risk capital agenda, Key Group Risk function heads including risk appetite, capital usage, stress testing, Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process, capital planning, allocation and management, economic capital and prudential developments, including Basel oversight.
Executive Credit Group The Executive Credit Group decides on requests for the Group A members 1 extension of existing or new credit limits on behalf of the Head of Restructuring and Risk Group Board where the proposed aggregate facility limits are Deputy Chief Risk Officer in excess of the credit approval authorities granted to Group Chief Credit Officer Chief Credit Officer N. V. individuals in divisions or in Group Risk Management, or Head of Global Restructuring Group where an appeal against a decline decision of the Group Chief Risk Officer, Non-Core division APS alternate Chief Credit Officer or delegates or Group Chief Risk Group B members 1 Officer is referred for final decision.
Group Chief Executive Group Finance Director Chief Executive officers of divisions 1 Decisions require input from at least one member from each of Group A and Group B. Divisional Risk and Audit Divisional Risk and Audit Committees report to the Board Members: at least three non-executive members who Committees Risk Committee and the Group Audit Committee on a are executives of the Group who do not have quarterly basis.
Their main responsibilities are to: executive responsibility in the relevant division.
monitor the performance of the divisions relative to Attendees: at least two executives of the division, as divisional and Group risk appetite: appropriate.
Representatives from finance, risk, internal audit and external audit.
review matters relative to accounting policies, internal control, financial reporting, internal audit, external audit Members of the Board Risk Committee and Group and regulatory compliance as set out in their terms of Audit Committee also have the right to attend.
reference: and assist on such other matters as may be referred to them by the relevant divisional Executive Committee, the Group Audit Committee or the Board Risk Committee.
