DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The Board is committed to maintaining high standards 2011 HIGHLIGHTS of corporate governance.
It believes that a solid corporate in addition to items discussed elsewhere in thisreport governance framework enables effective and efficient Full day dedicated to strategy and regular updates during the year decision making with clear responsibilities and leads to Approved the 2012 Operational Plan achievement of the Companys objectives and delivery Discussed and approved the changes to the Board which took of long term value to shareholders.
place during the year Considered matters relating to Solvency II implementation This Report is structured in line with the headings in The UK including approving a UK legal entity reduction programme Corporate Governance Code the Code of Leadership: Effectiveness: Considered mergers and acquisitions activity in excess of 50m Accountability and Relations with Shareholders.
Remuneration is Monitored material claims and reinsurance matters covered in the separate Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 71.
Updated the Companys policy in relation to bribery and corruption in response to the implementation of the Bribery Code compliance Act2010.
Throughout 2011, the Company has complied with the Principles and Provisions in section one of the Code available from www.
uk The Board and each of its committees: Group Audit, Remuneration, with the exception that no meetings took place between the Senior Nomination, Board Risk and Investment have written terms of Independent Director and the Non-Executive Directors without the reference explaining their role and the authority delegated to them.
At least one such meeting will take place this year.
Each of the committees terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Further details on the principal duties of each of Further explanation of how the Main Principles in the Code have been the Board committees can be found under Accountability on page 47. applied is set out below and in the Remuneration Report, as applicable.
Each year, the Board meets to set annual objectives for the business in LEADERSHIP line with the current Group strategy.
The Board monitors achievement of the Companys objectives through monthly Board reports which The Role of the Board include updates from the Group Chief Executive Group CEO : Chief The Board is responsible for organising and directing the affairs of the Financial Officer CFO : Group Risk and other functions including Legal, Company in a manner that is most likely to promote its success for the Regulatory Risk and Compliance: IT and Operations: Corporate benefit of its members as a whole.
Its role is to provide entrepreneurial Responsibility: and Human Resources.
The Board has a rolling agenda of leadership of the Company within a framework of prudent and effective items that regularly need to be considered by the Board and this controls.
Matters reserved for the Board include: agenda is continually updated to include any topical matters that arise.
Strategy and management of the Company The Board held ten regular meetings during the year and 5 additional Changes to the structure and capital of the Company meetings.
Consequently, not all Directors were available to attend all Financial reporting and controls of these meetings but where possible their views were canvassed by Reviewing the effectiveness of internal controls the Chairman prior to the meetings and the Board informed of their Approving significant expenditure and material transactions opinions and observations.
Robust discussions were held and advice and contracts sought as required prior to decisions being made.
In addition, nine Communicating with shareholders Board committee meetings were held during the year to finalise Appointment and removal of Directors and the Group General matters delegated by the Board such as final approval of financial Counsel and Group Company Secretary statements and large operational contracts.
Determining the remuneration policy for the Executive Directors, the Chairman, Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary and senior executives Review of the Companys overall corporate  Delegation of authority to the Group Chief Executive.
44 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The attendance of Directors at meetings of the Board during the year Delegated authorities is set out below: The Group operates a Delegated Authority Framework which specifies how executive authority is delegated from the Board to the Group 1 1 Total number of Board meetings held Regular Additional CEO and on to other executives in the Group.
Senior executives across during the year 10 5 the Group receive an executive licence setting out their specific limits of authority in terms of entering into financial, underwriting, claims and John Napier Chairman 10 10 5 5 other business commitments.
Each executive is responsible for ensuring 2 Alastair Barbour 1 2 a similar process of delegation is in place within his or her area of 3 Adrian Brown 4 4 responsibility.
Further detail on the overall risk framework is set out 4 George Culmer 9 10 5 5 on pages 30 to 33.
Noel Harwerth 9 10 4 5 Directors 5 Andy Haste 9 10 5 5 The names of the Directors together with their biographical and Edward Lea 10 10 5 5 committee membership details are set out on pages 40 and 41 and Simon Lee 10 10 4 5 are incorporated into this report by reference.
Details of the Directors service contracts and terms of appointment, together with their interests Malcolm Le May 10 10 5 5 in the Companys shares, are shown in the Remuneration Report on John Maxwell 9 10 4 5 pages 57 to 71 and are incorporated into this report by reference.
6 Jos Streppel 2 2 Johanna Waterous 9 10 5 5 Division of Responsibilities Chairman and Group CEO The roles of the Chairman and the Group CEO are separate, with Notes: responsibilities clearly divided between them and set out in role 1.
The table above shows the number of Board meetings attended by each Director statements.
The role statements of both the Chairman and the against the number of Board meetings that each Director was invited to attend.
Group CEO were reviewed during the year and revised versions 2.
Appointed to the Board on 10 October 2011.
Mr Barbour was unable to attend one meeting after his appointment due to an existing diary conflict.
were approved by the Board in July 2011 and March 2011 respectively.
Appointed to the Board on 5 July 2011.
The role statements for the Chairman and Group CEO explaining 4.
Mr Culmer resigned on 21 November 2011 but will remain as a Director their responsibilities are available on the Companys website.
and Chief Financial Officer of RSA until the close of business on 14 May 2012.
Mr Haste resigned as Group CEO on 1 November 2011 and as a Director on 31 December 2011.
Mr Haste did not attend the December Board meeting.
Appointed to the Board on 3 October 2011.
The Non-Executive Directors challenge and help develop strategy and scrutinise performance against it.
Each Non-Executive Director is a member of at least two of the following Board committees: Group Audit Committee: the Remuneration Committee: the Nomination Committee: the Investment Committee: and the Board Risk Committee.
Financial controls and systems are assessed through the Group Audit Committee, Board Risk Committee and the Board as necessary.
The Remuneration Committee sets levels of remuneration for the Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee keeps under review the capabilities required by the Board and the leadership needs of the Group and makes recommendations to the Board on matters relating to the Boards membership.
Edward Lea was appointed as the Senior Independent Director in January 2011 and a role statement setting out his responsibilities in this position was approved and adopted by the Board in March 2011.
The Senior Independent Directors role statement provides that the Senior Independent Director should be available to shareholders if they have concerns which have not been resolved through normal contact with the Chairman, Group CEO or other Executive Directors.
The Chairman has held a number of meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors present during 2011.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 45 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED EFFECTIVENESS Commitment The Chairmans letter of appointment, revised in February 2011, Composition of the Board anticipates an expected time commitment involving attendance at all The Board believes that it has the appropriate balance of skills, Board meetings, the AGM and Board committee meetings of which the experience, independence and knowledge of the Group to enable it Chairman chairs or is a member, as well as being required from time to and its committees to discharge its duties and responsibilities effectively, time to attend meetings with major shareholders, management, staff as required by the Code.
It is satisfied that it is of a size appropriate to and professional advisers.
The Chairman is currently Chairman of Aegis the needs of the business and that no individual or small group of Group plc but the Board is satisfied that his other commitments did not Directors can dominate the Board.
interfere with the performance of his role as Chairman.
He is always available, as required, to attend to the business of the Company as More than 50% of the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprises demonstrated by his availability for a number of additional Board and independent Non-Executive Directors.
Edward Lea, John Maxwell, Board committee meetings during the year.
Noel Harwerth and Malcolm Le May were all first elected at the 2004 Annual General Meeting AGM and are currently serving their third Service agreements and letters of appointment for both the Executive three year term.
The Board considers that each of them remains and Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the independent.
The Chairman met the independence criteria Companys registered office and at the AGM.
appointment for each of the Non-Executive Directors, revised at the beginning of the year, state that in accepting the appointment, A programme to actively manage changes to the Board to reflect the the Director confirms that he she is able to allocate sufficient time fact that four Non-Executive Directors will cease to be deemed to to meet the expectations of the role, with a minimum anticipated be independent in 2013 was commenced during the year.
In order to time commitment of 2832 days per year.
ensure continuity of corporate knowledge and experience ahead of a series of planned retirements, the Board was strengthened in 2011 Mr Haste, who resigned as a Director with effect from 31 December by the appointment of an additional Executive Director and two new 2011, is a Non-Executive Director of ITV plc, a FTSE 100 company.
Further details of appointments to the Board MrBrown, Mr Culmer and Mr Lee do not hold outside directorships are contained in the report of the Nomination Committee below.
of FTSE 100 or any other listed companies but would be allowed to have one such appointment, subject to the approval of the Chairman.
The Board also made a number of changes to the membership of its committees demonstrating its commitment, as required by the Code, Development to regularly refreshing the Boards committee membership so that On appointment to the Board, Directors undertake an induction undue reliance is not placed on particular individuals.
Further details programme and receive a broad range of information about the on the changes to Board committee membership are contained in Company appropriate to their existing knowledge and experience the relevant committee report below.
and the committees to which they will be appointed.
This includes background information on the Group and details of Board procedures, Only members of the Board committees are entitled to attend governance matters and Directors responsibilities and a series of committee meetings but Executive Directors and senior management meetings with members of the Board and executive management may attend at the invitation of the relevant committee.
This is made on the business and regulatory matters.
clear in the terms of reference of each of the committees.
The monthly Board report which is discussed at each Board meeting Board Appointments in 2011 includes updates from the Group CEO, CFO, the Group General The Board considers the leadership needs and succession planning of Counsel and Group Company Secretary, including Regulatory Risk the Board when making decisions on new appointments and ensures and Compliance and IT and Operations and other functional updates.
that succession planning processes are in place with regard to senior Development and training for the Directors is an ongoing process appointments both below and at Board level.
Further details of which includes briefings on legislative and regulatory changes and appointments to the Board are contained in the report of the on corporate governance matters.
Directors also receive regular Nomination Committee below.
presentations about the Companys operations and there are regular discussions on strategy, customer marketing, employee engagement and environmental and social matters.
Opportunities are also created for Non-Executive Directors to make informal visits to different parts of the Group and to meet with local management.
46 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE These visits deepen the Non-Executive Directors understanding of the areas.
Priorities for change were agreed to be preparatory work for business and provide them with additional comfort that they have taken Solvency II, the need to work more closely with the subsidiary audit all the steps necessary as Directors to fulfil their statutory duties to the committees and the executive and the main challenges facing the Company and their responsibilities in preparing the Annual Report and committee over the next three years, which included change and Accounts and ensuring that the external auditor is aware of all relevant uncertainty in the regulatory regimes and responding to the risks information.
During the year, Johanna Waterous attended Board and inherent in a continuing uncertain global economic environment.
Audit Committee meetings in Canada and a site visit with the UK Engineering division.
Edward Lea also attended Canadian board Following the Board Risk Committees review of its effectiveness, meetings.
All Non-Executive Directors regularly host informal meetings action is being taken to address the length of the agenda and quantity with senior executives outside of the Executive Team.
This gives of information received by the Board Risk Committee to enable the participants the opportunity to meet and discuss thebusiness.
committee to focus on key issues such as Solvency II and to be more forward looking.
The Board have discussed the subject matters where further professional development, including SolvencyII training, will be provided in 2012.
The evaluation of the Remuneration Committee identified some areas for improvement relating to the reporting of remuneration Information and Support matters to the Board and the need to have a coordinated training The Board considers that the information provided to the Board and its programme for committee members to maintain their knowledge committees is supplied in a timely manner and in a form and of a quality of executive remuneration matters.
The committee agreed to appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
The Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Re-election is responsible for assisting the Chairman with arranging induction The Directors and the Company by ordinary resolution may appoint and professional development for the Directors and for bringing all a person who is willing to be a Director either to fill a casual vacancy governance matters to the attention of the Board.
The Directors have or as an additional Director.
In accordance with the Code, the access to the services and advice of the Group General Counsel and Directors shall submit themselves for election or re-election at each Group Company Secretary and, in addition, may take independent AGM.
Resolutions to reappoint Directors at the AGM are subject professional advice at the expense of the Company in the furtherance to the approval of the Board, taking into account the recommendations of their duties.
The appointment and removal of the Group General of the Nomination Committee.
The Company may by ordinary Counsel and Group Company Secretary is a matter reserved for resolution of which special notice has been given remove any the Board.
Director before the expiration of his period of office.
Performance evaluation ACCOUNTABILITY In 2010, there was a formal and rigorous review of the Board, its committees and their effectiveness which was undertaken by an Financial and Business Reporting external consultancy.
In 2011, the review was carried out internally, A balanced and understandable assessment of the Groups position starting with the committees and concluding with the Board itself.
and prospects, an explanation of its business model and the strategy for delivering the objectives of the Company are contained in the The 2011, Board review was discussed in December 2011 and took Group CEOs Review on pages 10 to 15 and the Business Review place at the Board Strategy away day in January 2012, to reflect the fact on pages 17 to 37.
A statement of the Directors responsibilities can be that, in accordance with the programme of planned changes to the found on page 74 and reports from the external auditor can be found Board, one new Executive Director joined the Board in July 2011, two on pages 75 and 142. new Non-Executive Directors joined the Board in October 2011 and the Board had a change of Group CEO from 1 November 2011.
This Going concern allowed a sufficient period of time for the new Board members to In considering the appropriateness of the going concern basis, the Board provide input to the review process.
has reviewed the Groups ongoing financial commitments for the next 12 months and beyond.
The Boards review included consideration of Reviews of the Board committees took place in November the Groups underwriting plans, strong regulatory capital surplus, andDecember 2011. diverse insurance risk profile, considerable undrawn financing facilities and highly liquid investment portfolio.
As a result of this review, the The evaluation of the Group Audit Committee focused on the Directors have satisfied themselves that it is appropriate to prepare composition of the committee and the number and length of meetings these financial statements on a going concern basis.
held each year, the information received by the committee and its timeliness and the effectiveness of the committees reviews of specific Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 47 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The outcomes of meetings are reported to the Board and the GROUP AUDIT COMMITTEE GAC REPORT Board receives the minutes of all the GAC meetings.
The GAC has unrestricted access to Company documents and information, as well Number of meetings held in 2011 5 as to employees of the Company and external professional advisers.
Edward Lea Chairman 5 5 Regular reports are received and reviewed by the GAC from the 1 Alastair Barbour 1 1 Disclosure Committee and regional audit or management control Noel Harwerth 5 5 committees and in relation to the Financial Control Framework and 2 Enterprise Risk Management.
John Maxwell 4 4 Johanna Waterous 4 5 The GAC is satisfied that, during 2011, it has received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management to enable it Notes: 1.
Alastair Barbour was appointed to the GAC with effect from 27 October 2011. to fulfil its responsibilities.
John Maxwell retired from the GAC with effect from 27 October 2011.
Whistle blowing PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE GAC The Companys policy on whistle blowing provides a mechanism for To coordinate and oversee the integrity of the Companys employees to raise serious concerns in good faith, where they either do financial reporting process not feel comfortable raising the matter with local management or are not To monitor compliance with regulations, industry codes and satisfied with the local management response.
The GAC annually reviews legal requirements of each territory in which the Group the policy and is satisfied that it meets the criteria set out in the Code.
transactsbusiness To provide oversight of the internal and external audit function Regulatory compliance To manage the effectiveness of the Groups systems of The Board is responsible to the Financial Services Authority FSA internalcontrols for ensuring compliance with the Groups UK insurance regulatory To review the Groups financial performance obligations.
The Board attaches great importance to its regulatory To provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Groups financial responsibilities and is committed to dealing with the regulator in an and regulatory risk management systems.
open, cooperative and transparent manner.
In the second half of 2011, the FSA carried out a review under its risk based regulation operational 2011 HIGHLIGHTS framework ARROW.
Reviewed all results announcements and the 2010 Annual Report and Accounts During 2011, the FSA conducted private meetings with several Reviewed the Financial Control Framework quarterly members of the Board and executive management as a part of their Reviewed the effectiveness of internal controls close and continuous programme.
The Group also engaged closely Received regular reports from the CFO, Disclosure Committee, with the FSA regarding development of the Groups Solvency II Internal regional audit or management control committees, the external Model application.
More information on the Groups approach auditor, the Group Chief Auditor and Regulatory Risk to Solvency II can be found in the financial review on page 28 & Compliance and in the report of the Board Risk Committee on page 50.
Approved non audit services provided by the external auditor Assessed the external auditor In addition, the Group includes a number of regulated entities which Approved the 2012 Group Internal Audit Plan rely on various licences to carry out their business.
Accordingly, Approved the 2012 Regulatory Risk & Compliance Plan.
maintaining effective relationships with the Groups regulators across the world is integral to the success of the Groups strategy and its The GAC is comprised of Non-Executive Directors, all of whom long term value.
have recent and relevant financial experience.
The Deputy Group Company Secretary acts as the Secretary to the GAC.
The Group External auditor CEO, CFO, Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary, Deloitte LLP was appointed as the Groups external auditor Group Chief Auditor, Group Head of Regulatory Risk & Compliance in 2007.
During the year Deloitte LLP was engaged as an adviser and representatives of the external auditor are regular attendees on a number of occasions.
In order to maintain their independence, by invitation.
The Chairman and other members of executive such appointments are only made in accordance with a protocol management are also invited to attend from time to time.
The GAC developed and embedded by the GAC.
This provides that the holds regular meetings with the Group Chief Auditor, and Group external auditor should not carry out work where the output or Head of Regulatory Risk and Compliance and the external auditor recommendations are then subject to its review as external auditor.
without any members of management being present.
The GAC Work may be given to the external auditor where it is closely allied with also holds meetings which comprise only the GAC members with the audit function or it is advantageous to the Group to use its external no other attendees.
auditor in view of its knowledge and experience of RSA.
This could 48 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE include accounting advice, regulatory returns, tax advice or due diligence Financial Control Framework work.
All non audit work over 100,000 must be approved in advance The Financial Control Framework aims to deliver a consistent approach by the CFO and all non audit work over 250,000 will be notified to finance related controls across the Group that is fit for purpose for by the CFO to the GAC Chairman.
With reference to the protocol, all regions, embedding a control culture that will strengthen the Groups the GAC is satisfied that there are no matters that would compromise finance environment by ensuring that the Groups financial processes the independence of the external auditor or affect the performance are managed effectively in order to mitigate the associated risks.
This of its statutory duties.
Details of fees paid to Deloitte LLP during 2011 is done by documenting and testing the way that core elements of for audit and non audit work are disclosed in the auditor remuneration the business operate, providing a high degree of transparency around table in note 4 on page 108.
There are no contractual obligations the Groups financial control environment.
The Group has people, that restrict the Companys choice of external auditor.
procedures and tools embedded in the business to maintain and streamline the control environment and to provide ongoing reporting The GAC has reviewed the independence, effectiveness and objectivity and assurance.
Quarterly reports are presented to the GAC which of the external auditor in 2011 and concluded that Deloitte LLP include notification of any control deficiencies or breaches in the period provided a service that was robust and fit for purpose.
Deloitte LLP has and action taken.
confirmed its willingness to continue in office as external auditor of the Company for the year ending 31 December 2012.
Accordingly the GAC Internal control has recommended to the Board that a resolution be put to the 2012 The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control AGM for the re-appointment of Deloitte LLP as external auditor and systems and for monitoring their effectiveness.
Implementation and the Board has accepted this recommendation.
maintenance of the internal control systems are the responsibility of the Executive Directors and senior management.
So far as each Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information as defined in section 418 3 of the Companies Act 2006 of which the The performance of internal control systems is reviewed regularly Companys external auditor is unaware, and each Director has taken by the GAC and the Board annually reviews the effectiveness of the all steps necessary as a Director in order to make himself herself aware Groups systems of internal control in order to safeguard the Groups of, and to establish that the external auditor is aware of, any relevant assets and shareholders investment.
This system includes governance, audit information.
financial controls, the risk management framework and the process to deliver regulatory and compliance requirements.
The systems are Group Internal Audit GIA designed to identify and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the potential The activities and effectiveness of the GIA are monitored and risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reviewed by the GAC.
The GAC is responsible for ensuring that reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial adequate access to information and resource is given to the Group misstatement or loss.
In February 2012, the GAC and the Board Chief Auditor and for approving the appointment to, and removal reviewed the systems of internal control in operation during 2011. of the holder from, that position.
No significant failings or weaknesses were identified.
The GIA reports to management on the effectiveness of the The Board, through the GAC, receives reports from the Group Chief Companys systems of internal controls and the adequacy of these Auditor and her team on the integrity of the control environment and systems to manage business risk and to safeguard the Groups assets also receives reports from the external auditor based upon its audit and resources.
The GAC reviews and approves the annual Group work.
The GAC also receives reports on the adequacy of the Groups Internal Audit Plan following presentations from the regional CEOs arrangements for ensuring regulatory compliance from the Group Head and regional auditors.
The Board, through the Board Risk Committee, considers reports from risk specialists across the Group In 2010, an independent assessment of the internal audit functions and reviews Group-level risk management information.
effectiveness was carried out by  LLP.
The report concluded that the GIA was generally conforming the highest A quarterly self-certification process is completed by business managers rating with the standards of the Institute of Internal Auditors.
Overall across the Group to confirm the adequacy of controls and their the function was in the upper quartile of internal audit functions within compliance with Company policies, local laws, rules and regulations.
The report also concluded that there was a good relationship between the GAC and the regional audit or management control committees.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 49 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The current reporting framework delivers information to monitor the The committee is comprised of two Non-Executive Directors, the systems of internal control and to review their effectiveness as required Group CEO and CFO.
The Group Operations and Risk Director, by the Code.
The Board therefore considers that an ongoing process Group Risk Director, Group General Counsel and Group Company for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Secretary, Group Director of Corporate Finance, Group Underwriting Group has been in place during 2011 and up to the date of approval of & Claims Director, Group Head of Regulatory Risk & Compliance and the Annual Report and Accounts.
This process is regularly reviewed by Regional Risk Directors are all regular attendees.
Other senior the Board and accords with the Turnbull Guidance on the Code.
management with experience relevant to specific agenda items are invited to attend from time to time.
Key features of the current internal control systems of the Group include internal audit, the corporate governance framework, dialogue The BRC has a standing agenda to ensure that all items within its terms with institutional shareholders, constructive use of the AGM and the of reference are covered by the committee and this is regularly reviewed areas described in this Accountability section.
to ensure it reflects the requirements of the Group, meets current best practice and industry guidance and includes items of topical relevance.
BOARD RISK COMMITTEE BRC REPORT This may include greater focus on specific risk disciplines or individual insurance portfolios as considered appropriate through pre-meeting Number of meetings held in 2011 5 discussions between the BRC Chairman and the Group Risk Director.
Noel Harwerth Chairman 5 5 George Culmer 5 5 The minutes of the regional risk committees are provided to the 1 Andy Haste 4 4 BRC and the regional risk directors regularly present to the BRC.
2 Simon Lee 1 1 During the year, the BRC has received regular updates from Malcolm Le May 5 5 the Solvency II Steering Committee on the Groups preparation for the implementation of Solvency II and its impact on the business.
Mr Haste resigned from the BRC with effect from 1 November 2011 is a fundamental overhaul of the regulatory capital adequacy regime for 2.
Mr Lee was appointed to the BRC with effect from 1 November 2011 insurers and reinsurers within the EU.
The deadline for compliance with Solvency II has been postponed and the FSA is working towards an PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE BRC implementation date of January 2014.
Solvency II also requires regulated To recommend the Group framework of risk limits and risk insurers and reinsurers to have an effective system of governance in place appetite to the Board which provides for sound and prudent management of the business.
To recommend the quantum of capital required for the Individual This includes ensuring that Board members possess sufficient relevant Capital Assessment ICA and Economic Capital Assessment ECA professional qualifications, knowledge and experience to ensure that, to the Board collectively, they provide sound and prudent management.
There is an To monitor the Groups implementation of Solvency II ongoing programme to document the governance policy and processes To ensure that material risks have been identified and within each EU-regulated Group company to ensure that a consistent  and high standard of governance is maintained throughout the Group, To approve new and amended Group policies which includes training Directors on Solvency II and RSAs Internal Model.
To approve the remit of the Group Risk team To review the Remuneration Report for any implications of the The BRC oversees and challenges the results of stress and scenario Groups remuneration policies for risk and risk management.
tests carried out by the Group Risk team and the business.
These tests are carried out each year with the involvement of senior executives to 2011 HIGHLIGHTS assess the Groups resilience in relation to extreme but plausible events Reviewed the Groups risk appetite and material risk profile that could have a material impact on the Group.
The aim is to enable Reviewed results of stress and scenario tests management to better understand the dynamics of the Groups risk Considered emerging risks profile, identify potential mitigation strategies for such events and act as Cyclically reviewed and approved changes to Group policies a validation tool for both the Groups ICA process and its risk appetite.
Reviewed the quantum of the ICA and ECA capital models and made appropriate recommendations to the Board These tests involve exploring a range of scenarios which could adversely Reviewed risks facing the Group by risk type and region impact the Groups assets, liabilities and or operational performance.
at each meeting In particular, the impact of a Euro sovereign debt default, the collapse Monitored progress on Solvency II compliance of the Euro, effects of social unrest and increases in inflation and interest Reviewed the governance structure and control framework rates have been explored.
The results demonstrated the Groups to ensure its effectiveness resilience on both an absolute and relative basis to the scenarios Carried out a survey on the committees performance in 2011 considered.
The results also allowed for the identification of potential Reviewed the Groups risk appetite and material risk profile.
additional management actions that could be taken to protect RSAs customers, shareholders and operations.
50 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In addition to monitoring risks that are already recognised as material NOMINATION COMMITTEE REPORT to the Group, the BRC monitors emerging risks that could threaten RSAs position of competitive advantage or successful delivery of Number of meetings held in 2011 5 strategy to ensure that plans are put in place where possible to John Napier Chairman 5 5 mitigate such risks.
1 Edward Lea 5 5 2 Malcolm Le May 1 1 INVESTMENT COMMITTEE REPORT John Maxwell 5 5 1 Johanna Waterous 5 5 Number of meetings held in 2011 2 Malcolm Le May Chairman 2 2 Notes: 1 1.
Mr Lea and Ms Waterous were appointed to the Nomination Committee with effect Alastair Barbour 1 1 from 1 February 2011 George Culmer 1 2 2.
Mr Le May retired from the Nomination Committee with effect from 1 February 2011 and following the first meeting of the year Noel Harwerth 2 2 2 Andy Haste 2 2 PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Edward Lea 2 2 To keep under review the capabilities required by the Board 3 and the leadership needs of the Group Simon Lee Review succession planning for the Board John Maxwell 1 2 To manage the process of identifying potential Board appointees, John Napier 2 2 seeking advice from external advisers as appropriate for 1 Jos Streppel 1 1 recommending candidates for assessment by the Board as a whole To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the Johanna Waterous 2 2 re-appointment of any Non-Executive Director at the conclusion Notes: of his her specified term of office.
Mr Barbour and Mr Streppel were appointed to the Investment Committee with effect from 27 October 2011 2011 HIGHLIGHTS 2.
Mr Haste retired from the Investment Committee with effect from 1 November 2011 3.
Mr Lee was appointed to the Investment Committee with effect from 1 November 2011.
Assessed the performance of the Chairman, the Group CEO No further committee meetings took place in 2011 following his appointment and the Senior Independent Director and recommended their re-election to the Board at the 2011 AGM PRINCIPAL DUTIES OF THE INVESTMENT COMMITTEE Managed the process of identifying board appointees To assist the Board in setting the Groups investment strategy Recommended the appointment of a new Executive Director To monitor the execution of that strategy and the Groups to the Board investment performance.
Recommended the appointment of two new Non-Executive Directors to the Board 2011 HIGHLIGHTS Following the resignation of Mr Haste, recommended the Reviewed activity in the Groups investment portfolio appointment of a new Group CEO.
Monitored investment strategy implementation and portfolio results.
With effect from 1 February 2011, Edward Lea and Johanna Waterous were appointed as members of the Nomination Committee and The committee is authorised by the Board to manage all aspects of Malcolm Le May retired from the Nomination Committee.
All investment policy and strategy for the Group and provide oversight of members of the Nomination Committee, excluding the Chairman, the operation of the Groups investment portfolios within established are independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman chairs the strategy and risk frameworks.
The committee is comprised of the Committee unless it is dealing with succession planning regarding his Group CEO, CFO, Chairman and Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee Group Investments Director attends all meetings of the committee were revised and approved by the Board in March 2011. to provide an update on the economic and market background and outlook as these affect the Group, the investment activities taken since When appointing new Directors, regard is given to the size of the the committee last met and any portfolio actions which require the Board, the balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the skills committees approval.
and experience already represented, likely future retirements and those appointments to the Board which would be desirable going forward.
Strategic themes relating to cash, bonds, equities and alternative yield RSA supports diversity within the boardroom, appropriate to and assets were discussed during 2011, together with options for the Group reflecting the global nature of the Company, its strategic objectives, to protect itself against inflation risks and the Groups exposure to and its regulatory status.
Details of the Groups investment activities are contained in the Business Review on pages 17 to 37.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 51 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Board appointed Edward Lea as the Companys Senior Annual General Meeting Independent Director on 27 January 2011.
Adrian Brown was appointed The AGM will be held at the Queen Elizabeth II Conference Centre, to the Board as an Executive Director on 5 July 2011, having been the Broad Sanctuary, Westminster, London SW1P 3EE on Monday, 14 May Chief Executive of the Groups UK business since September 2008.
A letter from the Chairman and the notice convening Following changes to RSAs operational structure which took effect the AGM Notice is available to all ordinary shareholders and from 1 January 2012, Adrian became the Chief Executive of the Groups preference shareholders when applicable at least 20 working days UK and Western Europe business.
Further details of the changes to the before the meeting and is available at www.
operational structure are contained in the Group CEOs Review on pages 10 to 15 and the Business Review on pages 17 to 37.
The Group CEO presents on the Companys performance and activities during the year and the CFO presents the financial results of During the year, an external search agency specialising in the the Company prior to the formal business of the meeting.
All Directors recruitment of Non-Executive Directors was engaged.
A Nonare requested to attend the AGM and the Chairman and the Chairmen Executive Director candidate specification was prepared setting out of each Board committee make themselves available to take questions the role and capabilities required for the new appointments.
Reports from ordinary shareholders at the AGM.
on potential appointees were provided to the committee members who, after careful consideration, made a recommendation to the Board.
Separate resolutions are proposed on each substantive issue, including On3 October 2011 and 10 October 2011, the Board appointed Jos a resolution to adopt the Annual Report and Accounts.
In accordance Streppel and Alastair Barbour respectively as Non-Executive Directors.
with the provisions of the Articles of Association Articles, any form of The appointment of the new Non-Executive Directors as with the proxy sent by the Company to shareholders in relation to any general longer standing Non-Executive Directors is subject to specific terms meeting must be delivered to the Company, whether in written form of appointment as detailed in their respective letters of appointment.
or in electronic form, not less than 48 hours before the time for holding the meeting excluding non business days or, in the case of a poll taken On 1 November 2011, Andy Haste stepped down as the Group CEO otherwise than at or on the same day as the meeting, not less than 24 and was succeeded by Simon Lee who has been Chief Executive of hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll.
International since April 2003 and an Executive Director since January 2007.
Mr Haste retired from the Board on 31 December 2011.
At any general meeting, every ordinary shareholder present shall have one vote on a show of hands and on a poll, every ordinary shareholder On 21 November 2011, it was announced that George Culmer was present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for each share of to resign to take up the position of Group Finance Director of Lloyds which he is the holder.
Each resolution was put to a poll at the AGM in Banking Group plc.
George Culmer will remain as a Director and Chief 2011.
The results of the vote on each resolution are announced to the Financial Officer of RSA until the close of business on 14 May 2012.
London Stock Exchange and are available on the Companys website.
He will be succeeded by Richard Houghton who will join the Group in June 2012.
Preference shareholders are only entitled to receive notice of, attend, speak and vote at general meetings if the dividend payable on the Remuneration Committee preference shares is in arrears at the date of the Notice, a resolution Full details of the activities and duties of the Remuneration Committee is proposed that affects the rights of the preference shareholders, can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 71. a resolution is proposed to wind up the Company, a resolution is proposed to reduce the capital of the Company other than a RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS redemption or purchase of shares, or in such other circumstances as the Board shall determine.
In any of these situations the preference Dialogue with institutional shareholders shareholders may only vote on the relevant resolution and not on The Board attaches considerable importance to its relationships and all the business of the general meeting.
communication with shareholders and welcomed the introduction of the UK Stewardship Code in 2010.
Senior management meet principal Substantial share interests institutional shareholders on a regular basis and Non-Executive The following table shows the holdings of major shareholders in the Directors are available to meet with institutional shareholders as Company in accordance with the Disclosure and Transparency Rules required.
Executive Directors held 67 meetings with investors during as at 31December 2011 and the date of this Report.
The Board receives regular reports from the Investor Relations team on the views of institutional shareholders.
Presentations and meetings are conducted in compliance with the Companys Inside Information Policy and the Disclosure and Transparency Rules to ensure that inside information is not disclosed prior to it being made available to shareholders generally.
General shareholder information is also available on the Groups website: www.
com rsa pages ir shareholderservices.
52 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE At 31 December 2011 At 22 February 2012 No.
of % of Ordinary voting ordinary voting shares rights Nature of holding shares rights Nature of holding 1 2 2 2 Lloyds Banking Group plc 246,760,305 7.00 Direct and Indirect Blackrock, Inc 188,217,284 5.46 Indirect 188,217,284 5.46 Indirect Schroders plc 170,851,201 4.95 Direct and Indirect 170,851,201 4.95 Direct and Indirect Newton Investment Indirect as Indirect as Management Ltd discretionary discretionary 168,455,475 4.88 investment manager 168,455,475 4.88 investment manager Standard Life Investments Ltd 152,266,879 4.42 Direct and Indirect 152,266,879 4.42 Direct and Indirect Legal & General Group plc 136,295,990 3.99 Direct and Indirect 136,295,990 3.99 Direct and Indirect Notes: 1.
242,643,597 shares 6.884% are under the control of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Group Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Scottish Widows Group Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lloyds TSB Bank plc, a wholly owned subsidiary of Lloyds Banking Group plc.
The Company was informed on 31 January 2012 that the indirect holding of Lloyds Banking Group plc had decreased below the reporting threshold of 5%.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION negotiates changes affecting the workforce.
Within our CNS operation in British Columbia, Canada, we have a collective bargaining agreement Employment policy with the Canadian Office and Professional Employees Union.
The The Groups employment policy reflects its belief that motivated European Consultative Forum ECF is a cross European body created and skilled employees are critical to the Groups success.
to enable information sharing and consultation on transnational issues with our European workforce.
The Group is committed to the promotion of equal opportunities for all employees.
This involves recruiting, engaging, retaining, rewarding and The Group continues to focus on the training and development developing people solely on the grounds of ability to carry out the role of employees in order to ensure they can deliver high levels of and establishing and promoting a working environment which is free performance and customer satisfaction.
RSA believes it can create from discrimination.
In order to do this, the Group ensures that any competitive advantage by building and maintaining a high performance reasonable adjustments are made, where it is appropriate to do so, culture across the Group.
to provide equal opportunities to all in respect of recruitment, terms and conditions of employment, promotions, transfers, grievances, The Executive Development Programme is a challenging, world class redundancies and vocational training.
The Group is committed, development programme for RSAs top leaders which aims to build RSAs wherever possible, to supporting the rehabilitation and return to strategic leadership capability.
It is sponsored by the Executive Team who work of employees who become disabled during their career with are actively involved in the programme and sponsor projects.
Information on the diversity of RSAs workforce can be found work in global teams on strategically important business challenges, in the Corporate Responsibility Report available at researching the issues and recommending a solution.
has contributed to the expansion of both our Renewable Energy business and our Central and Eastern Europe operations.
The Group is committed to fostering a constructive relationship with recognised independent trade unions, ensuring a regular and open The Leadership Development Programme, which recently won the dialogue on business issues and early consultation on changes affecting Chartered Institute of Personnel Development CIPD award for the the workforce.
In the UK, Unite is formally recognised through a Organisational Learning category, aims to develop business, growth partnership agreement which covers collective consultation and and people leadership skills in those with the potential to move into bargaining on behalf of non-management employees.
The Management a country or regional senior management role.
It is a nine month Association TMA represents managerial employees under a separate programme consisting of three modules, designed to build capability consultative agreement.
In Scandinavia, the Group has formal meeting in core areas of leadership.
This incorporates a strategic project based forums with the national unions, where the Group informs and on current business challenges.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 53 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The Fast Track programme is aimed at growing our emerging leadership RSA encourages employee share ownership through employee share talent employees who are in their second or third role after graduating plans.
Employees from 22 of the 33 countries in which RSA operates who have already demonstrated high performance and leadership are invited to participate in Sharesave SAYE and the overall take up ability.
The programme is structured to equip our future leaders with by eligible employees is 39%.
Sharebuild has now been running for two the commercial understanding and leadership capabilities they will need years in the UK and 33% of eligible employees participate.
Further to thrive: exposing them to global networking opportunities, in-depth details on the Groups share schemes can be found in the self-analysis and development and performance coaching to encourage Remuneration Report on pages 57 to 71. rapid career development.
RSA also encourages employees to participate in discount schemes In addition to the Executive Development Programme, Leadership for employees and their families.
The Staff Saver Scheme in the UK Development Programme and Fast Track Programme the Group has currently has approximately 11,800 Staff Saver policies in force three Academies: Marketing, Technical and Operational Effectiveness 2010:approximately 7,800 policies in force.
and in 2010, launched an online Learning Zone that offers a broad range of training and development to over 20,000 employees around Employees are kept well informed of the overall performance and the world.
Communications are regularly provided through face to face meetings and presentations, by email, intranet The Marketing Academy was set up to support our ambition of building articles and staff publications.
Key messages from the biannual Group a world class marketing function for RSA by professionalising our Leaders Conferences are disseminated to teams by the Group CEO marketing activity.
Both e-learning and face-to-face training courses are via Webex and through local management.
So far, over 300 marketers from 12 countries have attended the foundation course as well as additional specialist The Group actively encourages employees to become involved in master-classes.
Further details are provided in the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37.
The Technical Academy aims to continually enhance the technical capability of RSAs Underwriting, Claims and Actuarial community by Principal activity providing training programmes, identifying talent, ensuring there are The Company is the holding company of the RSA Insurance Group plc structured career pathways for technical staff, developing global best group of companies whose principal activity is the transaction of practice and standards as well as supporting and recognising the personal and commercial general insurance business.
The Group attainment of technical skills and qualifications.
operates in 33 countries and provides general insurance products and services in around 140 countries.
The Learning Zone is available in 13 languages in 28 countries.
There are over 2,000 learning resources directly available on the Learning Business review and management report Zone.
Employees can access thousands of e-books and audio books Section 417 of the Companies Act 2006 requires the Directors to that can be downloaded to a computer, mobile device or Kindle.
We present a business review in this Report.
The information that fulfils are also using webinars and Connect a social platform for learning this requirement can be found on pages 1 to 37, and is incorporated and communication to facilitate bringing global teams and professional by reference into this Report.
The Business Review has been prepared to the best of the Directors Every September we run a global engagement survey of employees knowledge in order to provide the Companys shareholders with a fair using the Gallup Q12 questions, which measure the key drivers of review of the development and performance of the Company and the engagement.
The survey is completed by circa three million people Group as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and globally and is open to all employees across the Group.
We have uncertainties which may affect the Group.
It may not be relied upon amongst the highest participation of any client Gallup works with for any other purpose.
and in 2011, saw our highest participation ever, with 94% completing the survey.
Information about the use of financial instruments by the Company and its subsidiaries and its risk management policies is disclosed in the Since 2008, we have achieved significant year on year improvements.
Introduction and the Business Review on pages 1 to 37, in the In 2011, we achieved a Grand Mean score of 4.34 out of a maximum Significant Accounting Policies on pages 80 to 88, Risk Management score of five which places RSA in Gallups top quartile of companies.
We are the highest ranked insurer in the Gallup database and rank in the top three companies globally within the financial services sector.
5 2 also requires the Annual Report to include a management report.
The information that fulfils this requirement can be found in the Introduction and the Business Review on pages 1 to 37 and the Directors Report on pages 44 to 56.
54 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Events after the reporting period The Company operates four employee benefit trusts to hold ordinary No material events have occurred since 31 December 2011. shares in RSA which are used to satisfy exercises under the Groups share incentive schemes and Capita Trustees Limited is the current Dividends Trustee of each trust.
The Trustee may vote in respect of any shares The Directors recommend a final dividend of 5.82p per ordinary held in the Trusts but has no obligation to do so and, in respect of the share to be paid on 25 May 2012 to holders of ordinary shares on the Royal & SunAlliance ESOP Trust No.
3, the Trustee may have regard register at the close of business on 30 March 2012, subject to ordinary to the financial interests of the beneficiaries in exercising its voting shareholder approval.
This, together with the interim dividend of 3.34p rights over the Companys shares.
per ordinary share, will make a total dividend for the year of 9.16p per ordinary share.
Supplier payment policy It is the Groups policy to agree appropriate terms and conditions in The preferential dividend at the rate of 3.6875% for the period from advance with its suppliers and to make payment in accordance with 1October 2011 to 31 March 2012 will be paid on 30 March 2012 to those terms and conditions, provided the supplier has complied with holders of preference shares on the register at the close of business them.
In most cases, agreements for the supply of goods or services are on 2 March 2012. made under standard terms of contract that lay down payment terms.
In the UK, these are available on request from UK Strategic Sourcing, Environmental programme Leadenhall Court, 1 Leadenhall Street, London EC3V 1PP.
Details of our environmental programme can be found on pages 34 to 37 of the Business Review and on the Groups website at The Companys outstanding indebtedness to trade creditors on www.
31 December 2011 amounted to 3.5m, corresponding to 18 days payment when averaged over the year.
Share capital Details of the Companys share capital, together with details of the Related party transactions movements in the Companys issued share capital during the year are Related party transactions are set out in note 32 on page 140. shown in note 18 on page 120.
Directors are still limited as to the number of shares they can allot save in respect of employee share Essential contracts schemes.
The current authority allows Directors to allot securities up The Company does not consider that it, or any of its subsidiaries, has to a nominal amount of 320,667,149 and renewal of the Directors any contractual or other arrangements that are essential to the success authority to allot shares will be sought at the 2012 AGM.
During 2011, of the Group that is required to be disclosed pursuant to section 417 the Directors exercised their authority to allot in respect of employee of the Companies Act 2006. share schemes and the scrip dividend scheme.
Charitable and political donations The Company has two classes of shares: ordinary shares of 27.5p each The Company and its subsidiaries worldwide made charitable donations and preference shares of 1 each.
Each ordinary share carries the right of 2.6m 2010: 2.4m during the year, of which 0.7m 2010: 1.2m to one vote at general meetings of the Company and no right to fixed related to donations made to UK based charities.
The rights attaching to the preference shares are detailed in Community and Charitable policy prohibits political donations.
As at 31 December 2011, the ordinary shares and the preference shares represented 96.6 % and 3.4 % Directors conflicts of interest respectively of the total issued share capital.
Each Director is required to notify the Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary when a conflict of interest arises and There are no specific restrictions on the size of a holding nor on the the Board reviews Directors conflicts of interest annually.
Under the transfer of shares, which are both governed by the general provisions Articles, the Board may authorise any conflict of interest.
The conflicted of the Articles and legislation.
The Directors are not aware of any Director shall not count towards the quorum or vote on any resolution agreements between the Companys shareholders that may result to authorise the conflict of interest and, at the Boards discretion, may in restrictions on the transfer of securities or on voting rights.
be excluded from any meeting at which the conflict is under The Company may purchase any of its own shares including any consideration.
Where a conflict of interests is authorised, the Board redeemable shares.
An authority from ordinary shareholders for the may impose such restrictions on the conflicted Director as they deem Company to purchase up to 349,818,708 of its own ordinary shares appropriate, such as excluding the Director from receipt of information representing 10% of its issued share capital as at 21 March 2011 or discussions.
remained in force at 31 December 2011.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 | RSA | 55 DIRECTORS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED None of the Directors had any interest in any other contract with the Directors responsibility statement Company or any of its subsidiaries during 2011 save that a number of The Directors responsibility statement appears on page 74 Directors have taken out personal lines insurance with the Group.
and is incorporated by reference into this Report.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the schedule of Directors By order of the Board conflicts of interest during the year and that the procedure in place operated effectively in 2011.
Articles of Association Derek Walsh The Companys Articles may be amended by special resolution of the Group General Counsel and Group Company Secretary Companys ordinary shareholders.
New Articles were adopted at the 22 February 2012 2010 AGM and are available on the Groups website at www.
com rsa pages ir governance articles.
Borrowing powers The Directors restrict the borrowings of the Company so that the aggregate amount, for the time being, remaining borrowed by the Group is not, without the previous sanction of an ordinary resolution of the Company, more than one and a half times the aggregate of: The amount paid up on the issued share capital of the Company The total of the capital and revenue reserves of the Group subject to certain adjustments.
Directors indemnity Article 140 of the Articles provides that, among other things and insofar as permitted by law, the Company may indemnify its Directors against any liability and may purchase and maintain insurance against any liability.
The Company has granted an indemnity to each of the Directors pursuant to the power conferred by Article 140.
The indemnities granted constitute qualifying third party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board believes that it promotes the success of the Company to provide this indemnity to its Directors in order to ensure that the Group attracts and retains high calibre Directors through competitive terms of employment in line with market standards.
The Directors and officers of the Company and its subsidiaries also have the benefit of insurance which provides suitable cover in respect of legal actions brought against them.
In addition, the Company has indemnified the Directors of SAL Pension Fund Limited, a majority owned subsidiary of the Group, in relation to its role as Trustee of an occupational pension scheme.
This indemnity constitutes a qualifying indemnity provision under section 236 of the Companies Act 2006.
56 | RSA | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
