54 Audit and Risk Committee report 2011 was a year of great economic and political Governance uncertainty.
This continues, particularly with respect Composition of the Committee to the future of the Eurozone.
Against this backdrop, The members of the Committee are independent there is increased counterparty, market and credit risk non-executive Directors.
The current composition and heightened regulatory obligations on our industry.
and attendance by Committee members during 2011 These risks and the steps taken to mitigate them are is set out in the table below: set out in the Key risks and mitigations section of the Maximum possible Meetings Annual Report, which indicates the risk focus of the attendance attended Audit and Risk Committee during 2011.
Merlyn Lowther Chairman 5 5 We undertook an in-depth review of the work of the Ashley Almanza 2 2 Committee in 2011.
In light of which, we increased Andrew Beeson 5 5 the focus on forward-looking risks, engaging with a Robin Buchanan 5 5 broader range of management whilst continuing to At the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting, Andrew work closely with the finance, compliance, legal, risk Beeson will step down from the Committee and Lord Howard will and internal audit functions.
In our report, we give further details of our governance Ashley Almanza, who is a chartered accountant and and the work undertaken in 2011. was chief financial officer of BG Group until March 2011, is considered by the Board to have recent The Committee and I would welcome any comments and relevant financial experience.
from shareholders on the scope of our work or any other aspects of this report.
Merlyn Lowther Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs052-057.
indd 54 13 03 2012 00:58 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 55 At the invitation of the Chairman, Bruno Schroder Its responsibilities include: attended three meetings, the Chief Executive attended three meetings and the Chief Financial Financial reporting related Officer CFO attended five meetings during the year.
Monitoring the content and integrity of financial Other regular attendees who advised or reported to reporting: and the Committee are the Head of Financial Reporting, Reviewing the appropriateness of accounting Group Head of Compliance, Group Head of Risk, judgements.
Group Head of Internal Audit and the General Counsel.
Other members of senior management are also External auditors invited to attend as appropriate.
Reviewing the external auditors: and Recommending the appointment of external Auditors auditors to the Board.
Representatives from the Groups auditor,  PwC, attended all Risk and controls related Committee meetings.
Reviewing the Groups risk and control framework: Private meetings Reviewing the Groups internal audit function: During 2011, two private meetings were held with Reviewing the Groups regulatory reporting each of the CFO, Group heads of compliance, risk procedures and relationships with regulators: and and internal audit and PwC.
These meetings provided an opportunity for matters to be raised confidentially.
Reviewing the Groups ethical standards.
The full terms of reference of the Committee are External advisers available at www.
com ir or from the If necessary, the Committee has access to Company Secretary.
independent advice at the Companys expense.
Evaluation of the Committee Responsibilities of the Committee The Committees performance is evaluated annually.
The Committee seeks to encourage and safeguard The findings of the review in respect of 2011 were high standards of integrity, financial reporting, risk satisfactory and were discussed by the Committee management and internal controls.
and with the Chairman of the Board.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs052-057.
indd 55 13 03 2012 00:58 56 Audit and Risk Committee report continued Report on the Committees activities The Committee received a report on the independence of PwC and questioned the Senior The principal areas of the Committees work in 2011 are summarised in this part of the report.
Statutory Auditor on the findings of the Audit Inspection Unit and the Professional Oversight Board Reporting related and the sanctions by the Accountancy and Actuarial Discipline Board.
It was satisfied with PwCs The Committee reviewed the 2011 half-year resultsand the Annual Report and Accounts, prior responses to the findings.
torecommending them to the Board for approval.
PwC changed the senior audit partner for the 2011 To assist its review of the statements, it received audit and provided a letter which was reviewed by reports prepared by Group Finance addressing the Committee, confirming their independence and presentational and judgemental issues, and objectivity within the context of applicable regulatory accounting developments, estimates and policies.
It also received a report setting out the responsibilities The Committee is also responsible for maintaining a for particular aspects of reporting.
In light of the economic climate, the Committees work included policy on the engagement of the external audit firm to provide non-audit services.
This policy precludes the reviews of valuations of assets and the UK defined benefits section of the retirement benefit scheme.
provision of non-audit services that might lead to a conflict of interest.
The policy also has strict rules in TheCommittees work was supported by an independent report from PwC providing their relation to the approval of contracts for non-audit services which do not present a possible conflict assessment of the financial reporting.
All contracts for non-audit services must The Committee commissioned special reports from be notified to the Head of Financial Reporting and Group Finance on accounting for life companies and contracts valued in excess of 25,000 require prior captive insurers to assist its review and understanding approval.
The auditors are required to confirm that of those activities.
they have completed their own independence confirmation processes as approved by the senior The Committee fully supported the decluttering of the financial statements and the presentational changes statutory auditor.
We also receive six-monthly reports on the non-audit services provided.
made in this Annual Report.
The Committee reviewed the audit, audit related and External auditors non-audit fees paid to PwC for compliance with the The Committee approved the process for reviewing Groups policy for procuring non-audit work.
The total the performance of PwC as external auditors.
It fees amounted to 4.7 million 2010: 4.4 million of received a summary of the responses to a detailed which 2.7 million 2010: 2.6 million was for the questionnaire completed by those who interact with audit, 0.4 million 2010: 0.4 million was audit-related the auditors in executive and non-executive capacities and 1.6 million 2010: 1.4 million was for non-audit around the world.
The findings indicated that the related work, which comprised the preparation of the quality of work and service were generally of a very internal controls report and other non-audit services high standard.
including tax, compliance and regulatory opinions for Group subsidiaries.
The percentage of non-audit to audit fees to total fees was therefore 43 per cent.
The Committee was satisfied that PwC received adequate compensation to undertake its obligations thoroughly and that the quantity and type of non-audit work undertaken did not impair their independence.
The Committee concluded that PwC remained independent and the quality of their work supported recommending that firm as auditors for 2012 whilst noting that there could be future regulatory changes requiring compulsory tendering and or rotation of auditors.
Consequently, the Committee will revise its process of assessment for the 2013 audit to include a review of the credentials of other providers.
indd 56 13 03 2012 00:58 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 57 Risk and controls The Committee received quarterly reports from The Committee received quarterly reports from the theGroup Head of Internal Audit summarising Group Head of Compliance highlighting compliance thescope of his work, compliance with a rolling issues, rectifications and reporting.
The Committee programme of audits, the findings of internal also considered the outcomes of regulatory auditsand recommendations for enhancing the inspection visits and the actions taken or proposed control environment.
to be taken to address issues arising from them.
The Committee received and discussed reports It received quarterly reports from the Group Head of assessing the quality of outsourced service providers, Risk and quarterly reports from the General Counsel the governance of Private Banking and whistleon the Groups legal risk and a report from the Group blowing procedures.
Risk Committee setting out risk indicators, errors and It also received updates on the Groups preparedness omissions and the most significant risks faced by the Group.
Considerable Committee time was spent on for regulatory changes including the UK Bribery Act, AIFMD, Dodd-Frank, FATCA and MiFID.
the methodology for the quantification of risks and the associated capital requirements of ICAAP.
In light of its work, the Committee was content with The Committee debated the assessments of risk the quality of financial and regulatory reporting, the appetite and tolerance as well as scenario analyses Groups ethical standards and its relationships with and stress testing.
regulators, the risk monitoring and the internal control The Committee noted the work undertaken to framework and the robustness of the second and document and test specific controls of a number third lines of defence see Key risks and mitigations ofmajor subsidiaries as part of the Internal Controls section of this Annual Report.
PwC provided an independent opinion on the report.
Merlyn Lowther The Committee reviewed the Pillar 3 disclosures Chairman, Audit and Risk Committee of ICAAP which are at www.
7 March 2012 The Committee held one meeting dedicated to testing how the Group would control the risks associated with two risk scenarios.
The work was enhanced by the presence of management who are not regularly invited to Committee meetings.
