40 Corporate governance report Corporate governance is very important to us as Matters reserved to the Board one of the UKs largest listed asset management companies.
The Board and its principal Committees Some of the matters which only the Board can have continued to focus on our core businesses and decideare: the risks they face.
This report outlines our approach The Groups overall strategy, having regard to to governance.
the risks of such a strategy: An effective Board is essential for every company.
Significant new business activities: Ensuring we have the right people on our Board is one of our most important responsibilities.
I was The strategy for the management of the Groups investment capital and approval of the overall therefore delighted that we were able to appoint Ashley Almanza as a non-executive Director in limits for the asset classes in which such capital may be invested: August 2011.
This is my last report as Chairman as I will be standing Changes to the Companys capital structure, down at the Annual General Meeting in May.
It has increases in borrowings or any material been an honour to lead the Board for over nine years, refinancing or variation of existing borrowings: during which time I believe Schroders results have Acquisitions and disposals and other material shown the value of stability and long-term thinking.
transactions: With the appointment of Andrew Beeson as my successor I am confident that those values will Appointments to and removal from the Board be maintained.
and Board Committees: Any actual or potential conflicts of interest Michael Miles relating to any Director: Chairman The remuneration strategy: and Approval of the half-yearly results, annual report and accounts and dividends.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs037-044.
indd 40 13 03 2012 00:49 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 41 Corporate governance in Schroders Responsibilities of the Board Schroders Corporate Governance Guidelines and its Committees set out the expectations and responsibilities of The diagram below illustrates the Groups core theBoard, its Committees and the Directors.
The governance framework, how authority is delegated guidelines and the Groups other core governance from the Board and how independent oversight at documents, including the Schedule of Matters Board level is organised.
Reserved to the Board and the terms of reference The Board is authorised to manage the business of ofthe principal Board Committees, are available the Company, subject to the Companies Act 2006 onour website at www.
com ir or and the Companys Articles of Association.
accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable financial performance and long-term shareholder value.
The Board achieves this by its own decision-making and by delegating responsibilities to Board Committees and authority to manage the business to the Chief Executive.
Its Committees comprise the Nominations Committee, the Audit and Risk Committee and the Remuneration Committee.
Reports from each of the Board Committees are set out later in this Corporate governance section.
Responsibilities of the Board and its Committees Board Accountable to shareholders for the creation and delivery of strong, sustainable performance and long-term shareholder value Chief Executive Audit and Risk Remuneration Nominations Responsible for the Committee Committee Committee management of the Responsible for Responsible for Responsible for business and the overseeing financial reviewing and reviewing and strategic development reporting, risk recommending the recommending of the Group management and remuneration strategy changes to the internal control of for the Group and for composition of the the Group setting the remuneration Board and its other of the executive Committees Directors Group Management Chief Financial Committee officer Responsibilities Responsible for delegated to individual financial management, members.
Assists the oversight of risk and Chief Executive in systems of internal discharging his controls for the Group responsibilities Group Capital Group Risk Group Head of Risk Group Head of Committee Committee Identies and quanties Internal Audit Assists the Chief Assists the Chief risks before and after Provides independent, Financial officer in Financial officer mitigation objective assurance the deployment of in discharging his to management and Executive Committees operational and responsibilities in to the Audit and Risk Executive staff investment capital respect of risk and Committee in respect controls within the of risk management, Independent oversight Group controls and governance processes Direct access to the Audit and Risk Committee The Board Committees are composed entirely of non-executive Directors of Schroders plc Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs037-044.
indd 41 13 03 2012 13:18 42 Corporate governance report continued Summary of Board meetings in 2011 The Board also received reports from the Chairmen The Chairman and the Chief Executive agree an of the Remuneration, Nominations and Audit and 18-month rolling programme of items for discussion, Risk Committees.
The Boards agendas covered: which is regularly reviewed and updated to ensure Private Banking, Property, Multi-Asset, key issues are considered in a timely manner.
the Americas and Asia Pacific: There were five Board meetings, including one in Asia The budget for 2012: when the Board reviewed the Groups Asia Pacific Board composition, diversity, evaluation and fees: businesses and strategy for the region.
At each of the Board meetings, the Chief Executive reported on the Operations and information technology: performance of the business including the core areas Risk matters including the Eurozone crisis of Investment, Distribution and Private Banking.
The and the ICAAP: and Board also considered investment performance at each meeting.
The Chief Financial Officer provided a Charitable giving in 2011 and proposals for 2012. review of the Groups financial results including the Groups investment capital, liquidity and the funding of the UK pension scheme.
Composition of the Board and Committees The table below outlines Directors Committee memberships, their attendance at Board meetings and independence during 2011.
Board meeting maximum Board Audit and possible meetings Nominations Risk Remuneration Position attendance attended Committee Committee Committee Independent Michael Miles Chairman 5 5 non-executive Chairman Michael Dobson Chief Executive 5 5 Alan Brown Chief Investment 5 5 Officer Philip Mallinckrodt Group Head of 5 5 Private Banking Kevin Parry Chief Financial 5 5 Officer Massimo Tosato Executive Vice 5 5 Chairman and Global Head of Distribution Ashley Almanza Non-executive 3 3 Director Andrew Beeson Senior 5 5 Independent Chairman Director Luc Bertrand Non-executive 5 5 Director Robin Buchanan Non-executive 5 5 Director Lord Howard Non-executive 5 5 Director Merlyn Lowther Non-executive 5 5 Director Chairman Bruno Schroder Non-executive 5 5 Director Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 43 Information provided to the Board The Chairman, Chief Executive Prior to each meeting reports and papers are and Senior Independent Director distributed to the Board.
In addition to Board papers, The Chairman is Michael Miles and he is responsible relevant information is circulated between meetings for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness, including information on financial performance, promoting a culture of openness and debate, and management changes, analysts commentaries on monitoring and evaluating the performance of the the Group and information on the competitive Chief Executive.
environment and the asset management industry Michael Dobson, as Chief Executive, is responsible generally.
Minutes of Group Management Committee for the executive management of the Group and its meetings are also circulated to the Board.
This includes recommending the Groups Executives below Board level are invited to present strategy to the Board.
on their areas of responsibility at Board meetings The Chairman and Chief Executive each have a role andother meetings such as Board briefing sessions.
description setting out their respective responsibilities.
Direct access to senior management is offered to all These were last reviewed and updated in 2010 as part Directors through such presentations.
of an overall governance review.
Minutes of Board Committee meetings are circulated Andrew Beeson is the Senior Independent Director to Directors.
and is available to discuss matters with the Chairman and with other Directors as necessary.
He provides shareholders with an alternative means of communication with the Board should they have concerns that cannot be resolved by discussions with the Chairman or executive Directors.
He also chairs the annual meeting of non-executive Directors at which the performance of the Chairman is reviewed.
indd 43 13 03 2012 00:49 44 Corporate governance report continued Board changes Members of the Group Management Committee Ashley Almanza was appointed to the Board on Michael Dobson Chief Executive 2 August 2011 and was therefore eligible to attend three Board meetings.
He will stand for election at the Geoff Blanning Head of Emerging forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Market Debt and Commodities Michael Miles and Alan Brown will step down from the Alan Brown Chief Investment Officer Board and Andrew Beeson will become Chairman at Karl Dasher Head of Fixed Income the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Jamie Dorrien-Smith Head of Americas Lester Gray Head of Asia Pacific Support to the Board Ken Lambden Head of Equities The Board Secretary is responsible for advising Philip Mallinckrodt Head of Private Banking and supporting the Chairman and the Board on Nico Marais Head of Multi-Asset corporate governance matters.
All Directors have Kevin Parry Chief Financial Officer access to the advice and services of the Board Secretary and can arrange through him to receive Markus Ruetimann Chief Operating Officer professional advice independently of the Company, Massimo Tosato Executive Vice at the Companys expense.
Chairman and Global Head of Distribution Responsibilities of the Management Committee John Troiano Head of Institutional The Chief Executive delegates specific responsibilities Business to members of the senior management team who Howard Trust General Counsel form the Group Management Committee.
This Committee generally meets fortnightly and is The Chief Executive has delegated responsibility chaired by the Chief Executive.
for managing the deployment of operational and investment capital and for managing the risk and The members of the Committee manage the dayto-day operations of the Group as well as supporting control framework within the Group to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Chief Financial Officer also theChief Executive in the delivery of his and the Boards priorities.
chairs the Group Risk Committee which supports him in his risk responsibilities.
More detail on this can be found in the Key risks and mitigations section of the Business review.
The Chief Financial Officer chairs the Group Capital Committee which supports him in his responsibilities for the management of regulatory, operational and investment capital in accordance with limits set by the Board.
The Group Capital Committee also reviews sufficiency of operational capital to enable the operating subsidiaries to comply with their regulatory and working capital requirements.
indd 44 13 03 2012 00:49 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 45 Key governance arrangements The following table summarises some of the key governance arrangements with respect to the Board, its membership and operations and how they developed in 2011: Provision Developments in 2011 Selection, appointment and removal of Following a thorough selection procedure, Ashley Directors, and service contracts Almanza was appointed as a non-executive Director Under the Companys Articles of Association the in August 2011.
Board has the power to appoint Directors.
The See also the Nominations Committee report Company may remove any Director by special No changes were made to the service contracts resolution.
In certain circumstances, Directors andletters of appointment in2011 except for the mayalso be removed by the Board.
increase in the annual fees payable to non-executive Executive Directors have service contracts and Directors.
non-executive Directors have letters of appointment.
See also the Remuneration Committee report Induction, continuing education and As part of his ongoing induction, Ashley Almanza development met with members of the Group Management New Directors undertake a personalised induction Committee, the Group heads of risk, internal audit, programme to familiarise them with their duties and compliance and human resources and the Groups the Groups businesses, operations, risks and external auditors.
Briefing sessions held in 2011 covered our joint To help facilitate informed Board discussions, briefing venture in China with Bank of Communications: sessions are held outside Board meetings to inform the Chinese economy: our Multi-asset business: Directors of developments in the asset management and our London office space requirements.
industry and on the Groups business and risk, Non-executive Directors also attended external regulatory and governance requirements.
courses relevant to their Board and Committee All Directors are asked to identify any specific responsibilities.
See also the summary of Board meetings in 2011 earlier in this report Election and re-election Ashley Almanza will stand for election at the 2012 The Articles of Association require that any Director Annual General Meeting.
appointed by the Board may only hold office until the This year Philip Mallinckrodt, Kevin Parry, Luc next Annual General Meeting.
Bertrand and Lord Howard will also, by rotation, Each Director must retire no later than the third Annual retire from the Board at the Annual General Meeting General Meeting following his or her last election or and offer themselves for re-election.
Under Schroders Corporate Bruno Schroder has been on the Board for over nine Governance Guidelines, if any Director has served years and will retire from the Board at the Annual for more than nine years, they are required to be General Meeting and offer himself for re-election.
The Board has considered carefully the provision of the UK Corporate Governance Code with respect to annual re-election of all Directors, and believes that this would not encourage a long-term view.
It has therefore decided not to require each Director to stand for re-election annually.
This will be kept under review.
As a major investor in UK companies we do not require the directors of the companies we invest in to stand for re-election annually.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs045-051.
indd 45 13 03 2012 13:24 46 Corporate governance report continued Provision Developments in 2011 Independence At the end of 2011, there were 13 Directors: the The UK Corporate Governance Code requires that Chairman, five executive Directors, six independent at least half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, non-executive Directors and one non-executive should comprise non-executive Directors Director who is not independent.
determined by the Board to be independent.
Bruno Schroder does not meet the test of independence under the UK Corporate Governance Code in view of his relationship with the principal shareholder group and because he has served on the Board for more than nine years.
The Board considers that he brings valuable experience to the Board and that he acts in the best interests of the Company.
Evaluation The Board conducted an internal evaluation of its A principle of the UK Corporate Governance Code effectiveness and of the principal Board Committees requires the Board to evaluate the performance of using a Schroders-specific questionnaire.
The theBoard, its Committees and the Directors annually.
questionnaire covered a number of areas including The Code also requires that this is externally strategy, Group performance, risk management and facilitatedevery three years.
The responses were analysed and the principal findings were considered by the Board in March 2012.
The performance of the Chief Executive was considered by the Chairmans Committee see below.
The outcome was discussed by the Chairman and the Chief Executive.
A meeting of the non-executive Directors, led by Andrew Beeson as Senior Independent Director, assessed the performance of the Chairman.
He subsequently discussed the review with the Chairman.
The Board intends to use an external facilitator to conduct the evaluation of its effectiveness in respect of 2012.
Diversity The Board considered the Davies Report on The Financial Reporting Council published Feedback Diversity carefully.
It believes in the value and Statement: Gender Diversity on Boards in October importance of diversity in the boardroom and 2011.
It intends to make changes to the UK Corporate throughout the Group but it does not consider Governance Code in line with the recommendations that it is appropriate or in the interests of the of the Davies Report.
Company and its shareholders to set prescriptive targets for gender or nationality on the Board.
See also the Nominations Committee report Time commitment The Board considers the time commitment of all Non-executive Directors are expected to allocate non-executive Directors standing for re-election.
sufficient time to discharge their responsibilities The Board is satisfied that each devoted sufficient effectively.
time to discharge their responsibilities in 2011.
Chairmans committee The Chairman and non-executive Directors met Under the UK Corporate Governance Code, the on three occasions prior to Board meetings.
They Chairman is required to hold meetings with the discussed Board performance, succession planning non-executive Directors without the executive and strategy.
The Chairman may invite the Chief Directors present.
Executive to attend such meetings, and in 2011 he attended on three occasions.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 47 Provision Developments in 2011 External appointments and conflicts of interest None of the executive Directors took up appointments The Board believes that by holding external within any listed entities during the year.
appointments executive Directors and other Robin Buchanan joined the boards of Michael Page employees can benefit the Group through broadening International plc and LyondellBasell Industries N. V. their skills, experience and expertise.
and Merlyn Lowther joined the board of The The Board has a policy on external appointments Co-operative Bank plc during the year.
which allows executive Directors to take on nonA register of disclosed conflicts is maintained and executive directorships.
Directors and employees are reviewed annually by the Board.
Any actual or usually permitted to retain any fees paid in respect of potential conflicts that arise during the year are such appointments.
considered by the Board at the next Board meeting.
Non-executive Directors are required to notify the None of the Directors had an interest in any significant Chairman before taking on any additional contract with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, appointments.
either during or at the end of the year.
In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and See also the Directors profiles Schroders conflicts of interest policy, all Directors must disclose both the nature and extent of any potential or actual conflicts with the interests of the Company.
Indemnities and insurance An indemnity was issued to Ashley Almanza following At the 2007 Annual General Meeting, shareholders his appointment to the Board in August 2011. authorised the Company to provide indemnities to The adequacy of the Directors and Officers Liability Directors in certain circumstances and to fund Insurance is reviewed annually by the Audit and Risk defence costs.
The insurance was renewed in 2011 and All Directors at the time shareholder approval was also covers the directors and officers of subsidiary received were granted specific deeds of indemnity companies.
and any Director appointed subsequently has been granted such an indemnity.
On their appointment, new Directors are granted an indemnity as defined in the Companies Act 2006 in respect of any third party liabilities which they may incur as a result of their service on the Board.
Directors and Officers Liability Insurance is maintained by the Company for all Directors.
indd 47 13 03 2012 00:53 48 Corporate governance report continued Risk management and internal controls In addition to information received from the Audit and Risk Committee, the Board reviewed the Groups key The Board, supported by the Audit and Risk Committee, is accountable for risk and is responsible risks, risk management framework and governance arrangements and is of the view that the control for the oversight of the risk management process, theGroups system of internal controls and for processes for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant risks have been in place reviewing the effectiveness of those controls.
These responsibilities do not extend to the Groups joint throughout the year and also up to the date of this report and that they comply with the Financial ventures and associates.
Such a system can provide only reasonable and not absolute assurance against Reporting Councils revised guidance for directors on internal controls.
The Board also considers that these material financial misstatement or loss and is designed to mitigate, not eliminate, risk.
processes ensure necessary actions have or are being taken to remedy any significant failings identified On behalf of the Board, the Audit and Risk as part of the ongoing risk management processes.
Committee carried out the annual assessment of the effectiveness of internal controls during 2011, Capital structure and voting rights including those related to the financial reporting The Companys share capital is comprised of ordinary process.
In undertaking its assessment the shares of 1 each and non-voting ordinary shares Committee considered a number of reports including of 1 each.
There are no other securities in issue.
reports on presentational and judgemental issues, accounting developments and policies, quarterly The Company has no authority either to issue reports from the Group heads of compliance, risk, or repurchase any ordinary shares and the number internal audit and the General Counsel as well as of ordinary shares in issue was 226,022,400 consideration of the ICAAP.
The Committee also received a report from the Head The non-voting share class was created in 1986 to of Financial Reporting confirming the operation of the facilitate the operation of an employee share option controls over the financial reporting process including plan without diluting the voting rights of ordinary the Groups consolidated accounts.
The non-voting ordinary shares carry financial reporting control framework including the the same rights as ordinary shares except that they operation of Group-wide general ledger and donot confer the right to attend and vote at any consolidation information technology systems and general meeting of the Company, and that on a preventative and detective controls which include capitalisation issue they carry the right to receive nonautomated system controls on high volume, low value voting ordinary shares rather than ordinary shares.
Key controls in finance are tested regularly by Group Internal Audit.
The Audit and Risk Committee considered the report as well as key financial reporting risks, including risks arising from changes in the business and accounting standards.
indd 48 13 03 2012 00:53 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 49 When the non-voting ordinary share class was At the start of the year there were 64,425,731 created, there was a ratio of four ordinary shares non-voting ordinary shares in issue, of which to one non-voting ordinary share.
Since 1986, the 3,770,277 were held in treasury.
During the year Company has at times issued additional non-voting 474,430 non-voting ordinary shares were issued ordinary shares, principally as a result of the exercise and5,179,131 were repurchased by the Company.
of awards made under the Groups share and share The repurchases represented 8.0 per cent.
The Company did not intend to increase theissued non-voting ordinary share capital and the issued non-voting ordinary share capital over the theaggregate amount of consideration paid was medium term as a result of awards under share and 67,054,669.65.
Ofthe shares repurchased, 3,165,855 share option plans.
Therefore the Company has, at were purchased into treasury and 2,013,276 were times, undertaken repurchases of non-voting ordinary cancelled immediately.
The Company cancelled a shares to eliminate the increase in shares in issue further 6,381,285 shares held in treasury.
The result arising from shares issued and to neutralise the ofthese transactions was that as at 31 December dilutive effect of expected future issues of non-voting 2011 56,505,600 non-voting ordinary shares were in ordinary shares.
A resolution has been put to issue, of which 554,847 were held in treasury, and the shareholders each year to authorise the Directors to ratio of ordinary shares to non-voting ordinary shares undertake such repurchases.
At the 2011 Annual in issue was four to one.
General Meeting shareholders gave approval for the Since 31 December 2011, 83,750 non-voting ordinary Company to purchase up to 14,300,000 non-voting shares have been issued under the Groups share ordinary shares.
A similar resolution will be proposed option plans, the corresponding number of shares held to shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
in treasury were cancelled and therefore as at the date Also at the last Annual General Meeting, shareholders of this report 56,505,600 non-voting ordinary shares renewed the Directors general authority to issue nonwere in issue, of which 471,097 remain in treasury.
voting ordinary shares up to an aggregate nominal Under the terms of the Schroders Employee Benefit value of 5,000,000 for the purposes of providing the Trust the trustee may vote or abstain from voting, or Directors with the flexibility to make limited issues of accept any offer relating to shares, in any way it thinks non-voting ordinary shares or to grant rights to fit.
In so doing, it may take into account both financial subscribe for, or convert securities into, non-voting and non-financial interests of the beneficiaries and their ordinary shares.
Renewal of this authority will be dependents.
Under the terms of the Share Incentive sought at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Plan, for which more detail can be found in the Remuneration report, shares are held in trust on behalf of participants.
The trustee can exercise the voting rights in respect of the participants share entitlements but can only do so at the participants direction.
indd 49 13 03 2012 00:53 50 Corporate governance report continued Shareholder relations The Annual General Meeting provides shareholders The Company maintains relationships with with an opportunity to question the Chairman, the shareholders through a continuing programme of Chairmen of the Boards Committees and the other presentations and meetings to inform institutional Directors.
The Chief Executive uses this opportunity investors, analysts and prospective shareholders to give a review of the Groups performance and to attended by the Chief Executive, Chief Financial inform shareholders of the results for the first quarter.
Officer and other senior executives.
Further The Annual Report and Accounts and the Notice of information is provided through announcement of Annual General Meeting are sent, or made available significant developments, financial statements and at on our website, to shareholders at least 20 working the Annual General Meeting.
Corporate information days prior to the meeting being held.
for potential shareholders and webcasts of all interim and final results can be found on our website at Substantial shareholdings www.
As at the date of this report, the Company has received notifications, in accordance with the FSAs The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director Disclosure and Transparency Rule 5.1.
2 R, of interests are available to meet with shareholders.
Feedback in three per cent.
or more of the voting rights attaching from shareholders is reported to the Board by the to the Companys issued share capital, as set out in Chairman, the Chief Executive, the Chief Financial the table below.
Officer and the Senior Independent Director as appropriate.
Voting rights attached to shares No.
of voting % of voting Class of rights held rights held Notifier shares indirectly indirectly Vincitas Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 Veritas Limited Ordinary 39,218,470 17.35 # Flavida Limited Ordinary 60,951,886 26.97 # Fervida Limited Ordinary 40,188,706 17.78 Harris Associates L. P. Ordinary 11,369,900 5.03 Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited act as trustees of certain settlements made by members of the Schroder family.
# The interests of Flavida Limited and Fervida Limited include interests in voting rights in respect of all the shares in which Vincitas Limited and Veritas Limited are interested as trustees.
indd 50 13 03 2012 15:11 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 51 Amendments to Articles of Association Unless expressly specified to the contrary in them, the Companys Articles of Association may be amended by special resolution of the Companys shareholders.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code Throughout the year, the Company complied with allprovisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which can be found on the Financial Reporting Councils website, except that Directors are not re-elected annually and that, for part of the year, less than half of the Board, excluding the Chairman, comprised independent non-executive Directors.
Ashley Almanza joined the Board on 2 August 2011 and since that date the Company has complied with the Code in respect of the proportion of independent Directors on the Board.
The Board will continue to be in compliance with this provision after Michael Miles and Alan Brown step down from the Board at the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
