52 Nominations Committee report Our focus this year has been on Board composition Composition of the Committee and succession.
All non-executive Directors are members of the Committee.
The current composition and attendance Ashley Almanza joined the Board and the Audit and by Committee members during the year is set out in Risk Committee and the Nominations Committee on the table below: 2 August 2011.
I am sure that he will make a valuable Maximum contribution to the Boards discussions, and his possible Meetings experience as Chief Financial Officer of a major listed attendance attended company has further strengthened our Board and the Michael Miles Chairman 4 4 Audit and Risk Committee.
Ashley Almanza 3 3 Andrew Beeson 4 4 Andrew Beeson will succeed me as Chairman of the Luc Bertrand 4 2 Company and of the Nominations Committee at the Robin Buchanan 4 3 conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
The Lord Howard 4 3 Committee and the Board were unanimous in their Merlyn Lowther 4 4 support for Andrew taking on this important role.
Bruno Schroder 4 4 Andrew joined the Board in 2004 and has a good understanding of our business and I am sure will At the conclusion of the 2012 Annual General Meeting, Andrew Beeson will succeed Michael Miles as Chairman of the Committee.
discharge his new roles well.
The Chief Executive is usually invited to attend Michael Miles Committee meetings.
Chairman, Nominations Committee Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs052-057.
indd 52 13 03 2012 13:53 Overview Strategy Business review Governance Financial report Shareholder information 53 Responsibilities of the Committee The Committee recommended Andrew Beeson given his business experience and knowledge of the Group Proposing appointments to the Board and recommending any other changes to the Board since he joined the Board in 2004 and his time as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee and the and its Committees fall within the responsibilities of the Committee.
Other responsibilities include: Remuneration Committee.
He has been the Senior Independent Director since 2010.
The Board was Reviewing the size and composition of the Board satisfied that he has sufficient time to commit to his and its Committees: responsibilities as Chairman.
Making recommendations to the Board with As a consequence of Andrew Beesons appointment respect to the role, capabilities and time as Chairman, other changes were proposed to, and commitment for each appointment, giving due agreed by, the Board.
These were: consideration to the balance of skills, experience and knowledge on the Board and the benefits Luc Bertrand to become the Senior Independent Director: of diversity: The procedure for the appointment of new Lord Howard to become the Chairman of the Directors: Remuneration Committee and to join the Audit and Risk Committee: and Selecting and interviewing potential candidates for appointment to the Board and its Committees, Ashley Almanza to join the Remuneration Committee.
for recommendation to the Board: Identifying and recommending suitable candidates These changes take effect from the conclusion of for the roles of Chairman and Senior Independent the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
Director: The Committee also considered diversity in light Developing and recommending appropriate criteria of the Davies Report issued in February 2011.
The Nominations Committee considers diversity, for Director independence: including the balance of skills, experience, gender Ensuring that plans are in place for orderly executive and nationality, amongst many other factors when and non-executive succession to the Board: reviewing the appointment of new Directors.
Periodically reviewing the terms of appointment for The Committee reviewed the non-executive Directors non-executive Directors: and standing for re-election at the Annual General Conducting an annual review of the Committees Meeting, taking into account the effectiveness and performance, periodically reviewing the adequacy commitment of those Directors.
The Committee also of its terms of reference and recommending any reviewed the independence of the non-executive changes to the Board.
Directors and concluded that all were independent other than Bruno Schroder.
The terms of reference were last updated in September 2010 following the introduction of the UK Support Corporate Governance Code.
The Committees terms The Committee received information and support of reference are available at www.
com ir from management during the year to enable it to carry or from the Company Secretary.
out its duties and responsibilities effectively.
The Committee has the right to appoint external advisers, Report on the Committees activities where it believes that to be appropriate, and to seek The principal activities in 2011 were the any information that it requires from any officer or recommended appointment of Ashley Almanza to the employee of the Group.
The Committee used the Board, a review of the process for selecting new nonservices of external recruitment consultants, executive Directors, and the selection of a successor Blackwood Group, during the year which, after careful to Michael Miles and the consequent changes to the consideration of the candidates and interviews with composition of the Board Committees.
many of the Directors, resulted in the appointment The Committee considered the successor to of Ashley Almanza to the Board.
MichaelMiles as Chairman of the Board during 2011, and proposed the appointment of Andrew Beeson Michael Miles asChairman to the Board in March 2012.
The Chairman, Nominations Committee Committees and the Boards preference was for 7 March 2012 thenew Chairman to be an existing independent non-executive Director in order to provide continuity.
Accordingly, neither an external recruitment consultant nor open advertising was appropriate.
Schroders | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58205 TEXT pgs052-057.
