DIRECTORS REPORT All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing Terms of Appointment levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities formal letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment are that are readily realisable.
available for inspection on request.
Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a Employees Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek The Company has no employees.
election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Social and Community Issues Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or once every three years and Directors who have served for more community responsibilities.
The Company, however, believes that than nine years offer themselves for re-election annually.
it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social Independence of Directors and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship that can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr JPHS Scott and Mr WG McQueen, who have served on the Corporate Governance Board for more than nine years, offer themselves for re-election The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high annually.
This statement outlines how the The Directors recognise the value of progressive refreshing of, principles of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance and succession planning for, company boards and the Boards published in 2008, the Combined Code and the AIC Code of composition is reviewed annually.
However, the Board is of the Corporate Governance the AIC Code were applied throughout view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the the financial year.
independence or contribution of directors of an investment trust Compliance company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the the board.
The Board concurs with the view expressed in the AIC year under review with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from Code except that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the being considered as independent.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded Mr JPHS Scott to be a member of the Committee as he is considered that, notwithstanding their length of service, Mr JPHS Scott and Mr to be independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
WG McQueen continue to demonstrate independence of character The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for investment and judgement and their skills and experience are a benefit to the companies.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company has Board.
complied with the principles of the AIC Code.
Meetings The Board There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, treasury dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties meeting devoted to strategy is held each year.
The table below shows the attendance record for the reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue Board and Committee Meetings held during the year.
The Annual budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided General Meeting was attended by all Directors serving at that date.
to the Board to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Directors Attendance at Meetings The Board comprises five Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
Audit Nomination The executive responsibility for investment management has been Board Committee Committee delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford Number of meetings 6 2 2 & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Mr MM Gray is the JPHS Scott 6 2 2 Senior Independent Director.
MM Gray 6 2 2 The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and Professor JA Kay 5 2 2 experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and FC McBain 5 1 2 proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, WG McQueen 6 2 2 including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 6 and 7.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
22 ANNUAL REPORT 2011 DIRECTORS REPORT Nomination Committee The Directors confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of the system and they have procedures in place to review its effectiveness The Nomination Committee consists of the independent non-executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board is Chairman of the on a regular basis.
No significant weaknesses were identified in the year under review.
The Committee meets on an annual basis and at such other times as may be required.
The Committee has written The practical measures to ensure compliance with regulation and terms of reference which include reviewing the Board, identifying company law, and to provide effective and efficient operations and and nominating new candidates for appointment to the Board, investment management, have been delegated to the Managers and Board appraisal, succession planning and training.
The Committee Secretaries, Baillie Gifford & Co, under the terms of the also considers whether Directors should be recommended for Management Agreement.
The practical measures in relation to the re-election by shareholders.
The Committee is responsible for design, implementation and maintenance of control policies and considering Directors potential conflicts of interest and for making procedures to safeguard the assets of the Company and to manage recommendations to the Board on whether or not the potential its affairs properly, including the maintenance of effective operational conflicts should be authorised.
The terms of reference are available and compliance controls and risk management have also been on request from the Company and on the Companys website: delegated to Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Board acknowledges its www.
responsibilities to supervise and control the discharge by the Managers and Secretaries of their obligations.
Performance Evaluation The Nomination Committee met to assess the performance of the The Baillie Gifford & Co heads of Business Risk & Internal Audit and Chairman, each Director, the Board as a whole and its Committees.
Regulatory Risk provide the Board with regular reports on Baillie Prior to the meeting each Director completed an evaluation form Gifford & Cos monitoring programmes.
The reporting procedures which they discussed individually with the Chairman.
The appraisal for these departments are defined and formalised within a service of the Chairman was led by Mr MM Gray.
Baillie Gifford & Co conduct an annual review of their system of internal controls which is documented within an The appraisals considered, amongst other criteria, the balance of internal controls report which complies with Technical Release skills of the Board, the contribution of individual Directors, the overall AAF 01 06 Assurance Reports on Internal Controls of Service competency and effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and Organisations made available to Third Parties.
This report is the continuing professional development undertaken by Directors independently reviewed by Baillie Gifford & Cos auditor and during the year.
Following this process it was concluded that the a copy is submitted to the Board.
performance of each Director, the Chairman, the Board and its Committees continues to be effective and each Director and the The Companys investments are segregated from those of Baillie Chairman remains committed to the Company.
Gifford & Co and their other clients through the appointment of The Bank of New York Mellon as independent custodian of the A review of the Chairmans and other Directors commitments was Companys investments.
carried out and the Nomination Committee is satisfied that they are capable of devoting sufficient time to the Company.
There were A detailed risk map is prepared which identifies the significant risks no significant changes to the Chairmans other commitments during faced by the Company and the key controls employed to manage the year.
Induction and Training These procedures ensure that consideration is given regularly to the New Directors are provided with an induction programme which is nature and extent of the risks facing the Company and that they are tailored to the particular circumstances of the appointee.
Where changes in risk have been briefings are provided on changes in regulatory requirements that identified during the year they also provide a mechanism to assess could affect the Company and Directors.
The Directors receive other whether further action is required to manage the risks identified.
Board confirms that these procedures have been in place throughout the Companys financial year and continue to be in place up to the Remuneration date of approval of this Report.
As all the Directors are non-executive, there is no requirement for a separate remuneration committee.
Directors fees are considered by Internal Audit the Board as a whole within the limits approved by shareholders.
The Audit Committee carries out an annual review of the need for an The Companys policy on remuneration is set out in the Directors internal audit function.
The Committee continues to believe that the Remuneration Report on pages 28 and 29. compliance and internal control systems and the internal audit function in place within the Managers and Secretaries provide Internal Controls and Risk Management sufficient assurance that a sound system of internal control, which The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Companys safeguards shareholders investment and the Companys assets, system of internal controls and for reviewing its effectiveness.
An internal audit function, specific to the Company, The system of internal controls is designed to manage rather than is therefore considered unnecessary.
eliminate risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Accountability and Audit The respective responsibilities of the Directors and the Auditor in The Board confirms that there is a process for identifying, evaluating connection with the Financial Statements are set out on pages 30 and managing the significant risks faced by the Company in and 31. accordance with the guidance Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code.
SCOTTISH MORTGAGE INVESTMENT TRUST PLC 23 DIRECTORS REPORT Going Concern been in place for 5 years.
Accordingly, a new lead audit partner has been appointed for next year.
There are no contractual In accordance with the Financial Reporting Councils guidance on going concern and liquidity risk, the Directors have undertaken a obligations restricting the Companys choice of external auditor.
rigorous review of the Companys ability to continue as a going The Committee receives confirmation from the auditor that they have concern.
The Companys principal risks are market related and complied with the relevant UK professional and regulatory include market risk, liquidity risk and credit risk.
An explanation of requirements on independence.
Non-audit fees for the year to these risks and how they are managed is contained in note 22 to 31 March 2011 were 620 and related to the certification of the financial statements.
financial information for the debenture trustees.
The Committee does not believe that this has impaired the Auditors independence.
The Companys assets, the majority of which are investments in quoted securities which are readily realisable, exceed its liabilities significantly.
Relations with Shareholders The Board approves borrowing limits and reviews regularly the The Board places great importance on communication with amount of any borrowings and compliance with banking covenants.
The Companys Managers meet regularly with The US$99 million loan from The Bank of New York Mellon has been institutional shareholders and report shareholders views to the renewed for a further year, the 100 million multi-currency loan from Board.
The Chairman is available to meet with shareholders as ING N. V. was replaced with a one year 100 million multi-currency appropriate.
Shareholders wishing to communicate with any loan facility from Lloyds TSB Bank plc and a two year 61 million members of the Board may do so by writing to them at the facility was arranged with The Royal Bank of Scotland plc.
Accordingly, the financial statements have been prepared on the The Companys Annual General Meeting provides a forum for going concern basis as it is the Directors opinion that the Company communication with all shareholders.
The level of proxies lodged for will continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
each resolution is announced at the Meeting and is published on the Audit Committee Companys website: www.
com subsequent to An Audit Committee has been established consisting of all Directors.
The notice period for the Annual General Meeting is at Its authority and duties are clearly defined within its written terms of least twenty working days.
reference, which are available on request from the Company and Shareholders and potential investors may obtain up-to-date information on the Companys website: www.
As the on the Companys website: www.
Board believes that Mr JPHS Scott is independent and that there are no conflicts of interest, the Board considers it appropriate for Corporate Governance and Stewardship Mr JPHS Scott to be a member of the Audit Committee.
Mr WG The Company has given discretionary voting powers to the McQueen is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Committees Investment Managers, Baillie Gifford & Co.
The Managers vote responsibilities which were discharged during the year include: against resolutions they consider may damage shareholders rights or economic interests.
monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the half-yearly and annual financial statements and any formal announcements The Company believes that it is in the shareholders interests to relating to the Companys financial performance: consider environmental, social and governance ESG factors when selecting and retaining investments and have asked the Managers to reviewing standards of internal control and risk management: take these issues into account as long as the investment objectives are making recommendations to the Board in relation to the not compromised.
The Managers do not exclude companies from their appointment of the external auditor and approving the investment universe purely on the grounds of ESG factors but adopt a remuneration and terms of their engagement: positive engagement approach whereby matters are discussed with developing and implementing policy on the engagement management with the aim of improving the relevant policies and of the external auditor to supply non-audit services: management systems and enabling the Managers to consider how ESG factors could impact long term investment returns.
The Managers reviewing and monitoring the independence, objectivity and Statement of Compliance with the UK Stewardship Code can be effectiveness of the external auditor: found on the Managers website at www.
The reviewing the arrangements in place within Baillie Gifford & Managers policy has been reviewed and endorsed by the Board.
Co whereby its staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about The Managers are signatories of the United Nations Principles for possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other Responsible Investment and the Carbon Disclosure Project.
matters insofar as they may affect the Company: Conflicts of Interest reviewing the terms of the Investment Management Agreement: Each Director submits a list of potential conflicts of interest to the and Nomination Committee on an annual basis.
The Committee considering annually whether there is a need for the Company considers these carefully, taking into account the circumstances to have its own internal audit function.
surrounding them, and makes a recommendation to the Board KPMG Audit Plc are engaged as the Companys Auditor.
Having on whether or not the potential conflicts should be authorised.
considered the experience and tenure of the audit partner and staff Board authorisation is for a period of one year.
Having considered and the nature of services provided, the Committee remains satisfied the lists of potential conflicts there were no situations which gave with the Auditors effectiveness.
The audit partners responsible for the rise to a direct or indirect interest of a Director which conflicted audit are rotated every 5 years and the current lead partner has with the interests of the Company.
