DIRECTORS REPORT All borrowings require the prior approval of the Board and gearing Terms of Appointment levels are discussed by the Board and Managers at every meeting.
The terms and conditions of Directors appointments are set out in The majority of the Companys investments are in quoted securities formal letters of appointment.
The letters of appointment are that are readily realisable.
available for inspection on request.
Under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, a Employees Director appointed during the year is required to retire and seek The Company has no employees.
election by shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting.
Social and Community Issues Directors are required to submit themselves for re-election at least As an investment trust, the Company has no direct social or once every three years and Directors who have served for more community responsibilities.
The Company, however, believes that than nine years offer themselves for re-election annually.
it is in the shareholders interests to consider environmental, social Independence of Directors and governance factors when selecting and retaining investments.
All the Directors are considered by the Board to be independent Details of the Companys policy on socially responsible investment of the Managers and free of any business or other relationship that can be found under Corporate Governance and Stewardship on could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
Mr JPHS Scott and Mr WG McQueen, who have served on the Corporate Governance Board for more than nine years, offer themselves for re-election The Board is committed to achieving and demonstrating high annually.
This statement outlines how the The Directors recognise the value of progressive refreshing of, principles of The Combined Code on Corporate Governance and succession planning for, company boards and the Boards published in 2008, the Combined Code and the AIC Code of composition is reviewed annually.
However, the Board is of the Corporate Governance the AIC Code were applied throughout view that length of service will not necessarily compromise the the financial year.
independence or contribution of directors of an investment trust Compliance company, where continuity and experience can be a benefit to The Board confirms that the Company has complied throughout the the board.
The Board concurs with the view expressed in the AIC year under review with the relevant provisions of the Combined Code that long-serving Directors should not be prevented from Code except that the Chairman of the Board is a member of the being considered as independent.
The Board believes it is appropriate for Following formal performance evaluation, the Board has concluded Mr JPHS Scott to be a member of the Committee as he is considered that, notwithstanding their length of service, Mr JPHS Scott and Mr to be independent and there are no conflicts of interest.
WG McQueen continue to demonstrate independence of character The AIC Code provides a framework of best practice for investment and judgement and their skills and experience are a benefit to the companies.
The Board is of the opinion that the Company has Board.
complied with the principles of the AIC Code.
Meetings The Board There is an annual cycle of Board meetings which is designed to The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys affairs.
It has address, in a systematic way, overall strategy, review of investment a number of matters reserved for its approval including strategy, policy, investment performance, marketing, revenue budgets, investment policy, currency hedging, borrowings, gearing, treasury dividend policy and communication with shareholders.
The Board matters, dividend and corporate governance policy.
A separate considers that it meets sufficiently regularly to discharge its duties meeting devoted to strategy is held each year.
The table below shows the attendance record for the reviews the financial statements, investment transactions, revenue Board and Committee Meetings held during the year.
The Annual budgets and performance.
Full and timely information is provided General Meeting was attended by all Directors serving at that date.
to the Board to enable the Board to function effectively and to allow Directors to discharge their responsibilities.
Directors Attendance at Meetings The Board comprises five Directors, all of whom are non-executive.
Audit Nomination The executive responsibility for investment management has been Board Committee Committee delegated to the Companys Managers and Secretaries, Baillie Gifford Number of meetings 6 2 2 & Co, and, in the context of a Board comprising only non-executive Directors, there is no chief executive officer.
Mr MM Gray is the JPHS Scott 6 2 2 Senior Independent Director.
MM Gray 6 2 2 The Directors believe that the Board has a balance of skills and Professor JA Kay 5 2 2 experience that enables it to provide effective strategic leadership and FC McBain 5 1 2 proper governance of the Company.
Information about the Directors, WG McQueen 6 2 2 including their relevant experience, can be found on pages 6 and 7.
There is an agreed procedure for Directors to seek independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
