Corporate Governance Report This report explains the approach the Company has taken to apply The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for it the principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate and its primary responsibilities include: Governance Code.
determining the overall strategy of the Company: St. Jamess Place is committed to high standards of Corporate ensuring that the Companys operations are well-managed and Governance and supports the principles set out in the UK Corporate proper succession plans are in place: Governance Code the Code.
The Listing Rules require UK listed reviewing major transactions or initiatives proposed by the companies to state whether they have complied with the provisions of Executive Directors: the Code during the year.
The Board considers that the Company has implementing appropriate Corporate Governance procedures: achieved compliance with all of the provisions of the Code periodically reviewing the results and operations of the Company: throughout the financial year.
Details of how the Company has ensuring that proper accounting records are maintained and applied the principles of the Code are set out in this report.
Details of adequate controls are in place to safeguard the assets of the how the Company has applied the principles of the Code relating to Company from fraud and other significant risks: remuneration are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 67 identifying and managing risk: and and 68. deciding the Companys policy on charitable and political donations.
Information relating to substantial shareholdings, restrictions on voting rights, powers of the Directors, appointment of Directors and Operational matters are delegated to management via the Boards the authority to purchase own shares are disclosed within the Executive Committee, comprising the Executive Directors of the Directors Report on pages 52 and 53.
The fundamental elements of Board and internally referred to as the Executive Board.
The the Companys business model are set out within the Business Executive Board is responsible for implementing the Groups business Review on pages 4 and 12. plan objectives, ensuring that the necessary resources are put in place to achieve those objectives and managing the day-to-day operational The Board business of the Group.
The Board of Directors is responsible for providing entrepreneurial leadership and direction to the Company and agrees the Companys A copy of the schedule of matters reserved for the Board and the strategic aims, vision and values.
The Board also aims to ensure that terms of reference of the Executive Board can be found on the adequate controls are in place and the necessary financial and human corporate website at www.
resources to deliver value to shareholders and the wider community of individuals and organisations which benefit from the Companys The Company maintains a Board control manual which sets out the activities.
primary policy and decision-making mechanisms within the Company.
The manual includes the terms of reference for the various There were six formal Board meetings during the year, plus an sub-Committees of the Board, the Companys risk policies and risk additional all-day strategy meeting.
A table detailing the Directors appetite statement.
In addition, detailed job descriptions for each attendance at Board meetings can be found on page 59.
Executive and subsidiary Director are included, as well as a general job description outlining the responsibilities of the Non-executive In advance of each meeting, all members of the Board are supplied Directors.
The Board control manual is updated by the Company with an agenda and pack containing reports on current trading, Secretary and approved by the Audit Committee on an annual basis.
operational issues, compliance, risk, accounting and financial matters.
The Chairmen of the various sub-Committees of the Board The Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive also report to the Board at each Board meeting and copies of The division of responsibilities between the Chairman of the Board, Committee meeting minutes are included in Board packs, for CharlesGregson, and the Chief Executive, David Bellamy, are clearly information purposes.
No single Director has unfettered powers of decision-making.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for ensuring the continued effectiveness of the Board and for setting its agenda so that adequate time is available for substantive discussion on strategic issues.
The Chairman also promotes effective communication between the Executive and Non-executive Directors and with shareholders generally.
The Chief Executives primary responsibility is to manage the Company via the executive management team and implement the strategies adopted by theBoard.
56 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Corporate Governance The Senior Independent Director During the year, the outgoing Chairman and the Company Secretary SarahBates is the Senior Independent Director, having succeeded reviewed the induction process for new appointments to the Board, MichaelSorkin in January 2012 following Michael Sorkins as well as the continuing professional development needs of all retirement from the Board.
The Senior Independent Director acts as Directors.
Ongoing training was reviewed and agreed by the a sounding board and confidante for the Non-executive Directors.
Chairman and Company Secretary for all Directors during the year Sarah is available to meet with shareholders on request and to ensure following individual discussions with each Director, taking account that the Board is aware of shareholder concerns not resolved through of their roles and responsibilities on Board committees.
In addition, the existing mechanisms for investor communication.
ad hoc training was set up in the year to deal with individual requests and the Non-executive Directors are able to attend seminars or Directors and Directors Independence conferences which they consider will assist them in carrying out their The Board currently consists of a Non-executive Chairman, four duties.
Non-executive Directors are briefed on the views of major Executive Directors, five independent Non-executive Directors and shareholders at Board meetings and have an opportunity to meet one non-independent, Non-executive Director, being Steve Colsell, with shareholders, as necessary.
who was nominated by the Companys largest shareholder, Lloyds Banking Group plc.
Biographical details of all the Directors can be Mike Wilson, the outgoing Chairman, met with Charles Gregson found on pages 50 and 51.
The terms and conditions of appointment many times during the period leading up to the end of 2011, so that of the Non-executive Directors are available on request and will be Charles Gregson was able to take over the Chairmans role fully available for inspection at the Annual General Meeting in May 2012. briefed at the start of 2012.
The Chairman is a Non-executive Director and was deemed independent on appointment in 2010.
Directors are regularly updated on their duties and responsibilities and have access to the advice of the Company Secretary, as well as MichaelSorkin and DerekNetherton resigned from the Board on independent professional advice where needed in furtherance of their 31December2011.
VivianBazalgette and Iain Cornish joined the duties.
Further training is made available, as necessary, to ensure that Board as independent Non-executive Directors with effect from the whole Board is kept abreast of relevant developments such as 1July2011 and 1October 2011 respectively.
CharlesGregson was regulatory changes applicable to their roles.
Topical issues are appointed as Non-executive Chairman on 1January2012, following addressed prior to each Board meeting.
During 2011, the Company the resignation of former Executive Chairman, Mike Wilson, who Secretary and other senior executives updated the Board on an array resigned from the Board on 31December2011.
of pertinent topics such as the changes being brought into force by the FSAs Retail Distribution Review and the proposed Solvency II The quality of individual Directors and the Boards overall requirements.
The Board also received a presentation by the FSAs composition is a key contributor to the Boards effectiveness.
Committee membership is reviewed annually to ensure skills are refreshed over time.
The Board is satisfied that all Directors have Succession Planning sufficient time to devote to their roles.
The Board recognises that succession risk can be mitigated through well-informed decisions being made at the appropriate time.
The When determining whether a Non-executive Director is appointment of Vivian Bazalgette and Iain Cornish represented a independent, the Board considers each individual against the criteria further step in the ongoing development and succession of the Board.
set out in the Code and also considers how they conduct themselves The Nomination Committee focused in 2011 on identifying, in Board meetings, including how they exercise judgement and assessing and nominating candidates to succeed Derek Netherton and independent thinking.
Michael Sorkin as independent Non-executive Directors.
Taking the above into account, the Board believes that Derek When Vivian Bazalgette was appointed as a Non-executive Director Netherton and Michael Sorkin continued to demonstrate their in July 2011, his suitability had been assessed since joining the independence throughout the year.
As noted above, they ceased to be Investment Committee as an independent member in January 2010.
Directors at the end of the year.
As a result of this assessment, the Nomination Committee recognised that Mr Bazalgette had the experience and qualities Induction and Continuing Professional Development required to succeed Sir Mark Weinberg as Chairman of the On joining the Board, an appropriate induction programme is set up Investment Committee and join the Board as a Non-executive to enable the new Director to meet senior management, understand Director.
Vivian Bazalgette was appointed Chairman of the the business and future strategy, the main risks potentially affecting Investment Committee and joined the Board in July 2011. the Group, visit office locations and speak directly to Partners and staff around the country.
57 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued Following an assessment of the skills and experience required for the Board going forward, the Nomination Committee began the search for potential non-executives with recent relevant senior management experience in the financial services industry.
As a result, Iain Cornish was identified as a suitable candidate and, following several interviews with members of the Board and the Nomination Committee, was appointed to the Board in October 2011.
As a result of Iain Cornishs previous roles as Chief Executive of Yorkshire Building Society and Chairman of the FSA Practitioner Panel, the Board considered that Iains wide experience would enhance the effectiveness of the Board and its committees, particularly following the planned retirements of Derek Netherton and Michael Sorkin.
Towards the end of 2011, the Nomination Committee identified Baroness Wheatcroft as a further candidate to join the Board as an independent Non-executive Director, with the help of an external search consultancy.
Following interviews with the members of the Nomination Committee and the Executive Directors, the Board resolved, in February 2012, to appoint Baroness Wheatcroft as a Non-executive Director, with effect from 2 April 2012.
It was also announced that RogerWalsom would be stepping down from the Board at the AGM in May2012.
The Board believes that Baroness Wheatcrofts extensive business and media experience will further enhance the skills and diversity of the Board.
Board Evaluation As stated in the Annual Report for 2010, the Board committed to undertaking externally-led evaluations every three years in accordance with the new UK Corporate Governance Code and the first such evaluation was carried out in 2011 by Independent Audit Limited, which does not have any other connection with the Company.
The evaluation was designed to assess the quality of the Boards decision-making and debate, its overall contribution to, and impact on, the long-term health and success of the Company, and its preparation for future challenges.
The independent external evaluation covered a variety of aspects associated with Board effectiveness and was conducted through the use of confidential interviews with all Directors, some senior managers, some of the Boards advisers eg the external auditors and a review of past Board papers.
Following the review, Independent Audit drafted a report and attended a Board session to discuss observations arising from the evaluation.
As a result an action plan to address the key findings has been formulated.
One of the main recommendations of the report was for the Chairman and Chief Executive to review the composition of the Board Committees from 2012, in light of the Board changes set out above.
This has been carried out, with several changes being approved by the Board with effect from the start of 2012, including the appointment of SarahBates as Senior Independent Director and various changes to the composition of Board Committees.
There are five sub-Committees of the Board: Audit, Risk, Investment, Remuneration, and Nomination and the changes to the non-executive membership of these Committees from 2012 are set out in the table below.
The Chairman intends to review the membership of the Board Committees later in 2012, following the appointment of Baroness Wheatcroft.
It is expected that Iain Cornish will become Chairman of the Audit Committee later in 2012.
Committee Composition at end of 2011 Composition from 2012 Audit Mike Power Chair Mike Power Chair Derek Netherton Iain Cornish Charles Gregson Charles Gregson Risk Mike Power Chair Mike Power Chair Sarah Bates Roger Walsom Roger Walsom Iain Cornish Investment Vivian Bazalgette Chair Vivian Bazalgette Chair Sarah Bates Sarah Bates Michael Sorkin Remuneration Sarah Bates Chair No change Roger Walsom Vivian Bazalgette Nomination Charles Gregson Chair Charles Gregson Chair Michael Sorkin Mike Power Mike Wilson Iain Cornish The report noted that, given the recent changes to the Board, it would be important for the Nomination Committee and the Board as a whole to review the existing skills and experience of the members of the Board and to decide any areas where any additional skills would be welcome.
58 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Corporate Governance This would then help to establish the attributes needed for future non-executive recruitment to the Board, as and when the need arises.
This will be one of the priorities of the Nomination Committee in 2012, together with the regular review of the succession plan for the executive team and the ongoing development of the executives operating below the Board.
As regards the meetings of the Board, there was general consensus that the current number of meetings was appropriate, that the Board was provided with a comprehensive pack of papers and that there was enough time to discuss the issues that needed to be debated.
There was also general agreement that the Strategy Day held in September 2011 had been very successful, particularly in respect of the discussions regarding the Groups strategy in light of the implementation of the FSAs Retail Distribution Review reforms, although various changes to the structure and content of future Strategy Days were suggested.
The report also identified a number of recommendations for the conduct of the Board meetings in the future, including that the Board should carry out more detailed discussions on the principal risks impacting the Group at least once a year, in addition to the regular discussions that currently take place around the reports provided by the Group Risk Director at each Board meeting.
As regards the various Committees of the Board, the report did not identify any material issues, given the well-established Committee process and standing agendas.
However, given the changes to the composition of the Board Committees from 2012, it was recommended that the various Chairs of the Committees meet to discuss their terms of reference so there are no gaps, or overlaps.
This process is well underway and revised Terms of Reference for the various Committees have been approved by the Board, where appropriate.
Various other recommendations have also been adopted, including a review of the papers provided to the Audit Committee by the Internal Audit function in light of the appointment of a new Head of Internal Audit, a review of the risk schedules provided to the Risk Committee and a review of the structure of the Investment Committee meetings, following which a sub-Committee has been set up, with delegated powers, to carry out more of the regular monitoring of the Groups investment managers.
Independent Audit also discussed with the Chairman any comments on the individual performance of members of the Board, which were discussed by the Chairman with the relevant directors at their next one-to-one meeting.
Board Committees As referred to above, there are five sub-Committees of the Board: Audit, Investment, Nomination, Remuneration and Risk.
The membership and Terms of Reference of the Committees are reviewed annually and the Terms of Reference are available on the corporate website www.
co. uk, or on request from the Company.
Biographical details for members of these Committees are set out on pages 50 and 51.
Attendance at Meetings The attendance by individual Directors at Board and Committee meetings during the year ended 31 December 2011 was as follows: i ii iii iv Board Risk Audit Remuneration Nomination Investment 7 meetings 4 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings 2 meetings 10 meetings Sarah Bates 7 4 1 1 10 Vivian Bazalgette 3 3 1 1 10 David Bellamy 7 4 3 2 Steve Colsell 5 4 Iain Cornish 1 1 2 2 Andrew Croft 7 5 2 8 Ian Gascoigne 7 4 Charles Gregson 7 5 2 2 2 David Lamb 7 10 Derek Netherton 7 5 2 2 Mike Power 7 4 5 1 Michael Sorkin 7 2 2 2 7 Roger Walsom 7 3 3 Mike Wilson 7 1 2 i Vivian Bazalgette and Iain Cornish were appointed to the Board on 1 July 2011 and 1 October 2011 respectively.
ii Iain Cornish was appointed to the Audit Committee on 1 October 2011. iii Vivian Bazalgette was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee on 1 July 2011 and Sarah Bates was appointed as a member and Chairman of the Committee on 1 July 2011.
On the same date, Michael Sorkin, Derek Netherton and Charles Gregson ceased membership of the Remuneration Committee.
iv Charles Gregson was appointed as a member and Chairman of the Nomination Committee on 1 July 2011.
Derek Netherton ceased to be a member of the Nomination Committee on 1 July 2011.
Both meetings of the Nomination Committee took place in the second half of 2011. v Figures in brackets indicate where a Director has been invited by a Committee to attend the meeting, but is not a formal member of the Committee.
The Group Risk Director is invited to attend part of Board meetings throughout the year to present his Group Risk report.
He also attends Risk and Audit Committee meetings during the year.
59 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued Directors and Officers Indemnity and Insurance Relationship with Lloyds Banking Group plc Lloyds Banking Group plc LBG, the ultimate parent company, has The Company entered into a Relationship Agreement taken out insurance covering Directors and officers against liabilities the Agreement with Halifax Group plc in 2000, to regulate they may incur in their capacity as Directors or officers of LBG or its the relationship between the two companies after the completion subsidiaries.
All members of the Board of LBG and other senior of a Partial Offer.
The Agreement was novated to HBOS plc, employees who act as Directors of subsidiary companies are each following the merger between Halifax and Bank of Scotland in 2001. granted indemnities whilst acting in their capacity as Directors or On 16 January 2009, HBOS plc was acquired by Lloyds TSB Bank officers to the extent permitted by law.
These indemnities are plc, which subsequently changed its name to Lloyds Banking Group uncapped in amount and protect recipients from certain losses and plc LBG.
liabilities that they may incur to third parties in connection with the furtherance of their duties as Directors or officers of LBG or its The principal purpose of the Agreement is to ensure the Company subsidiary companies.
Copies of the indemnities are available to operates independently of LBG and to provide that the relationship shareholders upon request.
This is a qualifying third party indemnity between LBG and the Company will be conducted on an armsprovision and was in force during the financial year and at the date of length basis.
Under the Agreement, LBG has the authority to appoint approval of the financial statements.
a number of Directors to the Board and its Committees and the number varies in relation to LBGs shareholding in the Company.
The Company has granted indemnities to all of its Directors on terms LBG currently has the right to appoint three Non-executive consistent with the applicable statutory provisions.
Qualifying third Directors to the Board although, as at the date of this report, LBG party indemnity provisions for the purposes of section 234 of the has appointed one Non-executive Director, being Steve Colsell.
Companies Act 2006 were accordingly in force during the course of the financial year ended 31December 2011, and remain in force at Nomination Committee the date of this report.
The Nomination Committee comprises two independent Nonexecutive Directors and the Chairman.
The Committee met twice Procedures to Deal with Directors Conflicts of Interest during the year and the current members and attendees are: Procedures have been approved by the Board to deal with situations Members: Attendees: where a Director either has a conflict of interest, or where a potential conflict of interest situation arises.
Under the procedure, the relevant Charles Gregson Chairman David Bellamy Director must disclose to the Board the actual or potential conflict of Mike Power interest for discussion by the other members of the Board.
The Board Iain Cornish will consider the potential conflict on its particular facts and decide whether to waive the potential conflict if it believes this to be in the Charles Gregson was appointed a member and Chair of the best interests of the Company.
The process involves keeping detailed Nomination Committee on 1July2011.
Derek Netherton ceased to be records and Board minutes in respect of authorisations granted by the a member of the Nomination Committee on 1July2011.
Michael Board and the scope of approvals given.
Conflict authorisations are Sorkin and Mike Wilson ceased to be members on 31December2011 reviewed annually by the Board.
and Iain Cornish was appointed a member of the Committee from 1January 2012.
Relations with Shareholders The Board maintains close relationships with institutional Duties shareholders through dialogue and frequent meetings and the Chief The Committee is responsible for identifying and nominating Financial Officer provides feedback to the Board on topics raised by candidates to fill Board vacancies as and when they arise.
The Company also meets regularly with JPMorgan appointment being made, the Committee evaluates the skills, Cazenove and Deutsche joint brokers to the Group who facilitate knowledge and experience of existing members and prepares a meetings with investors and their representatives.
The Chairman, description of the role and capabilities required for a particular Senior Independent Director and other non-executive Directors are appointment.
available for consultation with shareholders on request.
Board members receive copies of the latest analysts and brokers reports on Succession planning forms a core remit of the Committee, taking the Company and attend shareholder and or analyst meetings from into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company at time to time.
present and in the future and the Committee gives full consideration to the type of skills and expertise required at Board and senior Members of the Board will be available at the forthcoming Annual management level.
The Committee will, from time to time, use the General Meeting to answer shareholders questions on the services of an external search consultancy to assist in finding suitable Companys business and the activities of the Board and its candidates from a wide range of backgrounds.
60 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Corporate Governance Activities Board Diversity During 2011, the Committee focused on succession plans in relation The Committee also discussed the report by Lord Davies on Board to the Chairman and non-executive positions, given the planned diversity, published in February 2011, including the request that resignations of Mike Wilson, Derek Netherton and Michael Sorkin boards should commit to specific targets for the number of women atthe end of 2011. on the Board and on the Executive Committee by 2015.
At the start of the year the Committee assessed whether Vivian As regards the executive team, the Committee noted that they have all been Directors of the Company or other group companies for Bazalgette could succeed Sir Mark Weinberg as Chairman of the Investment Committee, having been a member of the Investment many years and there are no plans to change the executive team in the short-term.
Having said that, the Group is committed to Committee since January 2010.
The members of the Nomination Committee also assessed his suitability as a Non-executive Director.
developing the members of the senior management team below the Board so that, so far as possible, they are ready to join the plc Board Taking into account the positive feedback on Vivian Bazalgettes tenure as a member of the Investment Committee and his broad as part of a planned succession programme in due course.
financial services experience, the Committee had no hesitation in recommending that he be appointed to the Board and as Chairman Naturally, the development programme for the executives below the Board has diversity as one of its core principles, with the various ofthe Investment Committee, with effect from 1 July 2011. elements of the programme being available to all senior employees, male or female, and without reference to race, religion or other The Committee also considered the succession planning for the role of Chairman.
Charles Gregson had been appointed to the Board as a discriminatory factors.
Non-executive Director in January 2010, with a view to him becoming Chairman in due course when Mike Wilson retired.
As regards the non-executive team, as and when other Non-executive Directors NEDs retire from the Board in due course, the Having reviewed the positive contribution made to the Board by Charles Gregson since his appointment in 2010, the Committee Nomination Committee will consider the particular skills needed for a replacement NED and draw up a job specification setting out the recommended to the Board that Charles Gregson succeeds Mike Wilson as a Non-executive Chairman from 1 January 2012.
Prior to skills required, to assist any search firms appointed to find suitable candidates for the role.
The Board does not believe it would be his nomination, the Committee reviewed Charles Gregsons other significant commitments, being his chairmanship of ICAP plc and appropriate to ask a search firm to narrow their search towards female or male candidates.
All suitable candidates will be CPP plc and concluded that he had sufficient time to carry out the role of Chairman of the Board.
There have been no changes to his considered on merit, with the Nomination Committee recommending to the Board the person they consider to be the best other significant commitments during the year.
The Committee noted that the Board would need to appoint an additional Non-executive Director to comply with the Code, The Board agrees with the description used in the Financial Reporting Council FRC guidance on board effectiveness that following the planned resignations of Derek Netherton and Michael Sorkin at the end of 2011.
Following discussions with the Board, the boards should aim for diversity in psychological type and background, as well as gender.
In this way, the Board is more likely Committee felt that it would be preferable to appoint a non-executive with considerable hands-on experience of financial services.
The to consist of people from different backgrounds and skill sets so as toavoid any kind of group thinking and enhance constructive Committee considered using a search agency to look for suitable candidates but, following an introduction, Iain Cornish was discussion and challenge at Board meetings.
considered for the role following his decision to step down from his role as CEO of Yorkshire Building Society.
Following a number of As a result of the above, whilst the Board will seek to ensure that there is sufficient diversity in the wider sense on the plc Board at all interviews with members of the Committee and senior management, the Committee recommended that Iain Cornish be appointed to the times, as illustrated by the appointment of BaronessWheatcroft to the Board, it does not believe that setting a target for female Board as a Non-executive Director in October 2011, so that he could be fully inducted on the business and procedures of the Group prior representation is appropriate at this time.
Finally, the Committee continued to review potential non-executive candidates introduced via a search agency.
At the end of 2011, BaronessWheatcroft was introduced to the Committee and, following a series of interviews with members of the Committee and the Executive Directors, the Committee recommended that BaronessWheatcroft be appointed to the Board as a Non-executive Director in February2012, in light of her extensive business and media experience.
61 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued Remuneration Committee In January 2011, the Company announced that Sir Mark Weinberg The Remuneration Committee comprises solely independent would be stepping down as Chairman of the Investment Committee Non-executive Directors.
The Committee met three times during in July 2011 and Vivian Bazalgette was appointed as Chairman of the the year and the current members attendees are: Committee in his place with effect from 1 July 2011.
In addition, MichaelSorkin and AndrewCroft stepped down from the Members: Attendees: Committee at the end of 2011.
Sarah Bates Chairman David Bellamy Vivian Bazalgette Andrew Croft Duties The Committees main responsibilities include overseeing the Roger Walsom Jonathan Hutchings New Bridge Street Companys Investment Management Approach, monitoring the performance and suitability of the Groups range of independent Fund Managers, as well as ensuring that the Fund Managers follow Sarah Bates joined and became Chair of the Committee on the terms of their agreements with the Company.
Vivian Bazalgette joined the Committee on 1July2011.
the Committee will make recommendations in relation to the Michael Sorkin, Derek Netherton and CharlesGregson ceased to be appointment or removal of Fund Managers and also considers any members of the Committee on 1July2011.
new funds which are to be made available to the Groups clients.
Duties In 2011, the Committee engaged the services of two further The Committee is responsible for determining the Companys broad Investment consultants, AON Hewitt and Inalytics to help with policy for executive remuneration and the individual remuneration specific aspects of its work.
packages for each of the Executive Directors, the Group Risk Director and other senior executives where applicable, including Activities any executive whose total remuneration is expected to exceed the During the year, the Committee monitored the performance of the median total remuneration of the Executive Directors.
Groups Fund Managers and focused on specific manager issues as they arose.
Face-to-face reporting sessions were held with managers, The Committee agrees at the start of the year the short-term bonus which provided the Committee with an opportunity to evaluate and and long-term incentive schemes for the Executive Directors, including assess their investment philosophy and processes and question the any applicable performance conditions or metrics and then reviews the individual fund managers on topical issues.
performance of individual Directors and senior management against the objectives set by the Committee.
In the event of a Director leaving The Committee also considered the Investment Manager Report the Group, the Committee will review and determine the scope of any from Stamford Associates and brought about a number of changes termination payment and severance terms.
The Committee is also and additions to the Investment Managers appointed by the Group.
responsible for selecting, appointing and setting the Terms of Reference Following a rigorous review and selection process, the Committee for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
oversaw the changes to the range of funds announced in September 2010, introducing four new independent fund management firms to The Terms of Reference that set out the Committees role and the Groups fund range.
The Committee also provided oversight on authority can be found on the corporate website and further details the introduction of a range of example Portfolios to the Partnership, on the activity of the Committee during the year is set out in the together with the accompanying client facing material.
Due to the increased number of Funds and Fund Managers, Investment Committee additional monitoring meetings involving members of the main The Investment Committee met ten times during the year.
The Committee have been established to facilitate face-to-face sessions current members of the Committee are: with fund managers, with minutes provided to and discussed at the main Committee.
Two additional meetings were held in 2011 and Vivian Bazalgette Chairman there will be regular additional monitoring meetings throughout Sarah Bates 2012.
More detail on the work of the Committee can be found in the Peter Dunscombe Report of the Investment Committee 2011, located on the Andrew Humphries Companys website at www.
David Lamb Chris Ralph Various members of the Asset Management team and the Field Management Team were invited to attend meetings during the year.
Representatives from the Companys investment advisers, Stamford Associates, attended all meetings during the year.
62 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Corporate Governance Audit Committee policies, assumptions and practices adopted in the Companys The Audit Committee met five times during the year and the current financial statements and proposed changes were made, where members and attendees of the Committee are: necessary.
The Committee considered significant accounting issues and areas of judgement, as well as deferred tax and other liabilities Members: Attendees: potentially affecting the Company.
Mike Power Chairman Steve Colsell Other activities undertaken by the Committee during the year Iain Cornish Andrew Croft included the monitoring and review of the effectiveness of the Charles Gregson Bill Tonks Internal Audit function, consideration of the Internal Audit plan, Group Risk Director which included a review of the Companys system of internal financial controls and a review of the Groups whistle-blowing Mike Power replaced Derek Netherton as Chairman of the policy.
Committee members also received reports from the Head Committee on 1 July 2011 and Derek Netherton remained a member of Internal Audit and updates from the chair of the Risk Committee until he resigned from the Board on 31 December 2011. and discussed risks identified on the Emerging, Topical & Corporate Iain Cornish joined the Committee on 1October 2011.
All members of the Audit Committee are independent NonThe Committee received and considered the Individual Capital executive Directors, with the exception of Charles Gregson, who Assessment ICA report of the life company, St. Jamess Place upon his appointment as Chairman of the Company is now UK plc SJP UK.
SJP UK is required by the Regulator to maintain considered by the Code to be non-independent.
The Board is satisfied a capital assessment for regulatory purposes and one of the that all members of the Audit Committee have considerable financial responsibilities of the Committee is to review and consider experience.
The Board considered that it was important for the the report.
continued effectiveness of the Audit Committee for Charles Gregson to remain a member of the Committee, following his appointment as Other areas of focus by the Committee included the appropriateness, Chairman in January2012.
As stated above, the membership of the independence and services provided by the external auditor and the Audit and other Committees will be reviewed, following the Committee received regular updates on tax and actuarial matters, appointment of BaronessWheatcroft to the Board in April 2012. including the implications of Solvency II on the business.
Attendees at meetings during the year included the Chief Financial Officer, the Risk Director, the Head of Internal Audit and members The Committee also approved a formal policy for the provision of of the Finance team, as well as the external auditor.
Steve Colsell non-audit services by the external auditor.
This policy aims to ensure also attended meetings as the representative of Lloyds Banking Group.
that external auditor objectivity and independence is safeguarded and sets out the categories of non-audit services which the external Duties auditor is allowed to provide to the Group.
The financial limit for The Committee is responsible for reviewing the Companys internal non-audit related advice and consultancy work by the external audit and external audit resource and examining any matters that relate to firm is 100,000 per year.
Non-audit assignments exceeding 25% of the financial affairs of the Company.
This includes monitoring the the audit fee, either individually or cumulatively, must have the prior financial reporting process and advising the Board on the Companys approval of the Audit Committee.
Details of the amount paid to the interim and annual financial statements, its accounting policies and external auditors during the year for audit and non-audit related compliance with accounting standards.
The Committee also assists services are set out in the Notes to the Accounts on page 96. the Board in ensuring that the financial and non-financial information supplied to shareholders provides a balanced assessment of the Risk Committee Companys position.
The Risk Committee met four times during the year and the current members and attendees comprise: Other duties include monitoring the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems of the Company and Members Attendees maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditors, Mike Power Chairman David Bellamy reviewing the nature and scope of the work performed by them and Iain Cornish Ian Gascoigne their responses to management.
The Terms of Reference that set out Roger Walsom Bill Tonks the Committees role and authority can be found on the corporate Group Risk Director website at www.
Activities Iain Cornish joined the Committee on 1January 2012, replacing Sarah Bates, who served on the Committee during 2011.
During the year, the Committee formally reviewed the draft Annual and Half Yearly Reports, the external auditors reports thereon and associated announcements and considered the accounting principles, 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued All members of the Committee are independent Non-executive The Committee also discussed and approved the Risk Management Directors who have considerable financial and or risk-based Annual Report during the year, which set out the views of the Risk experience.
Other attendees at meetings during the year included the Division on how well the Group discharged its responsibilities under Head of Internal Audit, Head of Risk Management and a the FSAs risk management principles.
representative from Lloyds Banking Group, the Companys major shareholder.
Internal Control and Risk Management The Board retains overall responsibility for the effectiveness of the Duties Groups system ofrisk management and internal controlsystems The Committees oversight responsibilities include fostering a culture including, financial, operational and compliance controls.
The of effective risk identification and management, reviewing the major Audit and Risk Committees of the Board, along with appropriately and emerging risks affecting the Group, as referred to in the structured, staffed and qualified Internal Audit, Risk Management Principal Risks and Uncertainties section of the Business Review on and Compliance functions support the Directors in the discharge of pages 30 and 31, and undertaking an annual review of risk these responsibilities and oversee their outcome.
The Committee can call for reports from senior management on how principal risks are being managed The Group has fully complied with provision C. 2.1 of the UK and annually review the procedures for the identification, recording Corporate Governance Code throughout the financial year and up to and mitigating of principal risks.
Where necessary, the Committee the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
makes recommendations for changes in risk-related practices and procedures and can seek external input for its work.
The Committee The Directors and senior managers of the Group are committed to is also responsible for reviewing any correspondence and actions maintaining a strong control culture within all business areas and resulting from FSA ARROW reviews.
have processes for evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
Adherences to codes of conduct are required at all The Risk Appetite Statement and risk policies are reviewed annually times and the Board actively promotes a culture of quality and and all material areas of concern, or weakness, reported to the Audit integrity.
In addition to these ongoing procedures, the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Group Risk Director reports to the Committee conducts an annual review that considers the Committee on risk issues at each meeting and has direct access to the effectiveness of the Groups risk management and internal control Chairman of the Risk Committee, should the need arise.
The Group systems, including financial, operational and compliance.
The review Risk Directors remuneration is approved by the Remuneration also includes the nature and scope of the ongoing monitoring Committee.
The Terms of Reference setting out the Committees processes, including the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function role and authority can be found on the corporate website at and the potential impact during the year on these processes from any www.
changes to the risks that the Group faces.
Activities The Group utilises a number of outsourced service providers to During the year, the Committee received regular management provide administration services.
These are detailed in formal reports from senior executives on risk identification and mitigation contracts and their delivery is monitored by dedicated relationship within their areas of the business.
These included an update managers against documented Service Level Agreements and Key on contractual and legal risks and a review of Partners other Performance Indicators.
Each year the outsourced service providers are required to confirm The Committee reviewed and discussed the risks identified on the and evidence the adequacy and effectiveness of their internal control Emerging, Topical and Corporate Risk Schedules as well as the framework as assessed against the requirements of the COSO annual Risk Appetite Statement, the Internal Audit plan and the Internal Control Integrated Framework.
They are also required to Individual Capital Assessment for SJP UK.
At its first meeting of confirm that no material control issues have been identified in their 2011, the Committee held a discussion on potential sources of operations over the course of the year.
unexpected risk in the year ahead.
The annual Money Laundering Reporting Officers report was reviewed and approved by the Committee during the year.
The report included an examination of the governance framework, operation of systems and controls and training requirements in respect of anti-money laundering activities within the Group.
64 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
03183415 Corporate Governance The Company operates a multilayered framework of internal controls Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the over its financial reporting processes.
The key elements of the Annual Report and Accounts and the Financial Statements framework comprise the documentation, performance and The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the assessment of controls in key risk areas, monthly review and sign-off Directors Remuneration Report and the financial statements in of all financial accounting data submitted by outsourced service accordance with applicable law and regulations.
providers together with the results of all subsidiaries within the Group, and the formal review of the financial statements by senior Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial statements management, for both individual companies within the Group as well for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors have prepared as at the consolidated Group level.
In addition, the published financial the Group financial statements in accordance with International statements of the Company and the Group are formally reviewed by Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European the Audit Committee, with particular focus on key areas of Union, and the Parent Company financial statements in accordance judgement and accounting estimates.
with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under This system of internal control is designed to ensure that the primary company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements objectives of compliance with applicable laws and regulation, unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state effective and efficient operations, quality financial and operational of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of reporting and safeguarding of assets, are met.
the Group for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: When significant control issues have occurred, the Audit Committee select suitable accounting policies and then apply them has received full and detailed reports from management and Internal consistently: Audit, including proposals for amending and strengthening the make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable business systems involved in line with the Groups focus on and prudent: continuous improvement.
Where appropriate, such issues have been state whether IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and referred to the Board by the Chairman of the Audit Committee and applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject the Group Risk Director for further discussion.
to any material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Parent Company financial statements respectively: and In establishing the system of internal control, the Directors have prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless regard to the materiality of relevant risks, the likelihood of risks it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in occurring and the cost of mitigating risks.
It is therefore designed to business.
manage, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, not absolute assurance The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting against material financial mis-statement or loss.
records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the In the Boards view, the information it has received from entity-wide financial position of the Company and the Group and enable them to risk assessment, operational management, and the reports issued ensure that the financial statements and the Directors Remuneration by Internal Audit has been sufficient to enable it to properly review Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the the effectiveness of the Companys system of internal control, Group financial statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance for Directors on also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and the Internal Control.
Group and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
65 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued The Directors have chosen to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum, as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles.
When compliance with the EEV Principles is stated, those principles require the Directors to prepare supplementary information in accordance with the Embedded Value methodology EVM contained in the EEV Principles and to disclose and explain any non-compliance with the EEV Guidance included in the EEV Principles.
In preparing the EEV supplementary information, the Directors have: prepared the supplementary information in accordance with the EEV Principles: identified and described the business covered by the EVM: applied the EVM consistently to the covered business: determined assumptions on a realistic basis, having regard to past, current and expected future experience and to any relevant external data, and then applied them consistently: and made estimates that are reasonable and consistent.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed in Board of Directors section of the Annual Report confirm that, to the best of their knowledge: the Group financial statements, which have been prepared in accordance with IFRSs as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of the group: the European Embedded Value EEV supplementary information has been prepared in accordance with the European Embedded Value Principles issued in May 2004 by the Chief Financial Officers Forum as supplemented by the Additional Guidance on European Embedded Value Disclosures issued in October 2005 the EEV Principles : and the business review referenced to in the Directors Report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the group, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that it faces.
On behalf of the Board H J Gladman Company Secretary 21 February 2012 66 St. Jamess Place plc Registered No.
