98 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance Exemplary corporate governance standards are a core aspect of the Groups strategic intent values is an integral component of every employees performance assessment, and each employees variable Sir John Peace reward depends both on how they have met objectives, Chairman and also on how they live our five core values.
Furthermore, our brand promise, Here for good, captures our genuine commitment to our customers and clients, our staff and the communities where we operate.
It states our focus on consistently doing the right thing and acting responsibly through a simple yet compelling promise.
More broadly, banks exist to support the economies and societies in which they operate, helping spur economic growth and job creation.
Reafrming the fundamental role banks play in economies and clearly articulating why it matters will be paramount to rebuilding trust and making sure that banking reform produces the kind of banks we all need in the future.
We strive to create an inclusive environment for all employees.
This helps us attract, retain and develop the best talent, and creates an environment where a diverse range of people are motivated to be at their best every day.
This enables us to sustain strong business performance for the long-term.
Standard Chartereds approach to diversity is underpinned Good corporate governance contributes by the Groups meritocratic and performance-based culture.
to the long-term success of a company, We believe that this is a more sustainable approach in the creating trust and engagement between long run.
We have a strong track record in regularly refreshing the Boards composition.
Since 2005 we have appointed the company and its stakeholders.
10 directors to the Board and 10 Directors have stepped down.
2011 was the first year since 1985 where there have been no changes to the Boards composition.
This was a Dear Shareholder conscious choice given that there were four changes in 2010.
In January 2012 we were pleased to welcome V. Shankar to There continues to be much debate about what constitutes good corporate governance.
We believe the Board as an executive director.
As a Singaporean national based in Dubai with a wealth of experience across our markets that good corporate governance is about creating the right culture throughout the entire organisation.
Good in Asia, Africa and the Middle East, Shankar brings further diversity to the Boards composition.
corporate governance contributes to the long-term success of a company, creating trust and engagement During 2011, we focused heavily on the future nature, shape between the company and its stakeholders.
As a major and composition of the Board to 2015 and beyond.
We have a international banking group that has dual primary multi-year board succession plan that we believe will maintain listings, it is our responsibility both to practise high the Boards current high level of effectiveness, and as a result, standards of corporate governance and to contribute it is likely that there will be further Board changes in 2012 and to promoting an environment where such standards 2013.
We will continue to focus on diversity in all its aspects operate globally.
including gender diversity in our succession planning.
For good corporate governance to exist there must be We believe that there are myriad factors to consider robust processes underpinned by the right culture, values when seeking to maximise a boards effectiveness through its and behaviours permeating throughout the company.
These include skills, expertise and knowledge culture, values and behaviours need to be adopted by the that need to be matched to the companys current and future board and actively lived and promoted by the chief executive business activities: individuals with sufficient time commitment officer and all levels of management.
to devote to the board both in stable and stressful times : and At Standard Chartered, our culture and values are deeply individuals who are able to offer a broad range of diverse perspectives to the board, including both geographic embedded within the organisation.
Our culture stimulates transparency, accountability and collaboration.
Living the Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 99 representation and gender diversity.
Balancing all of these factors to maintain an effective board is a delicate matter Our highlights andwe do not believe that imposing quotas is appropriate inthis context.
t Continued vigilance regarding the prevailing external conditions and the potential impact on our strategy We continuously review and nd ways to improve our Boards and business models effectiveness.
We approach this as an ongoing process rather t Maintained the right balance in pursuing growth than something that is done once a year just to satisfy UK Corporate Governance Code requirements.
In 2011, we opportunities in line with appropriate governance, systems, controls, processes and information ows focused particularly on nding ways to further enhance the linkages between our Board and its committees.
This is a very t Continued to nurture the Groups corporate culture, important element of our Boards effectiveness given that we values and our Here for good brand promise as the have consciously decided to delegate a broader range of Group continued to grow issues to the committees, and not all Board members sit oneach committee.
t Created more space at full Board level to focus even more deeply on key strategic opportunities and risks Over the last three years we have been exible in our approach to continuously assessing Board and committee t Continued to focus on dynamic yet structured Board, effectiveness.
In 2009, we conducted an intensive internal committee and senior executive succession planning corporate governance review spanning a number of months.
t Continued to balance formal and informal Board In 2010, we appointed an external provider to facilitate the interactions to further enhance the Boards Boards effectiveness evaluation.
In 2011, the Financial effectiveness Services Authority FSA, through its core prudential programme, completed an in-depth review of the Groups t Held three overseas Board meetings that added corporate governance structures and practices.
In addition, real value by enabling a greater understanding of we conducted an internally facilitated effectiveness review of our markets and providing the opportunity to the Board and each committee.
As you will see in the reports meet with employees, local management, on each committees activities, different mechanisms have customers and regulators been used by some of the committee chairs when assessing t The Financial Services Authority conducted an effectiveness.
We encourage diverse approaches as this assessment of our governance arrangements ensures that the review process remains fresh and aspartofits core prudential programme meaningful.
In our 2010 Annual Report you will have noticed that we adopted a more informal and discursive approach to Our priorities for 2012 corporate governance reporting.
Standard Chartered was recognised for this in the ICSA Hermes Transparency in t Delivery of the first phase of our 2015 Board Governance awards, being granted the award for the Best composition plan FTSE 100 Annual Report in 2010.
Although it is heartening t Taking risk governance to the next level of effectiveness to be recognised in this way, the real benefit was to reinforce to us that shareholders valued our approach.
As a result, t Continued focus on the effective linkages between the we have maintained this discursive style in this years annual Board and its committees report, with the intention of continuing to enhance our t Refreshing our approach to the interfaces between the engagement with stakeholders.
We value your continued main Board and the boards of our banking subsidiaries feedback on our approach.
across our network t Reviewing our governance practices in the light of the changing regulatory landscape to ensure that decisions continue to be taken at the right levels within the Sir John Peace Groups governance structure Chairman t Maximising further opportunities for external input and 29 February 2012 perspectives during Board conversations t Distinguishing even more rigorously between information our directors must have in order to full their duties and optional reading s e g a A k c n i c L o u n n o t i t a a b r i l o i t b y a l l o C I 100 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Our integrated approach to corporate governance company secretary has a key role in inuencing the We adopt an apply and explain approach to corporate effectiveness of the board.
We believe that this gives our stakeholders a We aim for the highest standards of corporate governance better insight into our governance practices than the comply and apply the provisions of the Code and theHong Kong or explain approach espoused by the UK Financial Reporting Corporate Governance Code as set out in Appendix 14 of Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
Copies of the Code and the The diagram below demonstrates our approach to corporate Hong Kong Listing Rules the Hong Kong Listing Rules can governance.
It depicts the interactive nature of the elements be found at www.
cfm and we view as being key in embracing the spirit of best practice www.
hk eng rulesreg listrules mbrules corporate governance principles.
It also illustrates our belief documents appendix 14. pdf respectively.
in the importance that a companys underlying culture and values play in ensuring effective corporate governance.
We have 17 Board members: the chairman, six executive It is vital for companies to have an underlying culture with directors and 10 non-executive directors.
A list of individual behaviours and values that stimulate and sustain effective directors and their biographies are set out on pages 94 to 96. corporate governance.
Without being exhaustive, key Details of board committee membership are set out on page elements of the culture include a spirit of transparency, 108 of this report.
open-mindedness, inquiry and constructive challenge.
We outline how our Board displays these characteristics on pages We continuously refresh our Board membership to ensure that 103 to 104.
Such a culture is dened and exemplied within a it retains the right dynamics.
Since 2005, 10 directors have framework of an integrated cohesive unitary board with the joined our Board and 10 directors have left the Board.
2011 chairman and chief executive officer playing particularly critical was the first year since 1985 where there have been no Board roles at both board level and throughout the entire company.
This was a conscious choice given We recognise that the chairman plays a crucial role in ensuring that there were four changes in 2010 three independent board effectiveness.
Also, alongside the chairman, the non-executive directors and one executive director.
Standard Chartereds integrated approach to corporate governance Behaviours Processes Robust processes Behaviours, values and corporate culture such as board rolling agendas, clear agendas, that promote high standards of corporate timely information governance provision, scheduled Guidelines on meetings behaviours Principles based code Continuous improvement Disclosures Share openly with shareholders, regulators and other stakeholders how the principles of good corporate governance are being applied within the unique context of each listed issuer Apply and explain n q y u i c r n y e r C a o p n s s n t r a u r T c t i s v s e e c n h n a e l p l e O n g e Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 101 As part of one of the three overseas Board The objectives of the forum were to build meetings, Ruth Markland and Val Gooding asustainable awareness of the gender were panel speakers at the Womens Forum business case, identify, advance and retain in Nairobi.
In addition to Ruth and Val, the high potential women: develop policies that panel also included five other senior women promote work life balance: equip women to at Standard Chartered two female Chief succeed in the workplace and to create an Executive Ofcers, our Group Head of awareness on the possibilities available to Human Resources and Communications, women in Standard Chartered and beyond.
and Head of Research for Africa.
We welcomed V. Shankar to our Board as an executive There are seven directors who have lived and worked across director with effect from 1 January 2012.
Shankars Asia, Africa and or the Middle East.
Diversity lies at the heart appointment further supports our belief that it is important ofour values and is a distinctive element of our brand.
The to have a broad representation of executive directors on the Board considers diversity as a priority, and specically looks Board.
Shankar is based in Dubai and has been a valued atgeographical diversity, gender diversity, diversity of skills member of Standard Chartereds strong executive andexperience among other strands.
His appointment will further We have commenced a comprehensive review of our Boards strengthen the Board, particularly with his international outlook composition, looking forward to 2015 and beyond.
This review and client focused experience.
is being facilitated through our Nomination Committee.
We have a number of relatively long-standing Board directors Geographic and gender diversity together with key technical on our Board, particularly those that chair our committees.
specialisms in banking, risk, accounting, finance, technology Given the complexity of banking, the volatile macroeconomic and international business experience will form core environment, and the changing regulatory landscape, we components of our Board succession.
believe that it is important to retain a core of directors with More broadly within Standard Chartered, our employees long-standing knowledge of Standard Chartered whilst still represent 130 nationalities and 46 per cent are female.
ensuring that the Board composition is regularly refreshed.
We believe that diversity, including gender diversity, is a very During 2011, the Board through its Nomination Committee important factor impacting the Groups performance and focused heavily on its future composition with an emphasis wider operational effectiveness.
both on executive and non-executive succession planning.
Standard Chartereds current focus is to continue with the We have formulated a multi-year plan aimed at ensuring a work that is already underway to ensure that we have an smooth transition through to 2015 and beyond.
This balances inclusive environment for our people, valuing our employees our need both to maintain stability and longevity on the Board for who they are and what they bring to the Group.
We have while regularly refreshing its composition.
As a result, there are achieved this through a number of programmes, further likely to be further changes to our Board through 2012 and details of which can be found in the People section on pages 2013 as we look to deliver the next phases of our 2015 Board 42 to 45.
We aim to increase the representation of women as composition plan.
well as key geographies, including China, Korea, Africa and the Middle East, at senior management levels.
In order to How do we support board members?
broaden the pipeline for senior management, we have focused We have a very extensive and robust independent director on these populations at middle management with initiatives induction and ongoing development programme in place that such as mentoring, targeted development programmes and is tailored to the needs of each director.
This has continued to focus on diverse external hiring and will continue to do so.
evolve over the last four years.
Each engagement plan typically consists of a mix of briengs on specialist topics the number How the board has spent its time ofwhich increased in 2011, attendance at key management In addition to attending the overseas Board meetings, meetings such as the Group Risk and or Group Asset and Sir John Peace, as Chairman visited China, Hong Kong, Liability Committees and additional visits to our markets.
Korea, Singapore, Kuwait, Malaysia, Nigeria, Qatar, Typically, in addition to the overseas board visits, directors will the UAE, and the USA where he met with clients, undertake one or two additional overseas visits during the year.
When the Chairman reviews the performance of each director At Standard Chartered, we believe that our open, challenging annually, delivery against the agreed development programme yet cohesive and collaborative culture where all directors is a key component of this review.
The corporate secretariat have unfettered access to management and information team plays a pivotal role to assist the non-executive directors has enabled us to achieve high standards of corporate to achieve their development plans and this is regularly governance.
Our independent directors travel extensively and reviewed and tracked.
More broadly, the non-executive have the opportunity to validate our strategy and gain an on directors are supported by dedicated corporate secretariat the ground understanding of the opportunities and risks that resources and avail of specialist advice on corporate we face.
To support this, it was notable that our independent governance matters.
directors made 59 visits to countries across our footprint in 2011 up from 40 in 2010 and 23 in 2009.
Furthermore, during The Boards commitment to diversity and inclusion 2011 we estimate that each independent director spent We welcomed Lord Davies report entitled Women on Boards.
between 35 and 50 days on board related duties and, for Standard Chartered with its distinctive footprint, rmly believes those who sat on multiple committees, up to 100 days or more.
in the importance of diverse board membership.
Currently, we have a diverse mix of ethnicity, gender and experience on our Board, including two women and five different nationalities.
102 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued The full schedule of matters reserved for the Board together receives competitor review reports, some of which are with the board committees terms of reference are available market-wide, and others focusing on specic competitors.
com The Board has an annual strategy review cycle that culminates in a two-day strategy offsite in June.
In 2011 this was held in Our Boards focus on strategic issues Nairobi.
At this offsite the Board discussed the Groups overall The overseas Board visits in 2011 were to India, Kenya and strategy and that of its two businesses, Consumer and Indonesia, where comprehensive strategy reviews were Wholesale Banking.
We also focused on technology and undertaken.
In addition, these visits enabled the non-executive innovation.
Each year in the build up to the strategy offsite, directors to gain a better understanding of these markets the Board has several discussions on the macroeconomic, and our operations.
During these visits the Board also took geopolitical and regulatory factors impacting the banking the opportunity to review the strategies for Bangladesh, industry.
Following the offsite, management reects on Pakistan, Nigeria, South East Asia and the Middle East.
feedback provided before submitting the strategy to the Board Key management representatives from each of these for formal approval.
The approved strategy is then used when countries regions attended the overseas Board meetings devising the Group Risk Appetite Statement, Capital and to discuss the strategic issues and interact with our Board.
Liquidity plans and the Groups budget for the following year, It is important that the Board retains the right balance of which the Board approves in December.
As part of the overseas Following the annual strategy offsite, the Board also approves Board visits, external speakers were invited to provide their a schedule of strategic topics for its review during the following perspective on the countrys political and economic 12 months.
For 2011 this included topics such as our inorganic environment and outlook.
For instance, at the Board meeting strategy, people and organisational effectiveness, technology, held in Mumbai, the Board received a presentation on the Consumer Bankings personal and private banking, as well as political, economic and competitive environment in India and Wholesale Bankings equities strategy and its governance and in Nairobi, the presentation covered geopolitical, economic control framework around its network of offshore banking and social issues in Africa.
In addition, the Board regularly units.
The Board has focused on the potential impacts of Number of non-executives visiting our markets China Mongolia 1 1 1 10 Hong Kong 4 USA 4 Japan Lebanon 2 1 1 2 Bangladesh 1 South Korea 5 2 Qatar Thailand 10 India 1 3 10 Taiwan 1 UAE 2 Vietnam 1 Ghana 1 7 1 1 1 Malaysia Nigeria 1 Indonesia Uganda 2 1 1 Kenya 10 2 10 1 7 Singapore 7 5 Australia 1 2011 2010 2009 Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 103 Richard Delbridge, Ruth Markland and Jamie Dundas attending the opening ceremony of our agship branch in Hong Kong regulatory change for our strategy and structure, including Collaboration and linkages theFSAs approach to Recoveryand Resolution Plans and the Collaboration is a key element of the Standard Chartered Independent Commission on Bankings recommendations on culture and underpins our One Bank approach.
Board the reform ofthe UK banking system.
members demonstrate collaboration through their enthusiastic approach to overseas visits and by spending time with a wide In order to make the space to focus heavily on key strategic array of management.
This builds credibility and provides issues, the Board has consciously chosen to delegate broad context, allowing them to make an enhanced contribution in responsibilities to its committees.
The effective functioning of Board level discussions.
During overseas visits we made a these committees is a critical element in the Boards overall conscious decision to maximise time spent in strategic effectiveness and we describe the role of the committees on discussion and meeting staff, clients and other stakeholders pages 109 to 129. rather than undertaking more general committee or other activities that can be just as meaningfully covered in London.
What makes our Board effective?
Our Board has primary accountability for ensuring that, as a Given our conscious discussion to delegate broad collective body, it has the appropriate skills, knowledge and responsibilities to board committees, it is critical that we have experience to perform its role effectively.
We seek to live by effective linkages between the committees and the Board theintegrated approach to effective corporate governance as a whole.
This is particularly important given that there is no that we advocate as best practice.
director who serves on every committee.
During 2011 we used a number of mechanisms to enhance these linkages, some of Openness and transparency which have been more effective than others.
Directors have unfettered access to information and The Board receives the minutes or written summary of each management across the organisation.
On overseas visits, of the committees meetings.
In addition, the committee chairs non-executive directors are usually unaccompanied by senior periodically update the full Board on the items covered by management and interact with staff at all levels.
We tried having separate brieng sessions them opportunities to see the culture and values of the for those Board members who were not on a particular organisation in action and to corroborate information received committee.
The one that we held for the Brand and Values from multiple sources.
It also provides context to the formal Committee during 2011 was very successful.
However, we information that they receive for Board meetings.
have found it more difficult to make space to schedule these There is a natural desire to share information with the Board.
briengs particularly as we no longer schedule committee One unintended consequence of this is that, over time, formal activities during overseas Board visits.
Board papers have become lengthier.
In 2011 we moved to The results from our 2011 board effectiveness review provide one page overviews for Board papers.
This provided acknowledged that the board committee structure is effective, clearer guidance for directors about what they should focus with excellent committee chairmanship, that appropriate on in the papers.
In 2012 we will continue this journey, feedback is provided back to the Board as a whole: and there distinguishing even more rigorously between information that are good briengs provided to non-committee members.
It was directors are required to read in order to perform their roles recognised that the Board as a whole has been able to focus effectively whilst still making available additional information more broadly on strategic issues as a result of the increased for those who would like to delve more into a certain topic.
breadth of remit of the board committees.
In 2012 we will We have moved to providing Board papers and additional continue to focus upon and evolve our approach to ensuring information via iPads using our dedicated secure application.
these critical linkages between the Board and its committees.
This allows the directors to have easy and instant access to a Another area of focus both in 2011 and going forward is on wide range of information.
thelinkages between the Board directors and directors of our We have found it beneficial to increase the number of informal subsidiary boards.
There are 26 countries across our network Board sessions and to ensure that the formal agendas are not where the Group operates its main franchise as a locally unduly cluttered.
As a result the Board has time to debate incorporated bank and many of these have boards with issues more fully and discussions on key strategic issues tend independent director representation.
There are many to be lively, with high quality engagement and contributions communication linkages between the Board directors and from Board members.
those of our subsidiary boards.
These vary in nature and formality.
For instance, there is an annual African Chairmans Conference where the chairmen of our African subsidiaries meet in London.
Both Sir John Peace as Chairman and Rudy Markham as Chairman of the Audit Committee interact with the Africa chairmen at this event.
Most recently, in early December 2011, Sir John conducted a dialogue with the boards of our subsidiaries in China, Hong Kong and Taiwan.
104 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued In addition, for a number of years, Rudy, as Chairman of the officer, Group Finance Director, all of our executive directors Audit Committee has hosted a call with all of the chairmen and two of our non-executive directors met with 21 of ofthe subsidiary audit committees.
There has also been a our top 25 investors.
Sir John also hosted a dinner attended programme whereby the subsidiary audit chairmen are invited by the corporate governance representatives of our largest to attend Audit Committee meetings.
In 2011, the Board saw a video from principles dening the linkages between the Audit Committee shareholders and analysts providing their views on Standard and the audit committees of subsidiary companies.
Chartered and in 2010 an independent survey was undertaken to gauge investor perception.
The intention is When Board members travel, they are encouraged to meet for another independent survey to be undertaken in 2012. with directors of our subsidiary boards.
For example, as part ofthe Kenya overseas Board visit in June 2011, the board of The Board is mindful of its responsibility to take account of Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited hosted a dinner for wider stakeholders.
For instance, as part of the overseas our PLC Board.
visits, some Board members met with local regulators from across our footprint.
Key representatives from the FSA met Although when taken together there are effective linkages with our Board to discuss corporate governance practices.
today, we are mindful that many of these linkages are informal As part of overseas visits, our Board has met with clients and and dynamic in nature.
As a result, we are in the process of participated in community activities.
For example, as part of dening more precisely the nature and extent of the linkages the Mumbai overseas Board visit, client meetings took place between our Board, its committees and the subsidiary board with Board members in Bangalore, Chennai and Bangladesh.
Board members visited a school refurbishment project which had been undertaken by Standard Chartered employees and Inquiry constructive challenge participated in a pottery workshop with children with learning We believe that it is the role of the whole board to provide difficulties in Mumbai.
As part of the overseas Strategy Board constructive challenge.
The executive directors on our Board in Kenya, Board engagement with our stakeholders included, understand fully the distinction between their roles and duties but was not limited to, meetings with clients in Nairobi, as executive management and executive directors and are participation in tree planting and the laying of a foundation just as likely to challenge management suggestions as their stone ceremony at Dream Childrens Home and joining non-executive director colleagues.
employee volunteers at the Good Shepherd Home Mission in Moreover, the Groups culture of openness and collaboration Kisenyi, Uganda.
has embedded within it the concept of constructive challenge that exists at all levels of the organisation including the Board.
What was our approach to Board and Board One of the Groups values is courageous.
This means that we Committee effectiveness reviews in 2011?
strive to do what is right even if it is not easy.
It means that we Over the last three years we have adopted an evolving, do not allow weak or awed logic to permeate our decision exible and continuous improvement approach to assessing making.
The Board habitually probes, questions and explores board effectiveness.
Throughout 2009, we conducted a the logic behind management actions both in formal Board comprehensive internal governance review.
The board meetings and other informal interactions.
effectiveness review formed part of that process.
In 2010, we undertook an externally facilitated review of the Boards Sir John as Chairman plays a particularly important role by effectiveness facilitated by Dr Tracy Long of Boardroom ensuring that all Board members have the opportunity to Review.
In 2011 the FSA, through its Core Prudential contribute fully in all Board discussions.
He acts as a catalyst Programme governance review, completed an in-depth ensuring that all the diverse perspectives held by Board and thorough review of the Groups corporate governance directors are aired fully when debating any particular topic.
As part of this, several detailed Given the cohesive and collaborative nature of the Board, case studies were used analysing the Boards effectiveness underpinned by our culture of openness and our courageous in relation to key decisions that the Board had taken over the values, Board members feel that they can speak their minds previous year.
As a result there has been an extensive external freely.
This atmosphere enhances the Boards overall element to our Boards effectiveness reviews for both 2010 effectiveness.
To supplement the FSA review, we undertook an internally facilitated review by way of an online questionnaire How does the Board ensure effective communication using the Groups approved board evaluation tool.
and engagement with our stakeholders?
To demonstrate our commitment to continuously seeking Accountability ways in which to improve our governance practices, we Our Board receives regular updates on the views of our undertook a variety of mechanisms to assess the institutional shareholders and stakeholders.
Board members effectiveness of each board committee, including the use openly seek the views of our shareholders.
During 2011 a of questionnaires, but not exclusively so.
For example, this combination of our Group Chairman, Group Chief Executive year, the Remuneration Committee adopted a continuous Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 105 As part of the overseas Board meeting in Kenya, Board members participated in tree planting and the laying of a foundation stone ceremony at Dream Childrens Home in Nairobi improvement approach by adding a short discussion item at Individual director and Chairman effectiveness reviews the end of each meeting to discuss areas for improvement in In addition to reviewing the Boards overall effectiveness, real time.
The Brand and Values Committee sought feedback each director discussed his or her self assessment with the from executive management on the value that the Committee Chairman on a one-to-one basis.
These discussions included has added to their business function.
Following the details of time commitment including where relevant the completion of questionnaires, the Board Risk Committee potential impact of outside interests held by each director, undertook an extensive review of its effectiveness by means engagement plan implementation and other broader ofa formal discussion that resulted in the creation of an action contributions to the Board.
In relation to the executive plan to address the findings of the effectiveness review, a directors, there was a particular focus on their role as Board summary of which can be found on page 117.
The Audit members as distinct from senior executives.
Outlines future Committee held a more informal discussion session, engagement plans were discussed providing a guideline for asummary of which can be found on page 113. the activities that each non-executive director intends to undertake over the next 12 to 18 months.
In relation to those So as to ensure that our approach to board and committee directors with longer tenures, continued independence effectiveness remains meaningful we will continue to explore of mindset and perspective was specically considered.
and adopt different approaches to assessing board and The Chairman reported the outcome of these discussions committee effectiveness.
to the Nomination Committee, who used this as part of its The Board believes that it continues to operate effectively.
This consideration leading to recommending to the Board the is notable given the increasingly turbulent macro-environment re-election of all directors at our Annual General Meeting.
and the increased intensity of regulatory change.
There is a Part of Rudy Markhams role as Senior Independent Director is high level of engagement from our non-executive directors to provide the Boards feedback on Sir Johns performance as and meaningful interaction with the executive directors.
In the part of the Boards evaluation process.
Rudy sought feedback review, both executive directors and non-executive directors from each board member and used this to compile a formal commented that the Board dynamics remain conducive to letter to Sir John evaluating his performance as Chairman.
The the provision and receipt of constructive challenge within the feedback concluded that Sir John has unanimous support for context of our unitary board approach.
As to be expected from his leadership of the Board.
a highly effective board, as part of the board effectiveness review, our directors identied areas that, with hindsight, might What were the findings of the Financial Services have been handled differently.
Our directors also highlighted Authoritys assessment of our governance some areas for further consideration by the Board that have arrangements?
been captured within the Boards strategic rolling agenda In 2011, the FSA conducted an assessment of our governance for2012.
arrangements, concentrating on our Board and board Feedback indicates that the right balance between formal and committees and management and management committees.
informal Board interaction is in place.
It was noted that informal The FSAs review was part of an ongoing Core Prudential meetings, such as lunches and dinners, tend to enable even Programme that has been designed specically for the largest more free owing debate than the scheduled Board meetings.
The FSA noted a number of strengths in the design of our governance, which included a well designed Board and Board members welcomed the continued focus on having Board committee structure, with high quality papers and good anongoing strategic dialogue at Board level.
In addition, support: a very experienced executive management team: several Board members commented that the approach to and a good spread of relevant experience and high level of the 2011 annual Strategy Board sessions was excellent.
commitment from our non-executive directors.
The fact that The opportunity to have more time to focus has arisen as a our non-executive directors travel freely across our markets result of increased delegation to and the broadening of the was also seen by the FSA to be beneficial.
Our distinctive set remit of the board committees.
However, in doing so, there is of values and culture was viewed as a further positive aspect an awareness of the need to avoid the agendas for the board of our governance and the steps the Group has taken to ensure committees becoming inadvertently cluttered.
a consistent approach to governance across our subsidiaries Given the Groups record of sustained record performance and branches alike.
Following the FSA review, three areas have over the past nine years, the Board is very mindful that been identied for further consideration that cover the role there could be a risk of complacency.
A high level of of the Board as a whole in the oversight of risk management, vigilance isrequired, particularly given the continued external the balance of formality and informality that exists between our macroeconomic turmoil.
Board members thought that, Board and management and the importance ofregulatory through receiving even more frequent input from external relationships.
In the spirit of continuous improvement, sources, the right balance of internal and external throughout 2012 we will be liaising with the FSA to agree and perspectives could be maintained.
deliver on further enhancements to our governance practices.
106 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Summary of some of the observations arising and actions taken as a result of the Boards effectiveness review 2011 2010 Observations Actions taken Observations Actions taken to be taken It was recognised that Whilst recognising that There was a need to continue We have continued to the existing Board good progress has been to focus upon Board and develop our structured composition results in a made on succession executive succession approach to succession highly effective Board.
planning this year, with planning.
planning whilst being Within this context, it several Board Nomination mindful of the complexities was commented that the Committee discussions of balancing board size with diversity of the Board and a more general board diversity and the might be further Independent Director skills and experience enhanced with greater conversation, there is required on our Board.
representation from our appetite for continued geographic footprint and discussion and focus on possibly through more this topic.
The Board The changing regulatory Looking forward, it was During 2011 the Board recognised the landscape has been observed that it is important continued to receive regular criticality of discussed extensively by to ensure that we continued updates from management maintaining the Board and there have to maintain the right balance via its committees constructive been regular updates in pursuing business growth regarding the development regulatory regarding regulatory supported by the various of systems, controls, relationships.
This will systems, controls, processes processes and information remain a key focus and information ows and to ows and the protection of for 2012. nurture our corporate culture our corporate culture.
This will continue to be a priority in 2012.
There is possible scope We have moved towards There was a need to balance We introduced one page for Board papers to be distinguishing more conciseness of information summaries of key issues more concise, whilst rigorously between provided to the Board and the for all core strategic review balancing this with the information directors Groups open culture where papers.
These provide a need to ensure that must have in order to full executives want Board roadmap for the issues directors receive all the their duties and other members to have open discussed in more depth information necessary optional information for access to information.
to full their duties those directors with an Feedback on this initiative effectively.
appetite to delve more was positive although it deeply into a particular was acknowledged that topic.
For example, there is still scope for the additional background contents of Board papers information designed for to evolve.
optional reading is now provided to directors exclusively via iPads.
Opportunities for furtherrenement willbeidentied and implemented in 2012.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 107 Number of Board meetings held in 2011 Assessment of Director Independence 1 Scheduled The Board is satisfied that all ofour non-executive directors meetings are independent.
Rudy Markham has been on the Board for Board members 10 11 years and as a result, his continued independence has Sir John Peace Chairman 10 10 been the subject of particular scrutiny.
The Nomination P A Sands 10 10 Committee considered this point in detail.
Rudy continues to demonstrate excellent stewardship as Senior Independent R H P Markham 10 10 Director and Chairman ofthe Audit Committee.
His continuity R H Meddings 10 10 of service and commitment provides an in-depth knowledge and understanding of the Group that is invaluable to the S P Bertamini 10 10 Board, the Audit Committee, Risk Committee, Governance J S Bindra 10 10 Committee and the Nomination Committee.
In 2010 three R Delbridge 10 10 new independent non-executive directors were appointed, thus ensuring regular refreshing of the Board.
As a result, J F T Dundas 10 10 itwas felt that there would be a positive benefit to having V F Gooding 10 10 non-executive directors with a deep and long-standing knowledge of the Group, such as Rudy, continuing on our Dr Han Seung-soo 9 10 Board and as Chairman of our Audit Committee.
S J Lowth 10 10 Rudy continues to demonstrate the attributes of an R Markland 10 10 independent non-executive director and there is no evidence J G H Paynter 10 10 that his tenure has had any impact on his independence.
He continues to bring to the role the same rigorous enquiry and A M G Rees 10 10 intellectual challenge that the Board has come to expect.
P D Skinner 10 10 Through his continued tenure, Rudys familiarity with the O H J Stocken 10 10 business has only further enhanced his contribution to the Board rather than weakened it in any way.
He probes and 1 There were no ad hoc meetings of the Board during 2011 validates the assertions made by the Groups executive management through his regular visits to the Groups External directorships overseas ofces, obtaining feedback from key staff and senior The Boards executive directors are permitted to hold only one leadership teams throughout the year.
For example, during non-executive directorship of a FTSE 100 company.
Details of 2011, Rudy held over 20 separate meetings during his visits the directors other directorships can be found in their tosix of the Groups markets.
The Committee has also considered the fact that Rudy We closely monitor the outside business interests of the is a non-executive director on the board of AstraZeneca non-executive directors.
Before taking on an additional role, PLC whilst Simon Lowth is an executive director at the both executive and non-executive directors will confirm that same company.
We do not believe that this creates a no conict arises from that role and provide assurance that cross-directorship which in any way impacts upon the the appointment will have no adverse impact on the ability to independence of either director.
continue to full his her role as a director of the Company.
Committee chairs are particularly mindful of their obligations.
Directors securities transactions Whenever needed during the year, directors have consistently The Company confirms that it has adopted a code of conduct demonstrated their ability to provide any additional time regarding securities transactions by directors on terms no less commitment needed.
exacting than required by Appendix 10 of the Hong Kong Listing Rules.
During the year, there has been one incidence Re-election of directors of inadvertent non-compliance with the Companys code of At our 2011 Annual General Meeting, in line with the UK conduct.
This related to the creation of a pledge, by a director, Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance over certain ordinary shares he holds.
Code, we moved to the practice of proposing directors for annual re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting and will do so again in 2012.
In 2011 all of our directors were re-elected.
Having moved to annual re-election we have continued the practice of rigorously reviewing all directors performance and this will be used asthebasis for recommending re-election of directors toshareholders.
108 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Group board committee structure Standard Chartered PLC Board Primary Committees Enabling Committees Audit Risk Brand and Values Remuneration Nomination Governance Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight and Oversight of overall review of financial, review of review of brand review of review of board board effectiveness audit and internal fundamental positioning, treating remuneration, and executive and governance control issues prudential risks customers fairly, share plans and succession issues including credit, reputational risk, other incentives market, capital ethics and and liquidity sustainability issues Board committees control issues.
The creation of a Brand and Values Committee In March 2010 we re-congured our board committees has improved the level of Board discussion on sustainability.
by separating our Audit and Risk Committee into two Our Board has made a conscious decision to delegate a committees, by creating a Governance Committee, and broader range of issues to the board committees and this has enhancing the remit of and re-naming the then Sustainability lead to a refreshed approach to ensure effective committee and Responsibility Committee to the Brand and Values linkages whilst being mindful of the need to guard against Committee.
The FSA has commented following its Core the danger of inadvertently cluttering the committee agendas.
Prudential Programme governance review that it endorses the The linkages between the committees and the Board are decision to split our Audit and Risk Committee and establish critical given that it is impractical for all non-executive directors a dedicated Governance Committee.
Feedback from the to be members of all the committees.
We have ensured that Boards effectiveness review is that in taking this action, the there is some common membership across our committees.
Boards overall effectiveness has continued to improve, it has For example, the chairmen of the Audit and Board Risk enabled stronger focus on operational effectiveness, Committee sit on each others committees and there are assurance and brand and values.
The creation of a Board two other common members.
There is also some common Risk Committee has sharpened the focus on risk issues and membership between the Board Risk Committee and the enabled the Audit Committee to spend more time focusing on Remuneration Committee.
Current membership of the board committees Brand and Audit Board Risk V alues Remuneration Nomination Governance Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee R Delbridge J F T Dundas V F Gooding Dr Han Seung-soo S J Lowth R H P Markham R Markland J G H Paynter Sir John Peace P A Sands P D Skinner O H J Stocken Chairman Member Copies of each Board committees terms of reference can be found on our website Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 109 Audit Committee Dear Shareholder The Committee met with our lead regulator, the FSA, to discuss a number of topics including discussions with Given the challenging market conditions experienced the audit profession on goodwill valuations, prudential over the last 12 months, the Committee has been provisioning, and their observations on the Committees particularly vigilant of the need to cover regulatory, activities and areas of scrutiny compared withother banks.
compliance, internal audit and operational matters in a manner that focuses on the key potential exposure in As Chairman of the Audit Committee, I presented the the Groups products and geographies.
Given these Committees views in response to the Sharman Inquirys Call challenges we have paid particular attention to the for Evidence on going concern and liquidity risk.
The response resourcing requirements of both the Group Internal reected the perspectives of an international banking group Audit and Group Compliance functions.
and our experiences during the recent Global Financial Crisis and other crises including the Asian Financial Crisis.
Discussions at Committee meetings are facilitated by the high quality of papers that are provided.
The Committee The deliberate choice to have a strong overlap in the periodically reviews the papers it receives to ensure that the membership of the Committee with the Board Risk Committee information provided is both informative and useful so as to is one of the ways in which we have enabled appropriate enable the Committee to effectively full its responsibilities as linkages to exist between the two committees.
This helps to set out in its terms of reference.
In particular, over the course ensure that there are no gaps or unnecessary duplication in of the year, the regular report from the Group Head of Internal the work undertaken by both committees.
Another way in Audit has evolved so as to enable the Committee to spend which we strive to ensure linkages is the call that I host on more time looking at root causes and oversight weaknesses, an annual basis with the chairmen of our subsidiary audit and for the Committee to be able to satisfy itself of the committees.
This call provides an opportunity to share, independence of the Group Internal Audit function.
The amongst other things, the Committees priorities for the year number and length of Committee meetings is considered to ahead and to discuss ways in which the linkages between the be sufficient to allow for serious and meaningful discussion subsidiaries and the Committee can be further strengthened and debate of material issues.
During the year the Committee has had the opportunity to Over the course of the year Committee members have hold a number of deep dives into particular areas.
One continued to visit the Groups operations in a number of such deep dive included the risk assessment methodology our markets.
They have also met with our Group statutory adopted by the Group Internal Audit function.
The purpose auditor, KPMG Audit Plc KPMG, in various jurisdictions as ofthis deep dive was to ensure that Group Internal Audit part of the process of reviewing the level of professionalism in provides adequate, appropriate and timely audit coverage auditing the Groups financial statements across our markets.
A second deep dive concerned the incorporation of the assurance function into Group Internal I can confirm that the information that the Committee has Audit so as to improve control effectiveness and eliminate received has been balanced, appropriate and timely and potential gaps in coverage.
Such sessions enable both has enabled the Committee to full its remit.
discussion on the causes of issues that are reported on atCommittee meetings and exploration of more complex business areas and products in greater depth.
In 2011 the Groups local internal audit and assurance function moved from our Compliance function to Group Internal Audit.
Part of the rationale behind this realignment was to allow the assurance function to place more focus on building control Rudy Markham effectiveness reviews that are closer to audit type work: itwas Chairman of the Audit Committee thus natural to consider how the activities of the two functions could be combined to increase effectiveness.
I am pleased toreport that in addition to increasing effectiveness, the new operating model has brought better insight to risk and an improved quality and effectiveness of the assurance and auditwork which is being done throughout the Group.
110 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Audit Committee 13254 Members Other attendees at Committee 1 Scheduled meetingsinclude: Group Chairman: meetings Group Chief Executive officer: Group 7 Finance Director: Group Chief Risk R H P Markham Chairman 5 7 7 officer: GroupHead of Internal Audit: R Delbridge 2 7 7 Group Head of Compliance: Director, J F T Dundas 1 7 7 Property, Research and Assurance: R Markland 4 7 7 Group Company Secretary: Group J G H Paynter 3 7 7 statutory auditors 1 There were no ad hoc meetings of the Committee during 2011 What is the Committees role?
Our highlights Financial reporting Over the course of 2011 the Committee has considered t Monitored changes in the external regulatory the financial control framework within the Group.
We have environment to ensure that we continue to have discussed and sought assurance that the effects on the appropriate financial, compliance and internal controls Groups business of the continued volatility in financial in place markets including reduced supply of credit are being t Continued to fully evaluate and take into account the closely monitored.
We are satisfied that we have considered risks and uncertainties when considering budgets and for disclosure all material relevant issues that have concerned forecasts that support going concern and impairment management during the year.
We have also considered assessments impairment, valuation of securities and compliance with t Further evolved the Committees remit and International Financial Reporting Standards within the Group.
effectiveness following the separation from the Board Risk Committee in March 2010 and improved linkages The Committee has considered managements with the Board Risk Committee recommendations in respect of provisions for bad and t Continued to consider emerging best practice doubtful debts and any other provisioning for losses and recommendations for enhancing the Committees charges as reported in the Groups half year and full year effectiveness results.
We also considered managements assessment in t Reviewed and approved a revised Group policy on the determining that the going concern basis for preparing those award of non-audit services to auditors in accordance financial statements was appropriate.
with the UK Financial Reporting Councils guidance on audit committees Oversight of internal controls t Reviewed the Groups approach to ensuring One of the themes that underpins the discussions held at compliance with the six principles set out in the Committee meetings is how effective is the Committees guidance issued in conjunction with the UK Bribery Act oversight of internal controls.
The Committee has discussed t Held four deep dive half-day sessions on key control environment issues, their root causes and strategic issues managements response and follow-up activities.
In particular t Continued to ensure that we are satisfied that our we have reviewed and where deemed appropriate, challenged Group statutory auditor has allocated sufficient the information presented to the Committee in the Audit and additional and experienced resources to address the Compliance risk issue maps.
These maps have continued heightened risks to evolve, providing greater differentiation regarding the t Reviewed our internal audit and compliance functions materiality of particular issues.
to ensure they have adequate, experienced resource to deliver on their objectives Group Internal Audit reports t Oversaw the implementation of new International We have reviewed and monitored managements Financial Reporting Standards responsiveness to Group Internal Audits findings and t Considered the findings of investigations designed to recommendations.
Issues that are deemed to be of Group identify the causes of breaches of control or breakdown signicance, and in Group Internal Audits view in need of in processes additional scrutiny, are escalated to the Committee.
These will be aggregated thematically for example by geography and represented graphically on an issues map to reect both 2012 priorities probability and impact to the organisation.
A commentary on management responses, planned remedial actions, along t Continue to ensure that the Groups systems, processes with the programme of audit work designed to assess and controls are operating effectively and consistently managements progress in resolution accompanies the issues in line with the Groups growth, complexity and in map.
Over the course of the year, the issues map has evolved response to changes in regulatory requirements so as to be more specic about the topics appearing on it, t Continue to scrutinise the audit process to ensure thereby enabling more focused discussion.
satisfaction with the quality and coverage of the work done by Group Internal Audit Lessons learned reviews have been conducted following t Continue our focus on the root causes of issues the resolution of matters raised by Group Internal Audit, the t Continue to focus on the effective linkages between the findings of which have been discussed by the Committee.
Committee, the Board and other board committees Thishas led to an increased emphasis on the need to adopt t Continue to engage closely with subsidiary board audit amore sustainable way to address certain issues.
committees so as to ensure maximum oversight of key areas of concern and potential risk Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 111 12 3 4 5 Group statutory auditor In 2011, the Audit Inspection Unit AIU, part of the Professional We have continued to strengthen our oversight of the work Oversight Board, which is responsible for the monitoring of the undertaken by KPMG.
At the beginning of the year, the audits of all listed and other major public interest entities, Committee spoke with local audit partners from across our conducted a review of the audit profession as a whole footprint.
The topics for the call covered, amongst other things, including our Group statutory auditor, KPMG.
Based on the our growth agenda, the likely impact on the Group of regulatory findings of the AIU review, the feedback from our internal reform, private banking in the Americas region, current market performance questionnaire and the scrutiny that the conditions in the Middle East, and increasing challenges in the Committee has conducted throughout the year, our principal general tax environment.
nding was that the Group statutory auditor is considered to be effective, objective and independent in its role as Group Over the course of the year local audit partners from the UAE, statutory auditor.
Korea and India have attended Committee meetings, which have provided the Committee with the opportunity to gain Non-Audit Services greater insight as to the challenges faced in the Groups In 2011, the Group spent $4.9 million on non-audit services markets from a statutory audit perspective.
Further details can be found in note 8 We have discussed with KPMG the business and financial on page 185.
In 2011, the amount spent by the Group on risks and have sought assurance that these risks have been non-audit services provided by KPMG is lower than the properly addressed in the audit strategy and plan that has amounts spenton procurement of consultancy services from been reviewed by the Committee.
We are satisfied that KPMG two oftheother Big 4 consulting accounting rms Deloitte has allocated sufficient additional and experienced resources andErnst & Young.
We have sought assurance and The Committee reviewed and approved a revised Group are comfortable that no undue pressure has been asserted policy on the award of non-audit services to auditors the on the level of audit fees so as to ensure that there is no risk Policy.
The changes to the Policy reected changes to the to audit work being conducted effectively.
Financial Reporting Councils FRC Guidance on Audit During the year, we approved the re-appointment, Committees made in December 2010 and the Auditing remuneration and engagement letter of KPMG as our Group Practices Board APB Ethical Standards for Auditors Ethical statutory auditor.
We believe that there are few audit rms with Standard 5 also made in December 2010 in relation to the sufficient international reach to provide audit services across provision of non-audit services by auditors to audit clients.
Further details concerning the principles on which the policy isbased can be found in the Report of the directors.
Note 8 We conducted a review of the performance and effectiveness onpage 185 describes the broad categories of the types of KPMG, which included an assessment of its independence ofnon-audit services provided by KPMG.
There were two and objectivity.
In conducting the review, the Committee was significant engagements of note for KPMG to provide seeking to gain assurance that KPMG has conducted a non-audit services, which were as follows: comprehensive, appropriate and effective audit.
As in previous years, the review was performed jointly by Group Internal Audit Recovery and Resolution Plan RRP and Group Finance by way of a structured questionnaire.
The KPMG was engaged to assist the Group in the preparation of questionnaire was sent to country chief financial ofcers, its RRP.
The FSA recommended the use of a consultancy rm members of our finance leadership team, country chief to support the Groups RRP work, which had already advised executive ofcers and our business leadership team covering a peer bank on RRPs.
The Group selected KPMG on the all of our major markets.
The questionnaire considered KPMGs basis that i KPMG had advised a peer bank and so met the value add to the Group, the level of engagement, its ability to FSAs recommendation and also had a good sense for peer demonstrate an understanding ofStandard Chartered and our submissions and FSA thinking on RRPs ii KPMG was risk environment.
It also considered the demonstration of advantaged by its existing knowledge of the Groups appreciation of the issues faced by country chief executive processes and procedures and iii KPMG presented less ofcers, chief financial ofcers and business heads together condentiality risk than using an alternative advisery rm.
with their objectivity, independence and effectiveness.
Over KPMGs role in this engagement was primarily to provide the course of the year, the Committee has scrutinised the audit anindependent view, benchmarked against external process and the quality and experience of the audit partners regulations and KPMGs own knowledge of industry best engaged in the audit.
The 2011 Group Audit Plan considered practices.
Therefore this engagement posed no threat to by the Committee provided details of the number of years the independence and objectivity of KPMG in its role as the KPMG partners and senior team members have been involved Groups statutory auditor.
The total fees paid to KPMG for in the Groups audit.
The Group statutory audit partner was this engagement in 2011 were $1.09 million.
rotated in 2010 and has a background in auditing banks and understands the markets in which we operate.
112 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Section 166: Liquidity Reporting Interaction with management KPMG was engaged as a skilled person for the purposes of On a regular basis the Committee meets separately with our preparation of a Section 166 report on the Groups Liquidity Group statutory auditor KPMG, the Group Finance Director, Reporting.
The FSA required all UK banks to provide a skilled Group Head of Internal Audit and Group Head of Compliance.
persons report on FSA Liquidity Reporting under Section These meetings allow Committee members to discuss freely 166of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 the matters relating to the auditors remit and issues arising from Report.
The Report was intended to give the FSA assurance the audit.
as to the quality, accuracy and reliability of rms liquidity reporting processes.
KPMG was selected on the basis of its Regulatory and legal requirements and issues familiarity with both the Groups liquidity reporting systems The Committees terms of reference have been expanded to and general governance and control systems.
The FSA include financial crime risk as part of the report the Committee confirmed that the skilled person could be a member of the received from the Group Money Laundering officer.
We have rms auditors provided that the audit rm had not advised on also considered the likely impact of the Foreign Account Tax the implementation of the liquidity reporting systems under and Compliance Act and the UK Bribery Act.
The Group is fully review.
KPMGs role in this engagement was to provide an compliant with the six principles set out in the UKs Ministry of objective view as to whether the Group has applied external Justice guidance issued in conjunction with the UK Bribery regulations appropriately and therefore this engagement Act.
The principles cover the need for proportionate posed no threat to the independence and objectivity of KPMG procedures, top-level commitment, risk assessment, due in its role as the Groups statutory auditors.
The total fees paid diligence, communications and training, and monitoring and to KPMG for this engagement in 2011 were $542,000.
The Groups controls have been enhanced to meet the requirements of these principles.
Group Internal Audit and Group Compliance The Groups commitment within this principle is evidenced We have reviewed the resourcing and proposed work plans by the Groups anti-bribery policy, the Group Code of for both the Group Internal Audit and the Group Compliance Conduct, senior managements messaging around training functions and are satisfied that both the work plans and and, importantly, operating in accordance with the Here for resources are appropriate in terms of proposed areas of focus good brand promise.
The Groups commitment is also and the expertise and skill that exist within both functions demonstrated through its continuing involvement in the given the current regulatory environment.
development of industry best practice contributing to a In addition, regulators in many of our countries of operation number of organisations aiming to ght bribery.
These include have increased their level of supervision, with a more local the British Bankers Association, the International Chamber focus, leading to specic challenges over the perceived ofCommerce, the Wolfsberg Group and the United National independence of local audit and assurance functions: in Global Company Working Group against Corruption.
conjunction with the need for senior compliance management to focus on a more challenging regulatory world.
Ongoing training and development In addition to other ongoing training and development As a result of this review, the Committee is comfortable that activities in each non-executive directors engagement or this has reinforced a number of the Groups assurance induction plan, four half-day informal deep-dive sessions activities.
were held in conjunction with the Board Risk Committee over As a Committee we monitored and assessed the role and the course of the year.
These sessions covered assuring effectiveness of our Group Internal Audit function.
The control effectiveness, Group Internal Audit coverage in terms Committee has monitored the progress action that has been of markets and products, major credit exposures, processes made in light of the recommendations made by Deloitte in its and methodologies for pricing risk and the risks associated effectiveness review of Group Internal Audit.
This review found with managing industry sector concentrations.
All that Group Internal Audit demonstrates good industry practice non-executive directors were invited to these sessions.
and is perceived positively by its key stakeholders.
A number of recommendations were made to further enhance the Speaking Up Policy capability and delivery of Group Internal Audit.
The Committee reviewed the Groups Speaking Up Policy, which allows our employees to raise, in confidence, any We have reviewed and approved Group Internal Audits concerns that they may have about possible improprieties in charter, its annual audit plan and its monitoring of post audit matters of financial reporting or other areas.
We have considered the resourcing requirements has reviewed these arrangements and ensured that any ofthe function.
Our remit also includes the consideration matters of concern were investigated appropriately.
oftheappointment, resignation or removal of our Head of InternalAudit.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 113 What action have we taken following the findings of our 2010 Committee effectiveness review and what were the findings of the 2011 review?
2011 2010 Observations Actions taken Observations Actions taken to be taken There is a need to We will mirror the The Committee would nd it Four half-day Audit explore ways to ensure approach taken by the beneficial to increase the Committee deep dive that the Committee is Board by moving towards number of half-day informal sessions were held in 2011 able to focus on the root distinguishing more meetings a year from two covering audit specic cause of issues, new rigorously between to three.
In addition to audit business areas and any information the Committee specic topics, the agenda issues arising as the must have in order to full for the sessions also Group grows.
its duties and other covered risk related matters optional information for including a review of major those Committees with an credit exposures, pricing appetite to delve more for risk and managing deeply into a particular industry sector topic.
Consideration will be concentrations thereby given to holding informal building on the linkages sessions over the course and synergies which exist of the year to enable the between the Audit Committee to reect on Committee and the issues being brought to its Board Risk Committee.
attention, consider bigger picture issues and focus more on root causes.
Continue to focus on The ways in which the As part of ensuring best Rudy Markham met with the effective linkages Committee gains greater practice, the Chairman the audit chairmen of three between the Committee, insight into the role of the should meet with the audit UK banks over the course and subsidiary board Groups subsidiary board committee chairmen of other of the year which assisted audit committees.
audit committees will be UK banks.
in the benchmarking of the evolved and implemented Committees activities in 2012. against those of other UKbanks.
Opportunities for further renement will be identied and implemented in 2012.
Committee membership Our Committee members have detailed and relevant experience.
Details of their experience can be found in their The Nomination Committee has reviewed the Audit Committees composition during the year and is satisfied that biographies on pages 94 to 96.
All of the Committees members are independent.
The Board is satisfied that Rudy the Audit Committee has the expertise and resource to full effectively its responsibilities including those relating to internal Markham as Chairman has recent and relevant financial experience and that all other Committee members have financial controls and the Groups internal control systems.
broad experience and knowledge of financial reporting and One of the findings of our 2011 committee effectiveness international businesses.
The Board and the Committee review was that the Committees size and composition are members believe that Rudy is an excellent chairman who appropriate and that the Committee members possess the reacts with balance to issues and ensures that all Committee necessary accounting, financial, legal, banking and members are included in discussions.
investment knowledge and skills that are needed.
114 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Board Risk Committee Dear Shareholder Our highlights 2011 was the first full year of operation for the Board Risk Committee following its establishment in March t Continued to build on the work carried out by the 2010.
The Groups major markets performed better Committee in 2010 on the Groups risk appetite, in 2011 than most Western economies, but the taking into account the macroeconomic and financial combination of continuing very large scale disruption environment in global financial markets with an unprecedented t Continued to conduct deep dives into selected volume of regulatory activity has posed significant areas of risk challenges.
In an increasingly difficult external t Continued focus on how the Group was managing environment, the overarching objective of the any exposures affected by the eurozone crisis, Committees work has been to maintain assurance that large exposures, concentrations and correlations the Group continues to operate within Board approved t Oversight of transformational programme for strategy and risk appetite, and that the Groups risk management systems and controls are properly the Operational Risk function designed to build a stronger framework structured and implemented.
t Continued focus on stress testing, especially against The report below provides further details of the Committees Group risk appetite and liquidity stress testing work in 2011.
While maintaining focus on risk appetite at Group level, we have also devoted much attention to reviewing t Reviewed the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment the processes by which risk is managed at individual country Process and the Individual Liquidity Adequacy and portfolio level, challenging management to demonstrate Assessment a consistency of approach regarding the risk return equation t Maintained oversight of the operational aspects across all countries and businesses.
We have focused of the Groups Recovery and Resolution Plan particularly on large exposures.
Although the Groups t Optimised and enhanced the Committees geographical diversication is an important risk mitigant, effectiveness through rening the reports it receives wehave reviewed managements alertness to possible and continuing to evolve the Committees terms of correlations that could emerge and cause unacceptable reference and rolling agenda losses under stress.
The Committee believes that the effectiveness of the Groups risk management system is critically dependent on 2012 priorities the management resources that operate it.
We have kept this under review during 2011, both through formal discussion t Continue to ensure that the right balance is struck of the quality, independence and depth of the Risk function between strategic forward looking oversight of the and through numerous interactions between members of the Groups risks and more detailed review of management Committee and risk personnel at all levels.
In the course of information and risk management processes across the year Committee members have met with risk teams in the full spectrum of risk types Hong Kong, Vietnam and Uganda.
t Evolve how the Committee tracks over time the Groups utilisation of risk capacity and of our exposure to key risk types t Increased focus on where risk is changing in our markets t Continue to evolve the linkages between the Committee and those with Board, board committees and management committees Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 115 Other attendees Board Risk 13254 67 at Committee Committee Members meetings include: Scheduled Ad Hoc Group Chairman: meetings meetings 6 1 Group Chief Executive officer: J F T Dundas 6 6 1 1 Group Finance Chairman 4 Director: Group R Delbridge 5 6 6 1 1 Chief Risk officer: 1 S J Lowth 2 1 1 0 0 Group Head of R H P Markham 3 6 6 1 1 Internal Audit: R Markland 6 6 6 1 1 Group Company P D Skinner 7 5 6 1 1 Secretary: Group O H J Stocken 1 4 6 1 1 Treasurer: Group 1 Appointed 1 November 2011 statutory auditors.
The synergies between the membership of the Risk and Risk management Audit Committees have enhanced our effectiveness, and the A report from the Group Chief Risk officer is presented at breadth of experience that Committee members bring with every scheduled meeting and the Committee has discussed them has stimulated broad debates.
Simon Lowth joined the with management the major risks faced by the Group across Committee in November 2011, bringing with him significant its businesses and geographies.
We believe that it is good financial and risk management experience.
Regular practice to have a Risk Appetite Statement that is positioned attendance at Committee meetings by the Group Chairman, as a high level boundary condition.
This statement is Group Chief Executive officer, Group Finance Director, Group underpinned by a range of tools and metrics that are used to Chief Risk officer, and the Group Head of Internal Audit has manage risk throughout the Group.
In December 2011, the supported the Committees discussions.
The Committee also Committee recommended to the Board that it should reafrm holds private meetings with the Group Chief Risk officer and the current Group Risk Appetite Statement.
The Committee the Group Head of Internal Audit.
seeks and has received at each of its scheduled meetings conrmation that the Group remains within the Board I can confirm that the information that the Committee has approved risk appetite.
In addition to specic reporting received has been balanced, appropriate and timely, and and stress testing against Board approved risk appetite, has enabled the Committee to full its remit.
the Committee also received and reviewed a wider range of risk metrics and ensured that the Board is kept informed of this review.
All directors receive a summary of the risk information report for each Board meeting and minutes of Committee meetings.
Jamie Dundas, as Committee Chairman, periodically provides Jamie Dundas an update to the Board on risk matters.
There are half-day Chairman of the Board Risk Committee deep dive sessions to which all directors are invited the last four sessions have covered risk appetite, major credit exposures, processes and methodologies for pricing risk and managing industry sector concentration risk.
We continued to focus on how the Group was managing any exposures affected by the eurozone crisis in addition to a focus on large exposures, concentration and correlations.
Capital and liquidity Given the criticality of capital and liquidity matters in 2011, over the course of the year the Committee has maintained its focus on this area.
A report from the Group Treasurer is presented at every scheduled meeting and the Committee considers and discusses the Groups capital and liquidity position, and the regulatory environment and expectations.
In addition to receiving regular liquidity updates, we have reviewed the liquidity risk stress test approach, the liquidity risk appetite, the liquidity risk stress testing framework and the results of the liquidity deep dive conducted by the FSA.
116 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued We have received and commented on reports on the Groups Risk aspects and implications for risk appetite capital base and plans for capital and debt issuance and of strategic transactions discussed in detail drafts of the Groups internal capital In addition to the six scheduled Committee meetings and four adequacy assessment process and individual liquidity informal deep dive sessions in 2011, there was one ad hoc adequacy assessment prior to them being submitted to the meeting, the purpose of which was to review the due diligence FSA.
In addition, the Committee reviewed the FSAs Liquidity processes and potential effect on Group Risk Appetite for an Deep Dive letter and Risk Mitigation Plan.
acquisition that was not proceeded with.
Stress testing Risk management disclosures The Committee has discussed the Groups plans for stress The Committee reviewed the risk disclosures in the testing at business, country and client levels.
We also Annual and Interim Reports and reviewed and approved discussed in detail the regulatory requirements for Reverse this disclosure on the work of the Committee.
We considered managements proposed sub-committee of the Committee and the Audit Committee stress testing plan for 2011, which included regulatory reviewed the Basel II Pillar 3 annual disclosure.
and reverse stress testing and made a number of recommendations to management as to what could Other activities be included as part of the stress testing programme.
Over the course of the year the Committee has selected a number of topics for more detailed discussion at Committee We have had oversight of the operational risk transformational meetings.
These included the underwriting and syndication programme, the aim of which is to build a stronger framework process, the Groups recovery and resolution plan, the use of for internal control in order to remain within our low level of insurance to mitigate risk, risk appetite assessment plans, and appetite for operational losses.
This programme has focused the Groups approach to liquidity risk stress testing.
In order to on implementing a more forward-looking risk identication gain a greater understanding of the role that the risk function capability, a model of more predictive intelligence around and other control functions play in the annual remuneration these risks and a more effective and efficient governance process, the Committee discussed with the Group Chief framework to enable senior management to critically assess Risk officer the matters in which he had been advising the and either accept or mitigate them.
Regulatory and legislative changes Qualications of Risk Committee members Given the increasingly difficult external environment, there The Committees composition reects our belief that it is is aneed for the Committee to continuously evolve to essential that the Committee benefit from a deep and broad keep abreast of the changing landscape and regulatory experience of banking and of the risk factors affecting it, environment so as to be in a position to maintain assurance but also from the very senior experience of other industries that the Group continues to trade within Board approved and professions.
Simon Lowth joined the Committee on strategy and risk appetite, and that the Groups risk 1November 2011, bringing with him significant financial management systems and controls are effective and and risk management experience.
Over the course of the year, the Committee has had oversight of the operational aspects of the Groups Recovery and Resolution Programme particularly in relation to recovery.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 117 What action have we taken following the findings of our been performing well and was effective, there were emerging 2010 Committee effectiveness review and what were themes to discuss.
For example, whether the right balance is the findings of the 2011 review?
being struck between strategic forward-looking oversight of the An internally facilitated effectiveness review was conducted in Groups risks and a more detailed review of management 2011.
This was facilitated by Corporate Secretariat and involved information and risk management processes across the full each Committee member completing a questionnaire and spectrum of risk types.
An action plan has been formulated to providing feedback on the Committees effectiveness.
The address the observations and a summary of the findings appear feedback was then formally discussed by the Committee.
Whilst in the table below.
all of the Committee members believed that the Committee had 2011 2010 Observations Actions taken Observations Actions taken to be taken The Committee has The deep dives will The Committee would In addition to the deeper benefited from further continue in 2012. benefit from further deep discussions held at Committee deep dives into selected dives into selected topics meetings on selected topics, topics over the course of such as liquidity, exposure over the course of the year, the year.
to banks, reliance on the Committee has held four models and stress testing.
half-day deep dive sessions on managing industry concentrations, the processes for pricing for risk in our Consumer Banking and Wholesale Banking businesses and a review of major credit exposures.
In the course of reviewing Going forward key As part of the process Over the course of 2011 its effectiveness the subjects covered by to ensure that the Jamie Dundas met with the Committee gave careful individual components Committee is effective, risk committee chairmen of attention to the risk of the regular report it would beneficial if the a number of UK banks.
metrics it regularly submitted to the Committees activities receives to ensure it has Committee will be were benchmarked appropriate coverage of incorporated into the against those of other all the key data necessary Committees rolling board risk committees.
to full its terms of agenda as individual reference without being agenda items so that overwhelmed with each such subject information.
receives specic scheduled attention as appropriate.
The fuller report containing much deeper and granular information will continue to be available as a resource for Committee members to draw upon.
There is a need for the Committee papers will Committee members to All Committee members Committee to further be evolved to enable continue to visit a variety have unfettered access to explore the bigger trends further exploration of of the Groups markets management at all times and in all in terms of risk capacity these areas.
and continue to engage geographies.
In 2011, members and utilisation in the with many levels of the of the Committee have met with markets and an increased Groups risk management risk management staff in many focus on where risk is across our footprint.
locations including Hong Kong, changing.
Jakarta, Mumbai and New York.
118 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Brand and Values Committee Dear Shareholder Our highlights The Brand and Values Committee has completed its second year of operation and continues to make good t Progressed on the brand journey in terms of active progress on its key priorities including, but not limited brand tracking, development of clear metrics to to, the main themes of brand, customer client focus, maximise brand spend, and the introduction of 1 reputational risk, sustainability and culture and values.
the brand funnel tool t Against a backdrop of economic and market volatility I am pleased to report that there have been important conducted an enhanced review of the reputational risks advances on the development of our brand.
Active brand affecting the Group including processes and outcomes, tracking via consumer research has enabled trends to be whilst regularly tracking movements in reputational risk identied in various markets and clear metrics have enabled informed decisions on how and where, through brand t Reviewed the progress made in delivering expenditure, maximum value is derived.
Apart from direct customer client focused strategies in Wholesale business-related programmes in our individual businesses, Banking and Consumer Banking, in line with our the Here for good programme and sponsorship of Liverpool Here for good brand promise and approach to Football Club have had a positive impact on our brand position.
Treating Customers Fairly t Continued to review our community investment and The work of the Committee has continued to focus on the environmental strategies and processes for measuring importance of client and customer relationships.
We have and monitoring our environmental impact monitored the implementation of customer client focused strategies ensuring that they are in line with our Here for good t Received assurance that we maintain and develop brand promise: and more specically, we have reviewed our culture and values during a period of rapid growth what is being done to develop a deeper understanding of of the Group customers clients in our markets.
This work has included t Reviewed the quality and effectiveness of government detailed reviews of managements approach to Treating and regulatory relationships in our major markets Customers Fairly TCF, a key FSA principle for customer banking relationships.
1 Brand funnel is a consumer focused marketing model that visually presents thecustomer journey from awareness via preference towards the purchase of The Committee has continued to oversee the broad area of aproduct or service reputational risk to provide assurance that the management process is robust.
We have reviewed the challenges faced in 2012 priorities some of our key markets around the issues of diversity and inclusion, and the steps being taken by the Group to ensure t Continue to develop and enhance a structured that we are an inclusive employer, committed to enhancing approach to growing our brand and monitoring diversity across the organisation.
1 progress using the brand funnel tool We live in an increasingly challenging world with many of our t Continue to drive maximum value from our brand markets particularly vulnerable to climate change and changing investment programmes including our sponsorship environmental, as well as economic, conditions.
The Committee of Liverpool Football Club has looked in depth into the management of our operational t To satisfy the requirements of the Group Risk Appetite impact on the environment.
It has been reassuring to note the Statement, conduct reviews of reputational risks real progress being made against our long-term targets to affecting the Group signicantly reduce our energy, water, air travel and paper t Oversee the Groups approach to enhancing the quality consumption.
We also monitor the lending and investment of our government and regulatory relationships in major policies of the Group in sectors related to sustainable growth.
markets in an increasingly challenging, complex and We have taken pro-active steps to monitor the added value from differential regulatory landscape the Committee.
We have sought feedback from the executive t Review and refresh the Groups overall environmental management on the value that the Committee has added to their strategy in terms of both internal direct impacts and businesses functions and ways in which it has helped better external contribution manage risk.
As Chairman I will continue to explore ways in t Continue to oversee our culture and values as the which the Committee can continuously enhance its oversight of the important issues set out in the terms of reference.
Group grows and develops to ensure that it remains a positive and prominent feature of our governance Paul Skinner Chairman of the Brand and Values Committee Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 119 Brand and Values 13254 6 Committee Members 1 Scheduled meetings Other regular attendees at 5 Committeemeetings include: P D Skinner Chairman 3 5 5 GroupHead of Human Resources J F T Dundas 1 5 5 andCommunications: Group Head, V F Gooding 5 5 5 Corporate Affairs: Director, Property, Dr Han Seung-soo 6 4 5 Research and Assurance: Group Sir John Peace 4 4 5 Company Secretary: Special Adviser P A Sands 2 5 5 tothe Directorate.
1 There were no ad hoc meetings of the Committee during 2011 What is the Committees role?
The Committee has sought and received assurance from The Committees remit includes oversight of the Groups management that the mechanisms in place for monitoring brand positioning, reputational risk, customer client focused reputational risk remain robust and reporting to the Committee strategies including Treating Customers Fairly, regulatory remains t for purpose.
relationships, sustainability issues and our culture and values.
On behalf of the Board, we have reviewed the Groups approach to managing reputational risk in line with the Brand Group Risk Appetite Statement.
We have focused on the direction of brand management to ensure that the value of our brand continues to grow.
Sustainability The Committee has oversight of the processes to ensure In an increasingly turbulent financial services environment, brand consistency throughout the Group, to ensure brand we endeavour to justify our social usefulness to wider governance and has conducted regular reviews of brand stakeholders.
Active brand tracking has been enhanced since March 2010.
There are now sufficient data points in place to The Committee reviewed the sustained progress being better understand trends in various markets.
Clear metrics made in managing our direct operational impact on the have enabled informed decisions on how and where we environment.
For example, in 2010 total energy consumption spend on brand and the balance between corporate and reduced by approximately 10 per cent and water usage business-driven expenditure.
The introduction of the brand reduced by 34per cent.
The Committees discussions drew funnel tool, whilst complementing the brand tracker data, out the important fact that it is often the smaller low-cost has demonstrated how awareness translates through initiatives that matter, such as the use of water-saving devices consideration to purchase.
It has proved particularly helpful in water cisterns and tap leak management.
in allocating appropriate levels of brand expenditure in major The Group has 14 sustainable finance position statements.
markets like India and China.
In order to deepen the knowledge of the Committee, as part of a review of the Groups approach to sustainable finance, Reputational risk a review was carried out into the Palm Oil Position Statement During the year, we have conducted a review of the using a client case study to demonstrate how the position reputational risks affecting the Group including processes statement is translated into action.
This included two country deep dives into challenging reputational risk situations that arose in Bahrain In 2011, the Group was included in the 2011 Dow Jones and Hong Kong.
These reviews enabled the Committee to Sustainability World Index for the second time.
We continue obtain a practical understanding of how reputational risk to be listed on the FTSE4Good and FTSE4Good Environment events are managed as they unfold, how decisions are made Indexes as well as the 2010 Ethisphere Worlds Most Ethical internally, and how lessons learned are used within the Group.
We won the FT ArcelorMittal Boldness in Business Award for Corporate Responsibility and were At each Committee meeting, the most significant and named as a Top 8 Group in Managing Environmental, forward-looking reputational risks facing the Group are Social and Governance Issues by GS Sustain.
A heat map is presented that sets detailscan be found on pages 46 to 49 and in our out the forward-looking reputational risk from the lenses of  Review.
multiple external stakeholders such as Socially Responsible Investors SRIs and Non Governmental Organisations NGOs.
120 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Culture and values Government and regulatory relationships The Committee remains fully supportive of the work carried We have continued to oversee the Groups approach to our out in the Group to reinforce our culture as a source of government and regulatory relationships in major markets.
This year, the Committee conducted This took the form of a progress report on the quality of an in-depth review of one key priority for the Diversity and relationships and the work underway to strengthen these Inclusion D&I agenda, enhancing the D&I of our talent pools relationships and key emerging trends in these markets.
in China and the Middle East.
This deeper dive brought out The Committee has aligned its work in this area with that the challenges faced in these markets and steps being taken oftheAudit Committee to ensure they are complementary.
by the Group to remain inclusive and enhance our diversity.
Committee effectiveness review The Committee explored the use of our primary employee This year, in addition to the internally facilitated effectiveness 12 engagement measurement tool the Q survey and the review, the Committee has taken pro-active steps to test value of the data that it provides to ensure that it remains theeffectiveness of the Committee by asking regular an appropriate and effective tool.
This process included a management presenters to provide feedback on the value deeper review of the data for China.
This highlighted both thatthe Committee has added to their businesses functions.
the opportunities and challenges involved in our current engagement approach.
We reviewed the results of the Furthermore, a comprehensive brieng session to 12 responses to the Q survey and the actions to be taken non-Committee members was provided during the year by management in response to them.
to explain the work the Committee has been involved in on brand and culture and values.
Customer client focus and Treating Customers Fairly TCF On behalf of the Board, we have continued to have oversight of our client focused strategy in Wholesale Banking and the delivery of our customer focused strategy in Consumer Banking.
We have reviewed and challenged managements approach to TCF, to ensure that these principles are clearly embedded in the Groups operations.
We have conducted two in-depth reviews into TCF that included live data examples from our markets.
Here for good We have overseen the development and delivery against policy statements made by the Group regarding activities and businesses Standard Chartered will and will not do in line with our Here for good brand promise.
The Committee has received updates on the Groups approach to Sustainable Finance, including our Clinton Global Initiative commitment, Renewal Energy and Environmental Finance and Environmental and Social Risk management.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 121 What action have we taken following the findings of our 2010 Committee effectiveness review and what were the findings of the 2011 review?
2011 2010 Observations Actions taken Observations Actions taken to be taken Committee effectiveness Agenda items in 2012 will To identify further There has been further could be enhanced by include in-depth country opportunities where a wider participation from the the use of more deep analyses to ensure the group of senior business business at Committee dives to gain a greater Committee appreciates leaders can contribute to the meetings, including the understanding of how how policies are Committees discussion on Heads of Wholesale Banking issues are managed in operationalised in relevant topics.
Wider senior Attendance by a broader Review and clarify any Marginal overlaps of management exposure pool of senior executive potential linkages that exist activity between Board to the Committee could management at with the other Board committees have been assist with discussions Committee meetings will committees.
be encouraged when benefit can be derived.
This will include further use of video conferencing to enable senior management based in our markets to fully participate in discussions.
There is a need to Consideration will Explore opportunities for Committee members have continue to ensure continue to be given to Committee members to participated in a number that the right balance the structure and content participate in Corporate of Corporate Social is struck in the provision of meeting agendas and Social Responsibility Responsibility activities of information to the papers to ensure that an activitiesrst hand whilst including tree planting in Committee so as to appropriate balance is visiting overseas markets.
the Karura Forests and enable it to discharge struck between additional attending an empowering its role without over background information women event as part of the engaging in detailed designed for optional overseas Board meeting operational issues.
reading and that provided in Kenya, visiting a vision for the purpose of centre in Mumbai as part meaningful discussion of our Seeing is Believing atCommittee meetings.
initiative, and visiting a school refurbished by our employees in Chennai.
Senior management Mechanisms to achieve Benchmark the Committees A benchmarking review would benefit from this will be explored, for activities against other global was undertaken in 2010 greater engagement example, one-on-one organisations to ensure best that concluded that the with Committee meetings between the practice is being followed.
Committee has a distinct members outside of Committee Chairman mandate amongst global formal meetings.
and members of senior banks by linking brand and management and values as separate areas of engagement with local governance focus.
managers during Board visits to operating locations.
122 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Governance 13 2 Committee Members 1 Scheduled meetings Other attendees at Committee meetings 3 include: the Group Company Secretary.
Sir John Peace Chairman 2 3 3 Regional Governance Chief Executive R H P Markham 3 3 3 Ofcers are invited to attend on an P A Sands 1 3 3 occasional basis.
Our highlights The Committee was formed in 2010 as a result of one of the recommendations arising from the internal governance review t Considered the FSAs in-depth assessment of the that we conducted in 2009.
The Committee is an enabling effectiveness of the Groups governance as part the body to provide a more formal and structured mechanism to FSAs evolving supervisory approach under their Core consider corporate governance issues.
In addition to providing Prudential Programme oversight of all material corporate governance issues affecting t Continued to monitor closely corporate governance the Group and make recommendations to the Board, the best practices to enable recommendations to be made Committee also monitors developments and emerging best to the Board concerning the adoption of enhanced practice in corporate governance across our markets.
Our practices remit also covers oversight of the process by which the Board, each Board committee, and individual directors assess t Provided oversight of the development of the Groups their effectiveness and reviews the geographical governance refreshed Governance Manual that is applied across the Group.
t Continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups geographic governance framework Corporate governance issues t Considered and agreed the most appropriate The Committee received regular updates on key governance mechanisms for reviewing the effectiveness of the issues and trends faced across the Groups footprint.
For Board, Board committees and individual directors example, the Committee has considered the increasing in 2011 and monitored progress of actions arising trendacross our markets for our subsidiaries to have more from the 2010 reviews independent non-executive director representation on their t Oversight of responses to various consultations and boards and the emerging requirement for subsidiaries to have additional board committees.
emerging regulations regarding corporate governance practices Anticipating and responding to the changing corporate governance landscape During 2011, there was a steady stream of governance 2012 priorities publications and consultations.
The Committee has had oversight of the approach that has been taken in responding t Intensify oversight of the philosophy underpinning our approach to subsidiary governance to these.
At each meeting, the Committee receives an update on events in the corporate governance environment in terms t Continue to have oversight of the approach for of industry consultations, developments and best practice effectiveness reviews of our Board, Board committees, in our markets.
The update includes consideration of any individual directors and Group Chairman emerging trends such as governance codes, standards and t Continue to review governance trends across legislation that are being enhanced and implemented in the our markets markets in which we operate.
t Maintain oversight of the Groups thought leadership The Committee reviewed the trend towards increased position in the corporate governance arena subsidiarisation.
It was agreed that although the Groups approach to subsidiary governance is currently t for purpose, it would be beneficial to review and refresh the philosophy underpinning this approach going forward.
This will be a key focus for the Committee in 2012.
Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 123 Board, committee, individual director and Group As part of the review of the geographical governance Chairman effectiveness framework, the Committee was provided with an overview During the year, the Committee reviewed the process for of the new chief executive officer academy that was piloted assessing the effectiveness of our Board, each of the Boards in 2011, the aim of which is to provide training to both existing committees, our Group Chairman and each individual director.
country managers and those in the pipeline for future senior When considering the 2011 approach for assessing the appointments.
The Committee recommended that the Boards effectiveness a number of factors were considered.
Nomination Committee review the initiative as part of its These included the fact that an externally facilitated review annual review of country chief executive officer succession was conducted in 2010 and that the FSAhadconducted an planning, thereby demonstrating an awareness of the work in-depth review of the Groups governance structure and undertaken by other Board committees and the need to practices during 2011.
As a result, the Committee supported ensure that there are no gaps between the remit of the the proposal to supplement these external reviews with an variouscommittees or unnecessary duplication.
internal review process facilitated byCorporate Secretariat.
What were the findings of the 2011 Committee The Committee considered the outcomes of all effectiveness effectiveness review?
reviews Board and Board committees.
As a result of the 2010 The Governance Committee was formed in 2010.
In 2011 effectiveness review we continued to increase opportunities when the Committee considered its own effectiveness it for informal discussions to complement the Boards formal recognised the valuable role it plays in succinctly capturing agenda.
In 2011 many Board members commented that governance and other issues which may not be covered in thishad led to a continued enhancement of the Boards depth in any other forum.
The importance of the linkages effectiveness.
The Committee will continue to maintain between the Board and its subsidiaries was also highlighted.
oversight of the balance of formality and informality of the In their report following the FSAs core prudential programme Board, considering how the right balance is maintained as governance review, the FSA endorsed our decision to create theGroup continues to grow.
adedicated Governance Committee noting that it was a The Committee has focused on achieving the appropriate welcome addition to our suite of Board committees.
balance between topics covered by the Board as a whole, Board committees and the wider management.
The Committee continues to have oversight of the linkages between the Board and its committees.
Geographical governance The Committee has reviewed the geographic governance framework that is applied consistently across the Group, including the linkages that are in place between our Board and our banking subsidiary boards.
The Committee also reviewed the findings of the subsidiary governance review that was undertaken by our Group InternalAudit function.
No significant findings arose from thesubsidiary governance review, which acknowledged the progress made in the implementation of a robust governance framework for the Groups non-banking subsidiaries and Special Purpose Entities.
124 Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 Nomination 13254 6 Committee Members 1 Scheduled meetings 3 Sir John Peace Chairman 4 3 3 J F T Dundas 5 3 3 R H P Markham 1 3 3 Other attendees at Committee R Markland 6 3 3 meetingsinclude: Group Head of P A Sands 3 3 3 HumanResources and Communications P D Skinner 2 2 3 and the Group Company Secretary.
Our highlights The Nomination Committee is an enabling committee consisting of the chairs of each of the other board committees t Increased focus on Board and committee succession, plus our Group Chairman and Group Chief Executive officer.
viewed over a five-year horizon and beyond The Committees remit covers the review of the structure, t Continued focus on executive succession planning sizeand composition of the Board.
including consideration of diversity issues The Committee is responsible for overseeing the Boards t Reviewed Lord Davies report entitled Women on succession planning requirements.
It also oversees the Boards in the context of our approach to diversity identication and assessment of potential Board candidates and and inclusion makes nominations to the Board for its approval as appropriate.
t Reviewed the programme whereby non-executive directors mentor the senior leaders programme We also keep under review the leadership needs of, and succession planning for, the Group in relation to both directors and other senior executives and consider recommendations made by the Group Chief Executive or the Committee for 2012 priorities changes to the executive membership of the Board.
t Continued strong focus on executive Our remit also covers the making of recommendations for the succession planning appointment or removal of the Group Chairman, Group Chief t Delivery of the first phase of our 2015 Board Executive or any director and the terms associated with such composition plan recommendations.
Succession planning On behalf of the Board, we have focused on the current and future composition of the Board and its committees.
The Committee looked at succession through the lens of the desired future state for the Boards composition for 2015 andbeyond and then worked backwards to determine the practical steps needed to achieve that desired state.
In particular, we assessed the desired Board composition through various lenses including requirements for technical knowledge.
This included banking, risk, accounting and financial acumen.
Also, diversity of perspective is a key factor including gender and geographic diversity.
In addition, an increasingly important factor is the capacity of prospective directors to devote the necessary time to the role.
We estimate a time commitment of between 35 to 50 days each year for Board membership with significant additional time requirements associated with committee membership.
We welcome Lord Davies report entitled Women on Boards.
Standard Chartered, with its distinctive footprint, has a long history of diverse Board membership.
We strongly believe that a highly effective board is about chemistry and behaviours, underpinned by robust processes.
Our Board contains individuals who have diverse skills, knowledge and experiences that combine to provide different perspectives and effective board dynamics.
We believe that all board appointments should be based on meritocracy and that diversity in all its aspects, including gender diversity, is important.
As mentioned earlier, our comprehensive review of the Boards composition looking forward to 2015 and beyond has now begun.
Whilst not Corporate governance Standard Chartered Annual Report 2011 125 specically committing to the use of quotas in relation to any The Committee reviewed an assessment of the aspect of our Boards composition, all other things being independenceof long standing directors and in particular equal, it is reasonable to anticipate that, over time, the those non-executive directors who have been members of proportion of women on our Board will be broadly in line with our Board for more than six years.
The Chairman took their the sentiments expressed in Lord Davies report.
length of service into consideration when reviewing their performance and effectiveness.
It was observed that, During the year the Committee also considered guiding particularly in the case of the committee chairmen, there is principles to help inform the Boards thinking around positive benefit to having non-executive directors with a deep conversations regarding Board and committee composition.
and long-standing knowledge of the Group in these roles.
Without being exhaustive these principles include such factorsas tenure, cross membership of committees and Rudy Markham has been on the Board for 11 years and as a board guidance regarding board and committee size result, his continued independence has been the subject of andcomposition.
The Committee has considered this point in detail.
It was concluded that Rudy habitually displays There are 17 directors on our Board, six of whom are independence of thought and judgment and this has not executivedirectors.
We see it as a distinct advantage to have diminished over the period of his tenure.
Further details of asignicant number of executive directors on our Board as the factors considered are on page 107. this provides the Board with a greater line of sight into our business and geographic diversity.
Re-election of the Board The Committee supported by the Board recognised that In 2011 we decided to move to annual re-election of all foran organisation of the nature, scale and complexity of the directors and will continue with this practice at our 2012 Group there is real merit in retaining at all times a core of Annual General Meeting.
morelong-standing directors that have a deep knowledge As a result, the Group Chairman reported to the Committee on ofthe Group.
the outcome of his performance evaluation of each individual director.
The Committee used this, along with details of Executive mentoring and development meetings attended, time commitment, overseas visits, We reviewed the feedback received from the programme fullment of other activities outlined in each directors whereby some non-executive directors mentored senior engagement plan as well as other contributions when leaders.
This programme was introduced in 2010.
The assessing each directors performance.
As a result, the programme was established with the aim of providing Committee was comfortable to recommend to the Board development support to several of our most senior high level thateach of the directors be eligible for re-election by potential leaders and allows our non-executive directors to shareholders at the next Annual General Meeting in May 2012. gain a more in-depth perspective of the strengths and capabilities of these individuals.
The feedback from the Situational conicts programme participants described a wide range of perceived As part of its remit, the Committee reappraised authorisations benets.
For the non-executive directors it has provided a that it had provided for situational conicts under the greater appreciation of the challenges faced by senior leaders Companies Act 2006.
It also reviewed and approved and the opportunity for non-executive directors to provide pre-authorisation on behalf of the Board for several newly context as to how our Board perceives issues and takes arising potential situational conicts.
Feedback from our senior leaders noted that the programme has provided objective input that challenged their What were the findings of the 2011 Committee current thinking.
As a result of the positive feedback received, effectiveness review?
we agreed to continue the mentoring programme, expanding The Committee discussed its effectiveness through the year.
it to allow additional senior leaders to participate.
Itwas recognised that having each committee chairman The Committee reviewed executive succession plans for the represented alongside the Group Chairman and Group Group Management Committee GMC and senior leadership, ChiefExecutive officer provided a useful linkage between which covered our regional and country chief executive thevarious committees.
Other non-executive directors ofcers and all business and function roles that report directly whoare not committee members commented that they to the GMC.
appreciated receiving periodic updates on the Committees activities and particularly the evolving thinking on executive Development plans are in place for key internally identied and non-executive succession planning.
candidates for the key country chief executive officer roles.
At the request of the Governance Committee, we reviewed the new chief executive officer academy as part of our annual review of country chief executive officer succession planning.
