SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 44 Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and has implemented a framework for corporate governance which it considers to be appropriate for the Company.
This framework is reviewed on an annual basis as part of the performance evaluation process and will be reviewed in light of any changes to the Companys strategy.
The Corporate Governance Code the Code, published in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council FRC, applies to disclosures in this statement.
The Code is available to download from www.
Compliance Statement The UK Listing Authority requires all listed companies to disclose how they have complied with the provisions of the Code.
This Corporate governance statement, together with the Statement of Directors responsibilities on page 35 and Going concern set out on page 48, indicates how the Company has complied with the principles of good governance of the Code and its requirements on internal control.
The Board considers that the Company has, throughout the year under review, complied with the best practice provisions of the Code other than the requirement that all directors be subject to annual election, which the Company proposes to phase in, as more fully explained on page 45 under Tenure.
Role of the Chairman The Chairman is responsible for leading the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
Role of the Board The Board determines and monitors the Companys investment objectives and policy, decides on individual fund investments and considers the future strategic direction of the Company.
The Board is responsible for presenting a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and, where appropriate, future prospects in annual and half-yearly reports and other forms of public reporting.
It monitors and reviews the shareholder base of the Company, marketing and shareholder communication strategies, and evaluates the performance of all service providers, with input from its Committees where appropriate.
The business of the Company is managed by the Board which may exercise all the powers of the Company including those powers relating to the issuing or buying back of shares.
Further details of the authorities to be sought at the AGM with respect to issuing or buying back shares can be found on pages 104 to 106.
A procedure for Directors, in the furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional advice at the expense of the Company has been agreed.
Composition and independence At 31 December 2011, there was one executive and seven non-executive Directors, including the Chairman.
Proles of each of the Directors, including length of service, may be found on pages 32 and 33.
The Board considers each of Francis Finlay, Caroline Goodall and Charles Sinclair to be independent.
Edgar Koning and Denis Raeburn have each served as non-executive Directors of the Company for more than nine years.
Edgar Koning is an employee of AEGON, a large shareholder in the Company.
Andrew Sykes is a non-executive director of the Companys subsidiary, SVG Advisers Limited.
The Board considered the independence of each of these directors given that they are each presumed not to be independent under the Corporate Governance Code, taking into consideration the assessment of each directors contribution to the Board undertaken as part of the Board effectiveness review.
The Board agreed that each of MrKoning, Mr Raeburn and Mr Sykes continues to be an effective member of the Board and their different backgrounds and experience added to the Boards effectiveness.
The Board agreed that they each continue to be independent.
A review of Board composition and balance, including succession planning for appointments to the Board, is included as part of the annual performance evaluation of the Board, details of which may be found below.
The Board is satisfied that it is of sufficient size, with an appropriate balance of skills and experience, and that no individual or group ofindividuals is or has been in a position to dominate decision making.
Senior Independent Director Charles Sinclair was appointed Senior Independent Director on 4 March 2009.
The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that cannot be resolved through discussion with the Chairman.
Company Secretary The Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 45 Tenure The Directors have adopted a policy on tenure that they consider appropriate for the Company as a self-managed investment trust.
TheBoard does not believe that length of service, by itself, impacts on independence.
The independence of non-executive Directors will continue to be assessed on a case-by-case basis.
While the Code recommends that all directors be subject to annual re-election atthe Annual General Meeting, the Directors believe that it is appropriate to introduce annual re-election on a phased basis.
TheCompany willintroduce annual re-election for each director when he or she is next due for re-election.
This year, five of the eight directors will be subject to ongoing annual re-election.
At the AGM in 2013, two of the remaining three directors will be subject to ongoing annual re-election, with the final director due for ongoing annual re-election at the AGM in 2014.
Any non-executive Director who has served for more than nine years will be subject to annual re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Otherwise, Directors retire by rotation at least every three years.
This policy will continue to be kept under review.
The Companys articles provide that in addition to any power of removal conferred by the Companies Act 2006, the Company may byspecial resolution remove any director.
The Company may by ordinary resolution elect a director.
Induction and training When a Director is appointed he or she receives a full, formal and tailored induction.
This includes a detailed brieng from the Company Secretary on the running of the Board covering such matters as terms of reference and calendar of events.
In addition meetings are arranged with various members of management to facilitate a better understanding of the business.
Changes affecting Directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they arise.
Advisers to the Company also prepare reports for the Board from time to time.
In addition, Directors may attend ad hoc seminars covering issues and developments relevant to the Company.
The suitability and adequancy of training that is made available to Directors is assessed as part of the performance evaluation process.
It was assessed as adequate in the most recent evaluation.
Performance evaluation The Board performance evaluation at the end of 2010 identied the importance of reviewing the development of strategy and continuing scrutiny of the composition of the Board and various committees.
2011 has seen a significant amount of time spent bytheBoard on development of the Companys strategy, culminating in the strategy update announcement on 20 December 2011 and the upcoming general meeting to consider a change of investment policy and return of capital.
The composition of the Board andvarious committees was kept under review and Caroline Goodall was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in early 2011.
Further changes were not thought appropriate during 2011.
In 2011, the Board has again adopted a formal and rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
This year, the evaluation process was completed in December 2011 and the results reviewed by the Board in early 2012.
The process was led by Caroline Goodall, one of the Companys independent non-executive Directors.
The process involved compiling a discussion guide which covered designated topics, with a particular focus this year on the development of strategy, corporate governance and risk management.
In addition, senior members of management completed a separate form of discussion guide providing feedback on the operation of the Board.
Caroline Goodall and the Company Secretary undertook a condential, unattributable interview with each Director based on the discussion guide.
Following the meetings, Caroline Goodall produced a written report which was discussed with the Chairman, beforebeing sent to Board members and discussed at the following Board meeting.
Among the main themes highlighted by this years evaluation was the importance of reviewing the composition of the Board and the Board committees in light of the new strategy which has been proposed to shareholders.
In addition, a number of practical suggestions were made to improve information ows, thereby improving risk management and governance.
A list of action points to deal with these suggestions is being implemented under the direction of the Chairman.
Overall the evaluation process confirmed that the Board and its principal committees had functioned efficiently during the year and that each Director continued to contribute to his or her role effectively and with proper commitment, including of time.
The evaluation process specically addressed diversity, including gender, within the Board.
The Board was in agreement that it had an appropriate level of diversity, but that this should be kept under review in light of any new strategy agreed by shareholders.
The Board has considered carefully whether the evaluation of its performance should be externally facilitated at least once every three years and intends to arrange such an external facilitation at the end of 2012.
Corporate information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 46 Corporate governance continued Meetings The Board held six scheduled meetings during 2011 including one, full day, strategy event and one unscheduled meeting.
Attendance at the Board and Committee meetings was as set out below: Remuneration Nominations Director Board Audit Committee Committee Committee Nicholas Ferguson 7 7 N A N A 1 1 Francis Finlay 7 7 N A 2 2 1 1 Lynn Fordham 7 7 N A N A 1 1 Caroline Goodall 7 7 N A 0 1 1 1 Edgar Koning 4 7 N A N A 1 1 Denis Raeburn 6 7 4 4 2 2 1 1 Charles Sinclair 6 7 3 4 N A 1 1 Andrew Sykes 7 7 4 4 N A 1 1 The Board is satisfied that each of the Chairman and the other non-executive Directors commit sufficient time to the affairs of the Company to full their duties as Directors.
Mr Koning has an executive role with Aegon in the Netherlands which can make attending Board meetings difficult.
In the event that he does not attend the Chairman and or the Chief Executive will contact him prior to and following the meeting to keep him apprised and seek his views on the matters to be discussed.
Diversity As mentioned above, the Board is comfortable it has an appropriate level of diversity for the Companys current strategy.
It will seek toat least maintain its current 25% proportion of female board membership.
In addition the Companys subsidiaries monitor diversity and in particular adopt policies such as exible working arrangements and enhanced maternity pay to encourage gender diversity.
Asat 2012, over 50% of the Groups staff was female, including three out of thirteen employees at the most senior partner level and four out of eleven at the next most senior principal level.
Information ows Management reports to the Board on at least a quarterly basis and as appropriate on specic matters.
The Chairman ensures that Directors are provided, on a regular basis, with key information on the Companys policies, regulatory requirements and internal controls.
The Board receives and considers reports regularly from its advisers and ad hoc reports and information are supplied to the Board as required.
Insurance and Indemnities During the year, the Company maintained cover for its Directors and Ofcers under a directors and ofcers liability insurance policy.
The Company provides a Deed of Indemnity to each Director to the extent permitted by United Kingdom law whereby the Company agrees to indemnify such Director against any liability incurred in proceedings in which the Director is successful, and for costs in defending a claim brought against the Director for breach of duty where the Director acted honestly and reasonably.
Conicts of interest In the light of changes to the law resulting from the implementation of the Companies Act 2006, the Board has approved a policy onDirectors conicts of interest.
Under this policy, the Directors are required to disclose all actual and potential conicts of interest tothe Board as they arise for consideration and approval.
The Board may impose restrictions or refuse to authorise such conicts if deemed appropriate.
SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 47 Committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and functions to Committees.
Terms of Reference for each of these Committees are available on the Companys website at www.
Details of membership of the Committees at 31 December 2011 may befound on pages 32 and 33 and information regarding attendance at Committee meetings during the year under review may be found above.
Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to ensure that the Company maintains the highest standards of integrity in financial reporting and internal control.
The Board considers each member of the Committee to be independent.
The Board also considers that members of the Committee have competence in accounting.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met on four occasions during the year ended 31 December 2011 and considered the annual financial statements, the half-yearly financial statements and the quarterly valuation update, the external Auditors year end reports and management letters, the effectiveness of the audit process, the independence and objectivity of the external Auditor including the provision of non-audit services by the auditors, the risk prole of the Group and the internal audit review process.
Remuneration Committee The role of the Committee is to determine remuneration policy throughout the SVG Group and to operate the Companys Share Awards Schemes.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met formally on two occasions during the year ended 31 December 2011 and considered the approval of annual bonus proposals and long term incentives for the executive Directors, and key staff based on performance in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011.
Nominations Committee The role of the Committee is to consider and make recommendations to the Board on the Boards composition and balance of skills andexperience, and on individual appointments, to lead the process and make recommendations to the Board.
To discharge its duties, the Committee met once during the year ended 31 December 2011 and considered an evaluation of the balance of skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the Company in the Board and succession planning.
Relations with shareholders The Board believes that the maintenance of good relations with both institutional and retail shareholders is important for the prospects of the Company.
It has, since its launch, sought engagement with investors.
The Chief Executive and Chairman and other Directors, where appropriate, discuss governance and strategy with major shareholders and the Chairman ensures communication of shareholders views to the Board.
The Board also undertakes shareholder perceptions research from time to time.
The Board believes that the Annual General Meeting provides an appropriate forum for investors to communicate with the Board, and encourages participation.
The Annual Report and Accounts is, when possible, sent to shareholders at least 20 business days before the Annual General Meeting, which is normally attended by the full Board of Directors.
There is an opportunity for individual shareholders to question the chairmen of the Board, Audit and Remuneration Committees.
Details of proxy votes received in respect of each resolution are made available to shareholders at the meeting.
The Board believes that the Companys policy of reporting to shareholders as soon as possible after the Companys year end is valuable.
The notice of AGM at page 102 sets out the business of the meeting.
Corporate information SVG Capital plc Annual Report 2011 48 Corporate governance continued Going concern The Groups activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chairmans statement on pages 8 and 9, the Chief Executives report on pages 10 and 11 and the Business Review on pages 12 to 29.
Thenancial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review on page 16.
In addition note 30 to the financial statements includes details of the Groups financial instruments and its risk prole.
Adescription of the Groups risks and risk management are also outlined in the Business Review on pages 27 to 29.
The Company nished the year with cash balances of 121 million and has access to an additional 208.8 million through the Revolving Credit Facility.
This adequately covers the 170.2 million of uncalled commitments to the investment portfolio.
In addition, the Company successfully completed the extension of 100 million of its Revolving Credit Facility to December 2015.
In light of the Groups financial resources, the Directors believe that the Group is positioned to manage its business risks successfully despite the continuing uncertain economic outlook, and, after making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
Internal control The Code requires the Board to at least annually conduct a review of the adequacy of the Groups systems of internal control and report to shareholders that it has done so.
The Board has undertaken a full review of all the aspects of the Turnbull Guidance for Directors, as revised in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance under which the Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control andfor reviewing its effectiveness.
The Board has approved a detailed Risk Map identifying significant strategic, investment-related, operational and service provider-related risks and has adopted an enhanced monitoring system to ensure that risk management and all aspects of internal control are considered on a regular basis.
The Board has appointed Deloitte LLP to provide internal audit support and management are required to provide appropriate support to Deloitte LLP in its efforts.
The Board believes that the key risks identied and the implementation of an ongoing system to identify, evaluate and manage these risks are appropriate to the Groups business as an investment trust.
The ongoing risk assessment, which has been in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of this report, includes consideration of the scope and quality of the systems of internal control including whistleblowing polices where appropriate adopted by major service providers, and ensures regular communication of the results of monitoring by third parties to the Board, the incidence of significant control failings or weaknesses that have been identied atany time and the extent to which they have resulted in unforeseen outcomes or contingencies that may have a material impact on the Groups performance or condition.
No significant control failings or weaknesses were identied during the course of the year and up to the date of this report from the Boards continuing risk assessment.
The Board considers that adequate controls exist over the financial reporting process.
A single team is responsible for preparing and consolidating the financial reporting for each of the Group entities and ensuring that financial information is accurate, complete, reconciled and reviewed by senior members of staff, and that transactions and balances are recognised and measured on a consistent basis and in accordance with accounting policies and financial reporting standards.
Although the Board believes that it has a robust framework of internal control in place, this can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material financial mis-statement or loss and is designed to manage, not eliminate, risk.
