Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 19 Audit Committee report The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Nonreviewing the work of the EDs Group, which oversees the Executive Directors of the Company.
The terms of reference are identification and management of the risks to the business, regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee and are then referred to together with reports on the Groups systems of internal the Board for approval.
These are available at www.
control, and reporting the results of this review to the Board: The Audit Committee is chaired by Baroness Noakes, who has reviewing its terms of reference and effectiveness: and recent and relevant financial experience, and its other members are reviewing the whistleblowing policy and relevant items Guy Weston, Alan Dickinson and Sandra Turner, all of whom are reported under that policy.
Geoff Brady and Simon Metcalf were also independent Non-Executive members of the The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on Committee prior to their retirement from the Board.
The Committee the independence and objectivity of the Groups auditors, met four times during the year with full attendance, other than Guy  LLP, when performing their role in the Weston who was unable to attend one meeting and Simon Metcalf Groups reporting to shareholders.
The external auditors report who was unable to attend two meetings.
to the Audit Committee annually on their independence from the Company.
At the invitation of the Committee, the Chairman and Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and The Audit Committee reviews the independence, objectivity and representatives from the external auditors regularly attended meetings.
performance of the auditors annually, including the annual report on Other Directors and senior managers also attend if required.
There the auditors produced by the Audit Inspection Unit of the Financial were also regular private meetings with the external and internal Reporting Council.
On the basis of that review, the Audit Committee auditors without management present.
recommends the reappointment of the auditors to the Board.
The Audit Committee has an agenda linked to events in the Groups  LLP have been auditors to the Company financial calendar.
During the period ended 30 April 2011, the since 2005 when they were appointed following a competitive tender.
Audit Committee discharged its responsibilities by: The Company does not have a policy of tendering the external audit at specific intervals.
The auditors tenure runs from one reviewing the Groups draft annual results announcement AGM to the next and there are no contractual obligations that and financial statements and the interim statement prior to restrict the Committees choice of external auditors.
Board approval and reviewing the external auditors detailed reports thereon: The Board has also adopted a formal policy on the Companys relationship with its auditor in respect of non-audit work.
The reviewing the consistency of and any changes to the Groups auditors may only provide such services provided that such advice accounting policies, the application of appropriate accounting does not conflict with their statutory responsibilities and ethical standards and methods used to account for significant or guidance.
The Audit Committee Chairmans approval is required unusual transactions: before the Company uses non-audit services that exceed financial reviewing the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of the limits set out by that policy.
Details of the auditors remuneration external auditors and, on the basis of that review, recommending for audit work and non-audit fees for the period ended 30 April 2011 to the Board their reappointment at the AGM: are disclosed in note 3 to the Financial Statements.
reviewing the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report: The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in relation to the accounts is set out on pages 27 to 28.
The Statement by the Auditors on their approving the audit fees paid to the external auditors and reviewing responsibilities in respect of the accounts is contained in their report the application of the policy on non-audit work performed by on page 67. them together with the non-audit fees payable to them: The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the reviewing the external auditors plan for the audit of the Groups Annual General Meeting.
accounts, and approving the terms of engagement for the audit: reviewing the process for ensuring that senior management confirm that they have supplied the auditors with relevant audit information: reviewing the internal audit plan, monitoring the delivery of that plan during the year and reviewing the effectiveness of the internal audit function: www.
