16 Corporate governance The Group recognises the importance of high standards of corporate both in the UK and Europe and the Board believe that it is in governance, and is committed to operating within an effective shareholders interests that he should be seen to take the leading corporate governance framework through the operation of Board role in the Companys affairs.
He also has extensive listed company committees, internal procedures and Group policies.
This report, experience at board level.
The Chairman was a member of the the Audit Committee Report and the Directors Remuneration Nomination Committee during the year under review, and he Report, explain how the Company has applied the principles set out attends the Remuneration and Audit Committee meetings by in the UK Financial Reporting Councils 2008 Combined Code on invitation.
The Board recognises that with a combined Chairman Corporate Governance the Combined Code.
The UK Corporate and Chief Executive the role of the Senior Independent Director Governance Code will apply to the Group in respect of the 2011 12 SID is of enhanced importance.
In particular, the SID plays a financial year.
significant role in determining the Board agenda and Board appraisal process and in ensuring that any issues raised by the Non-Executive The Board Directors are fully dealt with.
Baroness Noakes has been the SID The Board currently consists of five Executive and four Nonsince June 2004.
Executive Directors, brief biographies of whom can be found on A process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit, Nomination page 15.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for and Remuneration Committees has been undertaken.
The exercise the appointment of new Directors to the Board and this is described to evaluate the performance of the Board was led by the SID, and in the section concerning the Nomination Committee on page 17. those of the Audit and Remuneration Committees was led by the A third of the Board currently comprises women.
The results of these assessments Under the Companys Articles of Association every Director have been considered by the Board and confirmed the strength will submit himself or herself for re-election every third year, and of leadership within the business and a sound governance every Director who has been appointed by the Board since the last framework.
Only minor changes to the way that the Board Annual General Meeting will submit himself or herself for election.
Additionally, under the Companys Articles of Association and in The Non-Executive Directors generally meet privately with the accordance with the Combined Code, every Non-Executive Director Chairman and Chief Executive at least twice each year.
The Nonwho has served as a Director for nine years or more is subject to Executive Directors meet, with no Executive Directors present, at annual re-election as a Director.
All Directors will offer themselves least once each year inter alia to review the performance of the for election or re-election at the Annual General Meeting in Chairman and Chief Executive.
accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The full Board met seven times during the year.
Six meetings are The imbalance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors arose in May 2011 when Claire Balmforth was appointed to scheduled for the current year.
A search is currently underway for an additional The Board is responsible for setting the Groups objectives and independent Non-Executive Director.
Except as set out, the policies, providing effective leadership and for approving the Group Board believes that the current structure of the Board is of an strategy, budgets, business plans and major capital expenditure.
It appropriate size and structure to manage the Group in an has responsibility for the management, direction and performance effective and successful manner.
of the Group and is accountable to the Companys shareholders The Non-Executive Directors of the Company play a key governance for the proper conduct of its business.
The Board has a formal role and bring an extra dimension to the Boards deliberations.
The schedule of matters which sets out those matters requiring Board Board has considered the independence of each Non-Executive approval and specifically reserved to it for decision.
Day-to-day Director against the criteria specified in the Combined Code and management is delegated to the Chairman and Chief Executive determined that each remains fully independent.
The Board in and the Executive Directors.
particular considered the independence of both Baroness Noakes Directors receive monthly trading results, commentary, briefing and Alan Dickinson, both of whom are considered by the Board notes and reports for their consideration in advance of each Board to be independent in character and judgment.
In reaching this meeting, including reports on the Groups operations, to ensure that determination the Board specifically considered the facts that they remain briefed on the latest developments and are able to make Baroness Noakes has served as a Director of the Company for more fully informed decisions.
than nine years from the date of her first election and Alan Dickinson was, within the last three years, a senior employee of the Royal Bank All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company of Scotland, which is the Companys principal banker.
Secretary and the Board has established a procedure whereby Directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
The position of Chairman is combined with the role of Chief Executive.
In addition, such advice may include training in order to enable them The Board does not at present consider it necessary to separate the to discharge their roles and responsibilities as a Director.
The Chairman is one of the leading figures in the industry Directors receive an induction tailored to their particular requirements.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Overview Overview Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Dir Directors r ectors report: eport: Financial Statements Financial statements Business r Business review eview Gover Governance finance 17 Board committees The Board has reviewed the Groups systems of internal controls The Board has three Committees, each of which has written terms including financial, operational and compliance controls as well as of reference which are available on the Companys corporate website risk management, and is satisfied that these accord with the guidance www.
on internal controls set out in Internal Control: Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code, issued by the Financial The Board periodically reviews the membership of its Committees Reporting Council in October 2005. to ensure that Committee membership is refreshed.
The Company provides the Committees with sufficient resources to undertake their The day-to-day responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance duties.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to each Committee.
of the Groups system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive Directors.
The Board has established an Executive The role of the Audit Committee, its members and details of how Directors Group EDs Group comprising the Executive Directors it carried out its duties are set out in the Audit Committee report and senior managers who review key risk and control issues.
The EDs Group meets quarterly.
The role of the Remuneration Committee, its members and Several key processes exist within the Group to ensure a sound details of how it carried out its duties are set out in the Directors system of internal control which is described below: remuneration report on pages 20 to 24.
Identification of business risks The Nomination Committee is chaired by Baroness Noakes and its The Board is responsible for identifying the major business risks other members are Lord Harris and Guy Weston.
The Committee faced by the Group, and determining a suitable response.
The EDs met three times during the year with full attendance.
Group identifies and assesses risks to the Groups medium-term The role of the Nomination Committee is to identify and nominate strategy.
The EDs Group directs both the UK and European Risk candidates for the approval of the Board, to fill vacancies and make Management Committees to address each of the identified risks, recommendations to the Board on Board composition and balance.
formulate a mitigation strategy and assess the likely impact of such External search consultants are generally appointed to assist in the risk occurring, and provides regular reports to the Audit Committee.
The Committee considers the diversity of the Board, The UK Risk Management Committee and the European Risk and the skills and competencies of the existing Directors when Management Committee each comprise a small number of the drawing up specifications for new appointments and ensures that senior management team as regular members, who are able to call the development needs of Executive Directors and other senior on the expertise of other managers as required.
Each Committee, managers are addressed appropriately.
which meets at least quarterly, regularly reviews the risk management The Committee also considers whether Directors due to retire at an and control process within its territory and considers the response Annual General Meeting should be recommended for re-appointment, to the significant risks which have been identified by management and whether the appointment of Non-Executive Directors reaching and others and monitors the maintenance of a control environment the end of their three-year term should be renewed.
Committee directed towards the proper management of risk.
Both risk members do not vote on their own reappointment.
management committees report to the EDs Group.
Additionally there are working groups covering Stock Management Risk Management and Internal Controls and Business Continuity and, in Europe, Health and Safety.
Where The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of additional risks are identified, ad hoc working groups are created internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order to fulfil to address those risks.
These report to the UK Risk Management this responsibility and safeguard shareholder investment and the Committee or the European Risk Management Committee Companys and the Groups assets, the Directors have established an as appropriate.
organisational framework with clear operational procedures, lines of responsibility and delegated authority which has operated throughout The principal risks and uncertainties affecting the business are set the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual out on pages 11 and 12.
Health and safety The system of internal control is designed to identify, evaluate and Enforcing the health and safety policy is a high priority for manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the management and fully descriptive manuals are available to all staff, Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations inherent in any supported by a training programme for stores, distribution centres system of internal control, this system is designed to meet the and the central support office.
Risk assessments are undertaken for Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is exposed all procedures and safe systems of work devised for all procedures rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can only involving physical risk.
Failure to adhere to safe systems of work provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material or following unsafe working practices will be subject to review and, misstatement or loss.
Health and safety issues are included as part of the internal audit review of all premises.
uk 18 Corporate governance continued Internal audit Share capital The internal audit function: Details of the Companys share capital and significant shareholders undertakes its work, both on central functions and in the field, can be found on page 26. based on a risk assessment model: Statement of Compliance provides the Audit Committee and the Board with objective During the period ended 30 April 2011 the Company complied with assurance on the control environment across the Group: and the provisions set out in section 1 of the Combined Code except as monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
The Company did not comply with provision A.
3.2 of the Planning Combined Code for the entire period as for the period between The Groups planning process underpins the development of the September 2010 and October 2010 at least half the Board did not annual budget.
The budget is reviewed and approved formally comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be by the Board.
Actual performance is reported on a monthly basis independent.
This imbalance was addressed upon the appointment and measured against the budget and the prior year and a detailed of Alan Dickinson and Sandra Turner as Non-Executive Directors.
explanation of significant variances is provided.
2.1 of the Control procedures Combined Code as the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are The Group has control procedures designed to provide a complete combined, an explanation for which is set out above.
The Board and accurate record of financial transactions, to ensure correct does not at present consider it necessary to separate the two roles.
accounting and to minimise the possible exposure to fraudulent transactions.
The Board believes that the measures taken, including physical controls, separation of duties and management reviews, provide suitable assurance.
Any issues raised by the Groups auditors or the internal audit function are fully reviewed and considered.
Management and specialists within the finance team are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of financial records and processes that ensure all financial information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, and appropriate information is distributed both internally and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the financial position and results of the Group are appropriately reflected.
The preliminary and interim results are subject to the review of the Audit Committee prior to approval by the Board.
Carpetright plc Annual report and accounts 2011
