223791 TempleBarAR pg16-27 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 23 Active investment working for you Corporate governance APPLICATION OF AIC CODE PRINCIPLES There were seven Board meetings, two audit committee The Board attaches great importance to ensuring that the meetings and one nomination committee meeting held Group operates to high ethical and compliance standards.
during the year and the attendance by the directors was as In addition, the Board seeks to observe the principles set follows: out in the AIC Code of Corporate Governance, established Number of meetings attended specifically for investment trust companies and endorsed Nomination Board Audit Committee Committee by the Financial Reporting Council.
By following the Code, the Group continues to meet its obligations in relation to John Reeve 7 2 1 the FRCs UK Corporate Governance Code.
Arthur Copple 6 2 The Code provides a guide to best practice in certain June fide Moller 7 2 1 areas of governance where the specific characteristics of Richard Jewson 7 2 1 investment trusts suggest that alternative approaches to Martin Riley 7 2 1 those set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code may David Webster 5 2 1 be preferable.
appointed 3 February 2011 COMPLIANCE WITH THE PRINCIPLES OF THE AIC CODE OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Independence of the directors Operation of the Board Each of the directors is independent of any association Each of the directors is independent of any association with the Manager and has no other relationships or with the Manager which might interfere with the exercise circumstances which might be perceived to interfere with of independent judgement.
There is a formal schedule of the exercise of independent judgement.
Two of the six matters to be specifically approved by the Board and directors Mr Reeve and Mr Jewson have served on the individual directors may seek independent advice at the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first expense of the Group within certain limits.
The Board has election, but given the nature of the Group as an delegated the investment management, within clearly investment trust and the strongly independent mindset of defined parameters and dealing limits, and the the individuals involved, the Board is firmly of the view administration of the business to Investec Asset that all of the directors can be considered to be Management Limited IAM.
The Board makes all strategic independent.
In arriving at this conclusion the Board makes decisions, reviews the performance of the Group at Board a clear distinction between the activities of an investment meetings and sets the objectives for the Manager.
The trust and a conventional trading company.
An investment directors have a range of business and financial skills trust has no employees or executive directors, the only or experience relevant to the direction of the Group.
significant relationship being with the Manager.
In Mr R W Jewson is the Senior Independent Director.
overseeing this relationship it is the view of the Board that The Corporate Company Secretary the Company long service aids the understanding, judgement, objectivity Secretary is responsible to the Board, inter alia, for and independence of the directors and in no way detracts ensuring that Board procedures are followed and for from any of these qualities.
compliance with applicable rules and regulations including the AIC Code.
Appointment or removal of the nominated Re-election of directors representative of the Company Secretary is a matter for Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the the Board as a whole.
first AGM following their appointment and, thereafter, are The content and presentation of Board papers circulated subject to retirement on an annual basis.
In addition, the before each meeting contain sufficient information on the appointment of each director is reviewed by other financial condition of the Group.
Key representatives of members of the Board every year.
Directors are not, IAM attend each Board meeting enabling directors to probe therefore, subject to automatic re-appointment.
on matters of concern or seek clarification on certain Non-executive directors are not appointed for specified issues.
Because of the nature of an investment trust the Board believes that the contribution and independence of a director is not diminished by long service and, conversely, that a more detailed knowledge of the Group and its business has a beneficial impact.
The Board has carefully considered the position of each of the directors and believes it would be appropriate for them to be proposed for re-election.
Each of the directors continues to be effective and to display an undiminished enthusiasm and commitment to the role.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 23 223791 TempleBarAR pg16-27 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 24 Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued Audit committee The audit committee is a formally constituted committee Board audit committee nomination of the Board with defined terms of reference which are committee director ongoing evaluation available for inspection at the AGM and can be inspected at On an annual basis the Board formally reviews its the registered office of the Group.
It normally meets twice performance, together with that of the audit and yearly and among its specific responsibilities are a review nomination committees and the effectiveness and of the audit plan for the year, the review of the Groups contribution of the individual directors, including the annual and half yearly results, together with associated Chairman, within the context of service on those bodies.
documentation, and the review of the internal and financial The review encompasses an assessment of how cohesively controls applicable to the management company.
The these bodies work as a whole as well as the performance of Committee also reviews the cost effectiveness, the individuals within them.
On the basis of these reviews independence and objectivity of the auditor with particular the Board has concluded that it has a proper balance of regard to non-audit fees, of which there were none in skills and is operating effectively.
either the current or prior financial years.
All of the directors are members of the audit committee and the Relations with shareholders Chairman is Mr Jewson.
The Board believes that it is Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the appropriate for the Company Chairman to be a member of Board and the Manager.
The principal medium by which the the audit committee as it is important for him to be Group communicates with shareholders is through the half conversant with the detailed discussion related to the yearly reports, annual reports and interim management annual and interim report processes, including his own statements.
The information contained therein is Statements to shareholders.
The Board is satisfied that supplemented by daily NAV announcements and by a members of the audit committee have relevant and recent monthly fact sheet available on the Groups website.
financial experience to fulfil their role effectively.
The The Board largely delegates responsibility for auditor, who the Board has identified as being independent, communication with shareholders to the management is invited to attend the audit committee meeting at which company and, through feedback, expects to be able to the annual accounts are considered and any other meetings develop an understanding of their views.
Members of the that the committee deems necessary.
Board are willing to meet with shareholders for the purpose of discussing matters in relation to the operation and Nomination committee prospects of the Group.
A nomination committee has been established to oversee a The Board encourages investors to attend the AGM and formal review procedure governing the appointment of welcomes questions and discussion on issues of concern or new directors and to evaluate the overall composition of areas of uncertainty.
In addition, special arrangements have the Board from time to time, taking into account the been established to allow Temple Bar Savings Scheme existing balance of skills and knowledge.
During the year investors to participate fully at AGMs.
A separate resolution the committee initiated a search for an additional director, will be proposed at the AGM in respect of each having identified the skills and experience that would substantially separate issue.
Following the formal AGM strengthen the Board and after taking account of the proceedings the Manager makes a presentation to the benefits of diversity on the Board.
The committee meeting outlining the key investment issues that face the considered several high quality candidates and identified Group.
Mr Arthur Copple as the preferred candidate due to his extensive investment experience.
He was appointed to the Accountability, internal controls and audit Board on 3 February 2011.
Given the quality of the The Board pays careful attention to ensuring that all candidates considered it was not felt necessary to appoint documents released by the Group, including the Annual external search consultants or use open advertising on this Report, present a fair and accurate assessment of the occasion though independent advice and recommendations Groups position and prospects.
The directors are responsible for the Groups system of The committee is also responsible for assessing the internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
In order individual performance of directors and for making to facilitate the control process the Board has requested recommendations as to whether they should remain in the Manager to confirm annually that it has conducted the office.
This committee is chaired by Mr Reeve.
Groups affairs in compliance with the legal and regulatory obligations which apply to the Group and to report on the Management engagement committee systems and procedures within IAM which are applicable to As all the directors are fully independent of the the management of Temple Bars affairs.
The Board meets management company, the Board as a whole fulfils the on seven scheduled occasions in each year and at each function of a management engagement committee.
meeting receives sufficient financial and statistical 24 Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 223791 TempleBarAR pg16-27 22 02 2012 18:43 Page 25 Active investment working for you Corporate governance continued information to enable it to monitor adequately the Stewardship engagement investment performance and status of the business.
The Manager recognises its wider stewardship The Board has also established a series of investment responsibilities to its clients as a major asset owner.
To this parameters, which are reviewed annually, designed to limit end, it supports the introduction of the FRC Stewardship the risk inherent in managing a portfolio of investments.
Code, which sets out the responsibilities of institutional The safeguarding of assets is entrusted to an independent shareholders in respect of investee companies.
Under the reputable custodian with whom the holdings are regularly Code, managers should: reconciled.
publicly disclose their policy on how they will discharge The effectiveness of the overall system of internal their stewardship responsibilities to their clients: control is reviewed on an annual basis by the Board.
Such a disclose their policy on managing conflicts of interest: system can provide only reasonable and not absolute monitor their investee companies: assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board establish clear guidelines on how they escalate believes that there is a robust framework of internal engagement: controls in place to meet the requirements of the AIC be willing to act collectively with other investors where Code.
appropriate: The Board receives reports from its advisers on internal have a clear policy on proxy voting and disclose their control matters and does not believe that there is scope or voting record: and necessity for an internal audit function in addition to that report to clients.
Based on the foregoing the The Manager endorses the Stewardship Code for its UK Group has a continuing process for identifying, evaluating investments and supports the principles as best practice and managing the risks it faces.
This process has been in elsewhere.
The Manager believes that regular contact with place for the reporting period and to the date of this report the companies in which it invests is central to its and is regularly reviewed by the Board in accordance with investment process and it also recognises the importance the Turnbull Guidance and the UK Corporate Governance of being an active owner on behalf of its clients.
The Manager believes that companies should act in a socially responsible manner.
Although its priority at all times is the best economic interests of its clients, it recognises that, increasingly, non-financial issues such as social and environmental factors have the potential to impact the share price, as well as the reputation of companies.
Specialists within IAMs environmental, social and governance team are tasked with assessing how companies deal with and report on social and environmental risks and issues specific to their industry.
The Managers Voting Policy and Corporate Governance Guidelines are available on request from the Company Secretary or can be downloaded from its website.
Temple Bar Investment Trust PLC Annual Report & Accounts 2011 25
