THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued In addition, at 28 April 2011 the following shareholders held proceedings brought against them arising out of their over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: positions as directors, in which they are acquitted or judgement is given in their favour by the court.
% of Ordinary share voting Shareholder rights To the extent permitted by law and by the Companys Brewin Dolphin Securities Limited 6.70 Articles of Association, the Company has entered into Rensburg Sheppards Investment Management Limited 6.59 deeds of indemnity for the benefit of each director of the TR Property ISA PEP and Shareplan Schemes 6.10 Company in respect of liabilities which may attach to HSBC Global Asset Management UK Limited 5.32 them in their capacity as directors of the Company.
These Rathbone Investment Management Limited 4.33 provisions, which are qualifying third party indemnity Quilter 4.06 provisions as defined by section 234 of the Companies Collins Stewart Wealth Management 4.03 Act 2006, were introduced in January 2007 and currently F&C Investment Management Limited 3.28 remain in force.
Significant Voting Rights Sigma shares Shareholder Information % of Sigma Further information on the Company can be found on share voting Shareholder rights pages 96 to 98.
Legal & General Investment Management Ltd. UK 3.58 Going Concern Declarations of interests in voting rights of the Company The Board has prepared forecasts which demonstrate that at 28 April 2011, are set out above.
the Trust will be able to operate within available facilities.
The assets of the Company consist mainly of securities In addition at 28 April 2011 the following shareholders held which are readily realisable and, accordingly, it has over 3% of the voting rights on a non-discretionary basis: adequate financial resources to continue in operational % of Sigma existence for the foreseeable future.
share voting Shareholder rights After due consideration, the Board considers that the Trust Reliance Mutual Insurance Society Ltd. 6.55 has adequate resources to meet its business needs and it Scottish Widows Investment Partnership Ltd 6.46 is therefore appropriate to adopt the going concern basis F&C Asset Management plc 4.33 in preparing these financial statements.
GC Asset Management Ltd 3.83 Corporate Governance Derbyshire County Council Pension Fund 3.40 Merseyside Pension Fund 3.23 Corporate Governance Report Laxey Partners Ltd 3.18 The Board of Directors is accountable to shareholders for Henderson Global Investors 3.13 the governance of the Companys affairs.
See page 54 for further information on the voting rights of Ordinary Application of the AIC Codes Principles and Sigma shares.
This statement describes how the principles of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code ISAs issued by the Financial Reporting Council the FRC in June The Company has conducted its affairs, and will continue 2008 have been applied to the affairs of the Company.
to conduct its affairs, in such a way as to comply with the The Code can be viewed at www.
Both Ordinary shares and Sigma shares can be held in Individual In applying the principles of the Code, the directors have Savings Accounts.
also taken account of the Code of Corporate Governance published by the AIC, which established the framework of Directors Indemnity best practice specifically for the Boards of investment trust Directors and Officers liability insurance cover is in place companies.
There is some overlap in the principles laid in respect of the directors.
The Companys Articles of down by the two Codes and there are some areas where Association provide, subject to the provisions of UK legislation, an indemnity for directors in respect of costs the AIC Code is more flexible for investment trust which they may incur relating to the defence of any companies.
TR Property Investment Trust 55 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued The directors believe that during the period under review served on the Board for more than nine years.
In they have complied with the provisions of the Code, accordance with the Combined Code on Corporate Governance, they will stand for annual re-election by insofar as they apply to the Companys business, and with the provisions of the AIC Code.
shareholders and offer themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
In May 2010 the FRC published the new UK Corporate Governance Code the new Code, which is effective for The Board has considered the continued appointments of accounting periods commencing on or after 29 June Mr Salsbury, who has served on the Board for thirteen years, 2010.
The AIC revised its Code of Corporate Governance Mr Stone, who has served on the Board for ten years and in October 2010, which has been endorsed by the FRC.
Ms Burton who has served on the Board for nine years.
The Company will report against the new code in its They have no other links to the Investment Manager.
The Board subscribes to the AIC Code view that length of tenure annual report to 31 March 2012. is not necessarily an issue, rather the directors contribution.
Composition and Independence of the Board The Board is conscious of the need to maintain continuity The Board currently consists of five directors, all of whom on the Board and believes that retaining directors with are non-executive and are independent of the Investment sufficient experience of both the Company and the markets Manager.
None of the directors have any other links to is of great benefit to shareholders.
Moreover, long-serving the Investment Manager: they all have other professional directors are less likely to take a short-term view.
has concluded that Mr Salsbury, Mr Stone and Ms Burton continue to make valuable contributions and, Powers of the Directors notwithstanding their length of service, believes that they Subject to the Companys Articles of Association, the remain independent in character and judgement.
Companies Act and any directions given by special Accordingly, all five directors are regarded as being free of resolution, the business of the Company is managed by any conflicts of interest and no issues in respect of the Board who may exercise all the powers of the independence arise.
Company, whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board The Chairman is Mr Salsbury.
The directors biographies, may exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow on page 44, demonstrate the breadth of investment, money and to mortgage or charge any of its undertaking, commercial and professional experience relevant to their property, assets and uncalled capital and to issue positions as directors of the Company.
debentures and other securities and to give security for After 6 years on the Board, Mr Wolton retired at the end any debt, liability or obligation of the Company to any of January 2011 in order to concentrate on other third party.
Directors Board Committees Directors retirement by rotation and re-election is subject The Board has established an Audit Committee as set out to the Articles of Association, the Combined Code below.
The Management Engagement Committee, which published in June 2008 and the AIC Code of Corporate also carries out the functions of a Remuneration Governance.
Committee, was formed in November 2006.
Further The Articles of Association require that up to one-third of details are set out below.
The Board does not have a the directors must retire every year and that every director Nominations Committee.
This function is carried out by must retire by rotation at least every three years.
They the Board as part of the agenda of regular Board may then offer themselves for re-election.
The terms of the meetings when required.
directors appointments also provide that a director shall be Audit Committee subject to election at the first AGM after appointment and The Audit Committee the Committee comprises all to re-election at least every third year thereafter.
The Committee Chairman is The director retiring by rotation at the forthcoming AGM Mr Spencer.
The Board has satisfied itself that at least one is Mr Spencer who, being eligible, offers himself for Committee member has recent and relevant financial re-election.
Mr Salsbury, Mr Stone and Ms Burton have experience.
56 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued The Committee has written terms of reference, which Investment Management Agreement, to ensure they are clearly define its responsibilities and duties.
These can be competitive and fair and in the best interests of the found on the website, are available on request and will shareholders, and to negotiate terms where appropriate.
At the MEC meeting in March 2011, the MEC confirmed also be available for inspection at the AGM.
that Thames River should be retained as the Investment The Committee meets at least twice a year to review the Manager for the financial year ending 31 March 2012. internal financial and non-financial controls, to consider and recommend to the Board for approval the contents In addition to the Investment Management role, the Board of the draft Interim and Annual Reports to shareholders, has delegated to external third parties the custodial services and to review the accounting policies and significant which include the safeguarding of assets, the day to day financial reporting judgements.
In addition, the accounting, company secretarial services, administration and Committee reviews the Auditors independence, registration services.
Each of these contracts was entered objectivity, effectiveness, appointment, remuneration, into after full and proper consideration of the quality of the the quality of the services of the service providers to the services offered, including the control systems in operation Company, and, together with the Investment Manager, insofar as they relate to the affairs of the Company.
These reviews the Companys compliance with financial contracts are reviewed annually by the MEC.
Representatives In addition to the reviews by the MEC the Board reviews and of the Investment Managers internal audit and considers performance reports from the Investment Manager compliance departments may attend these meetings at each Board meeting.
The Board also receives regular at the Chairmans request.
reports from the Administrator and Company Secretary and The provision of non-audit services by the Companys the Investment Manager also reports to the Board on the Auditors is considered and approved by the Audit performance of all other third party service providers.
The MEC also reviews, on an annual basis, the directors Representatives of Ernst & Young LLP, the Companys fees.
The results of the most recent review are set out in Auditors, attend the Committee meetings at which the the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 46 and 47. draft Annual Report and Accounts are reviewed, and are Tenure Policy given the opportunity to speak to the Committee No director has a contract of employment with the members without the presence of the representatives of Company.
Directors terms and conditions for the Investment Manager.
appointment are set out in letters of appointment which The Audit Committee is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP is are available for inspection at the Registered Office of the independent of the Company.
Company and will be available at the AGM.
The Board recommend the reappointment of Ernst & Performance Evaluation Young LLP as Auditors at the forthcoming AGM.
In order to review the effectiveness of the Board and its Committees and of the individual directors, the Chairman The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be present at has put in place, and carried out, an appraisal process.
the AGM to deal with questions relating to the Accounts.
This was implemented by way of a questionnaire and interviews with the Chairman.
In respect of the Chairman, Management Engagement Committee the interview was conducted by the Senior Independent The Management Engagement Committee MEC was Director.
The process is considered by the Board to be formed in November 2006 comprising the Chairman and constructive in terms of identifying areas for improving all directors of the Company.
the functioning and performance of the Board and the The MEC meets at least on an annual basis, towards the Committees, the contribution of individual directors, as end of the financial year.
The MEC met in March 2011. well as building on and developing individual and collective strengths.
The MEC reviews, on an annual basis, the performance of Thames River and its continued suitability to manage the The Chairman confirms that, in the light of the formal Companys portfolio.
It also reviews the terms of the performance evaluation, the performance of each of the TR Property Investment Trust 57 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued directors continues to be effective and to demonstrate requirements and internal controls.
Changes affecting commitment to his or her role, including commitment of directors responsibilities are advised to the Board as they time for Board and Committee meetings and any other arise.
Directors ensure that they are updated on regulatory, statutory and industry matters.
The Board believes it has a good balance of skills, experience, ages and length of service to ensure it Board Meetings operates effectively.
The number of meetings of the Board and Committees held during the year under review, and the attendance of The performance of the Company is considered in detail individual directors, are shown below: at each Board meeting.
Meetings In particular, it is considered that each of the directors Board Audit MEC makes a significant contribution to the affairs of the No.
of meetings in the year 6 2 1 Company and that directors seeking re-election at the Peter Salsbury 6 2 1 Companys forthcoming AGM merit re-election by shareholders.
Caroline Burton 6 2 1 Richard Stone 5 2 1 An independent evaluation of the effectiveness of the Peter Wolton 5 2 0 Board, its committees and the performance of each Hugh Seaborn 6 2 1 director was undertaken by the JCA Group JCA in Paul Spencer 6 2 1 2010.
During this process the most Senior members of Peter Wolton retired from the Board on 31 January 2011. the Fund Management and Investment Management teams were interviewed in addition to the Directors.
In addition to formal Board and Committee meetings, directors also attend a number of informal meetings to Directors Remuneration represent the interests of the Company.
Directors remuneration is considered by the MEC.
The The Board MEC determines and approves directors fees following proper consideration, having regard to the level of fees The Board is responsible for the effective stewardship of payable to non-executive directors in the industry the Companys affairs.
Certain strategic issues are generally, the role that individual directors fulfil in respect monitored by the Board at meetings against a framework of Board and Committee responsibilities and the time which has been agreed with the Managers.
Additional committed to the Companys affairs.
meetings may be arranged as required.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its The Companys Articles of Association limit the aggregate decision, which are categorised under various headings, fees payable to the Board to a total of 250,000 per including strategy, management, structure, capital, financial annum.
Detailed information on the remuneration reporting, internal controls, gearing, asset allocation, share arrangements for the directors of the Company can be price discount, contracts, investment policy, finance, risk, found in the Directors Remuneration Report.
investment restrictions, performance, corporate Appointment of New Directors governance and Board membership and appointments.
The directors have determined that, due to the size of the In order to enable them to discharge their responsibilities, Board and the independence of each of its members, there all directors have full and timely access to relevant is no requirement for a separate Nominations Committee.
At each meeting, the Board reviews the The Board annually reviews its size and structure, and is Companys investment performance and considers financial analyses and other reports of an operational responsible for succession planning.
The Board monitors compliance with the open mind regarding the use of external recruitment consultants or internal process, and has, in the past, Companys objectives and is responsible for setting asset chosen to combine both routes to ensure best practice.
allocation, investment and gearing limits within which the Fund Manager has discretion to act and thus supervises Directors Training the management of the investment portfolio, which is When a new director is appointed, he she is offered contractually delegated to the Investment Manager.
training by the Investment Manager.
Directors are also provided on a regular basis with key information on the The Board has responsibility for the approval of unquoted Companys activities, including regulatory and statutory investments and any investments in in-house funds 58 TR Property Investment Trust THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued managed or advised by the Investment Manager.
It has Company to establish its own internal audit function.
also adopted a procedure for directors, in the furtherance Instead, the Audit Committee relies on internal control of their duties, to take independent professional advice at reports and other internal control reports received from its principal service providers, particularly the Manager, to the expense of the Company.
satisfy itself as to the controls in place.
Further details of the Boards consideration of key operational matters is contained in the Business Review The Board has established a process for identifying, section of the Report of the Directors on pages 48 to 52. evaluating and managing any major risks faced by the Group.
The Board undertakes an annual review of the Conflicts of Interest Groups system of internal controls, and the business risks In line with the Companies Act 2006, the Board has the have been analysed and recorded in a risk map that is power to authorise any potential conflicts of interest that reviewed regularly.
The Board receives each quarter a may arise and impose such limits or conditions as it formal report from each of the Investment Manager, the thinks fit.
A register of conflicts is maintained and is Administrator and the Company Secretary detailing the reviewed at every Board meeting to ensure all details steps taken to monitor the areas of risk, including those are kept up-to-date.
Appropriate authorisation will be that are not directly their responsibility, and which report sought prior to the appointment of any new director the details of any known internal control failures.
The Board or if any new conflicts arise.
also has direct access to company secretarial advice and Internal Controls services provided by Capita Company Secretarial Services, The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups which, through its nominated representative, is responsible for ensuring that the Board and Committee procedures are systems of internal controls and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The Investment Manager is responsible for followed and that applicable regulations are complied with.
the day to day investment management decisions on Voting Policy behalf of the Group.
Accounting and company secretarial The Board has approved a corporate governance voting services have both been outsourced.
policy which, in its opinion, accords with current best practice The internal controls aim to ensure that assets of the whilst maintaining a primary focus on financial returns.
Group are safeguarded, proper accounting records are The exercise of voting rights attached to the Trusts maintained, and the financial information used within portfolio has been delegated to Thames River who takes the business and for publication is reliable.
Control of a global approach to engagement with issuers and their the risks identified, covering financial, operational, management in all of the jurisdictions in which it invests.
compliance and risk management, is embedded in the Thames River are required to include on their website a controls of the Group by a series of regular investment disclosure about the nature of their commitment to the performance and attribution statements, financial and FRCs Stewardship Code and details may be found at risk analyses, fund manager reports and quarterly control www.
Key risks have been identified and controls put in place to mitigate them, including those not directly Relations with Shareholders the responsibility of the Investment Manager.
Shareholder relations are given high priority by both the Board and the Investment Manager.
The prime medium The effectiveness of the internal controls is assessed on a by which the Company communicates with shareholders continuing basis by the Compliance and Risk departments of is through the Interim and Annual Reports which aim to the Investment Manager, the Administrator and the Company provide shareholders with a clear understanding of the Secretary.
Each maintains its own system of internal controls, and the Board and Audit Committee receive regular reports Companys activities and their results.
The control systems are designed to provide is supplemented by the daily calculation and by the reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material publication at the London Stock Exchange of the Net misstatement or loss and to manage, rather than eliminate, Asset Value of the Companys Ordinary and Sigma shares risk of failure to achieve objectives.
As the Company has no employees and its operational This information is also available on the Companys functions are undertaken by third parties, the Audit website, www.
co. uk together with a monthly Committee does not consider it necessary for the factsheet and Manager commentary.
TR Property Investment Trust 59 THE GROUP COMPANY Report of the Directors continued At each AGM a presentation is made by the Fund Managers parties, the Audit Committee does not consider it following the business of the meeting.
Shareholders have necessary for the Company to establish its own the opportunity to address questions to the Chairman and internal audit function.
the Chairman of the Audit Committee at the AGM.
All Statutory Auditor shareholders are encouraged to attend the AGM.
A resolution to re-appoint Ernst & Young LLP as the It is the intention of the Board that the Annual Report and Companys Auditor will be put to shareholders at the forthcoming AGM.
Accounts and Notice of the AGM be issued to shareholders so as to provide at least twenty working days notice of the Directors statement as to disclosure of information to auditors AGM.
Shareholders wishing to lodge questions in advance The directors who were members of the board at the time of the AGM, or to contact the Board at any other time, are of approving the directors report are listed on page 44. invited to do so by writing to the Company Secretary at the Having made enquiries of fellow directors and of the registered address given on page 95.
Companys auditors, each of these directors confirms that: to the best of each directors knowledge and belief, General presentations are given to both shareholders and there is no information that is, information needed analysts following the publication of the annual results.
All by the groups auditors in connection with preparing meetings between the Fund Manager and shareholders their report of which the Companys auditors are are reported to the Board.
unaware: and Socially Responsible Investment each director has taken all the steps a director might Good corporate governance extends to a companys reasonably be expected to have taken to be aware of policies on the environment, employment, human rights relevant audit information and to establish that the and community relationships.
Corporations are playing an Companys auditors are aware of that information.
increasingly important role in global economic activity and This information is given and should be interpreted in the adoption of good corporate governance enhances a accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the companys economic prospects by reducing the risk of Companies Act 2006. government and regulatory intervention and any ensuing damage to its business or reputation.
Responsibility statement Each of the directors listed on page 44 confirm that to Policies relating to physical property either held directly or by the best of their knowledge: the companies in which the Trust invests, is described in the the financial statements, prepared in accordance with Directors Report under Environmental Policy on page 52.
IFRS as adopted by the European Union, give a true The Companys objective remains the long-term and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position maximisation of shareholders total return.
and profit of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and Compliance Statement the Directors Report, includes a fair review of the The directors acknowledge that the Company did not development and performance of the business and comply with the following provisions of the Combined the position of the Trust, together with a description of Code in the year ended 31 March 2011. the principle risks and uncertainties that it faces.
2.1 Due to the nature and structure of the Company the Board of non-executive directors do not feel it is necessary to appoint a chief executive.
4.1 The Board does not have a separate Nominations Committee.
This function is carried out by the Board as part of the agenda of regular Board By order of the Board meetings when required.
2.1 The Board does not have a separate Remuneration For and on behalf of Committee.
The functions of a Remuneration Capita Company Secretarial Services Limited Committee are carried out by the MEC.
Secretary C. 3.5 As the Company has no employees and its operational functions are undertaken by third 10 June 2011 60 TR Property Investment Trust
