Corporate Governance Report The Directors are responsible for the corporate governance of the Independence of Directors Group.
They support the principles of good corporate governance The Board has determined that all five of the Non-executive and code of best practice laid down in the UK Corporate Directors are independent.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director has responsibility Throughout the year ended 31 December 2011 the Board believes it for dealing with any shareholders who have concerns which has complied with the principles and provisions recommended by contact through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive the Code except as regards the re-election of Directors.
The manner or Finance Director has failed to resolve, or for which such contact in which the Company has applied the principles of good is inappropriate.
governance set out in the Code is outlined below.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is publicly available at www.
Induction and professional development All Directors receive an induction to the Company on joining the Board and relevant training is available to Directors to assist them in the performance of their duties.
The Audit Committee and the DIRECTORS Remuneration Committee receive brie ngs on current Composition of the Board developments.
The Non-executive Directors take advantage of The Board currently comprises two Executive Directors, five sector and general conferences and seminars and training events independent Non-executive Directors and a Non-executive organised by professional rms and receive circulars and training Chairman.
Angela Knight and Stephen Pull were appointed as materials from the Company and other professional advisers.
Directors with effect from 1 September 2011.
David Clark will be Regular presentations are made to the Board by members of the retiring from the Board when the process to recruit a further Companys Executive Committee, arrangements are made for non-executive director with the expertise to chair the Audit Non-executive Directors to meet members of the management Committee has been completed.
As planned, Angela Knight took teams and they attend the Companys management conferences.
over as Senior Independent Non-executive Director with effect Non-executive Directors regularly visit the Companys international from February 2012.
The Directors biographies are shown on of ces, usually in connection with other activities.
page 27 demonstrate the Boards depth of experience and skill.
The Non-executive Directors also have the range of experience Con icts of interest and the calibre to exercise independent judgement and contribute The Companys Articles of Association the Articles permit the to Board discussions.
Five of the Directors and four of the Board to consider and, if it sees t, to authorise situations where a Non-executive Directors have extensive previous experience Director has an interest that con icts, or may possibly con ict, with at a senior level in the financial services sector and two of the the interests of the Company a Relevant Situation.
The Board has Directors are chartered accountants one was an audit partner in a a formal system in place for Directors to declare Relevant Situations major rm of accountants, one of the Non-executive Directors was to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no a Senior Adviser to the Financial Services Authority FSA, and both interest in the matter being considered.
In deciding whether to the Chairman and the Finance Director were previously Finance authorise a Relevant Situation, the non-con icted Directors must Directors of a number of other companies.
The average length of act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to service of the Non-executive Directors excluding the Chairman is promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits four years and six months.
or conditions when giving the authorisation or subsequently if they think this is appropriate.
The Board has followed the prescribed The Chairman, Keith Hamill was, at appointment, independent of procedures in deciding whether, and on what terms, to authorise the Company and the management, but, as Chairman, is not Relevant Situations and believes that the systems it has in place for classi ed as independent under the Code.
His other signi cant reporting and considering Relevant Situations, including an annual commitments are noted in his biography on page 27. review of authorisations, continue to operate effectively.
During the year the independent Non-executive Directors, led by the There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman Senior Independent Non-executive Director, reviewed the external and the Chief Executive.
The primary responsibility of the Chairman business commitments of members of the Board and concluded is the leadership of the Board.
The primary responsibility of the that none of these gave rise to con icts of interest or other factors Chief Executive, Terry Smith, is the running of the Companys which might affect the effective operation of the Company or operations and the development and implementation of strategy the Board.
in order to maximise shareholder value.
In the event that any of the Executive Directors wished to take up a non-executive appointment with another company, the Board would be amenable to such a proposal, provided that the time commitment involved would not be too onerous.
The terms of the Directors service agreements and letters of appointment are summarised in the Report on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 36 to 42.
The terms and conditions of appointment of the Non-executive Directors will be available for inspection during normal business hours on any weekday other than public holidays at the Companys of ces, and at the AGM from fifteen minutes prior to the meeting until its conclusion.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 30 Performance evaluation Board administration Reviews of the performance of the Board, its Committees and The Board has a formal Schedule of Matters reserved to it for individual Directors in respect of the previous financial year have decision, which can be viewed on the Companys website been undertaken.
In this process, consideration was given to www.
The Schedule includes, among whether the Board or Committee ful lled its terms of reference other things: satisfactorily, whether the terms of reference needed to be revised, whether the administration operated effectively and whether approval of the Groups strategy: individual Directors performed their roles effectively.
changes to the Groups management and control structure: In March 2011 and March 2012, the Chairman formally met the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Directors being approval of any material borrowing or commitment: present to evaluate, amongst other matters, the performance of the individual Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Board appointments and removals: Non-executive Director met the other Non-executive Directors without the Chairman being present to evaluate the Chairmans reporting to shareholders: and performance.
Appropriate feedback was provided following these meetings.
The Chairman has also provided feedback on environmental, social and governance policies, including performance to the Non-executive Directors.
Re-election Beneath the Board there is a structure of delegated authority which Under the Companys Articles all Directors are subject to election sets out the authority levels allocated to the individual Directors by shareholders at the first AGM after their appointment.
Thereafter, any director for whom it is the third AGM following that at which he or she was elected is required to retire at the The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nominations AGM but is entitled to seek re-election.
The Code recommends that Committees to which it has delegated some of its responsibilities.
all directors of FTSE 350 companies should be subject to annual Each of the Committees has detailed terms of reference, which can re-election.
At the AGM held in 2011 the Company followed the be viewed on the Companys website and a schedule of business to procedures for director re-election speci ed in its Articles.
In order be transacted during the year.
The responsibilities of each of the to comply with the Code, at the AGM in 2012 those Directors Committees together with an overview of their meetings during who are not required under the Articles to seek re-election will the year are described below.
do so voluntarily, and the Company will seek approval to amend its Articles to require all Directors to seek annual re-election.
The Board and its Committees are provided with appropriate information on a timely basis to enable them to discharge their Angela Knight and Stephen Pull are subject to election by duties.
All Directors receive written reports prior to each meeting shareholders at the AGM in May 2012 as they were appointed since which enable them to make an informed decision on corporate and the last AGM.
Angela Knight has extensive experience in industry: business issues under review.
All Board meetings are minuted and as chief executive of the British Bankers Association and as a any unresolved concerns are recorded in such minutes.
non-executive director of major financial services companies.
Stephen Pull has extensive experience in the financial services industry.
The Board considers that both bring great value and recommends their election.
Keith Hamill and Terry Smith retire in accordance with the Articles and will seek re-election at the AGM.
In order to comply with the Code, Paul Mainwaring, David Clark, Michael Fallon and Rupert Robson are voluntarily offering themselves for re-election.
The Board is satis ed that, following formal performance evaluation, the performance of each of the Directors offering themselves for re-election continues to be effective, and that each demonstrates commitment to the role.
Biographies of all Directors are set out on page 27.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 31 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Corporate Governance Report continued The Board has a schedule of eight meetings each year to discuss the Groups ordinary course of business.
Every effort is made to arrange AUDIT COMMITTEE these meetings so that all Directors can attend: additional Composition meetings are arranged as required.
The following table sets out the The Audit Committee was chaired by Richard Kilsby, who has recent Board and Committee attendance record during the year: and relevant financial experience, until July 2011, and from that Audit Remuneration Nominations date has been chaired by David Clark who is ful lling the role while Board Committee Committee Committee a successor to Richard Kilsby is recruited.
David Clark has recent and Executive Directors relevant financial experience, and has been a Senior Adviser to the FSA.
Richard Kilsby continued to serve as a member until he retired Terry Smith 8 8 from the Board on 31 December 2011.
The other members of the Paul Mainwaring 8 8 Committee during the year were Michael Fallon and Rupert Robson.
Non-executive Directors Angela Knight and Stephen Pull were appointed members of the Committee in December 2011.
All members of the Committee are Keith Hamill 8 8 2 2 independent Non-executive Directors.
David Clark 8 8 4 4 3 4 2 2 Michael Fallon 8 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 The Nominations Committee has instructed search consultants to Richard Kilsby 8 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 assist in the selection of an additional Board member with recent and relevant financial experience who will take over the role of Angela Knight 3 3 Chairman of the Committee.
Stephen Pull 3 3 Rupert Robson 8 8 4 4 4 4 2 2 The Chairman, the Executive Directors, the Companys external and internal auditors, the Group Treasurer and Head of Risk Control, and Excludes meetings of committees of the Board appointed to complete other senior finance personnel may attend Committee meetings routine business or business previously approved by the Board.
The Committee has a discussion with the external Appointed to the Board on 1 September 2011. auditor at least once a year without the Executive Directors being present, to ensure that there are no unresolved issues of concern.
All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and there are procedures in place for taking independent Terms of Reference professional advice at the Companys expense if required.
Throughout 2011 the Committees Terms of Reference included: The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that the Board recommendation on appointment of the external auditor: keeps up to date with key changes in legislation which affect the Company.
The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary review of independence and objectivity of the external auditor: is a matter reserved for the Board.
review of effectiveness of the audit process: approval of the annual audit plan and scope of audit engagement: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements: review of the results of the audit: review of the effectiveness of the Companys internal control procedures: review of the effectiveness of the internal audit function and consideration of internal audit reports: and review of the arrangements by which staff may, in con dence, raise concerns about improprieties in financial reporting and other matters.
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee are available on the Companys website.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 32 Work of the Audit Committee during 2011 The Audit Committee reviewed the cost effectiveness, objectivity REMUNERATION COMMITTEE and independence of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Rupert Robson.
considered the professional and regulatory guidance on auditor The other members of the Committee throughout the year were independence and was satis ed with the auditors representations.
David Clark, Michael Fallon and Richard Kilsby.
Angela Knight The Audit Committee reviewed the level of fees paid to the auditor and Stephen Pull became members of the Committee in in respect of the various services provided by them in addition December 2011.
All members of the Committee are independent to the audit during 2011.
The non-audit fees paid to the auditor Non-executive Directors.
are disclosed in Note 6 to the accounts.
The auditor con rmed to the Audit Committee that they did not believe that the level of The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the non-audit fees had affected their independence.
The Companys Remuneration Committee: policy is to use the most appropriate advisers for non-audit work, taking account of the need to maintain independence.
The Audit reviewing and approving the general principles of the Committee has approved a formal policy governing the Companys remuneration policies: engagement of the external auditor for non-audit services.
reviewing the relationship between incentives and risk: The Audit Committee reviewed the integrity of the financial statements included in the half-year and preliminary determining the application of the Companys remuneration announcements of results and the statutory accounts, prior policies to the Executive Directors: to their approval by the Board.
When conducting the review, the Committee considered the continuing appropriateness of determining the remuneration of Executive Directors and the accounting policies, key accounting judgements, and the the Chairman: adequacy and appropriateness of disclosures.
reviewing the application of the Companys remuneration The Audit Committee reviewed arrangements by which staff may, policies to Senior Management, Brokers and other employees: in con dence, raise concerns about improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters.
In conducting the review, the a pproving the remuneration of Senior Management after Committee took into account whether the policies were in line consultation with the Chief Executive: and with guidance published by the FSA.
approving all share and long term incentive schemes and The Audit Committee reviewed the work and reports of Internal their application.
Audit and monitored progress against the internal audit plan for 2011.
The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the internal The Chairman and the Executive Directors attend the audit plan for 2012.
The Chairman and the Executive Directors are not permitted to be in attendance when The Audit Committee reviewed and approved the Risk Assessment any matter relating to their own remuneration is being discussed.
Framework maintained by the Group Risk Control function.
During 2011 and subsequently, the Remuneration Committee has been advised by  executive compensation consultants.
Further details of the Companys policies on remuneration, service contracts and share options are given in the Report on Directors Remuneration set out on pages 36 to 42.
The Terms of Reference of the Remuneration Committee are available on the Companys website.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 33 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review Corporate Governance Report continued NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The Nominations Committee is chaired by Keith Hamill.
The other The Board is responsible for setting the Groups risk appetite and members throughout the year were David Clark, Michael Fallon, ensuring that it has an appropriate and effective risk management Richard Kilsby and Rupert Robson.
Angela Knight and Stephen Pull framework and for monitoring the ongoing process for identifying, became members of the Committee in December 2011.
All evaluating, managing and reporting the signi cant risks faced by members of the Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The Groups risk management governance structure, policies and procedures, and risk pro le are described in the Risk The Terms of Reference of the Nominations Committee provide Management section of the Business Review.
that the Chairman of the Board would not be permitted to chair the Committee if it were dealing with the issue of his replacement.
The Board is also responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system is designed The Board has delegated responsibility to the Nominations to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve Committee for: business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against misstatement or loss.
In discharging its reviewing the balance and skill, knowledge and experience of responsibilities in this respect, the Board has appointed the Audit the Board: Committee to carry out the annual review of the effectiveness of the internal control and risk management systems and to report to agreeing and implementing procedures for the selection of new the Board thereon.
This process has been in place for the year under Board appointments: and review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report, is reviewed regularly by the Board and accords with the Turnbull making recommendations to the Board on all proposed guidance.
The Audit Committee conducted a formal review of the new appointments.
effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems for 2011, considering reports from management, external audit and the During 2011 the Nominations Committee, as part of its succession work of the risk control and internal audit functions.
planning and to reinforce the Board, speci ed the qualities it sought for two additional non-executive directors to join the Board.
The Group has a comprehensive system for financial reporting Appropriate candidates who met those speci cations were which is subject to review by both internal and external audit.
identi ed and the Nominations Committee was able to Budgets, regular re-forecasts and monthly management accounts recommend the new appointments to the Board.
including balance sheets and cash ows are prepared at all levels of the business and consolidated reports are reviewed by the Board.
In the search to recruit a non-executive director who will chair the These reports include comparisons of performance and position Audit Committee, the Nominations Committee has prepared a against prior year, budgets and forecasts.
speci cation setting out the skills, knowledge and experience required, and has instructed search consultants to identify The Group has investments in a number of joint ventures and suitable candidates.
Where the Group is not directly involved in the management of the investment, it can in uence, through In considering the appointment of new non-executive directors the Board representation, but not control, the internal control systems Nominations Committee takes account of the time commitment present in those entities.
The Boards review of the effectiveness of likely to be required of the appointee.
The likely time commitment the system of internal controls in those entities is consequently less is referred to in all new letters of appointment.
comprehensive than in its directly owned subsidiaries.
The Terms of Reference of the Nominations Committee are available on the Companys website.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises the importance of communication with shareholders.
com, provides information for shareholders on the Groups activities, results, products and recent developments.
There is regular dialogue with institutional investors, fund managers and analysts, including presentations around the time of the results announcements and also on request.
The Chairman maintains ongoing relations with shareholders when necessary or appropriate and is available to those shareholders who have a policy of regular contact or who wish to discuss speci c matters.
The Senior Independent Non-executive Director and the other Non-executive Directors are available to meet with shareholders, should such meetings be requested.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 34 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING The Board uses the AGM to communicate with investors and welcomes their participation.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The Chairman aims to ensure that all of the Directors, including Chairmen of the Committees of the Board, are available at AGMs to answer questions and meet shareholders.
The proxy votes cast on each resolution proposed at general meetings are disclosed at those meetings.
To encourage shareholder participation, those shareholders whose shares are held via the CREST system are offered the facility to submit their proxy votes via CREST.
ACCOUNTABILITY AND AUDIT The Directors statement regarding their responsibility for preparing the Annual Report is set out on page 43 and the independent auditors report regarding their reporting responsibility is on page 45.
GOING CONCERN The Groups business activities and performance, and the financial position of the Group, its cash ows, liquidity position, borrowing facilities and hedging strategy, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position, are discussed in the Business Review on pages 05 to 19.
Analysis of the Groups key risks and approach to risk management is also set out in the Business Review on pages 15 to 19.
Details of the Groups interest bearing loans and borrowings, obligations under finance leases, derivative financial instruments, long term provisions, other long term payables and financial instruments are set out in Notes 23 to 27.
The Group has considerable financial resources both in the regions and at the corporate centre to comfortably meet the Groups ongoing obligations.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, the Annual Report and financial statements continue to be prepared on the going concern basis.
Tullett Prebon plc Annual Report 2011 35 Shareholder Information Financial Statements Governance Business Review
