Witan Investment Trust plc Directors Report Report of the Audit Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the directors The Committee comprises three non-executive directors, in applying financial reporting and internal control including its Chairman, who are appointed by the Board.
principles and to maintain an appropriate relationship Mr Boyle was appointed Chairman of the Committee in with the Groups auditor.
He is a Chartered Accountant and was previously a partner in  LLP.
The other two The Committees role and responsibilities are set out in members are Mr Bruce and Mr Watson, who were its terms of reference, which comply with the UK appointed in 2002 and 2006 respectively: details of their Corporate Governance Code.
The terms of reference are qualifications and experience are given on page 22.
The available on request from the Company Secretary and Committees programme is to meet at least three times a can be seen on the Companys website.
year: in advance of the publication of both the annual and the half year results and on at least one other The Committee is responsible for monitoring the occasion.
integrity of the Companys financial statements, including consideration of the Companys accounting The Committee held three meetings during the year, at policies and significant reporting judgements.
It reviews two of which representatives of the auditor were present: the Companys internal financial controls and risk to consider the outcome of the audit of the Groups 2010 management systems using an external consultant financial statements and to consider the plan for the where appropriate.
The audit was subject to competitive audit of the Groups 2011 financial statements.
tender in 2007 when Deloitte LLP was reappointed.
The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of the During the year the Committee addressed all the matters audit process and monitors the auditors independence set out as its responsibilities under its terms of reference and objectivity.
It conducts a formal review of the and confirmed that the Group should not establish an performance of the external auditor and makes internal audit function.
In addition, the Committee recommendations in relation to this appointment, reviewed the implications of the Bribery Act and the Data including their remuneration and the provision by them Protection Act for the Company to ensure that of any non-audit services.
The Committee has appropriate procedures were put in place, and reviewed established a procedure to ensure that the engagement the Business Continuity Plan.
of the auditor to provide non-audit services cannot exceed a specified proportion of the annual audit fees without due consideration being given by the Committee to the proposed appointment.
The Robert Boyle Committee also reviews the process for negotiating and Chairman of the Audit Committee monitoring major contracts undertaken by the 14 March 2012 Company, the Boards investment restrictions and the values attributed to the unlisted investments.
It ensures that the Company maintains appropriate compliance with the requirements of regulators: and it reviews the reporting of investment performance.
The Committee reports to the Board, identifying matters on which it considers that action is needed and making recommendations on the steps to be taken.
