44 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Centrica has a well established and hard earned record of sound corporate governance which is woven into the culture of the organisation rather than a box ticking response to code and regulation.
Sir Roger Carr Sir Roger Carr The Board is responsible for: Chairman Chairman development of strategy and major policies: the Groups corporate governance and system of internal control: reviewing performance: Throughout the year, the Company complied fully with the approving interim dividend payments and recommending provisions set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code final dividend payments: the Code issued in June 2010.
This report explains how the Board applied the principles of the Code during 2011. approval of the annual operating plan, financial statements and major acquisitions and disposals: The Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 discusses the Companys current approach to Board composition, diversity the Groups corporate responsibility arrangements including and succession planning whilst details of the Companys health, safety and environmental matters: and business model and strategies for delivering objectives are the appointment and removal of Directors and the set out in the Business Review on pages 5 to 40.
Looking forward, the Board will be required to report against the updated UK Corporate Governance Code to be issued in 2012 The Board recognises that its Non-Executive Directors have other and will, of course, retain a keen and watchful eye on the issues interests outside of Centrica and so, each year, the Chairman and and developments affecting the UK corporate governance arena.
each Non-Executive Director provide assurance to the Board that they remain fully committed to their respective roles.
The Board THE BOARD considers these assurances and is satisfied that each can Board of Directors dedicate the necessary amount of time to attend to the The Board believes that good corporate governance contributes Companys affairs.
A clearly defined framework of roles, Board meetings responsibilities and delegated authorities is in place and this The Board holds regular scheduled meetings throughout the year supports the Boards aim to deliver sustainable growth for the and in 2011 there were eight scheduled meetings of the Board.
benefit of shareholders, employees and customers.
As evidenced by the recent independent Board evaluation, the Directors The Board continuously assesses and reviews key priorities and consider that the Board leads and controls the Group effectively, business issues for the Group over the short, medium and longer has a robust governance structure and that no individual or small term.
Comprehensive papers are presented to the Board which group of individuals dominate the Boards decision-making.
facilitates meaningful debate on the performance and future direction of the Company.
The powers of the Directors are set out in the Companys Articles of Association Articles, which are available on the Companys All Directors are expected to attend all Board and relevant website.
The Articles may be amended by special resolution.
Details of attendance by Directors at Board In addition, the Directors have responsibilities and duties under and Committee meetings during 2011 are set out in the table on other legislation, in particular the Companies Act 2006. page 45.
Where a Director was not in attendance, this was due to other prior work commitments.
Directors who were unable The Board has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its to attend specific Board or Committee meetings reviewed the approval which it reviewed against best practice in July 2011 and relevant papers and provided their comments to the Chairman of approved minor changes.
A summary is shown below and the full the Board or Committee, as appropriate.
In addition, any Director schedule is available for inspection on the Companys website.
who misses a meeting will, as a matter of course, receive the minutes of that meeting for future reference.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45 Governance WHAT GOOD GOVERNANCE MEANS TO CENTRICA Board constitution and appointments Committees Overall Attendance The Board comprises a good balance of Executive Directors Board Audit Rem Noms CR % and independent Non-Executive Directors which promotes Number of meetings 8 4 5 4 3 thorough consideration of the important issues facing Centrica Sir Roger Carr 8 5 4 100% and the Groups performance.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Sam Laidlaw 8 4 3 100% Executive are separate, formalised in writing and have been Dame Helen Alexander 8 3 5 4 95% approved by the Board.
They are available on the Companys website, together with an explanation of the roles of the Phil Bentley 8 2 91% i Non-Executive Directors.
Margherita Della Valle 8 4 5 4 1 100% Mary Francis 8 4 5 4 3 100% As discussed in the Chairmans Statement, the Non-Executive Directors play a key governance role and bring an external view Mark Hanafin 8 100% to the Boards deliberations through their knowledge, experience 8 100% Nick Luff and insight from other sectors.
As part of its annual review of ii 6 1 5 3 3 86% Andrew Mackenzie corporate governance, the Board considered the independence iii 5 3 4 2 67% Ian Meakins of each Non-Executive Director, other than the Chairman, against Paul Rayner 8 4 5 4 100% the criteria in the Code and determined that each Non-Executive Chris Weston 8 3 100% Director remained independent.
During the year the NonExecutive Directors, including the Chairman, met independently Remuneration, Nominations and Corporate Responsibility of management.
In addition, the Senior Independent Director met i Margherita Della Valle joined the Corporate Responsibility Committee with the independent Non-Executive Directors in the absence of in September 2011 and attended one remaining Committee meeting the Chairman to appraise the Chairmans performance.
A formal, rigorous and transparent process is followed during ii Andrew Mackenzie attended one meeting of the Audit Committee the selection and subsequent appointment of new Directors before he stepped down as a member.
This process is described in the section on the iii Ian Meakins was not in attendance at some Board and Committee Nominations Committee on page 48.
Recent changes to the meetings during the year due to work commitments agreed prior to composition of the Board are set out in the table below: his appointment as a Director of the Company.
Dame Helen Non-Executive Director Resigned 31 December 2011 Alexander As part of its responsibilities, the Board approves and monitors Lesley Knox Non-Executive Director Appointed 1 January 2012 the development of the Groups strategy.
In addition to the scheduled Board meetings, each year the Board holds a conference devoted specifically to strategy.
In 2011, the Board The Companies Act 2006 and the Articles require the Board to conference focused on some of the key strategic issues facing consider any potential conflicts of interests.
The Board considers Centrica, including: and, if appropriate, authorises each Directors reported actual and potential conflicts of interest regularly.
The conflicts of interest growth opportunities within British Gas: register was reviewed by the Board four times during 2011.
Each delivering value from the upstream business: Director abstained from approving their own reported conflicts.
long-term growth in North America: The Board has agreed that each Director shall stand for re-appointment at each Annual General Meeting AGM.
gas storage strategy: political and regulatory risks: and the Groups financial profile and controls.
46 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Details of the Directors of the Company, including their induction.
As a result, an induction programme has been biographies and their Board Committee memberships, are set specifically tailored for Lesley Knox to include briefings from out on pages 42 and 43.
Details of Directors service contracts members of the Executive Team on key areas of the business or letters of appointment, in the case of Non-Executive Directors, including the internal audit function, an overview of the Groups emoluments and share interests are set out in the Remuneration risk management processes, the key risks facing the business Report on pages 52 to 63. and a briefing in respect of the corporate governance framework within Centrica.
Lesley was also provided with recent broker Directors indemnities and insurance reports on the Company.
In addition, and as a key part of her In accordance with the Articles, the Company has granted a induction, Lesley attended the annual Board strategy conference deed of indemnity, to the extent permitted by law, to Directors held at the end of October 2011 and an investor day for and the General Counsel & Company Secretary.
Qualifying third institutional investors and analysts held in December 2011 party indemnity provisions as defined by section 234 of the which focused on Centrica Energy.
Companies Act 2006 were in force during the year ended 31 December 2011 and remain in force.
The Company also Ongoing development and training is also provided to all maintains directors and officers liability insurance for its Directors at Board and Committee meetings.
During the year, Directors and Officers.
Directors received regular updates and presentations on changes and developments to the business and to the legislative and BOARD PERFORMANCE regulatory environments in which the Group operates.
In Board evaluation particular, the Board was briefed on the following key issues The Board considers the annual review of the Board, its during 2011: Committees and Directors as an essential part of good corporate the competitive landscape and market conditions for housekeeping, with the use of an external facilitator at least once energy prices: every three years.
During Sir Rogers time as Chairman, the Company has employed JCA Group and Egon Zehnder on two the legal and regulatory changes and their impact on occasions and this year, Independent Board Evaluations IBE the industry: to bring a fresh pair of eyes to the appraisal.
IBE have no other the consequences on the industry following the natural connections with the Company.
On each occasion, the Board disasters in Japan and the subsequent Fukushima has received positive reports and has adopted recommendations nuclear incident: to improve Board, Committee and individual director health, safety and environmental strategy and governance: performance.
This year, IBE observed a Board meeting as well as meetings of the Audit and Nominations Committees and the UK power generation market: conducted face-to-face interviews with each of the Directors to customer insight: get a detailed understanding of how well the Board operates.
The scope of the evaluation was to assess how well the Board and its the corporate responsibility strategy: Committees operated as a unit and individually.
The evaluation acquisitions and investments: and covered key governance areas such as shareholder corporate governance developments.
accountability, strategy, risk management, Board composition and succession planning and Board culture and decision-making.
In addition, the Directors visited Direct Energys offices in A comprehensive analysis was then presented to the Board.
Houston in March 2011 for presentations on the North American For 2011, the findings continued to be positive and environment, management priorities, performance, outlook recommendations were aimed at making a good board great.
and strategy and to undertake site visits.
These suggestions included making more time in regular Board The Directors have full access to the advice and services of the meetings for strategic debate and encouraging Executive General Counsel & Company Secretary, who is responsible for Directors to speak more often outside their areas of specific advising the Board through the Chairman on corporate expertise.
The Board and each of its Committees have already governance matters.
They are also able to seek independent started to make progress against the findings and the Board will professional advice at the Companys expense in respect of conduct a review against these objectives at the mid-year.
During 2011, the Board progressed the issues identified in the 2010 internal evaluation, summarised in last years Annual BOARD COMMITTEES Report, through both the regular Board and Committee meetings The Board operates six Committees to oversee the standards and as part of the annual Board strategy conference.
of the Group: Audit, Nominations, Remuneration, Corporate Responsibility, Executive and Disclosure.
Each Committee is Board development chaired professionally and rigorously and populated by an All new Directors appointed to the Board receive a appropriate mix of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
comprehensive induction programme tailored to meet their The Committees are supported in the same way as the Board individual needs.
The Chairman and General Counsel & Company in order to ensure information flows in a timely, accurate and Secretary are responsible for delivering an effective induction complete manner.
All of the independent Non-Executive Directors programme for newly appointed Directors.
are members of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Lesley Knox, recently appointed to the Board, discussed with Committees, with the exception of Andrew Mackenzie who the General Counsel & Company Secretary what briefings and stepped down as a member of the Audit Committee in 2011. meetings would most be of benefit to her to ensure an effective The Board reviews annually each Committees terms of reference Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Governance and membership against best practice as well as taking into Minutes of Committee meetings are made available to all account any relevant changes in circumstances.
In July 2011, Directors and the Chairmen of each of the Board Committees revised terms were approved for the Remuneration and Audit provide updates to the Board.
Committees and in February 2012 for the Executive Committee.
A chart setting out the Companys Board and Executive The full written terms of reference for the Committees can be Committees structure is set out below with Committee found on the Companys website and hard copies are available membership and Directors biographical details shown on pages upon request.
The responsibilities of each Board Committee and the key issues considered by each one during 2011 are set out in the following Committee reports.
Board governance structure Board of Directors Corporate Audit Remuneration Executive Nominations Disclosure Responsibility Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Group Risk Investment Management Sub-Committee Committee Audit Committee non-recurring and, by their nature, warrant exceptional Chaired by Paul Rayner, the key function of the Audit Committee classification: is to review the effectiveness of the Companys financial reporting UK pension fund investments and the pension curtailment: and internal controls together with the procedures for the effectiveness of internal controls and governance structures in identification, assessment and reporting of risks.
In accordance light of the revised Turnbull guidance: with the Code, Paul Rayner and Margherita Della Valle are identified as having recent and relevant financial experience.
Internal Audit strategy, effectiveness and scope of activities to The Board has determined that each member of the Committee be undertaken: is independent.
independence, objectivity and fees of the external auditors: Audit Committee responsibilities scope of audit and non-audit services provided by the external The Committee is authorised by the Board to: auditors: and monitor the integrity and audit of the Companys ongoing compliance with the undertakings in respect of Financial Statements: Centrica Storage Limited and compliance reporting across the Group in particular.
review the Companys internal financial controls, internal control and risk management systems: The Committee also considered a report prepared by Independent Audit Ltd following their effectiveness review of monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit.
Whilst this was generally complimentary, a number internal audit function: of actions were agreed by the Committee to seek continuous establish and oversee appropriate whistleblowing and fraud improvement.
prevention arrangements within the Company: and The Committee members also participated in two training establish and oversee the Companys relationship with the sessions during the year, one of which, facilitated by external auditors, including the engagement of the external  LLP PwC, focused on the bespoke auditors to supply non-audit services and the monitoring of controls training programme rolled out across the Group and the their independent status and effectiveness.
other was conducted by Direct Energys senior management team on their midstream and trading risks.
Key issues reviewed by the Audit Committee The scope, fee, performance and independence of the external The Committee considered a number of key issues during the auditors are considered annually by the Committee.
To assess year, including: the effectiveness of the external auditors, the Committee critical accounting judgements detailed in note 3 of the considered: Financial Statements on page 71 in relation to the impairment feedback on the audit process gathered through a survey: reviews of Power Stations, Upstream Oil and Gas assets, the fulfilment of the external audit plan and any variations: planned Gas Storage facilities, Nuclear new build investment and Goodwill: the external auditors qualifications and resources: onerous provision assessments for the Rijnmond power station the robustness of the auditors in their handling of key operating lease, European gas transportation contracts and accounting and audit judgements: and North American wind farm power purchase agreements: the insightfulness of recommendations included in the external Directors judgements that the exceptional items detailed auditors internal control report.
in note 7 of the Financial Statements on page 80 are 48 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Key issues reviewed by the Nominations Committee The Board considers it of prime importance that the external The Committee met on four occasions during the year and auditors remain independent and objective and as a safeguard considered the proposed appointment of Lesley Knox and against this being compromised, the Committee has adopted resignation of Dame Helen Alexander, as discussed in the and is responsible for the development, implementation and Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4.
In making its monitoring of the Groups policy on the independence of external appointment recommendations to the Board, the Committee auditors, a copy of which is available on the Companys website.
reviews the overall balance of skills, knowledge and experience Reviewed annually, the Groups policy details the appointment of on the Board against current and future requirements of the external auditors, the setting of audit fees and the rotation of Company and, as appropriate, draws up a list of required audit partner and staff.
The policy also restricts the types of noncandidate attributes.
audit work that can be undertaken by the external auditors and restricts the employment by the Group of former employees of In addition to Lesley Knoxs appointment, the Committee also the external auditors.
The award of non-audit work, within considered: categories that the external auditors are permitted to carry out Board committee memberships and succession planning under the Board approved policies, is subject to pre-clearance for the Board, including a review of Non-Executive Directors by the Committee if the fee exceeds specified thresholds.
whose length of service was more than six years: In addition, the Committee was provided with reports of all nonaudit assignments awarded to the external auditors and, on a the Davies review into Women on Boards and Centricas regular basis, a full breakdown of non-audit fees incurred during response to this review, which was published in an the year.
A summary of fees paid to the external auditors and announcement in July 2011 and underscores the Boards the Groups policy to seek competitive tenders for all major commitment to diversity as discussed in the Chairmans consultancies and advisory projects is set out in note 33 to Statement.
The Committee noted the voluntary code of the Financial Statements on page 107. conduct for executive search firms to address gender diversity on corporate boards and best practice search criteria for In accordance with International Standards on Auditing UK & directors: and Ireland 260 and Ethical Statement 1 issued by the Accounting Practices Board, and as a matter of best practice, the external the diversity programme across the Group, discussed in auditors have confirmed their independence as auditors of the greater detail in the Chairmans Statement on pages 2 to 4 Company, in a letter addressed to the Directors.
and the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 29 to 35.
PwC has been the external auditor of the Group since the In addition, the Committee met with the Chief Executive and demerger of Centrica in 1997.
The Committee makes the Group Director, Human Resources to undertake an annual recommendations through the Board to the shareholders to succession review for senior management.
consider at the AGM, or at any time during the year, on the Remuneration Committee appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditors.
A report detailing the responsibilities and work carried out There are no contractual obligations restricting the Groups by the Remuneration Committee during the year, including choice of external auditors.
Following the above review and an explanation of how it applies the principles of the Code having given full consideration to the performance and in setting Executive Directors remuneration, is included independence of the external auditors, the Committee within the Remuneration Report on pages 52 to 63. considered that a tender process was not required.
Accordingly, Corporate Responsibility Committee the Committee has recommended to the Board that a resolution A report detailing the responsibilities and work carried out by the to re-appoint PwC be proposed at the 2012 AGM and the Board Corporate Responsibility Committee during the year is included has accepted and endorsed this recommendation.
within the Corporate Responsibility Report on pages 29 to 35.
Nominations Committee Chaired by Sir Roger Carr, the Committee has focused on Board Executive Committee composition and refreshment during 2011 with diversity a key The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day theme.
These issues are discussed more fully in the Chairmans management of the Groups operations within the limits set out Statement on pages 2 to 4. in the Groups delegation of authority.
The Committee also has a schedule of matters specifically reserved for its approval.
Nominations Committee responsibilities During 2011, the Committee delegated certain tasks to the The primary responsibilities of the Committee are to: following sub-committees and received regular updates from make appropriate recommendations to the Board for the each one: Group Risk Management Committee: Health, appointment, re-appointment or replacement of Directors: Safety & Environment Committee HS&E : and Investment Sub-Committee.
devise and consider succession planning arrangements for Directors and other senior executives: and The Committee recently reviewed and clarified the roles and responsibilities for the HS&E.
The Executive Committee retains regularly review the structure, size and composition of direct responsibility for HS&E policies and standards and their the Board and to recommend any proposed changes review, whilst the HS&E itself has been replaced by a working to the Board.
group which will focus on specific HS&E issues and practice.
P o l i c i e Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information s a n d p r y o t c i r T e o G N P d N C E h E I u R O N t M T F r N I N O D u S A e U R T L S a A M P R s E L A C S A O N d Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Governance Disclosure Committee Governance, risk and control framework The Disclosure Committee met on a number of occasions during the year and is responsible for implementing and monitoring systems and controls in respect of the management and disclosure of inside information.
The Committee is also responsible for ensuring that regulatory announcements, shareholder circulars, prospectuses and other documents issued by the Company comply with any applicable legal or regulatory requirements.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board recognises and values the importance of maintaining Board and an effective investor relations and communication programme.
Committees The Board is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder views on a number of key matters affecting the Group and receives formal investor feedback regularly.
During 2011, Centrica hosted three investor days, focusing on the Group's strategy, objectives and operational progress for each of Direct Energy, British Gas and Centrica Energy.
Attended by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors, the presentations were made to institutional investors and analysts, including representatives of many of the Group's largest shareholders.
The presentation materials are also available on the Company's website.
The above diagram shows some of the key elements in the The Chief Executive and Group Finance Director also held regular governance, risk and control framework by which Centricas meetings with the Companys major shareholders during the year.
The work of the Board and its The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director attended the Committees are at the heart of the process.
The Board and meetings at which the annual and interim results were presented its Committees set objectives, performance targets and policies to major investors and analysts.
The Chairman continues to meet designed to achieve a balanced and transparent assessment major institutional shareholders regularly in order to gain a firstof the risks facing the Groups operations and to measure the hand understanding of their concerns and key issues and provides regular updates to the Board.
In addition, the Board effectiveness of the key controls in place to manage them.
The work of the Board is underpinned by clear delegations of receives annually an Investor Perception Survey which covers authority, effective policies and procedures covering key areas strategy, management, investment approach, valuation, business performance and balance sheet management.
of Group operation together with a set of business principles and processes which are communicated to Centricas staff.
The Companys AGM provides all shareholders with the opportunity to develop further their understanding of the In addition, mechanisms are in place to ensure that both strategic Company.
Shareholders can ask questions of the full Board and operational risks are identified and assessed and that the on the matters put to the meeting, including the Annual Report controls designed to manage such risks are operating effectively.
and the running of the Company generally.
The Company intends These mechanisms are reinforced through regular performance to send to shareholders the Notice of AGM and any related management and business reviews.
papers at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All Directors Lastly, it is important that the effectiveness of the framework are invited to attend each AGM.
At the AGM, the Chairman and is assessed impartially.
There is, therefore, a programme of the Chief Executive present a review of the Groups business.
independent reviews by the internal audit function which is A poll is conducted on each resolution at all Company general designed to cover the key processes and risks.
All shareholders also have the opportunity to cast As with any such system, the processes are designed to manage their votes in respect of proposed resolutions by proxy, either rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the objectives electronically or by post.
Following the AGM, the voting results and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance for each resolution are published and are available on the against material misstatement or loss.
Details of the Groups principal risks and uncertainties are set out Mary Francis, the Senior Independent Director, is available in pages 36 to 40 of the Business Review.
to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through the normal channels has either failed to resolve or is deemed 2011 developments inappropriate.
Centrica took a number of steps to improve the risk reporting process in 2011 and reinforce the linkage between risk and Centricas website contains up-to-date information for controls.
These included: shareholders and other interested parties including Annual Reports, shareholder circulars, share price information, news reporting of risks and audit activity against the risk themes: releases, presentations to the investment community and upgrade of the Groups risk assessment matrices: information on shareholder services.
introduction of new red amber yellow green controls guidance: RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL endorsement of the updated business risk policy and The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal standards: and control and risk management and considers this to be fundamental to the achievement of the Groups strategic increased focus on tracking of mitigating actions.
Centrica believes that the above steps will help maintain good governance for the business going forward.
N I S L G C R e E A E E T T A t A M K N C I P a R A S T T N e I g I S R A V o G e I E p T l M I l e E E e N S D T a n d v a l u e s 50 Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED Centrica Controls Board Group risk governance structure The Centrica Controls Board, whose members are the Group Board of Finance Director, the Director of Corporate Finance, the Head Directors of Audit & Risk and finance directors for each business unit, is responsible for ensuring that appropriate internal controls are Executive Audit in place over key operational and financial reporting processes Committee Committee and related IT systems.
During 2011, the Controls Board also reviewed the controls strategy for the Group.
Group Risk Management Committee The responsibilities of the Centrica Controls Board are discharged through the Centrica Controls Steering Group CCSG and the Information Risk Steering Group IRSG.
Group Centrica Financial Risk The CCSG monitors the risks and associated controls over Controls Board Management financial reporting processes, including the process by which Committee Centricas Group Financial Statements are prepared for European & North Centrica Information publication the consolidation process.
The financial reporting Business Risk American Financial Controls Risk Management controls are monitored and maintained through the use of internal Risk Management Steering Steering Committees Committees Group Group control frameworks which address key financial reporting risks, including risks arising from changes in the business or accounting standards.
Effectiveness is assessed through quarterly selfGroup Risk Management Committee certification and independent testing of the controls.
The Group Risk Management Committee GRMC plays a pivotal The CCSG met twice during 2011 and is chaired by role in the governance of risks.
Each of Centricas business units the Head of Information Risk.
has a Business Risk Management Committee or equivalent The IRSG monitors the Groups information systems control management committee whose role is to evaluate, report and environment, providing robust challenge to the business units advise on material risks and to consider the adequacy of controls to ensure that information systems risk management remains and the actions planned to mitigate those risks.
The most effective and appropriate for the Group.
It is also responsible material risks are then reported to the GRMC so that it has a for monitoring the progress of key information security projects.
clear understanding of Centricas aggregate risk profile and can The IRSG met twice during 2011 and is chaired by the ensure that control processes are in place for the monitoring and Chief Information Officer.
During 2011, the GRMC was chaired by the Group Finance Director and membership included Executive Committee and Audit Committee senior management covering business units and corporate The Groups material risks are also reported to the Executive functions.
The GRMC met four times in 2011.
Recent changes to Committee which regularly undertakes in depth reviews of the governance of the GRMC for 2012 mean that the Committee specific risks as appropriate.
is now chaired by the Group Chief Executive and the At each of its meetings in 2011 the Audit Committee received membership reflects that of the Executive Committee.
a Group risk report, which provided an assessment of the key Group Financial Risk Management Committee risks facing the Company and the adequacy of the associated A separate specialised process to manage financial risks is also controls.
In addition, the Audit Committee assessed the activity required to achieve adequate levels of control.
The role of the of the Group internal audit function including details of findings Group Financial Risk Management Committee GFRMC is from reviews conducted against a plan which is approved therefore to focus specifically on financial risks as part of the annually by the Audit Committee.
These reports, supplemented overall risk management profile.
by management presentations and discussion with the Audit Committee, enable it to track issues, monitor performance and Additional monitoring of the Groups financial risks market, ensure that necessary actions are taken to remedy any significant credit and liquidity risks is performed by local Financial Risk failings or weaknesses identified.
Management Committees covering Europe and North America.
Material financial risk exposures are then reported to the GFRMC The Company is also aware that the integrity and reputation of for consideration.
The GFRMC also monitors the design and the Companys public financial reporting is of utmost importance.
implementation of financial risk policies and compliance with In addition to the controls described above, there are a number Group-wide financial risk limits and appetite.
Quarterly overviews of further processes and steps to provide assurance over the of the GFRMCs activities are provided to the GRMC.
completeness and accuracy of Centricas public financial reporting, including: The GFRMC is chaired by the Group Finance Director and membership comprises senior finance and risk personnel.
The review by members of the Executive Committee: Committee met 11 times in 2011, plus one special meeting to verification exercises: discuss Direct Energys options strategy.
Further details of the review and recommendation by the Audit Committee: and Groups Financial Risk Management are provided in note S3 to the Financial Statements on page 117. review and approval by the Board.
Directors Report Business Review Directors Report Governance Financial Statements Appendix to the Directors Report Shareholder Information Centrica plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Governance Centrica Storage and other Group companies The Directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting Centrica Storage Limited, which is subject to undertakings records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys given to the Secretary of State for Business, Innovation & Skills, transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time operates separately but to the same standards of internal control the financial position of the Company and the Group and enable and risk management as the rest of the Group.
The internal them to ensure that the Financial Statements and the Directors control and risk management processes of newly-acquired Remuneration Report comply with the Companies Act 2006 and, companies are also integrated with those of the Group.
as regards the Group Financial Statements, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets The Boards review of the system of internal control of the Company and the Group and hence for taking reasonable Each year, an extensive process of self-certification operates steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other throughout the Group whereby the effectiveness of internal irregularities.
controls and compliance with Group business principles and policies are assessed.
In 2011, the self-certification was Furthermore, the Directors are responsible for the maintenance completed both at the half year and full year.
The results of the and integrity of the Companys website.
Legislation in the United annual process, together with the conclusions of the internal Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial reviews by Internal Audit, inform the annual assessment statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
performed by the Audit Committee.
Each of the Directors, whose names and functions are listed The Board, with the advice of the Audit Committee, has reviewed in pages 42 and 43 confirm that, to the best of their knowledge the effectiveness of the system of internal control, for the period the Group Financial Statements, which have been prepared in from 1 January 2011 to the date of this report, and is satisfied accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, give a true and that the Group complies with the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit of will continue routinely to challenge management in order to the Group.
In addition, they confirm that the Directors Report ensure that the system of internal control is constantly improving contained in pages 2 to 63, together with other disclosures given and remains fit for purpose.
on page 138, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, GOING CONCERN together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties After making enquiries, the Board has a reasonable expectation that it faces.
that the parent company and the Group as a whole has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION TO AUDITORS future.
For this reason, the Board continues to adopt the going Each of the Directors who held office at the date of approval of concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
Further this Directors Report confirm that so far as they are aware, there details of the Groups liquidity position and going concern review is no relevant audit information of which the Companys auditors are provided in note 25 of the Financial Statements on page 98. are unaware: and that they have taken all steps that they ought to have taken as Directors to make themselves aware of any DIRECTORS RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT relevant audit information and to establish that the Companys The Directors, who are named on pages 42 and 43, are auditors are aware of that information.
responsible for preparing the Annual Report, the Directors Remuneration Report and the Financial Statements in INDEPENDENT AUDITORS accordance with applicable law and regulations.
PwC have expressed their willingness to be re-appointed as auditors of the Company.
Upon the recommendation of the Company law requires the Directors to prepare financial Audit Committee, separate resolutions to re-appoint them as the statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors Companys auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine have prepared the Group Financial Statements in accordance their remuneration will be proposed at the forthcoming AGM.
with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by the European Union EU and the parent company The Directors Report for the year comprising pages 2 to 63 Financial Statements in accordance with United Kingdom together with other disclosures given on page 138 have been Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom approved by the Board and signed on its behalf by: Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the financial statements unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group for that period.
In preparing these Financial Statements, the Directors are required to: Grant Dawson select suitable accounting policies and then apply General Counsel & Company Secretary them consistently: 23 February 2012 make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: Registered office: state whether IFRS as adopted by the EU and applicable UK Millstream Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any Maidenhead Road material departures disclosed and explained in the Group and Windsor parent company Financial Statements respectively: and Berkshire SL4 5GD prepare the Financial Statements on the going concern basis Company registered in England and Wales No.
3033654 unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
