Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report Governance Code.
We have complied throughout the accounting period with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code, which is available on the FRCs website, frc.
Leadership The roles of Chairman and CEO are split.
Louis Schweitzer, our Non-Executive Chairman, is responsible for leadership of the Board.
Our CEO, David Brennan, leads the SET and has executive Louis Schweitzer responsibility for running our business.
The Board comprises nine Chairman and Chairman Non-Executive Directors, including the Chairman, and two Executive of the Nomination and Directors the CEO and the CFO, Simon Lowth.
Governance Committee All Directors are collectively responsible for our long-term success.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising independent, objective judgement in respect of Board decisions and for scrutinising and challenging the actions of executive management.
The principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code remain the primary standards The Board runs an annual strategy review process.
The CEO, the CFO and guidance for corporate governance within and the SET take the lead in developing our strategy, which is then reviewed, constructively challenged and approved by the Board.
The Board, its Committees and individual Directors apply those principles in all Michele Hooper, who joined the Board as a Non-Executive Director aspects of their work.
in 2003, was appointed as our senior independent Non-Executive Director in April 2007.
The role of the senior independent NonExecutive Director is to provide a sounding board for the Chairman The Boards Committees play an essential role in good governance.
and to serve as an intermediary for the other Directors when Under the chairmanship of Michele Hooper and John Varley necessary.
The senior independent Non-Executive Director is also respectively, the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee available to shareholders if they have concerns that contact through carry significant workloads and discharge their responsibilities on the normal channels of Chairman or Executive Directors has failed behalf of the Board with rigour and diligence.
More information to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
about their work is set out in the report that follows and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
As Chairman of the Nomination There are four principal Board Committees: the Audit Committee: and Governance Committee, I believe we have made good progress the Remuneration Committee: the Nomination and Governance in recent years in succession planning at Board and senior executive Committee: and the Science Committee.
The membership and work level.
Our work includes paying attention to the composition of of these Committees is described below.
In addition, there may from the Board and its Committees, consideration of both planned and time to time be constituted ad hoc Board Committees for specific unplanned succession scenarios and recognition of the importance projects or tasks.
In these cases, the scope and responsibilities of the of gender and other diversity in good governance.
For reasons of Committee are documented.
The Board provides adequate resources confidentiality, it is often not possible to report in detail on much to enable each Committee to undertake its duties.
Reserved matters and delegation of authority The Board itself is mindful of the need to monitor its own performance The Board maintains and periodically reviews a list of matters that and improve it where we can.
We approach each annual performance are reserved to, and can only be approved by, the Board.
These evaluation of the Board and its Committees with an open mind.
While include: the appointment, termination and remuneration of any reassured by the results of the evaluation in 2011, which was facilitated Director: approval of the annual budget: any item of fixed capital by external consultants, the report that follows summarises areas for expenditure or any proposal for the acquisition or disposal of an further improvement, which include expanding the role played by the investment or business which exceeds $150 million: the raising of Science Committee in assurance work under the competent and capital or loans by the Company subject to certain exceptions : the committed chairmanship of Nancy Rothwell.
giving of any guarantee in respect of any borrowing of the Company: and allotting shares of the Company.
The matters that have not Louis Schweitzer been expressly reserved to the Board are either delegated by the Chairman Board to its Committees or to the CEO.
The CEO is responsible to the Board for the management, In this part of the Annual Report, we explain our development and performance of our business in relation to those approach to corporate governance and describe, matters in respect of which he has been delegated authority from the Board.
in general terms, how our business is organised and managed.
Although the CEO retains full responsibility for the authority delegated to him by the Board, he has established and chairs the SET, which is Corporate governance the vehicle through which he exercises certain of that authority in We have prepared this Annual Report with reference to the UK respect of our business.
Corporate Governance Code published by the UK Financial Reporting Council FRC in May 2010.
This Corporate Governance Report The roles of the Board, the Board Committees, the Chairman, the together with other sections of this Annual Report describes how CEO and the SET are documented, as are the Boards delegated we apply the main principles of good governance in the UK Corporate authorities and reserved powers.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Report 103 Corporate Governance Report Operation of the Board Independence of the Non-Executive Directors During 2011, the Board considered the independence of each The Board is responsible for setting our strategy and policies, oversight of risk and corporate governance, and also monitors Non-Executive Director for the purposes of the UK Corporate Governance Code and the corporate governance listing standards progress towards meeting our objectives and annual plans.
The Board discharges these responsibilities through a programme of meetings of the NYSE Listing Standards.
With the exception of Marcus Wallenberg, the Board considers that all of the Non-Executive that includes regular reviews of financial performance and critical business issues, and the formal annual strategy review day.
Louis Schweitzer was considered by the Board to be independent upon his appointment as Chairman: Board also aims to ensure that a good dialogue with our shareholders takes place and that their issues and concerns are understood in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after and considered.
The Board held seven meetings and its annual strategy review day in 2011.
With the exception of two Board meetings in September and Marcus Wallenberg was appointed as a Director of Astra in May 1989 and subsequently became a Director of the Company in 1999. the strategy day in the same month, which were held at our site in Wilmington in the US, all the meetings took place in London, UK.
Until September 2005, he was a member of the board of directors and the Chief Executive Officer of Investor AB, which has a 4.02% The Board is currently scheduled to meet six times and hold a strategy review day in 2012, and will meet at such other times as may be interest in the issued share capital of the Company as at 2 February 2012.
Wallenberg family foundations remain Investor ABs largest required to conduct business.
shareholders in terms of votes controlled.
For these reasons, the Board does not believe that Marcus Wallenberg can be determined As part of the business of each Board meeting, the CEO typically submits a progress report on each key business area, giving details independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code.
However, the Board believes that he has brought, and continues to bring, of progress against the goals the Board has approved.
To ensure that the Board has good visibility of the key operating decisions of considerable business experience and makes a valuable contribution to the work of the Board.
In April 2010, Marcus Wallenberg was the business, members of the SET routinely attend Board meetings on a rotational basis and Board members regularly meet other appointed by the Board as a member of the Science Committee, reflecting his interest in innovation and R&D, knowledge of the history senior executives throughout the year.
The Board also receives accounting and other management information about our resources, of the Company and its scientific heritage and culture, and his broad experience of other industries and businesses in which innovation and and presentations from internal and external speakers on legal, governance and regulatory developments.
At the end of Board R&D are important determinants of success.
meetings, the Non-Executive Directors meet without the Executive Directors present to review and discuss any matters that have arisen The Board has also considered, in particular, the position of Michele Hooper who joined the board of UnitedHealth Group as a Nonduring the meeting and or such other matters as may appear to the Non-Executive Directors to be relevant in properly discharging their Executive Director in 2007.
The Boards approval of this appointment was conditional on Michele Hooper resigning from the board of duty to act independently.
UnitedHealth Group in the event of a conflict or non-independence.
It is the Boards view that Michele Hooper is independent and that Board effectiveness Composition of the Board, succession planning and diversity she discharges her duties in a properly independent manner, constructively and appropriately challenging the Executive Directors The Nomination and Governance Committee and, where appropriate, the full Board regularly review the composition of the Board and the and the Board.
status of succession to both senior executive management and Board-level positions.
Directors have regular contact with, and access Conflicts of interest The Articles enable the Directors to authorise any situation in which to, succession candidates for senior executive management positions.
a Director has an interest that conflicts or has the potential to conflict with the Companys interests and which would otherwise be The Board aims to maintain a balance in terms of the range of experience and skills of individual Board members, which includes a breach of the Directors duty, under section 175 of the Companies Act 2006.
The Board has a formal system in place for Directors to relevant international business, pharmaceutical industry and financial experience, as well as appropriate scientific and regulatory knowledge.
declare such situations to be considered for authorisation by those Directors who have no interest in the matter being considered.
In The biographies of Board members set out from pages 100 to 101 give more information about current Directors in this respect.
deciding whether to authorise a situation, the non-conflicted Directors must act in the way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely The Board views gender, nationality and cultural diversity among Board members as important considerations when reviewing the to promote the success of the Company, and they may impose limits or conditions when giving the authorisation, or subsequently, if they composition of the Board.
The Board recognises, in particular, the importance of the debate about gender diversity, prompted by the think this is appropriate.
Situations considered by the Board and authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and in a publication in the UK in February 2011 of the report by Lord Davies, Women on Boards.
Since the formation of AstraZeneca in 1999, the register of conflicts maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board considers that this proportion of women Board members has been approximately 25% and the Board intends to continue with its current approach to system continues to operate effectively.
diversity in all its aspects, while at the same time seeking Board members of the highest calibre and with the necessary experience Appointments to the Board The Nomination and Governance Committee section on page 109 and skills to meet the needs of the Company and its shareholders.
Information about our approach to diversity in the organisation below gives information about the appointment process for new Directors.
Board-level can be found in the People section on page 41.
Newly appointed Directors are provided with comprehensive documentation containing information about the Group and their The following changes to the composition of the Board have occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report: role as Non-Executive Directors.
They also typically attend tailored induction programmes that take account of their individual skills Shriti Vadera was appointed as a Non-Executive Director and a andexperience.
member of the Audit Committee with effect from 1 January 2011.
Jane Henney, a Non-Executive Director, retired from the Board on 28 April 2011.
104 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2011 Name Board Audit Remuneration Nomination and Governance David Brennan 7 7 Bruce Burlington 7 7 3 3 Jean-Philippe Courtois 6 7 4 6 1 Jane Henney 1 2 3 3 1 1 Michele Hooper 7 7 6 6 4 4 Simon Lowth 7 7 Rudy Markham 7 7 5 6 5 5 Nancy Rothwell 7 7 5 5 3 3 Louis Schweitzer 7 7 5 5 4 4 Shriti Vadera 7 7 6 6 John Varley 7 7 5 5 4 4 Marcus Wallenberg 6 7 1 Jane Henney retired from the Board on 28 April 2011.
Number in brackets denotes number of meetings during the year which Board members are entitled to attend.
Time commitment Performance evaluation Our expectation is that Non-Executive Directors should be prepared During the year, the Board conducted the annual evaluation of its to commit about 15 days per annum, as a minimum, to the Groups own performance and that of its Committees and individual Directors.
In practice, Board members time commitment usually The review was facilitated by an external consultancy, Lintstock Ltd exceeds this minimum expectation when all the work that they Lintstock, a London-based corporate advisory firm that provides undertake for the Group is considered, particularly in the case of the objective and independent counsel to leading European companies.
Chairman of the Board and the Chairmen of the Board Committees.
For a number of years, Lintstock has supplied software and services As well as their work in relation to formal Board and Board Committee to the Company Secretarys team for the web-based questionnaires meetings, the Non-Executive Directors also commit time throughout used for internal Board performance evaluations, and for the the year to meetings and telephone calls with various levels of management of insider lists.
Other than these limited instances, executive management, visits to AstraZenecas sites throughout the Lintstock is not a supplier to the Company and was able to act world and, for new Non-Executive Directors, induction sessions as a robust and independent external facilitator for the Board and site visits.
The Audit Committee section from page 107 contains .
information about Audit Committee members visits to our business in Brazil, Russia and China during 2011.
In addition, Board or Board The 2011 evaluation involved a series of web-based questionnaires Committee meetings were held at our sites in Wilmington, US, and individual meetings between Lintstock and each Board member.
Gaithersburg, US, Mlndal, Sweden, and Alderley Park, UK during Lintstock then prepared and discussed with the Chairman and the the year.
Company Secretary a draft report of their findings.
The final report was circulated to the full Board and discussed at the Board meeting On occasions when a Director is unavoidably absent from a Board held in December.
The evaluation covered a range of topics, including: or Board Committee meeting, for example through illness or where a the composition of the Board: the effectiveness of its strategic meeting clashes with his or her existing commitments, he or she still oversight: Board members involvement in the affairs of the Company receives and reviews the papers for the meeting and typically provides outside Board meetings: decision making and time management: the verbal or written input ahead of the meeting, usually through the nature and quality of the information and general support provided to Chairman of the Board or the Chairman of the Board Committee, so the Board: its approach to risk management and oversight of internal that his or her views are made known and considered at the meeting.
controls: and succession planning and how effectively it prioritises In addition, given the nature of the business to be conducted, some matters.
Separate questionnaires covered the operation and Board meetings are convened at short notice, which can make it effectiveness of the Boards committees.
difficult for some Directors to attend due to prior commitments.
The review concluded that the Board operates effectively and in an Information and support open manner.
Board members have a good level of involvement in The Company Secretary is responsible to the Chairman for ensuring matters between Board meetings.
The points to be addressed arising that all Board and Board Committee meetings are properly conducted, from the review include further improvements in the use of the Boards that the Directors receive appropriate information prior to meetings to time in terms of Board meeting arrangements and how agenda items enable them to make an effective contribution, and that governance are scheduled and approached: further refinement of the composition requirements are considered and implemented.
of the Board over time: consideration of a short strategic update during the year between the annual strategy days in September: minor The Company maintained directors and officers liability insurance improvements to the information provided to Board members interms cover throughout 2011.
The Directors are also able to obtain of content and format: more involvement by the Science Committee independent legal advice at the expense of the Company, as in assurance work on behalf of the Board: and continuing the necessary, in their capacity as Directors.
improvements made in 2011 to the review by the Board of SET-level succession plans.
The Company has entered into a deed of indemnity in favour of each Board member since 2006.
These deeds of indemnity are still in force As part of the assessment process, each Director responded to a and provide that the Company shall indemnify the Directors to the questionnaire about their individual contribution to the work of the fullest extent permitted by law and the Articles, in respect of all losses Board and personal development needs, following which they had arising out of, or in connection with, the execution of their powers, individual discussions with the Chairman to follow up their responses.
duties and responsibilities, as Directors of the Company or any of its Each Director continues to perform effectively and to demonstrate subsidiaries.
This is in line with current market practice and helps us commitment to the role.
attract and retain high-quality, skilled Directors.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Report 105 Corporate Governance Report The Boards annual performance evaluation was previously externally Remuneration facilitated in 2008.
The Board intends to continue to comply with the Information about our approach to remuneration and the role and UK Corporate Governance Code guidance that the evaluation should work of the Remuneration Committee, including our policy on be externally facilitated at least every three years.
executive remuneration, is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 113.
Re-election of Directors In accordance with Article 66 of the Articles, all Directors retire at Relations with shareholders each AGM and may offer themselves for re-election by shareholders.
In our financial and business reporting to shareholders and other Accordingly, all the Directors will retire at the AGM in April 2012.
The interested parties by means of quarterly, half-yearly and annual Notice of AGM will give details of those Directors seeking re-election.
reports, we aim to present a balanced and understandable assessment of our strategy, financial position and prospects.
Accountability Risk management and internal control We make information about the Group available to shareholders The Non-Executive Directors have various responsibilities through a range of media, including a fully integrated html corporate concerning the integrity of financial information, internal controls website, astrazeneca.
com, containing a wide range of data of interest and risk management.
to institutional and private investors.
We consider our website to be an important means of communication with our shareholders.
The Board has overall responsibility for our system of internal controls and risk management policies and is also responsible for reviewing The Company has been authorised by shareholders to place their effectiveness.
During 2011, the Directors have continued to shareholder communications such as the Notice of AGM and this review the effectiveness of our system of controls, risk management Annual Report on the corporate website in lieu of sending paper and our high-level internal control processes.
These reviews have copies to shareholders unless specifically requested by shareholders.
included an assessment of internal controls, and in particular, financial, While recognising and respecting the fact that some of our operational and compliance controls and risk management and shareholders may have different preferences about how they receive their effectiveness, supported by management assurance of the information from us, we will continue to promote the benefits of maintenance of controls reports from GIA, as well as the external electronic communication given the advantages that this has over auditor on matters identified in the course of its statutory audit work.
traditional paper-based communications, both in terms of the The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of configurability and accessibility of the information provided and the failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable consequent cost savings and reduction in environmental impact not necessarily absolute assurance of effective operation and associated with reduced printing and distribution costs.
compliance with laws and regulations.
We have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a Underpinning these reviews is an annual letter of assurance process range of issues.
These include individual meetings with some of our by which responsible managers confirm the adequacy of their systems largest institutional shareholders to seek their views.
Board members of internal financial and non-financial controls, their compliance with are kept informed of any issues and receive regular reports and presentations from executive management and our brokers in order Group policies and relevant laws and regulations including the industrys regulatory requirements, and that they have reported any to assist them to develop an understanding of major shareholders views about the Group.
From time to time, we conduct an audit of control weaknesses through our continuous assurance process.
institutional shareholders to ensure that we are communicating clearly with them and that a high-quality dialogue is being maintained.
The The internal control framework has been in operation throughout 2011 and continues to operate up to the date of the approval of this Annual results of this audit are reported to and discussed by the full Board.
In November, we invited corporate governance representatives from Report.
The Directors believe that the Group maintains an effective, embedded system of internal controls and complies with the Turnbull our largest institutional shareholders to a meeting attended by Louis Schweitzer, Chairman of the Board: Michele Hooper, senior Report guidance and, in the view of the Directors, no significant deficiencies have been identified in the system.
independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee: John Varley, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee: Further information about the ways in which we manage our business and Rudy Markham, member of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee.
Although the meeting was primarily focused risks is set out in the Risk section from page 129, which also contains a list of the principal risks and uncertainties that we face.
on executive remuneration matters, it provided an opportunity for shareholders to raise any broader corporate governance issues for discussion as well.
Board Committee membership Nomination and 1 Name Audit Remuneration Governance Science Independent David Brennan n a Bruce Burlington 3 3 3 Jean-Philippe Courtois 3 3 2 Jane Henney 3 3 3 3 3 Michele Hooper Chair 3 3 Simon Lowth n a Rudy Markham 3 3 3 Nancy Rothwell 3 3 Chair 3 4 Louis Schweitzer 3 Chair n a Shriti Vadera 3 3 John Varley Chair 3 3 Marcus Wallenberg 3 1 As determined by the Board for UK Corporate Governance Code purposes.
2 Jane Henney retired from the Board on 28 April 2011.
3 Michele Hooper is the senior independent Non-Executive Director.
4 Louis Schweitzer was considered independent by the Board upon his appointment as Chairman.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
106 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance We also respond to individual ad hoc requests for discussions from approval of the Companys shareholders at a general meeting.
Shareholders in a general meeting authorise the Directors to fix the institutional shareholders and analysts.
Our Investor Relations team acts as the main point of contact for investors throughout the year.
remuneration of the external auditor.
The Audit Committee reviews and approves the appointment and dismissal of the Vice-President, GIA.
As discussed above, the senior independent Non-Executive Director, currently Michele Hooper, is also available to shareholders if they have The Audit Committee maintains policies and procedures for the concerns that contact through the normal channels of Chairman, CEO and or CFO has failed to resolve, or in relation to which such contact is pre-approval of all audit services and permitted non-audit services undertaken by the external auditor, the principal purpose of which inappropriate.
All shareholders, including private investors, have an opportunity at the AGM to put questions to members of the Board is to ensure that the independence of the external auditor is not impaired.
The policies and procedures cover three categories of work about our operation and performance.
Formal notification of the AGM is sent to shareholders at least one month in advance.
The Chairmen audit services, audit-related services and tax services.
The policies define the type of work that falls within each of these categories and of the Board Committees ordinarily attend the AGM to answer questions raised by shareholders.
In line with the UK Corporate the non-audit services that the external auditor is prohibited from performing under the rules of the SEC and other relevant UK and Governance Code, details of proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld, are given at the AGM and are posted on our website US professional and regulatory requirements.
The pre-approval procedures permit certain audit, audit-related and tax services to be following the AGM.
performed by the external auditor during the year, subject to fee limits agreed with the Audit Committee in advance.
The CFO supported by Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are Michele Hooper Chairman the Vice-President, Group Finance monitors the status of all services being provided by the external auditor.
The procedures also deal with of the Audit Committee, Jean-Philippe Courtois, Rudy Markham, Shriti Vadera, Bruce Burlington, and until her retirement at the 2011 placing non-audit work out for tender, where appropriate.
Authority to approve work in excess of the pre-agreed fee limits is delegated to AGM, Jane Henney.
They are or in the case of Jane Henney, were all Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers each member to be the Chairman of the Audit Committee in the first instance.
A standing agenda item at Audit Committee meetings covers the operation of the independent under the UK Corporate Governance Code and under the general guidance and specific criteria of the Listing Standards pre-approval procedures and regular reports are provided to the full Audit Committee.
concerning the composition of audit committees applicable to non-US companies listed on the NYSE.
In April 2011, we submitted the The Audit Committee held six scheduled meetings in 2011.
The required annual written affirmation to the NYSE confirming our full compliance with those standards.
For the purposes of the UK individual attendance record of members of the Audit Committee is set out in the Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in Corporate Governance Code, the Board remains satisfied that at least one member of the Audit Committee has recent and relevant financial 2011 table on page 105.
Following each Audit Committee meeting, the Chairman of the Audit Committee reported to the Board on the experience.
At its meeting in December, the Board determined that Michele Hooper and Rudy Markham are audit committee financial principal matters covered at the meeting and minutes of the meetings were circulated to all Board members.
In addition, the Chairman experts for the purposes of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Audit Committee.
of the Audit Committee held regular scheduled calls between Audit Committee meetings with each of the Vice-President, GIA, The core terms of reference of the Audit Committee include, reviewing the Chief Compliance Officer, the CFO and the lead partner of the external auditor.
and reporting to the Board on: During 2011, members of the Audit Committee met individual Matters relating to the audit plans of the external auditor and GIA as well as oversight of the work of the Global Compliance function.
managers or groups of managers on a number of occasions in order to gain a deeper insight into areas relevant to the Audit Committees Our overall framework for internal control over financial reporting and for other internal controls and processes.
work and to provide an opportunity to discuss specific areas of interest.
In particular, members of the Audit Committee travelled to our Our overall framework for risk management, particularly financial risks.
marketing companies in Brazil and Russia as well as to our marketing company, and R&D and manufacturing sites in China to meet senior Our accounting policies and practices.
Our annual and quarterly financial reporting, including the critical leaders in these important Emerging Markets.
During these visits, Audit Committee members were able to gain a greater understanding estimates and judgements contained in our reporting.
Compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement CIA.
of the unique business and cultural dynamics of each of these markets and to hear how our local operations meet the challenges presented The Audit Committee is responsible for notifying the Board of any by these developing economies within the context of our global compliance framework.
significant concerns of the external auditor or the Vice-President, GIA arising from their audit work, any matters that may materially affect During the year, in line with its normal practice, the Audit Committee or impair the independence of the external auditor, any significant deficiencies or material weaknesses in the design or operation of our also held a number of private meetings, without management present, with the Vice-President, GIA, the Global Compliance Officer and internal control over financial reporting or other internal controls, and any serious issues of non-compliance.
It oversees the establishment, following her appointment, the Chief Compliance Officer, which position replaced the Global Compliance Officer, the General Counsel implementation and maintenance of our Code of Conduct and other related policies.
It monitors the Companys response to letters and the lead partner from the Companys external audit firm.
The purpose of these meetings was to facilitate free and open discussions requesting information and investigations initiated by regulatory and governmental authorities such as the SEC and the US Department of between Audit Committee members and those individuals, separately from the main sessions of the Audit Committee, which were also Justice pertaining to matters within the remit of the Audit Committees work.
It has established procedures for the receipt and handling of attended by the CEO, the CFO, the General Counsel and the complaints concerning accounting or audit matters.
It recommends Vice-President, Group Finance.
to the Board the appointment of the external auditor, subject to the AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Report 107 Corporate Governance Report During 2011 and January 2012, in addition to the discussions noted In addition to the quarterly reporting stipulated by the CIA as described above, a number of other obligations required by the CIA above, the Audit Committee also considered and discussed the following matters: were discharged by members of the Board and the Audit Committee during 2011.
For example, all members of the Board completed the The key elements of the financial statements, and estimates and annual CIA-required training, addressing the Code of Conduct and the elements of the CIA and the US compliance programme.
Furthermore, judgements contained in our financial disclosures, which were reviewed and various accounting matters considered.
the Board adopted a resolution signed by each member in respect of the first 12 month reporting period under the CIA.
The resolution The reports received from the external auditor concerning its audit of the Financial Statements of the Group and from management, summarised the Boards oversight of the US compliance programme and stated that, to the best of the Boards knowledge, AstraZeneca GIA, Global Compliance and the external auditor on the effectiveness of our system of internal controls and, in particular, our internal Pharmaceuticals, LP and AstraZeneca LP AstraZenecas principal US trading entities have implemented an effective US compliance control over financial reporting.
This included review and discussion of the results of the continuous assurance and annual letter of programme to meet Federal healthcare programme, FDA and CIA requirements.
The Audit Committee also reviewed quarterly activity reports of audit work carried out by GIA and the In line with best practice, we periodically consider how the audit status of follow up actions with management as well as reports from the Global Compliance function.
requirements of the Group are best served in the context of business need and the prevailing external environment and, against the The systems and processes that management has developed pertaining to risk identification, classification and mitigation.
background of this review, consider whether to undertake a formal tendering programme with audit firms of appropriate size and calibre.
Compliance with the applicable provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
In particular, the Audit Committee regularly reviewed the status In accordance with its normal practice, the Audit Committee reviewed a satisfaction survey and performance evaluation of our external of compliance with the programme of internal controls over financial reporting implemented pursuant to section 404 of the Sarbanesauditor, which included in addition to the Audit Committees own consideration, assessment and input from key stakeholders within Oxley Act.
The Audit Committee increased its focus on IS IT controls in the context of the changes to the Groups IS IT the Group.
In addition, in 2011, the Audit Committee requested and reviewed a formal proposal from KPMG Audit Plc KPMG to continue environment, described below.
Further information about this is set out in the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 404 section on page 97. as the Companys auditors for the period 2012 to 2014.
The Audit Committee considered KPMGs compliance with the independence Data about reports made by employees via the AZethics telephone and online facilities and other routes regarding potential breaches criteria under the relevant statutory, regulatory and ethical standards applicable to auditors and assessed its objectivity, taking into account of the Code of Conduct together with the results of inquiries into these matters.
the level of challenge provided around the critical estimates and judgements involved in our financial reporting and the quality of our Quarterly reports received from the US Compliance Officer responsible for monitoring the US businesss compliance with the internal control over financial reporting.
Having considered all these factors and weighed them against its experience of working with other CIA for more information about the obligations imposed on the Board by the CIA, see below.
external firms, the Audit Committee unanimously recommended to the Board that a resolution for the re-appointment of KPMG as the The decision to terminate AstraZenecas existing outsource relationship for IS infrastructure services and transition to a new Companys external auditor for the year ending 31 December 2012, be proposed to shareholders at the AGM in April 2012.
In addition, regular progress updates from IS IT on the status of the transition from the existing with current market practice, KPMGs services to the Company are provided pursuant to terms of engagement which are reviewed by the outsource provider to the new providers.
Accounting issues relevant to litigation and taxation matters.
These terms of engagement do not include any contractual obligations under which the Directors would be prevented Reports from the Group Treasury function and, in particular, reports concerning the Groups liquidity and cash position and the from appointing a different audit firm were they to consider this to be in the best interests of the Group.
The Audit Committee, through appropriateness of its cash management policies in the context of the current economic situation.
management, continues to maintain contact and dialogue with other major audit firms who are familiar with the Groups business for Other reports concerning the GIA, Global Compliance and Finance functions, including the internal audit plan and progress and plans succession purposes as required.
This is reported to the Audit Committee in order to ensure a smooth transition from the current of the Global Compliance function.
Reports from the General Counsel on the status of certain litigation auditor, should this be necessary.
The provisions of the new UK Bribery Act, the Companys At the January 2012 meeting, the CFO presented to the Audit Committee the conclusions of the CEO and the CFO following the revised Global Anti-Bribery Policy and its Global External Interactions Policy.
These revised policies are available on our evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and website, astrazeneca.
procedures required by Item 15 a of Form 20-F at 31 December 2011.
The amount of audit and non-audit fees of the external auditor Based on their evaluation, the CEO and the CFO concluded that, as throughout 2011.
The Audit Committee was satisfied throughout the at that date, we maintain an effective system of disclosure controls year that the objectivity and independence of the external auditor and procedures.
were not in any way impaired by the nature of the non-audit work undertaken by the external auditor during the year, the level of There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting non-audit fees charged for such work or any other facts or that occurred during the period covered by this Annual Report that circumstances.
Further information about the audit and non-audit has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our fees for 2011 is disclosed in Note 27 to the Financial Statements internal control over financial reporting.
A review of compensation policy across the Commercial The Audit Committee is currently scheduled to meet six times in 2012 organisation.
This review was held with the Chairman of the and will meet at such other times as may be required.
A review and assessment of the Audit Committees performance The Audit Committees terms of reference are available on our including an externally facilitated review of performance which website, astrazeneca.
concluded that such performance was satisfactory.
108 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Code of Conduct Science Committee Our Code of Conduct the Code, which is available on our website, The Science Committees core role continues to be to provide astrazeneca.
com, applies to all Directors, officers, full-time, part-time, assurance to the Board regarding the quality, competitiveness and and temporary staff at all levels in every country where we operate.
integrity of the Groups R&D activities by way of: meetings and dialogue Further information relating to the Code can be found in the with our R&D leaders and other scientist employees: visits to our R&D Compliance section on page 43. sites throughout the world: and review and assessment of the: A Group Finance Code of Conduct complements the Code.
It applies approaches we adopt in respect of our chosen Therapy Areas to the CEO, the CFO, the Groups principal accounting officers scientific technology and R&D capabilities deployed including key Finance staff in major overseas subsidiaries and all decision making processes for R&D projects and programmes Finance function employees.
This reinforces the importance of the quality of our scientists.
integrity of the Groups Financial Statements, the reliability of the accounting records on which they are based and the robustness of The Science Committee also reviews, from time to time, important the relevant controls and processes.
bioethical issues that we face, and assists in the formulation of, and agrees on behalf of the Board, appropriate policies in relation to such issues.
It may also consider, from time to time, future trends in medical Remuneration Committee The principal role of the Remuneration Committee is to consider science and technology.
The Science Committee does not review individual R&D projects.
and set, on behalf of the Board, the remuneration including pension rights and compensation payments of Executive Directors and other During 2011, the members of the Science Committee, all of whom senior executives.
It also considers and sets the remuneration of the Chairman, in conjunction with the senior independent Non-Executive have a knowledge of, or an interest in, life sciences, were Nancy Rothwell Chairman of the Science Committee, Bruce Burlington, Director and in the absence of the Chairman.
No Director is involved in deciding his or her own remuneration.
More information is set out in Marcus Wallenberg and Jane Henney until her retirement from the Board on 28 April 2011, all Non-Executive Directors.
The President, the Directors Remuneration Report from page 113.
Global R&D: the Executive Vice-President, Innovative Medicines: the Executive Vice-President, Biologics R&D: and the Executive ViceNomination and Governance Committee The Nomination and Governance Committees role is to recommend President, Global Medicines Development attend meetings of the Science Committee.
The Vice-President, Strategy, Portfolio & to the Board any new Board appointments and to consider more broadly succession plans at Board-level.
Any decisions relating to the Performance, R&D also attends all meetings and acts as secretary to the Science Committee.
appointment of Directors are made by the entire Board based on the merits of the candidates and the relevance of their background and The Science Committee met twice in 2011, at Alderley Park, UK and experience, measured against objective criteria, with care taken to ensure that appointees have enough time to devote to our business.
The Nomination and Governance Committee also advises the Board periodically on significant developments in corporate governance and The Science Committees terms of reference are available on our website, astrazeneca.
the Companys compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
US corporate governance requirements During 2011, the members of the Nomination and Governance Committee were Louis Schweitzer Chairman of the Nomination and Our ADSs are traded on the NYSE and, accordingly, we are subject to the reporting and other requirements of the SEC applicable to Governance Committee, Michele Hooper, John Varley, Jane Henney until her retirement from the Board on 28 April 2011 and Nancy foreign private issuers.
Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires companies to include in their annual report on Form 20-F filed Rothwell from 28 April 2011.
They are all Non-Executive Directors.
The Board considers them all to be independent.
Louis Schweitzer with the SEC a report by management stating its responsibility for establishing internal control over financial reporting and to assess was considered by the Board to be independent upon his appointment as Chairman, in accordance with the UK Corporate annually the effectiveness of such internal control.
We have complied with those provisions of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act applicable to foreign Governance Code, the test of independence is not appropriate in relation to the Chairman after his appointment.
The Company Secretary private issuers.
The Board continues to believe that the Group has a sound corporate governance framework, good processes for the acts as secretary to the Nomination and Governance Committee.
accurate and timely reporting of its financial position and results of operations, and an effective and robust system of internal controls.
The Nomination and Governance Committee met four times in 2011.
The individual attendance record of its members is set out in the We have established a Disclosure Committee, further details of which can be found in the Disclosure Committee section on page 110.
Board and Board Committee meeting attendance in 2011 table on page 105.
During the year, it reviewed the knowledge, experience The Directors assessment of the effectiveness of the internal control and balance of the Board overall and considered its likely future requirements given the strategic and business objectives of the over financial reporting is set out in the Directors Responsibilities for, and Report on, Internal Control over Financial Reporting section in the Company.
In addition, the Nomination and Governance Committee received reports about the most significant corporate governance Financial Statements on page 140. developments and their potential impact on the Group.
We are required to disclose any significant ways in which our corporate governance practices differ from those followed by US The Nomination and Governance Committees terms of reference are available on our website, astrazeneca.
companies under the Listing Standards.
In addition, we must comply fully with the provisions of the Listing Standards relating to the composition, responsibilities and operation of audit committees, applicable to foreign private issuers.
These provisions incorporate the rules concerning audit committees implemented by the SEC under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
We have reviewed the corporate governance practices required to be followed by US companies under the Listing Standards and our corporate governance practices are generally consistent with those standards.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Report 109 Corporate Governance Report Business organisation Disclosure of information to auditors Senior Executive Team The Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Annual The CEO has established and chairs the SET.
The SET normally Report confirm that, so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant meets once a month to consider and decide major business issues, audit information of which the Companys auditors are unaware: and or as otherwise required by business needs.
Typically, it also reviews, each Director has taken all the steps that he or she ought to have in advance of submission to the Board, those matters that are to be taken as a Director to make himself or herself aware of any relevant submitted to the Board for review and decision.
Katarina Ageborg audit information and to establish that the Companys auditors are joined the SET as Chief Compliance Officer on 1 July 2011. aware of that information.
In addition to the CEO, the SETs members are: the CFO: the Compliance and Group Internal Audit President, Global R&D: the Executive Vice-President, Global The role of the Global Compliance function is to manage and maintain the compliance programme infrastructure and to help embed a culture Commercial Operations: the General Counsel: the Chief Compliance Officer: the Executive Vice-President, Human Resources & Corporate of ethics and integrity in the Group.
Global Compliance works closely with GIA, with whom it provides assurance reporting to the Audit Affairs: and the Executive Vice-President, Operations & Information Services.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to theSET.
During 2012, the Global Compliance function will continue to focus on ensuring the delivery of an aligned approach Portfolio Investment Board PIB to compliance that addresses key risk areas across the business.
The CEO has established and chairs the PIB, a senior-level, cross-functional governance body, which seeks to maximise During 2011, a new Chief Compliance Officer formerly designated Global Compliance Officer was appointed to head the Global the value of our internal and external R&D investments through robust, transparent and well-informed decisions that drive Compliance function.
The reporting of all Global Compliance programme resources, including regional and local compliance business performance and accountability.
officers, is centralised under the Chief Compliance Officer who reports to the CEO and is a member of the SET.
The Chief Compliance Officer Specifically, the PIB has responsibility for: heads the Global Compliance leadership team, whose remit is to oversee and coordinate the implementation of an effective global Reviewing the R&D portfolio, by conducting an objective and transparent review of R&D performance, product launch profile and compliance programme and evaluate its effectiveness.
It does this by assessing key compliance risks within and across the SET functions, alignment with corporate strategy.
The review is also an important step in reconfirming the R&D three-year budget.
working with GIA to ensure coordination of compliance auditing and monitoring, reviewing results, addressing significant policy violations, Approving the business plans of the Innovative Medicines Units and the Global Medicines Development demand forecast, by confirming and identifying trends.
the allocation of resources across early, and late stage elements of R&D as well as assessing licensing and acquisition opportunities.
Global Compliance provides direct assurance to the Audit Committee on matters concerning compliance issues, with a particular focus on Approving late stage internal and external investment decisions.
Monitoring environmental events that could have a major compliance with anti-bribery and anti-corruption legislation as well as IFPMA, EFPIA and PhRMA codes.
Complementing this, GIA carries transformational or disruptive impact on our business.
out a range of audits that include compliance-related audits and reviews of the assurance activities of other Group assurance functions.
In addition to the CEO, the PIBs members are: the CFO: the President, Global R&D: the Executive Vice-President, Global The results from these activities are reported to the Audit Committee.
Commercial Operations: the Executive Vice-President, Innovative Medicines: the Executive Vice-President, Biologics R&D: the Executive GIA is an independent appraisal function that derives its authority from the Board through the Audit Committee.
Its primary role is to provide Vice-President, Global Medicines Development: and the VicePresident, Strategic Partnering & Business Development.
The PIB has reasonable and objective assurance to the Directors regarding the adequacy and effectiveness of the Groups risk management and a permanent secretary and typically meets at around the time of the monthly SET meetings, or as otherwise required by business needs.
control framework and the internal controls over key business risks, including financial controls and compliance with laws, regulations Disclosure Committee andpolicies.
Our disclosure policy provides a framework for the handling and disclosure of inside information and other information of interest to GIA seeks to discharge the responsibilities set down in its charter by reviewing: shareholders and the investment community.
It also defines the role of the Disclosure Committee.
The members of the Committee are: the The processes for ensuring that key business risks are effectively CEO: the CFO, who chairs the Committee: the President, Global R&D: the General Counsel: the Vice-President, Corporate Affairs: the managed.
The financial and operational controls that help to ensure that the Vice-President, Investor Relations: and the Vice-President, Group Finance.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as secretary to this Groups assets are properly safeguarded from losses, including fraud.
The Committee meets regularly to assist and inform the decisions of the CEO concerning inside information and its disclosure.
The controls that help to ensure the reliability and integrity of management information systems.
Periodically, it reviews our disclosure controls and procedures and its own operation as part of work carried out to enable management and The processes for ensuring compliance with policies and procedures, external legislation and regulation.
the Board to assure themselves that appropriate processes are operating for our planned disclosures, such as our quarterly results In addition to fulfilling its primary remit of assurance to the Audit announcements and scheduled investor relations events.
Committee, GIA acts as a source of constructive advice and best practice, assisting senior management to improve governance, control, compliance and risk management.
110 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Other matters Going concern accounting basis Corporate governance statement under the UK Disclosure Information on the business environment in which we operate, and Transparency Rules including the factors underpinning the industrys future growth The disclosures that fulfil the requirements of a corporate governance prospects, are included in the section describing The pharmaceutical statement under the Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found industry from page 15.
Details of our product portfolio, our approach in this section and in other parts of this Annual Report as listed below, to product development and a summary of our development pipeline each of which is incorporated into this section by reference: are included in the Business Review from page 30.
Additional information on our Therapy Areas is included in the Therapy Area Significant holders of the Companys shares contained in the Review from page 56.
The table showing our development pipeline Shareholder Information section from page 203. can be found from page 199.
Articles contained in the Corporate Information section on page 208.
The financial position of the Group, our cash flows, liquidity position Amendments to the Companys Articles contained in the Corporate and borrowing facilities are described in the Financial Review from Information section on page 208. page 86.
In addition, Notes 15 and 23 to the Financial Statements from pages 161 and 171 respectively, include our objectives, policies and Subsidiaries and principal activities processes for managing our capital, our financial risk management The Company is the holding company for a group of subsidiaries objectives, details of our financial instruments and hedging activities whose principal activities are described in this Annual Report.
and our exposures to credit, market and liquidity risk.
Further details Principal subsidiaries and their locations are given in the Principal of our cash balances and borrowings are included in Notes 13 and 14 to the Financial Statements from pages 160 to 161 respectively.
Subsidiaries section in the Financial Statements on page 191.
We have considerable financial resources available.
At 31 December Branches and countries in which the Group conducts business 2011, we had $9.2 billion in financial resources cash balances of $7.6 billion and committed undrawn bank facilities of $3.6 billion, with In accordance with the Companies Act 2006, we disclose below our subsidiary companies that have representative or scientific branches only $2.0 billion of debt due within one year.
Our revenues are largely derived from sales of products which are covered by patents and for offices outside the UK: which, in the short term at least, demand is relatively unaffected by changes in the global economy.
In addition, we have a wide diversity AstraZeneca UK Limited: Albania, Algeria, Angola, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Bulgaria, Chile, CostaRica, Croatia, Cuba, Georgia, of customers and suppliers across different geographic areas.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that we are well placed to Ghana scientific office, Ireland, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya scientific office, Macedonia, Nigeria, Romania, Russia, Serbia continue to manage our business risks successfully.
and Montenegro, Slovenia and Ukraine.
AstraZeneca AB: Egypt scientific office, Saudi Arabia scientific The Directors have a reasonable expectation that we have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable office and Slovakia.
AstraZeneca Singapore Pte Limited: Cambodia and Vietnam.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing this Annual Report and the Financial Statements.
Distributions to shareholders and dividends for 2011 Changes in share capital Our distribution policy comprises both a regular cash dividend and a share repurchase component, further details of which are set out in Changes in the Companys Ordinary Share capital during 2011, including details of the allotment of new shares under the Companys the Financial Review on page 90 and Notes 20 and 21 to the Financial Statements on page 170. share plans, are given in Note 20 to the Financial Statements on page170.
The Companys dividends for 2011 of $2.80 175.5 pence, SEK 18.54 Directors shareholdings per Ordinary Share amount to, in aggregate, a total dividend payment to shareholders of $3,678 million.
Two of our employee share trusts, The Articles require each Director to be the beneficial owner of Ordinary Shares in the Company with an aggregate nominal value of AstraZeneca Share Trust Limited and AstraZeneca Quest Limited, waive their right to a dividend on the Ordinary Shares that they hold $125 which currently represents at least 500 shares.
Such holding must be obtained within two months of the date of the Directors and instead receive a nominal dividend.
At 31 December 2011, all of the Directors complied with this requirement and full details of each Directors interests in shares of A shareholders resolution was passed at the 2011 AGM authorising the Company to purchase its own shares.
Pursuant to this resolution, the Company are set out in the Directors interests in shares section on page 125.
Information about the shareholding expectations of the the Company repurchased and subsequently cancelled 127.4 million Ordinary Shares with a nominal value of $0.25 each, at an aggregate Remuneration Committee in respect of Executive Directors and SET members and the Board in respect of Non-Executive Directors is cost of $6,015 million, representing 9.9% of the total issued share capital of the Company.
The Company will seek a renewal of also set out in the Directors Remuneration Report from page 113. permission from shareholders to purchase its own shares at the AGM on 26 April 2012.
During our share repurchase programmes that operated between 1999 and 2011, a total of 557.4 million Ordinary Shares were repurchased, and subsequently cancelled, at an average price of 2767 pence per share for a consideration, including expenses, of $26,717 million.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance Report 111 Corporate Governance Report Political donations Annual General Meeting Neither the Company nor its subsidiaries made any EU political The Companys AGM will be held on 26 April 2012.
The meeting donations or incurred any EU political expenditure in 2011 and they place will be in London, UK.
A Notice of AGM will be sent to all do not intend to do so in the future in respect of which shareholder registered holders of Ordinary Shares and, where requested, to the authority is required, or for which disclosure in this Annual Report is beneficial holders of shares.
required, under the Companies Act 2006.
However, to enable the Company and its subsidiaries to continue to support interest groups External auditor or lobbying organisations concerned with the review of government A resolution will be proposed at the AGM on 26 April 2012 for the policy or law reform without inadvertently breaching the Companies re-appointment of KPMG Audit Plc as auditor of the Company.
The external auditor has undertaken various non-audit work for us Act 2006, which defines political donations and other political expenditure in broad terms, a resolution will be put to shareholders during 2011.
More information about this work and the audit and non-audit fees that we have paid are set out in Note 27 to the Financial at the 2012 AGM, similar to that passed at the 2011 AGM, to authorise the Company and its subsidiaries to: Statements on page 190.
The external auditor is not engaged by us to carry out any non-audit work in respect of which it might, in the future, make donations to political parties or independent election candidates be required to express an audit opinion.
As explained more fully in the Audit Committee section from page 107, the Audit Committee has make donations to political organisations other than political parties incur political expenditure, up to an aggregate limit of $250,000.
established pre-approval policies and procedures for audit and non-audit work permitted to be carried out by the external auditor Corporate political contributions in the US are permitted in defined and has carefully monitored the objectivity and independence of the external auditor throughout 2011. circumstances under the First Amendment of the US Constitution and are subject to both federal and state laws and regulations.
In 2011, the Bureau Veritas Groups US legal entities made contributions amounting in aggregate to $1,099,450 2010: $1,999,150 to national political organisations, Bureau Veritas is an independent professional services company that specialises in quality, health, safety, social and environmental state-level political party committees and to campaign committees of various state candidates.
No corporate donations were made at the management with a long history of providing independent assurance services.
federal level and all contributions were made only where allowed by US federal and state law.
We publicly disclose details of our corporate Bureau Veritas has provided external assurance on corporate US political contributions, which can be found at astrazeneca-us.
The annual corporate contributions responsibility related information within this Annual Report and of the detailed content of the Responsibility section of our website.
Bureau budget is reviewed and approved by the US General Counsel, the US Vice-President, Corporate Affairs and the President of our US Veritas has found the information provided within this Annual Report to be accurate and reliable based on the evidence provided and business to ensure robust governance and oversight.
US citizens or individuals holding valid green cards exercised decision making over subject to the scope, objectives and limitations defined in the full assurance statement.
The full assurance statement which contains the contributions and the funds were not provided or reimbursed by any non-US legal entity.
Such contributions do not constitute political detailed scope, methodology, overall opinion and recommendations can be found on our website, astrazeneca.
The web page content donations or political expenditure for the purposes of the Companies Act 2006 and were made without any involvement of persons or assured by Bureau Veritas is marked at the bottom of each page.
Directors Report The Directors Report, which has been prepared in accordance Significant agreements There are no significant agreements to which the Company is a with the requirements of the Companies Act 2006, comprises the following sections: party that take effect, alter or terminate on a change of control of the Company following a takeover bid.
There are no persons with Strategy and Performance whom we have contractual or other arrangements, who are deemed by the Directors to be essential to our business.
Business Review Corporate Governance Use of financial instruments Development Pipeline Shareholder Information Notes 15 and 23 to the Financial Statements, from pages 161 and 171 respectively, include further information on our use of Corporate Information financial instruments.
and has been signed on behalf of the Board.
Creditor payment policy It is not our policy formally to comply with the Confederation of British A C N Kemp Company Secretary Industrys code of practice on the prompt payment of suppliers.
It is, however, our policy to agree appropriate payment terms with all 2 February 2012 suppliers when agreeing to the terms of each transaction, to ensure that those suppliers are made aware of the terms of payment and, subject to their compliance, to abide by the terms of payment.
The total amount of money owed by the Companys subsidiaries to trade creditors at the balance sheet date was equivalent to 50 days average purchases 2010: 62 days.
A considerable part of the trade creditors balance continues to relate to the Merck account in the US, which has particularly long contractual payment terms.
By removing this balance and other items not directly related to trade purchases in the US, a more accurate average of 43 days is obtained 2010: 57 days.
The Company has no external trade creditors.
112 Corporate Governance Report AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
