Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team A diverse team with the skills and experience to lead the business Board composition, processes and responsibilities This section briefly describes how the Group is The Board comprises two Executive Directors the CEO and the CFO organised, including the overall structure and and nine Non-Executive Directors.
The membership of the Board at principal roles and responsibilities of the Board, 31 December 2011 and information about individual Directors is contained in the Board of Directors section below and overleaf.
its committees and the SET.
All Directors are collectively responsible for the success of the Group.
In addition, the Non-Executive Directors are responsible for exercising independent, objective judgement in respect of Board decisions and for scrutinising and challenging management.
The Non-Executive Directors also have various responsibilities concerning the integrity of financial information, internal controls and risk management.
Board composition Length of tenure of Gender split of Directors Directors nationalities Non-Executive Directors years 2 2 8 1 1 3 4 3 2 5 02 Male French 35 Female US 610 UK 10 Swedish AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team 99 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team Board of Directors 1 2 6 7 8 1 Louis Schweitzer 69 4 Michele Hooper 60 Non-Executive Chairman, Chairman of the Nomination and Senior independent Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Audit Governance Committee and member of the Remuneration Committee Committee and member of the Nomination and Governance Committee Appointed as a Director in March 2004 and as Chairman in January Appointed as a Director in July 2003 and as senior independent 2005.
Louis Schweitzer has extensive leadership experience at Non-Executive Director in April 2007.
Michele Hooper is a recognised both executive and non-executive levels in large, multinational corporate governance expert and has considerable healthcare companies.
He is Non-Executive Chairman of AB Volvo and a industry expertise.
She is President and Chief Executive Officer of Non-Executive Director of BNP-Paribas, Veolia Environnement SA The Directors Council, a private company which she co-founded in and LOral SA.
Previously he has held the roles of Non-Executive 2003, that works with corporate boards to increase their independence, Chairman, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Renault SA.
effectiveness and diversity, and a non-executive member of the boards of UnitedHealth Group Inc. and PPG Industries, Inc.
Previously 2 David Brennan 58 she was President and Chief Executive Officer of Stadtlander Drug Executive Director and Chief Executive Officer Company, Inc. and Corporate Vice-President and President, International Businesses of Caremark International.
Appointed as a Director in March 2005 and as CEO in January 2006.
David Brennan is President of the International Federation of 5 Bruce Burlington 63 Pharmaceutical Manufacturers & Associations IFPMA and a member Non-Executive Director and member of the Science Committee of the executive board of the European Federation of Pharmaceutical and the Audit Committee Industries and Associations EFPIA.
He is a past Chairman of the Appointed as a Director in August 2010.
Bruce Burlington is a board of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America pharmaceutical product development and regulatory affairs consultant PhRMA and remains a member of the PhRMA board.
From 2001 and brings extensive experience in those areas to the Board.
He is until January 2006, he was President and Chief Executive Officer of also a non-executive board member of Cangene Corporation and a the Companys North American subsidiary.
He was Chairman of the member of the scientific advisory boards of the International Medical board of the Southeastern Pennsylvania Chapter of the American Foundation and H. Lundbeck A S. Previously he spent 17 years with Heart Association 2004-2006.
He began his career in 1975 at Merck, the FDA, serving as director of the FDAs Center for Devices and where he started as a sales representative in the US division and Radiological Health as well as holding a number of senior roles in the later worked in sales and marketing management in the US and Center for Drug Evaluation and Research.
After leaving the FDA he international divisions.
He joined Astra Merck in 1992 and helped to served in a series of senior executive positions at Wyeth now part build the joint venture into a multi-billion dollar business in the US.
Heis an alumnus of Gettysburg College where he studied Business Administration.
6 Jean-Philippe Courtois 51 Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee 3 Simon Lowth 50 Executive Director and Chief Financial Officer Appointed as a Director in February 2008.
Jean-Philippe Courtois has close to 30 years experience in the global technology industry Appointed as a Director and as CFO in November 2007.
Simon Lowth and is President of Microsoft International, a board member of is also a Non-Executive Director of Standard Chartered PLC.
He was PlaNet Finance and Microsofts official representative at the Institut previously at ScottishPower Energy where he was Finance Director, Montaigne.
Previously he was Chief Executive Officer and President a position he left following completion of the sale of the company to of Microsoft EMEA and has served as co-chairman of the World Iberdrola S. A.
His move to ScottishPower followed 15 years experience Economic Forums Global Digital Divide Initiative Task Force and with the global management consultancy, McKinsey & Company, on the European Commission Information and Communication where he advised leading multinational companies on a wide range Technology Task Force.
In 2009, he also served as an EU Ambassador of strategic, financial and operational issues.
He has an engineering for the Year of Creativity and Innovation and in 2011 was named as degree from Cambridge University and an MBA from the London one of Techs Top 25 by The Wall Street Journal Europe.
100 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Corporate Governance 3 4 5 9 10 11 7 Rudy Markham 65 She was Minister in the UK government from 2007 to 2009, most Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee and latterly in the Cabinet Office and Business Department, working on the Remuneration Committee the governments response to the financial crisis.
From 1999 to 2007, she was on the Council of Economic Advisers, HM Treasury Appointed as a Director in September 2008.
Rudy Markham has focusing on business and international economic issues.
Prior to significant international business and financial experience, having that she spent 14 years in investment banking with S G Warburg formerly held a number of senior commercial and financial positions UBS in banking, project finance and corporate finance specialising worldwide with Unilever, culminating in his appointment as Chief in emerging markets.
He is currently Chairman and NonExecutive Director of Moorfields Eye Hospital NHS Foundation 10 John Varley 55 Trust and a non-executive member of the boards of United Parcel Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Remuneration Committee Services Inc. the UK Financial Reporting Council, Standard Chartered and member of the Nomination and Governance Committee PLC and Legal & General plc.
He is also a non-executive member of the board of the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office, a member of Appointed as a Director in July 2006.
John Varley was formerly the supervisory board of CSM NV, a Fellow of the Chartered Institute Group Chief Executive of the Barclays Group, having held a of Management Accountants and a Fellow of the Association of number of senior positions with the bank during his career, Corporate Treasurers.
including that of Group Finance Director.
He brings additional international, executive business leadership experience to the 8 Dame Nancy Rothwell 56 Board.
He is also a Non-Executive Director of BlackRock, Inc. and Non-Executive Director, Chairman of the Science Committee, Rio Tinto plc and Rio Tinto Limited, Chairman of Business Action member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nomination and on Homelessness and of Marie Curie Cancer Care, President of Governance Committee the Employers Forum on Disability, a member of the International Advisory Panel of the Monetary Authority of Singapore and Appointed as a Director in April 2006.
Nancy Rothwell has Honorary President of the UK Drug Policy Commission.
responsibility for overseeing Responsible Business.
Nancy Rothwell is a distinguished life scientist and academic and is the President and 11 Marcus Wallenberg 55 Vice-Chancellor of the University of Manchester.
She is also President Non-Executive Director and member of the Science Committee of the Society of Biology and a member of the Prime Ministers Council for Science and Technology.
Previously she has served as President Appointed as a Director in April 1999.
Marcus Wallenberg has of the British Neuroscience Association and has been on the councils international business experience across a broad range of industry of the Medical Research Council, the Royal Society, the Biotechnology sectors, including the pharmaceutical industry from his directorship and Biological Sciences Research Council, the Academy of Medical with Astra AB prior to 1999.
He is the Chairman of Skandinaviska Sciences and Cancer Research UK.
Enskilda Banken AB, AB Electrolux, Saab AB and LKAB, and a Non-Executive Director of Stora Enso Oyj, Temasek Holdings 9 The Right Honourable Baroness Shriti Vadera 49 Limited and the Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation.
Non-Executive Director and member of the Audit Committee Other officers of the Company at 31 December included members of the SET, as set out on Appointed as a Director in January 2011.
Shriti Vadera has significant page 102, and Adrian Kemp, Company Secretary.
experience of emerging markets, and knowledge of global finance and public policy.
She is a Non-Executive Director of BHP Billiton Plc and BHP Billiton Limited.
She advises funds, governments and companies and has recently undertaken a number of international assignments including advising the Republic of Korea as Chair of the G20, the government of Dubai on the restructuring of Dubai World, Temasek Holdings, Singapore on strategy and Allied Irish Banks on restructuring and European policy.
AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team 101 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team Senior Executive Team 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 David Brennan 6 David Smith Chief Executive Officer Executive Vice-President, Operations & Information Services See page 100.
David Smith joined AstraZeneca in 2006 as Executive Vice-President, Operations.
He leads AstraZenecas global manufacturing and supply 2 Simon Lowth organisation and is also responsible for the Safety, Health and Chief Financial Officer Environment, Regulatory Compliance, Procurement and Engineering See page 100. functions and has overall responsibility for IS.
He spent his early career in pharmaceuticals, initially with the Wellcome Foundation in the UK.
3 Katarina Ageborg He subsequently spent nine years in the consumer goods sector Chief Compliance Officer working for Este Lauder Inc. and Timberland LLC in senior supply Katarina Ageborg was appointed Chief Compliance Officer in chain roles.
In 2003, he returned to the pharmaceutical sector and July and has overall responsibility for the delivery, design and joined Novartis in Switzerland.
implementation of AstraZenecas compliance responsibilities.
Since 7 Lynn Tetrault joining AstraZeneca in 1998, she has held a series of senior legal roles Executive Vice-President, Human Resources & Corporate Affairs supporting Commercial and Regulatory and most recently led the Global IP function from 2008 to 2011.
Prior to joining AstraZeneca, Lynn Tetrault was appointed Executive Vice-President, Human she established her own law firm in Sweden and worked as a lawyer Resources and Corporate Affairs in 2007, having previously been practising on both civil and criminal cases.
She has also held the role of Vice-President HR, Global Drug Development and Vice-President, HR 4 Martin Mackay for the US subsidiary of AstraZeneca following the merger between President, Global R&D Astra and Zeneca.
She started her career in private law practice where Martin Mackay joined AstraZeneca in July 2010.
He leads a global she specialised in general corporate and healthcare law.
She joined organisation tasked with advancing a portfolio of investigational Astra USA in 1993 as Associate General Counsel in the companys medicines across a range of disease areas.
Prior to joining legal department.
She received her bachelors degree from Princeton AstraZeneca, he was the President of PharmaTherapeutics R&D at University and her law degree from the University of Virginia Law School.
His career at Pfizer spanned 15 years, where he held various 8 Tony Zook leadership roles, including the President of R&D.
He serves on the Executive Vice-President, Global Commercial Operations Scientific and Regulatory Committee of the industry trade group PhRMA and co-chairs the US-India BioPharma & Healthcare Summit Tony Zook was appointed Executive Vice-President of AstraZenecas Advisory Board.
He is a Visiting Professor at the University of Global Commercial organisation in January 2010.
He has responsibility Lincoln, UK.
for worldwide sales and marketing activities, as well as the commercial infrastructure in support of those efforts.
Prior to his current role, he 5 Jeff Pott was President and CEO for AstraZenecas US business and headed General Counsel AstraZenecas Global Marketing function.
He was also President of Jeff Pott was appointed General Counsel in January 2009 and has MedImmune.
He has held various other positions in AstraZenecas overall responsibility for all aspects of AstraZenecas Legal and IP sales and marketing organisation.
He joined Astra USA in 1997 as function.
He joined AstraZeneca in 1995 and has worked in various Vice-President, Marketing and Sales, having begun his pharmaceutical litigation roles, where he has had responsibility for IP, anti-trust and career at Berlex Laboratories Inc.
He earned a bachelors degree in product liability litigation.
Prior to joining AstraZeneca, he spent five biology from Frostburg University and an associates degree in years at the US legal firm Drinker Biddle and Reath LLP, where he chemical engineering from Pennsylvania State University.
specialised in pharmaceutical product liability litigation and anti-trust advice and litigation.
He received his bachelors degree in political science from Wheaton College and his Juris Doctor Degree from Villanova University School of Law.
102 Board of Directors and Senior Executive Team AstraZeneca Annual Report and Form 20-F Information 2011
