Business review: Group overview Our organization: People and governance The people of BP are united by a common code of conduct and values, and share an aspiration to make BP a stronger, safer company that makes a positive difference to the world.
Our board The board is responsible for the direction and oversight of BP on behalf of shareholders.
As at 31 December 2011, it comprised the chairman, nine nonIn detail For more information, executive directors together with the group chief executive: the chief financial see Corporate governance.
officer and the chief executive of BPs Rening and Marketing segment.
Page 119 The executive directors have responsibility for the day-to-day running of BP, while the non-executive directors bring independent viewpoints and a breadth of experience, along with insights into how other companies manage key issues.
Five of our current non-executive directors have been appointed since 2010.
Board committees play an increasingly important role.
The committees are: the Gulf of Mexico committee: the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee: the audit committee: the remuneration committee: the nomination committee: and the chairmans committee.
In addition, an independent international advisory board advises our chairman, group chief executive and board on strategic and geopolitical issues relating to the long-term development of the group.
In 2011, an internal review of risk management systems and processes was undertaken to enhance clarity, simplicity and the consistency of our risk management system, from front-line operations through to the boardroom.
See Our management of risk on page 42 for further information.
Also in 2011, a new board steering group completed a review of board governance.
The review looked at the structure, roles, tools and processes involved in board and board committee work.
The findings of the review will inform a new set of board governance Above In 2011, BP principles, which will be published later in 2012.
See Board performance report on announced the start of pages 120-133 for further information.
natural gas production from the Serrette eld, offshore Trinidad.
Our employees We employ approximately 83,400 people including 14,600 service station staff, Below A team at work in East Texas.
the majority of whom are located in the US and Europe.
The Deepwater Horizon As operator, BP drilled oil spill in 2010 had a profound effect on our employees, and to strengthen and 148 wells across the US Lower 48 states standardize what we do, we launched a range of internal change projects in 2011. in 2011.
See How BP is changing on page 36 for more information.
In addition, we are working hard to address a critical issue facing everyone in our industry a growing skills gap.
This, alongside the increasing demand for energy products and complexity of projects, means that attracting and retaining skilled and talented people is vital.
Our leadership has focused on ensuring that appropriate development opportunities and succession plans are in place to build capability.
To supplement our existing internal capability, we also target experienced and skilled professionals in the external market and are continuing to increase our intake of graduates to create a strong internal talent pipeline for the future.
We provide a range of professional development programmes and training In detail For more information to build capabilities in our people and are committed to creating an inclusive work on employees, see environment where everyone is treated fairly, with dignity, respect and without BP in more depth.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 31 Our organization: People and governance Contractors and suppliers Like our peers, BP rarely works in isolation.
In 2011, for example, 55% of the 374 million hours worked were carried out by contractors.
These individuals play an In detail For more information on important role for BP.
During the year we initiated a far-reaching review of the way contractors, see Working we work with third parties, particularly those involved in potential high-consequence with partners and contractors.
We are now implementing a range of measures based on our findings, Page 69 with a focus on six key themes: consistent standards and priorities: fewer suppliers to enable deeper, longer-term relationships: detailed and systematic selection of contractors: clear and specic contracts: intensive oversight and verication: and assurance that supplier personnel are competent.
Our values Our approach is built on respect, being consistent and having the courage to do the right thing.
We believe success comes from the energy of our people.
We have a determination to learn and to do things better.
We depend upon developing and deploying the best technology, and building long-lasting relationships.
We are committed to making a real difference in providing the energy the world needs today, and in the changing world of tomorrow.
We are one team a group of diverse individuals from around the world united by shared values and a drive to rebuild BP.
These words, taken from the BP code of conduct, capture what we strive to stand for as a company our renewed values.
They are an expression of work done across BP in 2011 to define and renew our principles and values.
This work was carried out in response to the events of recent years, which have caused us to reect on what is important and how we do what we do.
We launched our renewed values in 2011.
They represent the qualities and actions we wish to see in BP, and those that BP already demonstrates when it is at its best.
The values are aligned with our code of conduct and are there to guide the way we do business and the decisions we take, every day.
Safety has been re-emphasized as our number one priority.
Left In 2011, we purchased 10 blocks in Brazil from Devon Energy.
Here, a worker on the Deep Ocean Clarion moves drilling pipes on to the rig.
Above Technicians on board the Jack Ryan drilling ship, Angola.
In 2011, BP gained access to five new deepwater blocks, offshore Angola.
32 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Business review: Group overview The values are much more than words we are actively seeking to embed these values at the heart of the systems and processes we are introducing to unify and strengthen our business.
We are both enforcing and incentivizing values-led In detail Find out more online.
For example, our updated performance and reward system, which bp.
com values came into effect on 1 January 2012, now creates an explicit link between our values and the way individuals are judged and rewarded within BP.
Safety Respect Our values Safety is good business.
This statement of our values We respect the world in Everything we do relies upon expresses our aspirations and which we operate.
It begins the safety of our workforce intentions for BP, as we work with compliance with laws and and the communities together to strengthen safety and regulations.
We hold ourselves around us.
We care about risk management, earn back trust to the highest ethical standards the safe management of and create value.
Our values are and behave in ways that earn the environment.
We are aligned with, and an extension of, the trust of others.
We depend committed to safely delivering our code of conduct.
on the relationships we have energy to the world.
and respect each other and those we work with.
We value diversity of people and thought.
We care about the consequences of our decisions, large and small, on those around us.
Excellence Courage One Team We are in a hazardous What we do is rarely easy.
Whatever the strength of the business, and are committed Achieving the best outcomes individual, we will accomplish to excellence through the often requires the courage more together.
We put the systematic and disciplined to face difficulty, to speak team ahead of our personal management of our up and stand by what we success and commit to operations.
We always strive to building its capability.
We trust uphold the rules and standards do the right thing.
We explore each other to deliver on our we set for our company.
We new ways of thinking and are respective obligations.
commit to quality outcomes, unafraid to ask for help.
We have a thirst to learn, and to are honest with ourselves, and improve.
If something is not actively seek feedback from right, we correct it.
We aim for an enduring legacy, despite the short-term priorities of our world.
Our code The BP code of conduct sets the standard that we all work to.
It is aligned with our values, group standards and legal requirements, and it claries the ethics and compliance expectations for everyone who works at BP.
The code was updated in 2011 and now puts greater emphasis on a values-based approach.
Where rules are not stated explicitly, our everyday business decisions will be guided by our values.
BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 33
