Corporate governance Corporate governance practices Code of ethics In the US, BP ADSs are listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE.
The company has adopted a code of ethics for its group chief executive, The significant differences between BPs corporate governance practices chief financial officer, group controller, general auditor and chief accounting as a UK company and those required by NYSE listing standards for US officer as required by the provisions of Section 406 of the Sarbanes-Oxley companies are listed as follows: Act of 2002 and the rules issued by the SEC.
There have been no waivers from the code of ethics relating to any ofcers.
Independence BP also has a code of conduct, which is applicable to all employees.
BP has adopted a robust set of board governance principles, which This was updated and published on 1 January 2012. reect the UK Corporate Governance Code and its principles-based approach to corporate governance.
As such, the way in which BP makes determinations of directors independence differs from the NYSE rules.
BPs board governance principles require that all non-executive directors be determined by the board to be independent in character and judgement and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their judgement.
The BP board has determined that, in its judgement, all of the non-executive directors are independent.
In doing so, however, the board did not explicitly take into consideration the independence requirements outlined in the NYSEs listing standards.
Committees BP has a number of board committees that are broadly comparable in purpose and composition to those required by NYSE rules for domestic US companies.
For instance, BP has a chairmans rather than executive committee, nomination rather than nominating corporate governance committee and remuneration rather than compensation committee.
BP also has an audit committee, which NYSE rules require for both US companies and foreign private issuers.
These committees are composed solely of non-executive directors whom the board has determined to be independent, in the manner described above.
The BP board governance principles prescribe the composition, main tasks and requirements of each of the committees see the board committee reports.
BP has not, therefore, adopted separate charters for each committee.
Under US securities law and the listing standards of the NYSE, BP is required to have an audit committee that satisfies the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act and Section 303A.
06 of the NYSE Listed Company Manual.
BPs audit committee complies with these requirements.
The BP audit committee does not have direct responsibility for the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the independent auditors instead, it follows the UK Companies Act 2006 by making recommendations to the board on these matters for it to put forward for shareholder approval at the AGM.
One of the NYSEs additional requirements for the audit committee states that at least one member of the audit committee is to have accounting or related financial management expertise.
The board determined that Brendan Nelson possessed such expertise and also possesses the financial and audit committee experiences set forth in both the UK Corporate Governance Code and SEC rules see audit committee report.
Mr Nelson is the audit committee financial expert as dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F.
Shareholder approval of equity compensation plans The NYSE rules for US companies require that shareholders must be given the opportunity to vote on all equity-compensation plans and material revisions to those plans.
BP complies with UK requirements that are similar to the NYSE rules.
The board, however, does not explicitly take into consideration the NYSEs detailed denition of what are considered material revisions.
Code of ethics The NYSE rules require that US companies adopt and disclose a code of business conduct and ethics for directors, ofcers and employees.
BP has adopted a code of conduct, which applies to all employees, and has board governance principles that address the conduct of directors.
In addition BP has adopted a code of ethics for senior financial ofcers as required by the SEC.
BP considers that these codes and policies address the matters specified in the NYSE rules for US companies.
134 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011
