Corporate governance Brendan Nelson became chair of the audit committee upon the retirement Committee reports of Douglas Flint from the board in April 2011.
Mr Nelson, who was formerly vice chairman of KPMG, is chairman of the Group Audit Committee of The Audit committee Royal Bank of Scotland Group plc, a member of the Financial Reporting Review Panel, Vice President of the Institute of Chartered Accountants Chairmans introduction of Scotland and a director of the Financial Skills Partnership.
The board is In the first quarter of the year the committee, under Douglas Flints satisfied that Mr Nelson, in succession to Mr Flint, is the audit committee chairmanship, continued to spend considerable time reviewing and member with recent and relevant financial experience as outlined in the challenging BPs assessment of its financial responsibilities relating to the UK Corporate Governance Code.
It considers that the committee as a tragic incident in the Gulf of Mexico in April 2010.
This task has remained a whole has an appropriate and experienced blend of commercial, financial key area of focus under my chairmanship during the remainder of the year.
and audit expertise to assess the issues it is required to address.
The board We have continued to seek assurance that where liabilities are estimable, also determined that the audit committee meets the independence criteria they are fully provided for, and where uncertainty is too great to support provisions of Rule 10A-3 of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and a provision that appropriate disclosure is made.
Some greater clarity that Mr Nelson may be regarded as an audit committee financial expert as developed during the year as experience was gained about the operation dened in Item 16A of Form 20-F. of the Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill Trust fund, and as settlements were reached with two of the partners in the Macondo well and two of the Committee role and structure contractors involved.
However, as reported elsewhere in this document, The role and responsibilities of the audit committee are set out in the major uncertainty remains in respect of litigation, potential fines and appendix of BPs board governance principles which is available on our penalties and other matters which will require significant attention from the website.
We keep these under review and test their effectiveness in audit committee for the foreseeable future.
The committee has therefore our annual evaluation of the audit committee.
In addition, the chairs and taken care to preserve its regular agenda content so as to continue fullling secretaries of the audit and safety, ethics and environment assurance its remit to the board with respect to monitoring risk management systems committees have worked together to ensure their respective agendas and internal controls and financial reporting.
neither duplicate nor omit coverage of key risk areas.
Amongst other topics, we have reviewed controls in trading, debt The committee met 11 times over the past year including one joint and liquidity management and the companys response to the UK Bribery meeting with the safety, ethics and environment assurance committee Act.
During the course of the year, I have also participated in the group SEEAC.
This joint meeting reviews the general auditors report on internal chief executives audit forum and the group financial risk committee control and risk management systems for the year in preparation for the GFRC.
In preparation for audit committee meetings, I have met regularly boards report to shareholders in the annual report.
It also reviews the with the chief financial officer, general auditor and the lead partner of the general auditors audit programme for the year ahead to ensure both external auditors.
I also spent time with the leadership team of the internal committees endorse the coverage.
Each audit committee meeting is attended by the group chief I valued the time I took to visit one of the companys largest data financial officer, the group controller, the general auditor head of internal centres in London, its European business service centre in Budapest, and audit and the chief accounting officer.
The lead partner of our external the trading oors in Houston and London.
Such visits and interaction with auditors Ernst & Young is also present.
staff at all levels of the organization enhance both our understanding of The committee also holds separate private sessions during the the companys activities and our assurance over the way they are being year with the external auditor and the general auditor these sessions are managed.
without the presence of executive management.
Although we lost Douglas Flint from the committee when he The board is kept updated and informed of the audit committees stepped down from the board, I am delighted that Andrew Shilston has activities and any issues arising through verbal reports at its meetings from now joined us.
Andrews experience as the CFO at Rolls Royce, and his the committee chair and the circulation of the committees minutes.
previous background in the energy business, complements the skills already present in the committees membership.
I believe we have a Audit committee processes very good mix of commercial, financial and audit expertise to address Information and advice the complex accounting, audit and risk issues which the committee Information and reports for the committee are received directly from monitors.
I would also like to thank Ian Davis for his contribution to the accountable functional and business managers and from relevant external audit committee over the last two years.
Ian is now stepping down from sources.
In addition, like our board and other committees, the audit the committee in anticipation of a period of heavier workload related to the committee can access independent advice and counsel when needed Gulf of Mexico committee.
During 2011, external specialist legal advice in Our report below seeks to highlight the key activities undertaken relation to corporate reporting was provided to the committee by Sullivan & in 2011 and provide some insight into the outcomes of the committees Cromwell LLP.
As part of its annual evaluation, the committee reviews the work.
I believe 2012 will be equally intense but the committee is well adequacy of reliable and timely information from management that enables equipped to address the tasks it faces.
it to full its responsibilities.
The 2011 evaluation indicated that members recognized the openness and transparent nature of the materials and Brendan Nelson presentations provided by management.
Chairman of the audit committee Training and visits Committee members In continuing to respond to the consequences of the Gulf of Mexico oil Brendan Nelson committee chair from 14 April 2011 spill, the committee placed emphasis on receiving appropriate briengs on George David the relevant applications of accounting policy, particularly provisioning and Ian Davis retired from the committee on 3 February 2012 related disclosure.
The committee received regular technical updates from Phuthuma Nhleko appointed 1 February 2011 the chief accounting officer on developments in financial reporting and an Andrew Shilston appointed 3 February 2012 annual brieng on oil and gas reserves disclosures.
In addition the external auditors provided insight and commentary on international accounting Members who left during the year: policy developments.
Douglas Flint previously chair of the committee retired 14 April 2011 Induction programmes are provided for new members and are tailored around their roles on the audit committee.
During 2011 Brendan The audit committee is composed of independent, non-executive directors Nelson and Phuthuma Nhleko completed their audit committee induction selected to provide a wide range of financial, international and commercial programmes.
This included sessions on tax, trading operations, accounting, expertise appropriate to full the committees duties.
126 BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 Corporate governance Corporate governance financial reporting and controls and the structure of BPs finance function.
An important input into the boards review of the companys risk Individual private sessions with the external and internal auditors were also management and internal control systems is the annual joint meeting provided.
During 2012 we will undertake an audit committee induction for between the audit committee and the SEEAC.
This takes place at the Andrew Shilston.
start of each year to review the general auditors report on internal When the board visited Houston in May, audit committee members control and risk management systems for the previous year.
The general took the opportunity to visit the computing facility and the trading oor auditor reviews his teams findings and managements actions to at the Westlake complex.
During the May trip, two members of the remedy significant issues identied in that work.
His report also included committee, including the chairman, also visited the Atlantis offshore information on the results of audit work undertaken by the safety and platform in the Gulf of Mexico.
In July the committee visited the operational risk audit team and reviews by the groups finance control companys data centre in London to review IT service and security matters.
As noted earlier, this joint meeting also reviews the coming years Earlier in the year Mr Nelson accompanied SEEAC members on a visit to forward programme of audit work.
the Whiting renery where they were briefed on the progress of the major modernization project.
These visits enable the committee to see firstExternal auditors hand examples of risk management and to address questions directly to In 2011 the committee held two scheduled meetings with the external employees on site.
auditors without management being present.
These sessions provided the opportunity for direct feedback and dialogue between the committee 2011 Audit committee activities and the auditors.
In addition, the chair of the audit committee met privately Gulf of Mexico with the external auditors before each audit committee.
The responsibilities of the boards monitoring committees in reviewing Performance of the external auditors is evaluated by the audit the companys response to the Gulf of Mexico incident have been committee each year.
This year the committee put particular focus on carefully delineated.
Whilst the Gulf of Mexico committee has considered assessing audit quality against a set of agreed key performance indicators.
the ongoing work of the Gulf Coast Restoration Organization GCRO The company has also developed an auditor assessment tool which will and litigation matters, and the SEEAC has reviewed the companys be completed on an annual basis and apply five main performance criteria implementation of the recommendations of the Bly Report, the audit robustness of the audit process, independence and objectivity, quality of committees focus has been on financial reporting and controls.
The delivery, quality of people and service, and value-added advice.
committee has reviewed each quarter the provisions and contingencies The committee reviews the composition of the audit team annually related to the incident and their disclosure.
It has also received a report and meets the relevant partners when undertaking business or function from the group controller on the status of financial controls in the GCRO.
Additionally, the committee has the opportunity to assess specic technical capabilities in the audit rm when addressing specialist topics, Financial reporting such as environmental provisioning and impairment testing.
The groups quarterly financial reports, the BP Annual Report and We maintain auditor independence through limiting non-audit Form 20-F and the BP Summary Review were reviewed by the committee services to tax and audit-related work that fall within dened categories.
before recommending their publication to the board.
In undertaking For a list of those categories, the process by which non-audit work is this review, the committee discussed with management how they had approved when the audit committee concludes that it is in the interests applied critical accounting policies and judgements to these documents, of the company to purchase non-audit work from the external auditor including key assumptions regarding provisions for litigation, environmental rather than another supplier, see the section Principal accountants fees remediation and decommissioning.
The committee also reviewed the and services on page 136.
A new lead audit partner is appointed every impairment testing process and the pricing assumptions that were utilized.
five years and other senior audit staff are rotated every seven years.
No In considering the robustness of the valuations the committee also partners or senior staff from Ernst & Young who are connected with the referred to analysis undertaken by the external auditors.
This year, with a BP audit may transfer to the group.
number of assets held for sale, the committee was appropriately engaged Non-audit work by Ernst & Young is subject to the audit in reviewing their accounting treatments.
Further details on impairment committees pre-approval policy.
Non-audit work undertaken by Ernst reviews are included in the Financial statements Note 5.
The committee & Young and by other accountancy rms is regularly monitored by the also reviewed the companys methodology underpinning its disclosures committee.
relating to oil and gas reserves.
Fees paid to the external auditor for the year were $55 million, of which 20% was for non-audit work see Financial statements Note 16.
Monitoring business risk Non-audit fees increased from $8 million in 2010 to $11 million in 2011 due As discussed elsewhere in this annual report, the board periodically to additional work undertaken in providing services related to corporate reviews the companys group risks and allocates monitoring of their finance transactions.
This increase resulted from Ernst & Youngs management and or mitigation to itself or its committees.
Within the engagement to carry out financial due diligence in connection with actual audit committees area of monitoring in 2011 were liquidity management, and proposed sales of assets in North America.
trading risk and corruption risk.
During the year, the committee also The audit committee considers both the fee structure and the audit undertook functional reviews of information technology and services, engagement terms and monitors progress during the year.
In October the integrated supply and trading, business service centres and the governance committee reviewed with management the criteria which would trigger and control of major project investment.
Each year the committee also tendering the audit.
The criteria considered were independence, quality reviews risk, governance and the control environment relating to TNK-BP.
of service, audit quality, cost value for money and regulatory changes.
Reports on the work of the group financial risk committee the The committee and management believe that assessed against each executive-level committee that provides assurance on the management of these criteria there is no case for recommending going to tender this of BPs financial risk were provided during the year by the chief financial year.
Nonetheless, preparatory work has been undertaken to understand officer.
the potential for other audit rms to participate in a tender should this be indicated at a future date.
The committee has recommended to the board Internal control, audit and risk management that the re-appointment of Ernst & Young as the companys external The forward agenda for the audit committee contains standing items auditors be proposed to shareholders at the 2012 AGM.
on internal control these include quarterly reports of internal audit findings, internal control deficiencies in financial reporting, and an annual Internal audit assessment of BPs enterprise level controls.
The committee also received The committee receives quarterly reports from the general auditor which a joint report from the group controller and chief information officer on enable the committee to monitor the progress of the internal audit against access controls and segregation of duties.
its planned schedule of audits as well as to track key findings and any material actions that are overdue or have been rescheduled.
In reviewing BP Annual Report and Form 20-F 2011 127
