Corporate Governance Statement The Board is committed to high standards of corporate Considering the guidance for determining independence as set governance.
With one limited exception, the Board considers out in the Governance Code, the Board considers that Chris that the Company has, throughout the year ended June 30, Conway, Greg Lock, Joe Rose, Mark Wells and Wade Loo were 2011, complied with all relevant provisions of the United independent throughout the year.
As further explained below, Kingdom Financial Reporting Councils 2010 UK Corporate the Board considers William T Comfort III to be independent in Governance Code the Governance Code, made available at character and in judgment, but is unable to determine him to be the Financial Reporting Councils website www.
The independent according to the Governance Code definition based Governance Code was adopted in 2010 by the United Kingdom upon his relationship with a significant shareholder.
In addition, Financial Reporting Council and replaces the 2008 Combined and after careful review, the Board has again concluded that Code on Corporate Governance.
Bruce Powell, who has served the Board for 15 years, was independent throughout the year.
In coming to this view the The one exception in which the Board believes the Company is Board considered his expertise and independence of judgment not in strict compliance is in relation to William T Comfort IIIs and opinion.
appointment to the Remuneration Committee.
Due to the fact that the Governance Code requires all Remuneration Committee During the year ended June 30, 2011 the Board met on 10 members to be independent and due to William T Comfort IIIs occasions.
The attendance of individual Directors at all Board and relationship with a major shareholder, he does not meet the committee meetings is shown in the following table.
technical definition of independent under the Governance During the year the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Codes provisions.
The Board otherwise considers William T regularly met without the Executive Directors present.
In Comfort III to be independent in character and judgment and addition, the Chief Executive Officer met with just the Nondoes not believe his Governance Code status in any way actually Executive Directors and the Chairman on a regular basis.
impedes his ability to fulfill his duties on the Remuneration There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Boards Committee with all due impartiality like any other member.
These include among other things: This Statement explains how the Company has applied the Main and Supporting Principles of Corporate Governance and describes The Companys strategic plans and annual operating the Companys general compliance with its provisions.
budgets: Business acquisitions and disposals: The Board Major litigation: The Board is currently made up of nine Directors, being the Chairman, who is part-time, two Executive and six Non-Executive Employee share schemes: Directors.
The Chairman is responsible for the running of the Appointment Removal of Committee Chairs and Members: Board.
The Board considers that the balance of its constitution Appointment Removal of Chief Executive Officer: brings an appropriate balance of experience in judging matters of Appointment Removal of Auditors and other Advisers: strategy, performance, resources, investor relations, internal Changes to Capital Structure and Approval of Payment of controls and corporate governance, and is collectively responsible Dividends: for the long term success of the Company.
Approval of Borrowing Finance Facilities: Greg Lock continued to serve as the Non-Executive Chairman Approval of Contracts with Term exceeding One Year and and Wade Loo was appointed as a non-executive director on Financial Impact exceeding EUR 500k: and February 4, 2011.
Biographical details of the Directors and the Board Committees on which they sit are set out on pages 17 Annual Review of Risk and Internal Control.
Board Nomination Remuneration Audit Meetings Committee Committee Committee No.
of meetings in year 10 0 5 5 Reynolds C. Bish 10 - 5 5 James Arnold, Jr. 10 - 4 5 Greg Lock 10 - 5 5 Bruce Powell 10 - 5 5 Chris Conway 9 - 5 5 Mark Wells 9 - 5 5 William T Comfort III 10 - 5 - Joe Rose 10 - 5 5 Wade Loo appointed on February 4, 2011 5 - 2 2 At the express request of the Remuneration Committee At the express request of the Audit Committee.
26 Corporate Governance Statement Director Position Main Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Reynolds C. Bish Chief Executive Officer Member - - - James Arnold, Jr. Chief Financial Officer Member - - - Greg Lock Non-Executive Chairman Chairman - - Chairman Bruce Powell Non-Executive Director and Member Chairman - Member Senior Independent Director Chris Conway Non-Executive Director Member Member Chairman Member Mark Wells Non-Executive Director Member Member Member Member William T Comfort III Non-Executive Director Member - Member Member Joe Rose Non-Executive Director Member - Member Member Wade Loo Non-Executive Director Member Member - - The Directors may, at the Companys expense, take contribution of the Non-Executive Directors and constructive independent professional advice and receive training on relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
appointment and subsequently as they see fit.
In addition, all He ensures that the Chief Executive Officer develops a strategy Directors have access to the advice and services of the with which the Board as a whole is comfortable.
The Chief Company Secretary, the appointment and removal of whom is a Executive Officer is responsible for formulating strategy and for matter for the whole Board.
The Secretary advises the Chairman ensuring its delivery once agreed upon by the Board.
He creates and the Board on appropriate procedures for the management a framework of strategy, values, organization and objectives to of its meetings and duties and the meetings of the Companys ensure the successful delivery of results, allocating decision principal Committees, as well as the implementation of making and responsibility to support this.
In doing so, he works Corporate Governance and compliance within the Company.
with the executive management team, which comprises the Executive Directors and certain other senior executives.
Prior to appointment, prospective Directors usually participate as observers to the Board.
This allows the individual and the This separation of responsibilities, together with the ratio of existing Directors to get to know each other prior to Board membership between Executive and Non-Executive appointment.
On appointment, the Directors take part in an Directors, ensures there is a balance of power and authority at induction program.
They receive information about the the head of the Company.
The views of all Directors are taken Company, the role of the Board, matters reserved to the Board, into account in the decision-making process.
terms of reference and membership of principal Board and To enable the Board to function effectively and assist Directors management Committees, the powers delegated to to discharge their responsibilities, full and timely access is given Committees, the Companys Corporate Governance practices to all relevant information.
In the case of Board meetings, this and procedures, and the latest financial information on the consists of a comprehensive set of papers, including regular Company.
This is supplemented by visits to key Company business progress reports and discussion documents regarding locations and meetings with key senior executives.
Senior executives are regularly invited to Board their period in office, the Directors are continually updated on meetings and make business presentations.
The Board also Company business and the competitive environment in which it discusses which decisions can be delegated to senior operates, technology matters and other changes affecting the management within the Company, such as decisions needing to Company.
Directors are also advised on appointment of their be made by senior management on a day-to-day basis for the legal and other duties, responsibilities and obligations as a Companys on-going and effective operation, including but not Director of a listed company, both in writing and in face-to face limited to lower level employee hiring and termination decisions, meetings with the Companys solicitors.
and financial expenditures falling within already approved Any Director appointed by the Board during the year is required, budget levels which have not been designated as decisions under the provisions of the Companys Articles of Association, expressly reserved to the Board.
to retire and seek re-election by shareholders at the next Annual Evaluation of the Boards Performance General Meeting AGM.
The Articles also require one-third of During the year the Board used a structured evaluation process the Board to retire by rotation each year.
All Directors are to assess and improve its performance.
This included collective required to offer themselves for re-election at least every three feedback and discussion of the results and agreement on areas years.
7.1 of the Governance Code requires all of improvement.
Each Board member was individually assessed directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual as was the performance of the Board as a whole and of its election by shareholders.
The Board has agreed that all Committees.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Chairman directors, whether or not required by the Articles to seek of the Audit Committee, conducted a review of the performance re-election at the 2011 AGM, will be subject to re-election at the of the Chairman and this was discussed subsequently with him.
In all cases the objectives were to address areas needing There is a clear division of responsibilities between the improvement.
The non-executive directors to be re-elected are Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer which has been considered to have performed effectively and demonstrated approved by the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for commitment to the role.
leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness in all aspects of its role and setting its agenda.
He facilitates both the Corporate Governance Statement 27 Reviewed the external auditors and re-appointed the Board Committees Companys audit firm following a review process: and The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to Board Committees, which operate within clearly defined terms of Continued to utilize an Internet based mechanism by which reference, reporting regularly to the Board.
These are as follows: Company employees may in confidence raise concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial The Audit Committee assists the Board in reviewing the reporting or other matters, and ensured further that reporting of financial and non-financial information to appropriate mechanisms are in place for independent shareholders, the system of internal control and risk investigations of such matters and appropriate follow up management, and the audit process.
The Committee comprises action, pursuant to the provisions set forth in the four Non-Executive Directors, chaired by Bruce Powell, who has Governance Code.
recent relevant experience as CFO of ApaTech Ltd. and meets formally at least four times a year.
The Committee met 5 times The Audit Committee reviewed the nature and amount of during the year ended June 30, 2011, with no Committee non-audit work undertaken by Ernst & Young LLP EY in the members missing any meetings.
The Chief Executive Officer, current year, this being the fifth year with EY as auditors, to Chief Financial Officer and external auditors attended these satisfy itself that there remains no impact on their meetings as required by the Committee.
In some cases the nature of the advice may make it more timely and cost-effective to select EY, which has The purpose of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in already developed a good understanding of the Company.
the discharge of its responsibilities for financial reporting and Details of this years fees are given in note 8 to the Financial corporate control and to provide a forum for reporting by the Statements.
EY is also subject to professional standards which external auditors.
The responsibilities of the Committee include: safeguard the integrity of the auditing role it performs on behalf To monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements and of the shareholders.
There is a formal policy in place for the review significant financial reporting judgments contained provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
This policy in them, challenging where necessary the methods used: prohibits the provision of certain services, such as any service To review the Companys internal control and risk requiring an external auditor to make management decisions on management systems: behalf of the Company, any services creating mutuality of To review internal audit reports and take the necessary interest and any services in which the external auditor would be action therefrom: required to audit their own work.
The policy requires that other services are subject to prior approval, such as services for To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the which the cost is beyond the agreed-upon monetary threshold.
appointment of the external auditor and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external The Remuneration Committee comprises four Non-Executive auditor: Directors, is chaired by Chris Conway and meets formally at To review and monitor the independence, objectivity and least three times a year.
It met 5 times during the year ended effectiveness of the external auditor: June 30, 2011, with no Committee members missing any meetings.
To develop and implement policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services: Under provision D. 2.1 of the Governance Code, the Board is To review regularly and at least annually the scope of the required to establish a Remuneration Committee of work to be performed by the internal audit function.
Three out of four of the members of the Remuneration Committee throughout the To review whether published accounting standards, legal financial year were determined independent according to the and regulatory requirements and best practices have been Governance Code definition of independence.
The Board followed: and considers the other, William T Comfort III, to be independent in To review the Companys arrangements for its employees character and judgment, but has historically considered itself to raise concerns, in confidence, and to ensure that these unable to determine him to be independent according to the arrangements allow proportionate and independent Governance Code definition.
This is due to his technically falling investigations of such matters and appropriate follow up within merely one of seven criteria in the Governance Code said action.
to indicate a potential impediment to independence: his During the year the Committee undertook the following relationship with a significant shareholder.
Notwithstanding his activities at these meetings: membership in the Remuneration Committee therefore resulting in technical non-compliance with a single provision of Reviewed the interim and annual results and reports, the Governance Code throughout the financial year, the Board including a review of matters raised by the external auditor does not consider his Governance Code status in any way and areas of judgment: actually to impede his ability to fulfil his duties on that Reviewed the system of internal control in operation committee with all due impartiality like any other member.
The throughout the Company: Board feels that his extensive experience in investing in the Reviewed and approved the Companys reporting under public markets makes him a valuable contributor to the work of International Financial Reporting Standards: the committee, notwithstanding this purely technical non-compliance.
Reviewed the Companys compliance with the Governance Further details about the Remuneration Committee are included Code: in the Remuneration Report.
28 Corporate Governance Statement The Nomination Committee keeps under review the Board present assurance of compliance with these policies.
This structure, size and composition: proposes to the Board suitable process, regularly reviewed by the Directors, is carried out in candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company: and conjunction with business planning by the executive considers Board succession plans including diversity.
Committee comprises six Non-Executive Directors, is chaired by Because of the limitations that are inherent in any system of Greg Lock and meets as required.
No separate Nomination internal control, this system is designed to manage rather than committee meetings were held during the year, as the Board as eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys business a whole decided to review and interview potential candidates objectives.
Accordingly, it can only provide reasonable but not for what eventually led to the appointment of Wade Loo to the absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In the current financial year, Risk Assessment recommendations for a new board candidate were obtained by The Board has established an on-going process for identifying, Kofaxs Chief Financial Officer who were then interviewed by evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the the Executive Directors and the top two candidates by the Company.
This process, which is regularly reviewed by the Board.
Wade Loo was known to Kofaxs Chief Financial Officer Board and accords with the Turnbull guidance, was in place having been introduced by a finance colleague in 2009. throughout the year under review and has continued up to the Following the interview process, Wade Loo was selected by the date of approval of these accounts.
A key control procedure is Board based upon his level of relevant experience and the day-to-day involvement of executive members of the Board credentials.
In this case, the Board was satisfied with the number and Company management in all aspects of the business and of qualified candidates presented for consideration, without the their attendance at regular management meetings at which engagement of an executive search consultancy firm.
performance against plan and business prospects are reviewed.
Relations with Shareholders Internal Control The Company is committed to maintaining good While the Board maintains full control and direction over communications across its entire shareholder base, whether appropriate strategic, financial, organizational and compliance institutional investors, private or employee shareholders.
This is issues, it has delegated to executive management the achieved principally through annual and half-yearly financial implementation of the systems of internal control within an reports and other trading statements, as well as via the Annual established framework.
General Meeting and other group and one-on-one meetings.
Normal shareholder contact is the responsibility of the Chief The Board has put in place an organizational structure with Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Companys formally defined lines of responsibilities and delegation of investor relations department.
There are also established procedures for planning, capital expenditure, information and reporting systems, and for The Chairman is available to discuss matters with institutional monitoring the Companys business and performance.
shareholders when necessary or where it would be inappropriate for those discussions to take place with either the Other key features and the processes for reviewing the Chief Executive Officer or the Chief Financial Officer.
effectiveness of the internal control system are described below: Regular dialogue and presentations take place throughout the Terms of reference for the Board and its committees, year with institutional investors and buy-side and sell-side including a schedule of matters reserved for the Board and analysts.
Shareholders have the opportunity to meet and an agreed-upon annual program of fixed agenda items for question the Board at the Annual General Meeting, which will Board approval: be held in London on November 3, 2011.
The Company seeks to Board approved strategy, three-year operating plans and ensure that the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and yearly budget plans: Nomination Committees are available to answer questions.
The An authority matrix with clearly defined levels of authority: results of proxy voting will be disclosed at the meeting after the shareholders have voted on each resolution by a show of hands.
Reviews of monthly management accounts, monthly reviews of business re-forecasts and reviews of In addition, the Board receives reports from the Companys performance indicators by management and the Board broker and investor relations agency several times a year that following approval of the annual Company budget: communicate feedback from institutional shareholders and Reviews of the scope of the work of the external auditors analysts.
by the Audit Committee and any significant issues arising: The Companys web site at www.
com contains both Operational controls in human resources management, corporate and customer information, updated on a regular basis.
information technology and asset security: Internal Control and Risk Management Appropriate monitoring of key suppliers to the Company: and The Board has overall responsibility for the Companys approach Preparation of internal controls reports for review by the to assessing risk and the systems of internal control, and has Audit Committee and Board, summarizing the scope of the delegated the process of reviewing its effectiveness to the internal control reviews, along with findings and Audit Committee, which reports back to the Board.
financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management procedures.
The role of executive management is to implement the Boards policies on risk and control, and Corporate Governance Statement 29 The Board, with the assistance of the Audit Committee, has conducted its annual review of the effectiveness of the systems of internal control based on a review of significant risks identified, the results of external audits and reports from management.
The key processes applied in doing so are described on page 28.
The associated companies are not considered to be significant for group purposes and therefore are not part of the internal control system.
The Audit Committee evaluates the results of formal risk assessments by management and reviews the implementation of policies and procedures documents.
Policies and procedures documents are incorporated in a structured Business Conduct Guidelines BCG framework at Kofax and are designed to facilitate reliable financial reporting, operating efficiency and compliance with laws and regulations.
During FY 11, the Audit Committee reviewed various Business Conduct Guidelines, and updates to the Code of Ethics.
6 The Directors have considered compliance with DTR 7.2.
Going Concern The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Business Review on pages 3 to 6.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are described in the Chief Financial Officers Review on pages 7 to 11.
In addition, note 27 to the Financial Statements includes the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk.
The Group has considerable financial resources together with long-term contracts with a number of resellers, customers and suppliers across different geographic areas and industries.
As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage its business risks successfully despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
After making enquiries, the Directors are satisfied that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Financial Statements.
By order of the Board Bradford Weller Company Secretary October 3, 2011 30 Corporate Governance Statement
