48 Corporate governance Statement on Corporate Governance Introduction by the Chairman The Board The Board currently comprises three executive directors and The Board is committed to upholding the highest standards six non-executive directors including the Chairman.
The Board on corporate governance, protecting and growing our considers that the Chairman and four of the other non-executive shareholders assets, and engaging in a fair and transparent directors, The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, Mr Much, Mrs Murray and manner with all of our stakeholders.
We take responsibility Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss are independent in character and for approving the Groups long term goals and strategies, judgment, and meet the criteria for independence set out in the Code.
and provide overall financial and organisational control.
The directors biographical details are set out on pages 34 and 35.
We also ensure that the Groups businesses have appropriate The Board meets at least ten times a year, and has a formal schedule and effective internal control and risk management systems.
of matters speci cally reserved to it for consideration and approval, The detailed statement below sets out how the Company including: approval of the Groups five year plan: approval of the has applied the main and supporting principles of good annual operating budgets: acquisitions, disposals and major capital governance set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code expenditure: nancing and treasury: pensions: ethical policies: health issued in June 2010 by the Financial Reporting Council and safety strategy: reviewing the Groups systems of financial the Code.
I would like to draw your attention to some control and risk management: approving appointments to the Board speci c examples of how the principles relating to the role and approving policies relating to directors remuneration: and and effectiveness of the Board are applied in practice: maintaining an effective dialogue with shareholders.
All directors take decisions objectively in the interests of the Company.
Setting of strategic aims The Board convenes annually for two days in October to The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Executive undertake a detailed review of the updated five year plan Committee, including: implementation of the Groups strategies for the Group, which includes a detailed assessment of the and policies as determined by the Board: monitoring of operational current and future resource requirements for delivery of the and financial results against budget: allocation of resources across plan.
Risks to achievement of the five year plan are reviewed the Group within the overall plan approved by the Board: capital regularly by the Groups Risk Committee and the full Board.
expenditure within limits imposed by the Board: and developing and implementing risk management systems.
Further details of the Setting of values Executive Committee are set out in the section of this report covering The Board sets the standards of behaviour expected of all Board Committees.
employees and third parties acting on our behalf, as set out in our Global Code of Business Principles.
This is reviewed on an Procedures are in place covering the content, presentation and annual basis.
timely delivery of papers to the Board for each Board meeting, to ensure that directors have suf cient information to make expedient Role of the Chairman and considered decisions in ful lment of their duciary duties.
Where Following my appointment as Chairman in October 2010, directors have concerns which cannot be resolved about the running I took the opportunity to consult with each of the directors of the Company or a proposed action, such concerns are recorded in individually to discuss their views on the operation and the Board minutes.
effectiveness of the Board meetings and the interaction of its members.
We now have an agenda for our meetings which has Each director has full access to the advice and services of the an increased focus on key strategic issues.
Company Secretary who, under the direction of the Chairman, is responsible for maintaining good information ows within the Board Composition of the Board and its committees: assisting with induction: keeping the directors Following a review by the Board during the year of its current informed about changes to their duties and responsibilities: and balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Company, advising the Board on all governance matters.
The appointment two new directors were appointed.
Sarah Ellard, the Company and removal of the Company Secretary is a matter for the Board as Secretary since 1998, was appointed as Group Legal Director, a whole.
and Vanda Murray was appointed as a new non-executive director.
Both individuals bring valuable experience and a new All directors are entitled to take independent professional advice in perspective to the Board.
furtherance of their duties at the Companys expense, should the need arise.
Induction We have implemented a structured induction programme for An internal induction programme on the Groups operations and Mrs Murray, which includes visits to a number of the Groups its strategic and business plans is provided for newly-appointed sites.
Mrs Ellards induction requirements are different, as directors.
The Company Secretary also provides detailed information she is already very familiar with the Groups operations and on directors legal duties and responsibilities on appointment, and the workings of the Board, but we have identi ed other plans updates the Board on a regular basis with regards to regulatory for her future personal development in order to enhance her changes affecting the directors and the Groups operations generally.
Directors are continually updated on the Groups businesses and the matters affecting the market in which they operate.
The Company The Company has been in full compliance with the provisions meets the cost of appropriate external training for directors, the of Code throughout the year ended 31 October 2011. requirement for which is kept under review by the Chairman.
The Company separates the roles of Chairman and Chief Executive in accordance with the recommendations of the Code.
The division of P C F Hickson responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive, and Chairman their respective job descriptions, are set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 49 In addition to chairing the Board, the Chairman is responsible knowledge on the Board could be improved: the effectiveness of for ensuring that the Board is kept properly informed and is the Boards interaction with shareholders and with employees: the consulted on all decisions reserved to it: promoting constructive Board agenda: ow of information to the Board: Board succession: relations between the executive and non-executive directors: and the operation of the Board Committees.
Each director was ensuring that the training and development needs of directors also invited to propose three objectives for the Board for the are identi ed and the performance of the Board evaluated on a forthcoming year.
As a consequence of this exercise, a set of key regular basis: ensuring effective communication with shareholders objectives was agreed, which the Board will work towards achieving and acting as a conduit to ensure that the views of shareholders this year.
The Board intends to comply with the Code guidance that are communicated to the Board.
The Chairmans other business its performance evaluation should be externally facilitated at least commitments, which are detailed on page 34, were fully disclosed every three years.
to the Board prior to his appointment and the Board is comfortable The Company maintains directors and of cers liability insurance in that he has suf cient time available to commit to his role.
respect of legal action against its directors.
The non-executive directors perform an essential role in Meetings attendance safeguarding shareholders interests.
They actively participate The following table shows the attendance of directors, who served in the development of strategic objectives, and monitor the during the year, at meetings of the Board, the Audit Committee, the performance of executive management in achieving these Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee: objectives, in a constructively challenging manner where Audit Nomination Remuneration appropriate.
The non-executive directors also review financial Board Committee Committee Committee performance, and consider the integrity of the financial information 13 meetings 3 meetings 1 meeting 6 meetings produced by the Group and whether the financial controls and P C F Hickson 12 13 - 1 1 6 6 risk management systems are robust and defensible.
They meet S L Ellard 1 1 - - - periodically with the management of the Groups operating companies.
In addition to participating in Board meetings, the D R Evans 12 13 - - - four independent non-executive directors are the members of the The Rt Hon Lord standing committees set up to deal with audit and the remuneration Freeman 12 13 3 3 - 6 6 of executive directors and senior management.
The Board I F R Much 11 13 3 3 1 1 6 6 considers that the current balance of executive and non-executive in uence which exists is appropriate for the Company, taking into Air Marshal account its size and status.
Sir Peter Norriss 12 13 3 3 1 1 6 6 Mr Much served as the Senior Independent Director throughout D J Price 12 13 - - - the year.
P A Rayner 13 13 - - - During the year the Chairman met regularly with the non-executive The maximum number of meetings which each director could have attended is shown directors without the executives being present.
The non-executive directors have letters of appointment covering, Board Committees amongst other items, their terms of appointment and expected The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the Nomination time commitment.
These letters of appointment provide for a Committee and the Remuneration Committee are posted on three year appointment, unless terminated earlier by and at the the Companys website and are available on request from the discretion of either party upon three months written notice.
Further details are set out in the Directors Remuneration Report Audit Committee on page 44, and copies of the letters of appointment are available for inspection on request to the Company Secretary.
The Rt Hon Lord Freeman Committee Chairman In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, all Vanda Murray Appointed 1 November 2011 directors are required to submit themselves for re-election every Ian Much three years.
However, in order to ensure compliance with the Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss Code, all directors voluntarily submitted themselves for re-election at the Annual General in March 2011, and will do so again at the The Rt Hon Lord Freeman, who is a chartered accountant, is forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Chairman of the Audit Committee: his full biographical details are set out on page 35.
The Committee met three times during The papers accompanying the Notice of Annual General Meeting the year, and operates within formal written terms of reference.
include a statement from the Chairman con rming that the As referred to above, the terms of reference are available on the performance of each non-executive director seeking re-election at Companys website.
Meetings of the Committee are attended, at the meeting continues to be effective and that each such director the invitation of the Chairman of the Committee, by the external continues to demonstrate commitment to their role.
auditors, the Chairman of the Board, the Finance Director and The performance of the Board and its effectiveness are subject representatives from the Group finance and internal audit function.
to periodic review by the Chairman.
The Chairman and the The Committee meets with the auditors on a regular basis without non-executive directors consider the individual performance of the the executive directors being present.
The Company Secretary executive directors as part of the annual remuneration review, and acts as secretary to the Committee and minutes of meetings are the Chairman and the Chief Executive review the performance of circulated to all Board members.
During the year, a formal evaluation of The Committee is authorised to seek any information it requires the Board was also carried out by the Chairman, with the assistance from any employee of the Company in order to perform its duties, of the Company Secretary.
Feedback was sought from each of the and to obtain any outside legal or other professional advice it directors on topics including: the quality of the Boards review and requires at the Companys expense.
monitoring of strategic aims: ways in which the mix of skills and Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 50 Corporate governance Statement on Corporate Governance continued The Committee monitors the integrity of the Groups financial To assess the effectiveness of the external auditors, the statements and the effectiveness of the external audit process.
It is Committee reviewed: responsible for ensuring that an appropriate relationship between the arrangements for ensuring the external auditors the Group and the external auditors is maintained, including independence and objectivity: reviewing non-audit services and fees.
The Committee keeps the external auditors ful lment of the agreed audit plan and any under review the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls variations from the plan: and financial risk management systems, and on an annual basis, considers the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function.
the robustness and perceptiveness of the auditors in their The Committee reviews annually its terms of reference and its handling of the key accounting and audit judgements: and effectiveness, and recommends to the Board any changes required the content of the external auditors reporting and as the result of such review.
During the year, the Committee, operating under its terms of Deloitte LLP have been the Companys auditors for many years.
reference, discharged its responsibilities by: In the opinion of the Committee, the relationship with the auditors reviewing the Groups draft 2010 financial statements and 2011 currently works well, and having reviewed their independence interim results statement prior to Board approval, and reviewing and effectiveness, the Committee has not considered it necessary the external auditors detailed reports thereon: to date to require Deloitte LLP to re-tender for the audit work.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that reviewing the appropriateness of the Groups accounting policies, Deloitte LLP be proposed for re-appointment as auditors at the and reviewing various accounting matters raised by management forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
and the external auditors in the context of financial disclosures: The Committee keeps under review the level of any non-audit considering and approving changes to the Groups accounting services which are provided by the external auditors, to ensure policy manual: that this does not impair their independence and objectivity.
The reviewing the potential impact on the Groups financial Committee has adopted a policy which states that the external statements of certain matters such as impairments of xed asset auditors should not be appointed to provide services in relation values and the adoption of new accounting standards: to corporate finance matters, unless the Committee agrees that reviewing the external auditors plan for the 2011 interim review their appointment would be in the best interests of the Companys and the 2011 year end audit, including reviewing the key risks shareholders in particular circumstances and would not create any on the accounts, con rmation of auditor independence and the direct con ict with their role as external auditors.
The Committee, proposed audit fee, and approving the terms of engagement for in conjunction with the Finance Director, ensures that the Group the audit: maintains a suf cient choice of appropriately quali ed audit rms.
Details of the amounts paid to the external auditors during the year receiving reports from the Risk Committee and reviewing the for audit and other services are set out in the notes to the financial Groups risk register: statements on page 68. reviewing the Groups anti-bribery policies and procedures, Nomination Committee and the compliance of each of the Groups businesses with these policies: Peter Hickson Committee Chairman monitoring the Groups nancing structures: Ian Much monitoring the Groups key financial ratios and credit ratings: Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss overseeing the application of the Groups whistleblowing policy Mr Hickson is Chairman of the Nomination Committee but, in and procedures for employees: accordance with the Committees terms of reference, is not permitted to chair meetings when the Committee is dealing reviewing the work undertaken by the Groups internal audit with the appointment of his successor.
As referred to above, function, assessing the adequacy of the internal audit resource the Committees terms of reference are available on the and recommending changes for increasing the scope of the Companys website.
internal audit activities: and With regards to the recruitment and appointment of new directors implementing the Groups policy on the provision of non-audit to the Board, the Committee considers the speci c knowledge services by the auditors, taking into account relevant guidance and expertise which would be of bene t to the Groups current and best practice.
operations and future strategy, and provides a brief to external The Groups internal audit programme incorporates an annual search agents based upon its conclusions.
The search agents put rolling review of all businesses, and focuses on both financial and forward a short list of candidates for the Committee to interview nonfinancial controls and procedures.
Newly acquired businesses before making its recommendations to the Board.
The Board are subjected to a detailed review by the internal audit function interviews preferred candidates prior to making any formal offers immediately post-completion.
The Committee approves the of appointment.
These procedures were adopted during the year annual internal audit plan and receives regular reports from the for the appointment of Mrs Murray.
During the year, the Board considered the contents of Lord Davies The Committee has considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of Review into Women on Boards published in February 2011, and the current auditors from the market and noted that there are no has since noted the changes to the Code in relation to diversity contractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditors.
which will take effect from 1 October 2012.
The Board supports the principles set out in the Davies Review, as re ected by the fact that the Board now has two female members.
The Board also Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 Business overview Corporate governance Financial statements Other information 51 recognises the importance of promoting diversity across the Group, just those of shareholders who attend the meeting.
Poll results and is therefore committed to achieving a minimum of at least 25% will be published on the Companys website as soon as practicable female representation on the Board by 2013. following the conclusion of the meeting.
The Notice of the Annual General Meeting is sent to shareholders at least twenty working Remuneration Committee days before the meeting.
Ian Much Committee Chairman Financial reporting The Rt Hon Lord Freeman The Statement of Directors Responsibilities in respect of the Peter Hickson financial statements and accounting records maintained by the Company is set out on page 38.
Vanda Murray Appointed 1 November 2011 Air Marshal Sir Peter Norriss Internal control and risk management The Board has continued to review the effectiveness of the Groups The Remuneration Committee met six times during the year.
systems of internal control, including financial, operational and Further details on the Committee and the Companys policy on compliance controls, and risk management systems.
directors remuneration and long term incentive schemes are included within the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups systems of internal control and attaches considerable importance to Executive Committee these systems, which are designed to meet the Groups particular David Price Chief Executive needs and identify those risks to which it is exposed.
However, the systems can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance Terry Bridgewater Group Director of Safety against material misstatement, loss or mismanagement of the Richard Dellar Managing Director Chemring International Groups assets.
Sarah Ellard Group Legal Director In carrying out its review of the effectiveness of the Groups Stephen Grinham Managing Director Roke Electronics systems of internal control in compliance with provision C2.1 of Michael Helme Managing Director Chemring Europe the Code, the Board has taken into consideration the following key features of the Groups risk management systems and control Daniel McKenrick President Chemring North America procedures which operated during the year: Rupert Pittman Director of Communications & Investor Relations The Board assesses the key risks associated with achievement of Paul Rayner Group Finance Director the Groups business objectives as part of the annual strategic Dr Price chairs the Executive Committee, which meets monthly.
Out of this process, each business establishes The Executive Committee is responsible for the executive a five year plan and annual budget, which are subject to approval day-to-day running of the Group, submission to the Board of by the Board.
The performance of each business against strategic plans and budgets for the Groups operations, and budget and prior years is reviewed on a monthly basis at both monitoring the day-to-day performance of the Group as a whole.
operational level and by the Board.
Achievement of strategic business objectives and the associated risks are monitored by Relations with shareholders the Board on an ongoing basis.
The Company maintains an active dialogue with institutional All businesses hold monthly operating meetings, which are shareholders through regular brie ng meetings and formal attended by the respective Divisional Managing Directors.
In presentations following the release of interim and annual results.
addition, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director attend Meetings are usually attended by the Chief Executive and the operational and strategic review meetings with each of the Finance Director, although the Chairman has attended meetings with some shareholders during the year.
The non-executive businesses on a quarterly basis.
In the case of the US businesses, formal Board meetings are held quarterly, and these are directors are also offered the opportunity to meet with major attended by main Board directors and external non-executive shareholders and attend meetings if so requested by major directors appointed in the US.
The US non-executive directors shareholders.
No such requests were received during the year.
are available to provide guidance and monitor governance in Communication with private investors is achieved largely through the medium of the interim report and the financial statements.
the US businesses throughout the year.
External non-executive directors are also appointed to the Boards of the Groups Italian, The Companys website www.
co. uk provides financial Norwegian and Australian subsidiaries.
and business information on the Group.
Each business is required to comply with the Groups The directors are provided with reports and other written brie ngs Accounting Policy Manual, which sets out formal procedures for from the Companys principal shareholders and analysts, and are incurring certain types of expenditure and making contractual regularly informed by the Company Secretary about changes to commitments.
Compliance with the accounting policy manual signi cant shareholdings.
is audited by the internal auditors, who report regularly to the It is the Companys policy that all directors should attend and Audit Committee on their findings.
make themselves available to take questions from shareholders The Board retains primary responsibility for acquisitions and or address any concerns at the Annual General Meeting.
At other disposals, and nancing arrangements for the Group.
Treasury times of the year, the directors can be contacted via the Companys management, IT strategy, insurance and signi cant legal head of ce.
matters are dealt with centrally from the Group head of ce, All substantial issues, including the adoption of the annual report and the Board receives regular reports on each of these items.
and financial statements, are proposed on separate resolutions at Reviews of the Groups pensions, insurance and risk management the Annual General Meeting.
In line with best practice guidelines, arrangements are carried out by external advisors on a voting at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting will be regular basis.
conducted by way of a poll.
This allows all votes to be counted, not Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011 52 Corporate governance Statement on Corporate Governance continued The Group Director of Safety, supported by divisional Health and Going concern Safety Management Committees, co-ordinates and controls the The directors have acknowledged the latest guidance on going activities of each business in relation to health and safety and concern.
They have made appropriate enquiries and taken into environmental matters, which are a key focus for the Board in account factors, which are further detailed in the Review by the view of the nature of the Groups operations.
The Chief Executive Finance Director, such as: is the Board member nominated with speci c responsibility for the strong order book of 878.3 million as at the year end, health and safety.
The Chief Executive meets formally with health despite market conditions and government spending cuts in the and safety professionals from each business on an annual basis.
US and Europe: The Group has committed to adherence with the European the Groups underlying operating cash ow of 124.6 million Aerospace and Defence Associations Common Industry during the year: Standards on Anti-Corruption, and following the enactment of the UK Bribery Act 2010, the Group introduced a Bribery the strong balance sheet at the year end of 475.4 million: and Act Compliance Manual incorporating its anti-bribery policies the Groups available banking facilities, which amount to and procedures.
230 million with maturities through to April 2015 see Note 22 The Groups Risk Management Committee meets on a quarterly of the financial statements.
All members of the Group Executive Committee also serve on The Groups banking covenants were all met during the year, and the Risk Management Committee.
The Committee reviews the key the expectation is that this will continue.
As a consequence, the risks associated with the achievement of the annual budget and the directors believe that the Company is well-placed to manage its five year plan for each business, and the risk control procedures risks.
Details of how the Group manages its liquidity risk can be implemented.
It also considers the top five health and safety risks found in Note 25 of the financial statements.
which have been identi ed at each site and agrees the action The long term nature of the Groups business, taken together with plan to address these.
The Risk Management Committee reports the Groups forward order book, provide a satisfactory level of biannually to the Audit Committee and the Board on the top ten risks from a Group perspective, and monitors the actions being con dence to the Board in respect of trading in the year ahead.
The directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the The Board con rms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the foreseeable future.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern Groups systems of internal control and risk management which basis in preparing the financial statements.
were in place during the financial year ended 31 October 2011, and it con rms that systems of internal control and risk management compliant with the Code and the Turnbull Guidance were in place Approved by the Board of Directors on 24 January 2012. throughout the year and have remained in place up to the date of Signed on behalf of the Board approval of these financial statements.
Notwithstanding this, the Board will continue to take steps to embed internal control and S L Ellard risk management further into the operations of the Group and to Group Legal Director & Company Secretary deal with any areas of improvement which come to the attention of management and the Board.
Procedures to deal with directors con icts of interest All directors have a duty under the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act to avoid a situation in which he or she has or can have a direct or indirect interest that con icts or possibly may con ict with the interests of the Company.
The Companys Articles of Association include provisions for dealing with directors con icts of interest in accordance with the 2006 Act.
The Company has procedures in place to deal with situations where directors may have any such con icts, which require the Board to: consider each con ict situation separately on its particular facts: consider the con ict situation in conjunction with the rest of their duties under the 2006 Act: keep records and Board minutes as to authorisations granted by directors and the scope of any approvals given: and regularly review con ict authorisation.
Chemring Group PLC Report and Accounts 2011
