At each Board meeting the latest available financial information is produced which consists of detailed management accounts with the relevant comparisons to budget.
A current trading appraisal is given by the Executive Directors.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors are submitting themselves for re-election at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The biographical details of the Directors of the Group are set out on page 71.
In the event of a proposal to appoint a new Director, this would be discussed at a full Board meeting, with each member being given the opportunity to meet the individual concerned prior to any formal decision being taken.
Chairman and Chief Executive The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive has been agreed by the Board and encompasses the following parameters: the Chairmans role is to provide continuity, experience, governance and strategic advice, while the Chief Executive provides leadership, drives the day-to-day operations of the business, and works with the Chairman on overall strategy: the Chairman, working with the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, is viewed by investors as the ultimate steward of the business and the guardian of the interests of all the shareholders: the Board believes that the Chairman and the Chief Executive work together to provide effective and complementary stewardship: the Chairman must: take overall responsibility for the composition and capability of the Board: and consult regularly with the Chief Executive and be available on a flexible basis for providing advice, counsel and support to the Chief Executive.
the Chief Executive must: manage the Executive Directors and the Groups day-to-day activities: prepare and present to the Board strategic options for growth in shareholder value: set the operating plans and budgets required to deliver agreed strategy: and ensure that the Group has in place appropriate risk management and control mechanisms.
Performance Evaluation Each year the Board undertakes a formal evaluation of its own performance and that of its Committee and its individual members.
During the year, the Chairman evaluated the performance of the Executive Directors, and the performance of the Chairman was evaluated by the Senior Independent Non-Executive Director.
It was considered that the individuals, the Committees and the Board as a whole were operating effectively, with appropriate procedures put in place for minor areas identified for improvement.
The Board has noted the recommendations of the new Combined Code, and intends to appoint a facilitator during the year ended 31 March 2012 to perform an external evaluation of the Boards effectiveness and procedures, and those of its Committees.
All of the Non-Executive Directors are being proposed for election at the Annual General Meeting.
Following the performance evaluation above, the Committee has determined that their performance is effective, and that they demonstrated commitment to the role.
Information and Professional Development All Directors are provided with detailed financial information throughout the year.
On a weekly basis they receive a detailed occupancy report showing the performance of each of the Groups open stores.
Management accounts are circulated to the Board monthly, and a detailed Board pack is distributed a week prior to each Board meeting.
All Directors are kept informed of changes in relevant legislation and changing commercial risks with the assistance of the Companys legal advisers and auditors where appropriate.
During the year under review, this has included consideration of Directors responsibilities, an update on developments in the Combined Code and a briefing on the Bribery Act.
The professional development requirements of Executive Directors are identified and progressed as part of each individuals annual appraisal.
All new Directors are provided with a full induction programme on joining the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend seminars and undertake external training at the Companys expense in areas they consider to be appropriate for their own professional development.
Each year, the programme of senior management meetings is tailored to enable meetings to be held at the Companys properties.
During the year, the senior management team made visits to all of the Groups open stores.
Standing Committees of the Board The Board has Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, each of which has written terms of reference.
They deal clearly with the authorities and duties of each Committee and are formally reviewed annually.
Copies of these terms of reference are available on the Companys website.
Each of these Committees is comprised of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company who are appointed by the Board on the recommendation of the Nominations Committee.
The Chairman of each Committee reports the outcome of the meetings to the Board.
The Company Secretary is secretary to each Committee.
43 Report on Corporate Governance continued Remuneration Committee Tim Clark Chairman Steve Johnson Mark Richardson Jonathan Short Steve Johnson was appointed to the Committee in the year upon his appointment to the Board.
The Committee is responsible for determining broad policy for the remuneration of the Executive Directors and the Company Secretary.
Within the terms of the agreed policy the Committee will determine the total individual remuneration package of each Executive Director, including, where appropriate, bonuses, incentive payments, pension arrangements and share options.
The Committee will select, appoint and set the terms of reference for any remuneration consultants who advise the Committee.
The Committee will ensure that the contractual terms on termination, and any payments made, are fair to the individual and the Company, that failure is not rewarded and that the duty to mitigate loss is, where appropriate, fully recognised.
The fees of the Non-Executive Directors are reviewed by the Board at regular intervals.
The statement of remuneration policy and details of each Directors remuneration is set out in the Directors Remuneration Report.
Nominations Committee Tim Clark Chairman Steve Johnson Mark Richardson Jonathan Short Steve Johnson was appointed to the Committee in the year upon his appointment to the Board.
The Nominations Committee is responsible for regularly reviewing the structure, size and composition required of the Board and giving consideration to succession planning for Directors and other senior Executives.
Where changes are required, it is also responsible for the identification, selection and proposal to the Board for approval of persons suitable for appointment or reappointment to the Board, whether as Executive or Non-Executive Directors and to seek approval from the Remuneration Committee to the remuneration and terms and conditions of service of any proposed Executive Director appointment.
The Chairman of the Committee presents reports to the Board as appropriate to enable the Board as a whole to agree the appointments of new Directors.
The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as required and as determined by its members.
The terms and conditions of appointment for the Non-Executive Directors is available for inspection at the Companys Head Office during normal working hours.
They are also available for inspection at the Companys AGM.
Appointment to the Board During the year the Nominations Committee considered the skill sets of the existing Non-Executive Directors.
The Committee also considered the overall make-up of the Board and decided that it was appropriate to appoint a new Non-Executive Director, who specialised in marketing and retail.
The Nominations Committee appointed an external recruitment consultant to provide a shortlist of candidates to the Committee.
Following a rigorous interview process, the Committee recommended to the Board that Steve Johnson be appointed to the Board.
Steve Johnson was duly appointed to the Board during the year.
The Nominations Committee believes the Board benefits from this appointment.
Shareholder Relations The Board aims to achieve clear reporting of financial performance to all shareholders and acknowledges the importance of an open dialogue by both Executive and Non-Executive Directors with its institutional shareholders.
The Board believes that the Annual Report and Accounts play an important part in presenting all shareholders with an assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Company has an active dialogue with its shareholders through a programme of investor meetings which include formal presentation of the full and half year results.
The Executive Directors have participated in investor conferences and meetings during the year, throughout the United Kingdom, and also in the United States and the Netherlands.
The Board also welcomes the interest of private investors and believes that, in addition to the Annual Report and the Companys website, the Annual General Meeting is an ideal forum at which to communicate with investors and the Board encourages their participation.
At each Board Meeting, the Board is updated on any shareholding meetings that have taken place, and any views expressed or issues raised by the shareholders in these meetings.
Any queries raised by a shareholder, either verbally or in writing, are answered immediately by whoever is best placed on the Board to do so.
Directors are introduced to shareholders at the AGM, including the identification of Non-Executive Directors and Committee Chairmen.
The number of proxy votes cast in the resolution is announced at the AGM.
44 Risk Management and Internal Control The Directors are responsible for the Groups system of risk management and internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The system of internal control was in place throughout the financial year and to the date of this report.
Such a system is designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Group operates a rigorous system of internal control, which is designed to ensure that the possibility of misstatement or loss is kept to a minimum.
There is a comprehensive system in place for financial reporting and the Board receives a number of reports to enable it to carry out these functions in the most efficient manner.
These procedures include the preparation of management accounts, forecast variance analysis and other ad hoc reports.
There are clearly defined authority limits throughout the Group, including those matters which are reserved specifically for the Board.
In compliance with provision C. 2.1 of the Combined Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses are promptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
The Board has also performed a specific assessment for the purpose of this annual report.
This assessment considers all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
A formal risk identification and assessment exercise has been carried out resulting in a risk framework document summarising the key risks, potential impact and the mitigating factors or controls in place.
The Board have a stated policy of reviewing this risk framework at least once a year or in the event of a material change.
The risk identification process also considered significant non-financial risks.
During the reviews, the Directors: challenged the framework to ensure that the list of significant risks to business objectives is still valid and complete: considered new and emerging risks to business objectives and included them in the framework if significant: ensured that any changes in the impact or likelihood of the risks are reflected in the risk framework: and ensured that there are appropriate action plans in place to address unacceptable risks.
The results of the exercise have been communicated to the Board and the Audit Committee.
This was in the form of a summary report which included: a prioritised summary of the key risks and their significance: any changes in the list of significant risks or their impact and likelihood since the last assessment: new or emerging risks that may become significant objectives in the future: progress on action plans to address significant risks: and any actual or potential control failures or weaknesses during the period including near misses.
During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore, a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
Internal Audit The Group does not have a formal internal audit function because the Board has concluded that the internal controls systems discussed above are sufficient for the Group at this time.
However, the Group employs a Store Compliance Manager responsible for reviewing store operational and financial controls.
He reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
The Store Compliance Manager visits each operational store twice a year to carry out a detailed store audit.
These audits are unannounced and the Store Compliance Manager carries out detailed tests on financial management within the stores, administrative standards, and operational standards.
This role is supported by an Assistant Store Compliance Manager, enabling additional work and support to be carried out across the Groups store portfolio.
Part of the store staffs bonus is based on the scores they achieve in these audits.
The results of each audit are reviewed by the Chief Financial Officer and the Head of Store Operations.
A summary of the principal risks and uncertainties within the business are set out in the Risk Assessment section of the Business Review from page 28.
Going Concern A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out on pages 22 to 39 of the Business and Financial Reviews.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity position and borrowing facilities are shown in the balance sheet, cash flow statement and accompanying notes in the financial statements.
Further information concerning the Groups objectives, policies and processes for managing its capital: its financial risk management objectives: details of its financial instruments and hedging activities: and its exposures to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in the Operating and Financial Review.
After reviewing Group and Company cash balances, borrowing facilities, forecast valuation movements and projected cash flows, the Directors believe that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue operations for the foreseeable future.
In reaching this conclusion the Directors have had regard to the Groups operating plan and budget for the year ending 31 March 2012 and projections contained in the longer term business plan which covers the period to March 2016.
The Directors have considered carefully the Groups trading performance and cash flows as a result of the uncertain global economic environment and the other principal risks to the Groups performance and are satisfied with the Groups positioning.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
45 Report on Corporate Governance continued Directors Responsibilities The Directors are responsible for preparing the Annual Report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable laws and regulations.
Company law requires the Directors to prepare such financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the Directors are required to prepare Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have also chosen to prepare the parent Company financial statements under IFRSs as adopted by the European Union.
Under company law the Directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors are required to: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Companys ability to continue as a going concern.
The Directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Directors responsibility statement We confirm to the best of our knowledge: 1. the financial statements, prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the EU, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and 2. the Business Review, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
By order of the Board Shauna Beavis Secretary 23 May 2011 46 Audit Committee Report Summary of the Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee is appointed by the Board from the Non-Executive Directors of the Group.
The Audit Committees terms of reference include all matters indicated by Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.1 and the Combined Code.
The terms of reference are considered annually by the Audit Committee and are then referred to the Board for approval.
The Audit Committee is responsible for: monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Group and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial performance and reviewing significant financial reporting judgements contained therein: reviewing the Groups internal financial controls and the Groups internal control and risk management systems, including consideration of the need for an internal audit function: making recommendations to the Board for a resolution to be put to the shareholders for their approval in general meetings, on the appointment of the external auditors and the approval of the remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors: reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: and developing and implementing a policy on the engagement of the external auditors to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services by the external audit firm.
The Audit Committee is required to report its findings to the Board, identifying any matters on which it considers that action or improvement is needed, and make recommendations on the steps to be taken.
Composition of the Audit Committee The members of the Audit Committee are: Mark Richardson Chairman Tim Clark Steve Johnson Jonathan Short Membership of the Committee is reviewed by the Chairman of the Committee and the Executive Chairman, who is not a member of the Audit Committee, at regular intervals and they recommend new appointments to the Nominations Committee for onward recommendation to the Board.
Steve Johnson was appointed to the Audit Committee during the year on his appointment to the Board.
The Audit Committee structure requires the inclusion of one financially qualified member as recognised by the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies.
Currently Mark Richardson, as a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England and Wales, fulfils this requirement.
All Audit Committee members are expected to be financially literate.
The Committee is comprised of four Non-Executive Directors, a majority of whom have to be deemed independent, with a minimum of three members at any time.
The Group provides an induction programme for new Audit Committee members and on-going training to enable all of the Committee members to carry out their duties.
The induction programme covers the role of the Audit Committee, its terms of reference and expected time commitment by members and an overview of the Groups business, including the main business and financial dynamics and risks.
New Committee members also meet some of the Groups staff.
On-going training includes attendance at formal conferences, internal company seminars and briefings by external advisers.
The Board expects the Audit Committee members to have an understanding of: the principles of, contents of, and developments in financial reporting including the applicable accounting standards and statements of recommended practice: key aspects of the Groups operations including corporate policies, Group financing, products and systems of internal control: matters that influence or distort the presentation of accounts and key figures: the principles of, and developments in, company law, sector-specific laws and other relevant corporate legislation: the role of external auditing and risk management: the regulatory framework for the Groups businesses: and environmental and social responsibility best reporting practices.
The Committee have reviewed the arrangements for whistleblowing by employees to ensure that there is a consistent policy in the Group to enable employees to voice concerns particularly in respect of possible financial reporting improprieties.
A whistleblowing policy is included in the employee handbook.
Meetings The Audit Committee is required to meet three times per year and has an agenda linked to events in the Groups financial calendar.
The agenda is predominantly cyclical and is therefore approved by the Audit Committee Chairman on behalf of his fellow members.
Each Audit Committee member has the right to require reports on matters of interest in addition to the cyclical items.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive, Chief Financial Officer, Financial Controller, and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend all of its meetings in full, although it reserves the right to request any of these individuals to withdraw.
Other senior management are invited to present such reports as are required for the Committee to discharge its duties.
