8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 114 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK THE BOARD GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE There is increasing external emphasis on the need for good corporate governance.
In June 2010 The Combined Code on Corporate Governance was BOARD updated by the Financial Reporting Council which published The UK Corporate Governance Code.
The changes to the Code include new principles on the composition and selection of the Board, the leadership of the Chairman, Board evaluation reviews, annual re-election of Directors, specific obligations to identify and monitor risk, and aligning performance-related pay to the longterm interests of the Company.
British Land already complies with the majority of the provisions of the new Code.
We welcome and support these changes, and expect to report full compliance in our next Annual Report.
Statement of compliance with the Code of Best Practice Audit Remuneration Nomination The Company has complied throughout the year with the Provisions of The Committee Committee Committee Combined Code on Corporate Governance 2008, other than that, following Non-executive Non-executive Non-executive Robert Swannells departure on 1 October 2010 until John Gildersleeves and Directors Directors Directors Richard Pyms appointments to the Nomination Committee on 11 November 2010, the Nomination Committee did not include a majority of independent Non-executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee did not meet between 1 October and 11 November 2010.
Executive Investment Corporate Committee Committee Responsibility Other legislative changes include the introduction of the new Bribery Act, Executive Directors Executive Directors Committee the provisions of which are due to come into force on 1 July 2011.
British Land and Senior Executives Senior Executives conducts business in an honest way, without the use of corrupt practices or bribery to obtain an unfair advantage.
We have carried out a risk assessment and reviewed and updated our policies and internal procedures taking account of the guidance issued by the Ministry of Justice.
In addition, training is provided to ensure and emphasise continuing awareness of the legal requirements and For more information For more information our expectations throughout the Group.
on the Audit Committee on the Remuneration Committee p118119 p120129 BOARD EFFECTIVENESS The Board is responsible for the strategy, effective control and management of the Group.
There is a written division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive, which has been approved by the Board.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for Board approval, which includes the approval of the annual and quarterly accounts, the approval of authority levels below the Board and the approval of material acquisitions, disposals and financing arrangements.
The Board delegates authority to the Executive Directors of the Company in respect of certain transactions within defined, limited parameters.
The Board has a regular schedule of meetings together with further meetings as required by the on-going business of the Company.
The Chairman and individual Directors meet regularly, outside formal Board meetings, as part of each Directors continuing contribution to delivery of the Companys strategy and achieve superior returns for shareholders.
This process also allows for open two-way discussion about the effectiveness of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, both Executive and Non-executive.
By this means the Chairman is continually aware of the views of individual Directors and can act as necessary to deal with any issues relating to Board effectiveness before they can become a risk to the Company.
A meeting takes place each year over a twoor three-day period to discuss and agree the on-going strategy of the Group.
This meeting is attended by the whole Board together with Senior Executives contributing to specific discussions.
Papers are considered on each part of the Groups existing and prospective portfolio, financing and of the Group as a whole in order to formulate and confirm the overall corporate strategy going forward.
There is a strong and independent Non-executive element on the Board as shown by the details of Directors on page 111.
114 114 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 115 BRITISH LAND BOARD PERFORMANCE EVALUATION NOMINATION COMMITTEE The British Land Board performance evaluation alternates internally facilitated The Nomination Committees responsibilities include making recommendations appraisals with externally facilitated appraisals at least every three years.
to the Board on all new Board appointments and succession planning.
As last year the internally facilitated formal Board Appraisal process required It consists of Chris Gibson-Smith, Lord Turnbull, John Gildersleeve and each Director to give detailed input, the results of which were considered by Richard Pym.
Robert Swannell also served until his resignation in October 2010, the Chairman, the Senior Independent Director and the Board.
The appraisal following which John Gildersleeve and Richard Pym joined the Committee covered the Boards role, corporate governance, executive and Non-executive in November 2010.
Directors contributions, information flow and monitoring Company performance.
The appraisal results were again generally strongly positive and improved During the year the Committee has made recommendations to the Board from last year.
The Boards goal is for continuous improvement in the results on the appointment of two new Non-executive Directors, Simon Borrows and year-on-year.
The recommendations were made after considering a wide range of candidates and employing external search consultants.
The Committee The annual appraisal process also includes the Senior Independent Director has also considered and approved the appointment of one new Executive meeting to discuss the performance of the Chairman with other Directors Director, Lucinda Bell.
It has also considered succession planning, the structure, annually, or more frequently as necessary.
In addition, the Chairman meets size and composition of the Board and its Committees, the recommendations with each Non-executive Director annually to discuss their contribution and to the Board of Directors retiring for re-election by shareholders and the the Chairman provides the Remuneration Committee with a written appraisal renewal of Non-executive Directors letters of appointment.
of the Chief Executives performance for the year.
Similarly, the Chief Executive provides the Remuneration Committee with a written assessment of the ATTENDANCE AT BOARD OR COMMITTEE MEETINGS DURING THE YEAR Executive Directors performance.
TO 31 MARCH 2011 Attendance is expressed as the number of meetings attended out of the number COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD eligible to attend.
The Board has established Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees which operate within defined terms of reference, which are made available on Board Directors the Companys website www.
com : the minutes of the Committees Audit Remuneration Nomination are circulated to the Board.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees are Name Board Committee Committee Committee entirely composed of independent Non-executive Directors, and the Nomination Committee is composed of independent Non-executive Directors together with Chris Gibson-Smith 8 8 2 2 the Chairman.
John Gildersleeve is the Senior Independent Director.
Chris Grigg 8 8 Aubrey Adams 8 8 5 5 In addition there are three principal management committees established Lucinda Bell 1 1 by the Chief Executive the Executive Committee, composed of the Executive Simon Borrows 1 1 Directors and Senior Executives: the Investment Committee, composed of the Clive Cowdery 6 8 2 5 Executive Directors: and the Corporate Responsibility Committee, composed John Gildersleeve 8 8 3 4 1 1 of Senior Executives with its chairman reporting directly to the Chief Executive.
Dido Harding 8 8 4 4 Charles Maudsley 8 8 The activities of the committees are discussed below, and in a separate Report Richard Pym 8 8 5 5 1 1 by the Audit Committee and in the Remuneration Report by the Remuneration Committee.
Graham Roberts 6 8 Tim Roberts 8 8 AUDIT COMMITTEE Stephen Smith 8 8 Details of the Audit Committee and its activities are set out in the Report of the Robert Swannell 3 3 2 3 1 1 Audit Committee on pages 118 and 119.
Lord Turnbull 8 8 4 5 4 4 2 2 REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Number of meetings Details of the Remuneration Committee and the Group remuneration policy during the year 8542 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 120 to 129.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 115 8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 116 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued ROTATION OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY COMMITTEE The Articles of Association of the Company require each Director to retire Details of the Corporate Responsibility Committee and its activities are set at the third Annual General Meeting AGM after the general meeting at out in the Corporate Responsibility section of this Report on pages 63 to 70. which he was last elected.
In line with the 2011 changes in The UK Corporate Governance Code, it will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting that all RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL Directors require annual re-election.
The Directors are responsible for the maintenance of a sound system of internal control.
The Board has continued to apply the internal control provisions of NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS The Combined Code on Corporate Governance through a continuous process The Board considers that Aubrey Adams, Simon Borrows, John Gildersleeve, for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks the Group faces.
Dido Harding, William Jackson, Richard Pym and Lord Turnbull are independent This process has been in place throughout the year, up to the date of approval Non-executive Directors.
In making this determination the Board has considered of this Report, and the Group has been in compliance with the provisions set whether each Director is independent in character and judgement and whether out in Section 1 of the Code.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system there are relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is affect, the Directors judgement.
The Board believes that it is evident from designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve consideration of the Non-executive Directors biographies detailed on the Board business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute of Directors pages that they are of the integrity and stature required to perform assurance against material misstatement or loss.
their roles of independent Non-executive Directors.
The Group applies the following fundamental control principles: The terms and conditions of appointment of Non-executive Directors are A defined schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board: available for inspection at the Companys registered office and at the Annual General Meeting.
A detailed authorisation process which ensures that no material commitments are entered into without competent and proper EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE authorisation by more than one approved executive: The Executive Committee comprises the Executive Directors together with Formal documentation of all significant transactions: the Senior Executives shown on page 113.
The Committee, which is chaired by Chris Grigg, deals with the on-going management of the Group and meets A system of business and financial planning including cash flow and approximately twice monthly.
profitability forecasting and scenario exercises performed on major corporate, property and financing proposals: The Committee considers a number of differing issues including the day-toA property investment appraisal process: day running of the business, the performance of the Groups assets, financing, internal procedures, risk management and matters for recommendation to Monitoring against budget and forecast: other committees or the Board.
It receives and considers a number of regular Continual benchmarking of property performance with external sources reports a Monthly Reporting Pack, and quarterly a Property Market Review such as the Investment Property Databank IPD : and a report on Economic and Capital Markets.
The Committee discusses emerging trends, and ad-hoc reports are considered on various matters A comprehensive property and corporate insurance programme: including market sectors, cost inflation and drivers of the business.
A separate meeting is set aside each quarter to consider and discuss The Board continually reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal a Quarterly Business Review.
This Report provide a high level quarterly control.
The key risks that the Group faces and features of the internal control performance review of the business focusing on the key metrics for retail, system that operated throughout the period covered by the accounts are described office and finance, and assists the Committee in considering and debating in the Report of the Audit Committee on pages 118 and 119, and the approach the performance of each area of the Group.
to risk and the principal risks themselves are shown on pages 102 to 105.
INVESTMENT COMMITTEE The Investment Committee comprises the Executive Directors.
It is chaired by Stephen Smith and meets as required to review and approve property transactions.
These include any proposed sales or purchases, and proposed capital expenditure above a defined limit, including expenditure in joint ventures.
Approvals by the Committee are subject to the approval of the Board in the case of major transactions, and subject to any other formal Board approvals that may be required including approvals required by the joint venture documentation in the case of joint venture expenditure.
During the year the Committee has met 13 times and considered 42 proposals.
116 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 117 INVESTOR RELATIONS Staff turnover We place considerable importance on maintaining open and clear Employees leaving communication with investors.
The Companys Investor Relations department number and % of total staff is dedicated to facilitating communication with shareholders.
We continue to 2010 11 2009 10 have an on-going programme of dialogue and meetings between the Executive Directors and its shareholders, where a wide range of relevant issues including Head Office 12 15 strategy, performance, the market, management and governance are 8% 9% discussed within the constraints of the information already known to the market.
In addition, we undertake regular roadshows in the UK, Europe and Broadgate Estates 23 21 the US, and participate in sector conferences.
13% 12% Average 18 18 The Directors consider it is important to understand the views of shareholders, 11% 11% and at each scheduled Board meeting the Directors receive a written report of the major issues which have been raised with management.
In 2010, the Board Discrimination commissioned a leading independent investor relations consultancy to produce British Land supports equal opportunities and gender diversity.
At 31 March 2011 an investor perceptions study drawing on interviews with a range of major its 183 Head Office staff comprised 83 females and 100 males: of the 95 staff institutions, both current and past shareholders, in the UK, Europe and the US.
considered executives, 24 were female and 71 male.
There were no incidents of discrimination during the financial year, or the previous financial year.
During the course of a year, shareholders are kept informed of the progress of the Company through results statements and other announcements that CHARITABLE AND POLITICAL CONTRIBUTIONS are released through the London Stock Exchange and other news services.
We recognise the importance and benefits of supporting charities and local Company announcements and presentations are made available simultaneously communities, particularly if they are local to the areas in which we operate.
on our website, affording all shareholders full access to material information.
In the year to 31 March 2011 we donated 392,945 to charities 2010: 297,293, Shareholders can also raise questions directly with the Company at any time all of which were located in the UK, and no contributions were made for political through a facility on the website.
Additionally, there is an opportunity at the Annual General Meeting for individual GOING CONCERN shareholders to question the Chairman and the Chairmen of the Audit, The Groups business activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future Remuneration and Nomination Committees.
At the meeting, the Company development, performance and position are set out in the Directors Report complies with the Combined Code as it relates to voting, including votes and Performance Review.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, withheld, the separation of resolutions, the attendance of committee chairmen liquidity position and borrowing facilities, together with the Groups financing and voting by poll.
The Annual Report and Notice of Meeting are sent to policy, are described in the Financial Review section of the Performance Review shareholders at least 20 working days prior to the AGM.
All AGM resolutions on pages 91 to 101. are decided by poll and the voting results are announced to the London Stock Exchange and are available on the website and on request.
The Group has considerable undrawn debt facilities and cash deposits in excess of current drawn banking facilities.
There is substantial headroom against STAFF the covenants for its unsecured banking facilities, details of which are included We maintain a policy of employing the best candidates available in every in pages 100 and 101 of the Performance Review.
It also benefits from a position, regardless of gender, ethnic group or background.
Applications for diverse and secure income stream from leases with long average lease terms.
employment by disabled persons are always fully considered, bearing in mind As a consequence, the Directors believe that the Group is well placed to manage the aptitudes of the applicants concerned.
In the event of members of staff its business risks satisfactorily despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
becoming disabled, every effort is made to ensure that their employment with us continues and that appropriate training is arranged.
It is our policy that The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group the training, career development and promotion of disabled persons should, have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable as far as possible, be identical to that of other employees.
Thus, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the Annual Report and Accounts.
We encourage employees involvement and keep our employees informed through regular briefings and internal communications.
We have well SUMMARY established all-employee share schemes.
In the UK, separate pension fund In summary, the Directors and Senior Executives continue to manage the Group reports are made available to members.
within a framework that both ensures and encourages corporate governance in line with good practice.
Reportable accidents across our portfolio 2010 11 2009 10 At Head Office nil nil Chris Gibson-Smith At Broadgate Estates staff nil 1 Chairman At our managed properties 43 52 1 Rate per 100,000 hours worked on our developments 0.46 0.26 1 On our developments, there was one reportable accident across 216,327 working hours in 2010 11, compared to 14 reportable accidents across 1.9 million hours in 2009 10.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 117
