8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 118 REPORT OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE COMPOSITION OF THE COMMITTEE Areas formally reviewed and discussed by the Committee during the financial The Audit Committee meets regularly during the year aligned to the quarterly year included: financial reporting timetable: during the financial year it met on five occasions.
The Groups principal risks by priority and their mitigations, including I was appointed Chairman of the Committee in January 2010.
The other Committee detailed matrices developed during the year to assist in calibrating the members are Aubrey Adams, William Jackson appointed 11 April 2011 and priority of each risk: Simon Borrows appointed 12 April 2011.
Aubrey Adams has two years experience on the Audit Committee.
Lord Turnbull was a member of the Committee until An annual report on Internal Control: 11 April 2011 and served on the Committee for five years.
Robert Swannell also An annual fraud risk assessment: served on the Committee until 1 October 2010 and Clive Cowdery until 17 March 2011.
All are independent Non-executive Directors.
I am the member nominated Valuation processes, particularly with regard to the effect of market as having recent and relevant financial experience.
conditions on the pricing of investment and development properties.
This included valuer and internal property analyst presentations to the RESPONSIBILITIES AND ACTIVITIES OF THE COMMITTEE Committee: The Committees responsibilities include: Monitoring of processes and procedures in place to ensure the Board Monitoring the integrity of the financial statements of the Company and any is able effectively to assess borrowing covenant compliance headroom formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance: and forecast sensitivity: Reviewing the Companys internal financial controls and the Companys Occupier credit risk: internal control and risk management systems: Procurement: Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit Corporation tax and VAT: function: Strategy review of the Groups property database: Making recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment of the external auditor and approving the remuneration and terms of engagement Corporate transactions: of the external auditor: Agents financial controls: Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence, objectivity Property investment and leasing: and effectiveness: Cash and debt management: Developing and implementing policy on the engagement of the external auditor to supply non-audit services, taking into account relevant ethical External auditor reports on planning, conclusions and final opinion: guidance: External auditor management letters containing observations arising Reviewing and monitoring the valuation process: from the annual audit leading to recommendations for control or financial reporting improvement: Reviewing the Committees terms of reference and monitoring its execution.
We have undertaken each of the above responsibilities during the year on which we have received and reviewed relevant reports from management, the valuers, and the internal and the external auditor.
We have agreed a schedule of internal audit reviews of various of the Groups processes and controls to be undertaken, and have reviewed the results of those reviews already completed.
By invitation, there are a number of regular attendees at each meeting including the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Head of Financial Forecasting and Reporting, Head of Internal Audit and representatives of the valuers and the external auditor.
Other executives, including the Chief Executive and the Chairman of the Investment Committee, are invited to attend from time to time.
The Committee meets regularly with the external auditor and Head of Internal Audit without management being present.
118 The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Performance review Governance Financial statements Other information Pages 71105 Pages 107131 Pages 133180 Pages 181184 8231 2 Report 2011 107 to 132 Report 2011 13 06 2011 11:50 Page 119 AUDITOR IDENTIFICATION AND EVALUATION OF COMMERCIAL RISKS AND RELATED The Committee is specifically charged under its terms of reference with CONTROL OBJECTIVES considering matters relating to the audit appointment, the independence and British Land undertakes a comprehensive risk assessment semi-annually, objectivity of the auditor, and reviewing the results and effectiveness of the audit.
which identifies the principal risks that affect the Group.
The resulting risk Deloitte LLP were first appointed external auditor of the Group in 2002.
During reports are reviewed and discussed by the Executive Committee.
The adequacy the year, we considered the appointment, compensation and independence of of risk mitigating strategies and controls are considered at each review.
This the external auditor: and the appointment of a new audit partner to take effect helps to assist in defining the risk profile of the business, the risk appetite and for periods after 31 March 2011. ensuring alignment to the business strategy.
With respect to other services provided by the auditor the following framework These risk reports are presented to the Audit Committee for oversight and is in place: discussion, and influence the setting of the internal audit programme.
Each individual risk is underpinned by risk indicators, the management of which Audit related services the auditor is one of a number of firms providing is the responsibility of specific Executive Directors and Senior Executives audit related services, which include formal reporting relating to borrowings, within the Group.
shareholder and other circulars and various work in respect of acquisition and disposals.
Where they must carry out the work because of their office The reporting and discussion of risks to ensure effective risk management or are best placed to do so, the auditor is selected.
In other circumstances is further supported by the presence of a solid governance structure including the selection depends on which firm is best suited: the various committees of the Board and executive committees which have Tax advisory the auditor is one of a number of firms that provide tax well defined responsibilities and authorities.
Clearly articulated policies help advisory services.
The selection depends on who is best suited in the maintain consistent and regulated practices with regard to the key business circumstances: functions, including development, investments and treasury.
Finally, extensive procedural documents detail the range of operational level controls in place General consulting the auditor does not provide general consultancy for the management of risks associated with these transactions, including services except in certain circumstances, and then only after consideration billings and expense management.
that they are best placed to provide the service and that their independence and objectivity would not be compromised.
The Group has a range of reports that assist management in understanding risks and managing them appropriately.
Semi-annually, risk reports are Drivers Jonas Deloitte, which was acquired by Deloitte LLP in 2010, provides sent to Executives and Directors that articulate the key business risks.
the Company with advice on the masterplanning of the 75 acres of potential Monthly management reports are prepared and circulated which include development land around Meadowhall Shopping Centre together with a range of risk and performance indicators.
occasional advice or services on other matters.
The Committee has considered and agreed that this and other non-audit related services provided by Deloitte The approach to risk and the principal risks themselves are shown in pages may continue to be provided, subject to approval by the Committee where 102 to 105. expenditure is above established approval limits.
As shown in note 5 to the financial statements, total fees payable to Deloitte in the last financial year amounted to 1.1 million, of which 0.6 million was for non-audit related services including 0.2 million for advice and services provided by Drivers Jonas Deloitte.
In addition, fees of 0.3 million were payable to Deloitte for RICHARD PYM the audit of various joint ventures of the Group.
Chairman of the Audit Committee Deloitte have provided us with written confirmation of their independence.
Deloitte have also provided a report on the effectiveness of the external audit process which covers audit objectives, leadership, qualification, quality and independence.
The Committee and Board have recommended that the reappointment of Deloitte LLP be proposed to shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
The Committee meets with the external auditor to discuss with them the scope and conclusions of their work.
The arrangements with auditor have been approved by the Committee and are regularly reviewed in the light of changing requirements and best practice.
The British Land Company PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 119
