Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 60 Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance Introduction by the Chairman of the Board On behalf of the Board, I am setting out in this relevant terms of offi ce.
We will be using an executive section of your companys Annual Report our search rm to help nd a prospective replacement corporate governance report for 2011.
Audit Committee Chairman in due course.
In addition, Andrew Huntleys term of offi ce has been renewed The introduction of a second large shareholder for a two year period to expire at the 2014 Annual Peel Group with a seat on the Board occupied General Meeting and Andrew Strangs term of offi ce by its chairman, John Whittaker, has of course led has been renewed for a three year period to expire at us to review our procedures for addressing any the 2015 Annual General Meeting.
Both will be subject con ict of interest which might arise.
A new to annual re-election by shareholders.
formal protocol has been adopted for dealing with such occasions.
The following report sets out our approach to corporate governance which is taken extremely We have welcomed John Whittaker as our Deputy seriously by the Board and is necessarily given a high Chairman.
His contributions to our Board proceedings priority in all Board matters.
We have robust internal have given us the bene t of his valuable experience controls, procedures and measures which are and creativity, across our entire business.
frequently reviewed, updated and monitored.
The principles set out in our protocol re ect those We have enhanced the content of the report this applied in relation to the two recent transactions with yearby including more information and explanation the Peel Group: apart from speaking to the original regarding the operation of the Board and its proposal, John Whittaker recused himself from Committees, which I hope shareholders will nd Boardmeetings when the transactions were discussed interesting and informative.
and took no part in the Boards deliberations and assessment of thetransactions.
The Nomination and Review Committee is aiming to reduce the overall size of the Board over the nexttwoyears.
Ian Henderson is stepping down at Patrick Burgess the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and Chairman of the Board RobRowley and John Abel will step down at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, all having completed their The disclosures required under DTR 7.2 of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules are contained in this report, except for those required under DTR 7.2.
6 which are contained in the Directors report.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 61 and strategy review review responsibility information It also receives reports on the proceedings of its Committees and Compliance Statement considers their recommendations.
Each Board Committees established The Company has, throughout the year ended 31 December 2011, authority limits are reviewed on an annual basis by the Audit complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Committee and, subsequently, by the full Board.
Code the Code except in the following respect: Matters relating to corporate governance are kept under regular For the period from 28 January 2011 to 22 September 2011 the review by the Audit Committee as well as by the full Board.
Matters Company did not comply with Code provision B.
1.2 which states that relating to corporate responsibility are also kept under regular review at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, should comprise by the CR Committee as well as by the Board.
Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Matters reserved for the Board Since the appointment of Lady Patten on 22 September 2011, this Certain matters have been reserved for decision by the whole Board Code provision has been met.
and a schedule setting out a list of these is regularly reviewed.
In other For the period from 1 June 2011 to 22 September 2011 the Company cases the Board has delegated its authority under clearly fide ned did not comply with Code provision D. 2.1 which states that the conditions to technical Committees of the Board.
It has been the Remuneration Committee should comprise at least three independent Boards custom over many years to ensure that major decisions are Non-Executive Directors.
Since the appointment of Lady Patten on taken after a reiterative process which involves examination and review 22September 2011, this Code provision has been met.
In part, this examination and review process is dealt with by the Board and other Committees mentioned below.
Further information on the above is given under the heading Board Changes in 2011 below.
Structure of the Board At the year end, the Board consisted of the Chairman, Mr Burgess, two Executive and nine Non-Executive Directors.
The Board The Executive Directors, supported by the Chief Operating Offi cer Role and responsibilities and senior management, are responsible for the day-to-day operation The Boards overarching objective is to ensure that the Group delivers and management of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors bring long-term sustainable returns for its shareholders.
an external and independent view to the Boards discussions, providing The Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders and other constructive challenge to executive management when appropriate.
stakeholders for the good conduct of the Companys aff airs and the Biographical details of each Director are set out on pages 54 and 55. information and statements set out below describe how the main principles contained in the Code are applied by the Company.
Board changes in 2011 TheCompanys internal procedures are regularly reviewed and As part of the arrangements relating to the acquisition of The Traff ord updated by the Board and the various relevant Board Committees.
Centre from the Peel Group, which included the Peel Group becoming a major shareholder in the Company, Mr Whittaker the Chairman of The terms of reference which are the foundation of those procedures the Peel Group and therefore not independent under the provisions of specify responsibilities and levels of responsibility.
They cover all aspects the Code was appointed as Deputy Chairman and a Non-Executive of the Companys activities including those relating to financial, Director on 28 January 2011. operational and compliance controls and risk management.
The terms of reference for each of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Following Ian Hendersons decision to step down as Chairman of the Review Committees described on pages 68 to 71 below are available Remuneration Committee on 1 June 2011, the criteria applied to the on the Companys website.
search for an additional independent Non-Executive Director, to restore the balance of independent versus non-independent Directors The Board believes that the internal processes adopted meet the required under provision B.
1.2 of the Code, were extended to include highest standards of accountability and probity.
the need for previous remuneration committee experience.
Louise The Company has also demonstrated a strong commitment to high Patten, who has previously chaired the Remuneration Committee standards of corporate responsibility, details of which are set out ofMarks and Spencer plc, was appointed as an independent Nonin the CR review on pages 48 to 53, which we strongly recommend Executive Director and member of the Remuneration Committee on shareholders to read, and on the Companys website.
CSC therefore complied with Code provisions has been included in the FTSE4Good listing, the JSE SRI index, the B.
1.2. and D. 2.1 from the date of Louise Pattens appointment.
Dow Jones Sustainability Index and other important CR indices.
Mrs Chaldecott resigned as a Director on 30 September 2011, The Board discusses and makes decisions relating to, but not limited to: following which the Board comprised a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors.
strategy executive management performance, retention, remuneration and succession financial measures and performance acquisitions and disposals, other capital expenditure and controls risk management corporate reputation, including shareholder communication the Boards own eff ectiveness Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 62 Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Induction for new Directors There is an induction programme for new Directors which typically involves meetings with the Chairman, Chief Executive and other NonExecutive Directors.
Additionally, new Directors are given the opportunity to meet key members of the senior management team and to attend site visits at certain of the Companys shopping centres.
Where required, the Company Secretary provides guidance, or facilitates the provision of training, on Directors individual duties under the Companies Act 2006 and on legal, regulatory and governance matters with which the Company, Board and individual Directors must comply.
The Chairman The Chairmans role is to provide a centre point of leadership, to ensure that the Boards discussions go into any matter put before it in adequate depth and in an appropriately focused way, that the opinions of all the Directors are taken into account and accorded proper weight, and that all the Boards decisions are supported by adequate and timely information.
Mr Burgess was appointed as Chairman on a three year term in 2008.
In May 2011 Mr Burgess appointment was extended for a further three year term to expire at the Companys Annual General Meeting in 2014.
The principal business commitment of Mr Burgess is his Chairmanship of Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC.
The separate roles of the Chairman, Mr Burgess, and of the Chief Executive, Mr Fischel, are recognised and have been fide ned by the Board and their key responsibilities are set out in the following table: The role of the Chairman The role of the Chief Executive The Chairmans chief responsibilities include: The Chief Executives key responsibilities include: Chairing meetings of the Board, the Capital Projects Committee, To develop the Groups strategic direction and promulgate the Corporate Responsibility Committee and the Nomination and proposals for consideration by the Board Review Committee To implement the policies and strategies decided by the Board Leadership of the Board and ensuring its eff ectiveness on all aspects To manage the business in the most eff ective way possible of its role and setting its agenda To refer matters which exceed the authority of executives under Working with the Chief Executive in carrying forward the strategy Group authority limits for consideration and decision-taking by and objectives of the Group theBoard Ensuring the success of the Executive Directors through helping set To develop to the maximum potential the abilities and skills of goals and celebrating and reinforcing success theGroups personnel, and liaise with the Boards Remuneration Procuring the provision of accurate, timely and clear information to Committee on appropriate Group remuneration levels and policy the Directors To develop and implement the Groups public and investor relations Ensuring eff ective communication with shareholders programmes Evaluating regularly the performance of the Board and the To demonstrate sound leadership qualities Committees, and the Directors Facilitating the eff ective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors Securing the highest ethical dealings by the Groups Directors andstaff Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 63 and strategy review review responsibility information The Senior Independent Director Mr Rowley was appointed as Senior Independent Director in September 2008.
In this role, Mr Rowley provides advice and additional support andexperience to the Chairman as required, and is available to act as an intermediary for the other Directors if necessary.
Mr Rowley also leads the appraisal of the Chairmans performance annually in discussion with the other Non-Executive Directors, and is available as an additional point of contact for shareholders should such shareholders feel that communication through the normal channels of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Secretariat or Investor Relations team has failed or is otherwise inappropriate.
Board meetings There were six scheduled Board meetings in the year under review to consider all aspects of the Companys aff airs and to review information requested from management.
There was also a Directors Away Day to discuss plans and strategy for 2012.
There were four additional Board meetings in the year, necessarily convened at short notice to deal with matters arising between scheduled Boardmeetings.
A summary of key matters discussed by the Board during 2011 is set out below: Month Key points of discussion January Simon Property Group approach and review of defence circular Completion of the Traff ord Centre acquisition Board and management structure post-Traff ord Centre completion February Year end valuations, results and audit Approval of Preliminary statement, Annual Report and Accounts and Notice of AGM Performance evaluation results Recommendation of final dividend Approval of Remuneration Committee recommendations on compensation 2011 strategic priorities May Approval of Q1 Interim Management Statement Update on strategy and opportunities Scrip Dividend Alternative Approval of the adoption of IFRS for all subsidiary company financial statements July Approval of Interim Results and dividend Approval of Bribery Act anti-bribery procedures and policies Debt nancing strategy Strategy discussion September Approval of appointment of Louise Patten Management changes following the resignation of Kay Chaldecott Discussion of potential transactions with the Peel Group KGV West and Spain October Update on Revolving Credit Facility re nancing Approval of Interim Management statement Scrip Dividend Alternative update Audit Committee update on internal audit and risk management process Remuneration Committee update November Approval of the acquisition of Broadmarsh, Nottingham Update on Revolving Credit Facility re nancing Annual Directors Away Day December Update on proposed transactions with the Peel Group including review of draft circular to shareholders Away Day debrie ng 2012 Budget Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 64 Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued The attendance of Directors at all Board and Committee meetings held in 2011 is set out in the table below: Board non-scheduled Corporate convened at Remuneration Nomination and Capital Projects Responsibility Board scheduled shortnotice Audit Committee Committee Review Committee Committee Board Committee 6 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings 4 meetings 2 meetings 5 meetings 3 meetings D. P. H. Burgess 6 4 2 5 3 D. A. Fischel 6 4 5 3 E. M. G. Roberts 6 4 5 1 K. E. Chaldecott 52 32 J. Whittaker 6 3 5 J. G. Abel 6 4 R. M. Gordon 5 3 I. J. Henderson 5 4 2 2 3 A. J. M. Huntley 6 3 2 Lady Patten 22 1 R. O. Rowley 64442 N. Sachdev 63441 A. D. Strang 6 3 4 1 Resigned as a Director on 30 September 2011 2 Appointed as a Non-Executive Director and member of the Remuneration Committee on 22 September 2011 Mr Whittaker appointed Mr S. Underwood as his alternate on 22 February 2011 and Mr R. M. Gordon appointed Mr G. R. Fine as his alternate on 7 May 2010.
The Board has generally invited the alternate Directors to attend Board meetings as observers.
Communication between Board meetings Directors are kept fully informed of progress on matters between formal meetings by way of monthly scheduled updates by conference call, adhoc meetings and other communications on a regular basis.
There are a number of important Committee meetings between Board meetings and these are normally fully attended.
The Chairman and Executive Directors regularly contact the Non-Executive Directors to discuss speci c matters, typically of a strategic nature.
There are regular informal meetings with the Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman met the Non-Executive Directors during 2011 without the Executive Directors being present.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Mr Rowley, holds regular meetings with the Head of Risk and Internal Audit, to monitor and progress matters between scheduled Audit Committee meetings.
Mr Rowley also meets the Chairman, Chief Executive and Finance Director between Board meetings.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr Sachdev, contacts the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary to progress remuneration matters between scheduled Remuneration Committee meetings.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 65 and strategy review review responsibility information Non-Executive Directors Independence The table below shows the balance on the Board between independent and non-independent Directors: Independent in Non-Independent opinion of Board in opinion of Board D. A. Fischel Executive Director E. M. G. Roberts Executive Director J. Whittaker major shareholder J. G. Abel former Executive Director R. M. Gordon major shareholder I. J. Henderson A. J. M. Huntley Lady Patten R. O. Rowley N. Sachdev A. D. Strang Total 65 Time commitment Non-Executive Directors are generally appointed for a three-year period and their continuing service thereafter is subject toreview by the Board.
Their annual time commitment will vary according to their membership of Board Committees and the activities of thebusiness in any given year.
The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors set out the minimum expectation of preparation forandattendance at all Board meetings, Board Committee meetings where appropriate, ad-hoc meetings and the annual Board Away Day.
Non-Executive Directors are required to con rm on accepting their appointment, and annually following each accounting year end, that they areable to allocate suffi cient time to meet the expectations of the role.
The terms of appointment for each of the Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys registered offi ce, or on written request from the Company Secretary.
Directors con icts of interest The Board has adopted a formal procedure for the identi cation of con icts under which Directors must notify the Chairman of any potential con icts.
The Chairman then decides whether a con ict exists and recommends its authorisation by the Board where appropriate.
Upon his appointment, the Board noted that Mr Whittakers chairmanship of the Peel Group could lead to a potential con ict of interest.
Apart from speaking to the original proposal, Mr Whittaker recused himself from Board discussions relating to the potential transactions with the Peel Group.
Other Directors have also declared their interests and potential areas of con ict throughout the year and have where appropriate recused themselves from the Boards discussions.
Alternate Directors are also required to declare potential con icts of interest and would recuse themselves from the Boards discussions in the event that such an interest was declared.
They would also recuse themselves in the event that their appointing Director had declared a con ict ofinterest.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 66 Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Board eff ectiveness accordance with provision B.
The 2011 performance Balance, Composition and Culture evaluation was carried out internally by way of detailed questionnaires As reported more fully below, the Nomination and Review and analysis of responses and comments.
Further details relating to the Committee regularly reviews the balance including skills and 2011 performance evaluation are set out under Nomination and experience and composition of the Board to ensure that it operates Review Committee below.
In line with the activities of the Group as a FTSE 100 Shareholder engagement specialist developer, owner and manager of pre-eminent UK regional The Company seeks to engage with shareholders through investor shopping centres, the Board has determined that candidates for the meetings and announcements as well as at the Companys Annual role of Non-Executive Director should have relevant quali cations and General Meeting.
The Company has a comprehensive website on experience, notably in property, retail, finance and legal.
These are well which up-to-date information is available to the public.
represented by the current Non-Executive Directors see biographies on page 55.
The Company has a strong investor relations programme.
The Chief Executive and Finance Director, and on occasions the Chairman, meet The Chairmans role is essential to the effi cient operation of the major shareholders and analysts each year a to discuss the results Boardwhich is achieved by creating an environment where the ofthe Group, b to learn of any concerns that may have arisen and Non-Executive Directors are able to draw on their own experience c within the appropriate constraints to respond to any queries they and toconstructively challenge the views of the executive may have.
Visits are arranged for investors to tour the Companys management.
The Chairman works closely with the Company property portfolio.
Secretary to ensure that allDirectors are provided with accurate and timely information tofacilitate informed discussion at Board meetings.
The Senior Independent Director and all Non-Executive Directors are The Chairman ismindful that the views of all Directors should be taken invited to attend investor presentations following the release of the into consideration during the Boards discussions, and the range of annual results.
A number of the Non-Executive Directors attended the experience of our Non-Executive Directors provides insight from annual results presentation in February 2011. many diff erent perspectives which contribute to the Boards decisions The Annual General Meeting provides the Board with an opportunity on key strategic matters.
to communicate with, and answer questions from, private and Education and development institutional shareholders and the entire Board is available before The Chairman, and the Nomination and Review Committee, consider andafter the meeting.
The Chairman of each of the Audit and the need for existing Directors to update and refresh their skills and Remuneration Committees is also available at the Annual General knowledge as part of the annual performance evaluation exercise.
Training is provided for Non-Executive Directors in the form of The Chief Executive, Finance Director and Investor Relations Manager presentations at Board meetings.
In addition seminars and courses are maintain le notes of all meetings with investors and provide a full speci cally arranged on particular topics of relevance, for example on brie ng to the Board.
Investor relations, and reports from the the proposed new planning policy guidelines.
A programme of high Companys brokers on meetings with investors, are a regular agenda level business-speci c residential courses is being established for Senior item at Board meetings.
Risk management and internal control The Board also recognises the need for Directors to keep up to date It is the Boards responsibility to oversee the Groups system of internal with relevant legislative and regulatory developments as well as changes control and to keep its eff ectiveness under review, as well as to to corporate governance best practice and investor expectations.
determine the nature and extent of the risks it is willing to take in The Company Secretary reports to each scheduled Board meeting achieving its strategic objectives.
The system is designed to manage, on these matters, drawing to the attention of the Board any issues rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives ofparticular relevance.
In addition, the Company Secretary maintains and can provide only a reasonable, rather than absolute, assurance afull matrix of legislative and regulatory developments relevant to against material misstatement or loss.
theCompany which is made available to members of the Board The Board has established an ongoing process for identifying, on request.
evaluating and managing the signi cant risks of the Group, financial and Performance evaluation nonfinancial, and this has been in place throughout the year ended Every year, the Board conducts an evaluation of its own performance 31December 2011 and up to the date of approval of the Annual and of the performance of the Chairman and each of the Board Report and Accounts.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board Committees.
In 2010, the performance evaluation was carried out and it complies with the 2005 Financial Reporting Councils internal byan external consultant, Independent Audit Limited, and the Board control guidance for Directors.
intends to use an external facilitator at least every three years in Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 67 and strategy review review responsibility information Procedures are in place to ensure that if any weaknesses or failings are planning is undertaken prior to the period end.
As part of this process, identi ed in the risk review process, appropriate remedial action is signi cant business risks and their potential impact on the financial taken.
No signi cant weaknesses were identi ed in 2011. reporting process and results are considered, including the eff ect of any changes in the business activities or accounting standards and matters The Group has a risk and internal audit function.
The Head of Risk and arising from the underlying information systems.
The preparation of Internal Audit reports to the Audit Committee and, in addition, has the consolidated financial results involves a number of review stages.
regular meetings with the Chairman of that Committee.
One of these stages includes a technical accounting review by an The Board regularly receives detailed reports setting out key internal technical specialist, who has primary responsibility for ensuring performance and business risks from the executive management that financial accounting developments are appropriately dealt with in together with financial reports.
Monitoring of key indicators allows the the Groups financial reporting process.
After various internal review Board to consider control issues.
The Board receives regular reports stages, draft financial reports, with narrative commentary on new through the Audit Committee from the risk and internal audit function, technical requirements or issues requiring a signi cant level of which may include recommendations for improvement.
judgement, are prepared for review and approval by the Audit Committee.
This review stage involves the Audit Committee discussing The risk and internal audit function carries out an annual review of the consolidated financial results and signi cant judgements with senior internal controls, which includes a Group-wide certi cation that management and where appropriate the external auditor.
eff ective internal controls are in place and are being operated eff ectively.
The Head of Risk and Internal Audit carries out a Major investments programme of veri cation of the certi cation and reports the All major investments of the Group, whether inthe ordinary course of resultsto the Audit Committee.
business or of an exceptional nature, are reviewed by at least one Committee and by the Board itself before being authorised and The Bribery Act 2010 implemented.
The Bribery Act 2010 came into force on 1 July 2011, and the Board took the opportunity to update and reissue the Groups Business Code Group treasury of Practice, Code of Professional Conduct and Whistleblowing policy The Group has a centralised treasury function which reports to the to all employees and to reiterate the Companys zero tolerance Board on a regular basis.
The reports provide details of counterparties, approach to acts of bribery or corruption.
In addition, procedures interest rate and foreign exchange risks and derivatives.
Additional were implemented to ensure that the approach to anti-bribery and information on this subject is given in note 34 on pages 111 to116.
anti-corruption of all agents, associates, contractors, and other Financial controls organisations that the Company may have a business relationship with, Key controls over major financial risks include reviews against is consistent with the approach adopted by the Company.
performance indicators and exception reporting.
Members of the Senior management and other staff received training on the new executive management make regular assessments of their own policies and measures introduced as a result of the Bribery Act, and departments exposure to major financial risks and the extent to which amonitoring and review procedure has been set up to ensure that these risks are controlled.
These assessments are considered and theCompanys anti-bribery procedures are kept under review and reviewed by the Board and by regular internal audit visits.
The Board has conducted a review of the eff ectiveness, on the basis of Internal financial reporting criteria set out in the 2005 Financial Reporting Councils internal Key internal financial reporting procedures, which exist within the control guidance for Directors, of systems of internal financial control wider system of control, are described under the following headings: for the year ended 31 December 2011 and has con rmed that there have been no material developments aff ecting their review which have Financial information taken place since the year end.
The Group has a comprehensive system for reporting financial results to the Board: detailed regular financial reports with comparisons Board authority limits against budget are provided to the Board.
The Board reviews these for The Board has adopted formal authority limits throughout the Group.
the Group as a whole and takes action when appropriate.
Projects or expenditure with a value in excess of 5 million are submitted for approval to the Board.
There are also authority limits in Financial reporting process place which relate to treasury management.
The Group undertakes a detailed financial reporting process on a quarterly basis.
This process is carried out using the policies and Going concern practices that apply to the control environment on an ongoing basis, The Companys statement on going concern is set out in the notes to and is largely undertaken by the Groups financial reporting team, the accounts on page 93. which comprises appropriately quali ed finance professionals.
Detailed Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 68 Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued The Audit Committee Composition The members of the Audit Committee at 31 December 2011 were MrRowley Chairman of the Committee, Mr Sachdev and Mr Strang.
The Board considers that Mr Rowley, as a quali ed accountant with considerable experience as a previous audit committee chairman, has signi cant recent and relevant financial experience in line with the Code.
All the current members are independent in the Boards opinion.
The Groups Chairman, Chief Executive, Finance Director, Head of Risk and Internal Audit and representatives of the external auditors are normally invited to attend meetings.
Responsibilities The Audit Committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing: the integrity of the financial statements, including a review of the signi cant financial reporting judgements and accounting policies the eff ectiveness of the Groups internal control and risk management the eff ectiveness of the internal audit function, including the work programme undertaken by the function the Groups policy on whistleblowing the Groups overall approach to monitoring areas of risk the Companys relationship with the external auditor, including its independence The Audit Committee makes recommendations on the appointment, reappointment or removal of the Companys external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are reviewed annually.
The Audit Committee met four times in the year.
The key activities of the Audit Committee in 2011 are set out in the table below: Month Key points of discussion February Review of Risk and Internal Audit Report Adoption of Audit Charter Con rmation of eff ectiveness and independence of Risk and Internal Audit team Review of year end results and preliminary statement Review of independence of external auditors and recommendation for reappointment Corporate Governance review and approval of changes to terms of reference Approval of Group CR report Meeting with the external auditor May Update on progress against Audit Plan Update on the Traff ord Centre integration risk review Approval of Q1 Interim Management Statement Meeting with the external auditor July Review of Risk and Internal Audit Report including revised internal audit plan Bribery Act procedures update Business continuity procedures update Review of Interim Results Review of external Audit Report and Audit fees Meeting with the external auditor October Review of key control issues Review of accounting standard updates Approval of accounting policies for 2011 Annual Report Review of progress against 2011 Risk and Internal Audit Plan Review of Internal Audit Plan 20122015 Risk management update Approval of Q3 Interim Management Statement Approval of 2012 Audit Plan Review of best practice procedure for related party transactions Meeting with Head of Risk and Internal Audit Meeting with the external auditor Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 69 and strategy review review responsibility information External auditor b when the external auditor is considered for the provision of The Audit Committee assessed the eff ectiveness of the external non-audit work, the Executive Directors must consider whether auditor,  LLP, and audit process on the proposed arrangements will maintain audit independence thebasisof meetings with finance, internal audit staff and other c the external auditor must certify to the Company that it is acting SeniorExecutives.
independently and the Audit Committee or the commissioning In reviewing the independence of the external auditor, the Audit Director as applicable must be satis ed that such is the case Committee considered a number of factors, including the experience d in providing a non-audit service, the external auditor should not: and tenure of the external auditor: the nature and level of services provided by the external auditor: and con rmation from the external i audit their own work auditor that it has remained in compliance with relevant UK ii make management decisions independence standards.
iii create a mutuality of interest Following this review process the Audit Committee recommended to the Board that the external auditor,  LLP, be iv nd they have placed themselves in the role of advocate for reappointed.
Acting on this recommendation the Board recommended theCompany to shareholders at the Annual General Meeting in 2011 that the Details of the amounts paid to the external auditor for audit and external auditor be reappointed for a period of one year.
non-audit services are included in note 11 on page 98 to the financial  LLP introduced a new audit partner statements.
The Company engaged  LLP totheCompany in 2011. tocarry out detailed financial due-diligence and work required for  LLP has been the Companys audit rm theshareholder circular in respect of the acquisition of The Traff ord since1998.
The Audit Committee has assessed and is satis ed with Centre, which resulted in the proportion of non-audit work carried theauditors overall eff ectiveness.
Accordingly, it has not considered out  LLP in 2011 being 71.4 per cent itnecessary to require the rm to tender for the audit work.
The above safeguards were adhered to for the Anydecision to open the external audit to tender is taken on non-audit services provided in relation to The Traff ord Centre, and the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
The position will be Audit Committee concluded that  LLPs reviewed on an ongoing basis.
The external auditors are required to independence would not be impinged by undertaking the work.
rotate the audit partner responsible for the Group and subsidiary Whistleblowing policy audits.
As noted in the 2010 Corporate Governance report, the The Audit Committee reviews the arrangements by which staff previous audit partner, Parwinder Purewal, served an additional year as of the Company may, in con dence, raise concerns about possible audit partner given the signi cant changes to the Group following the improprieties in matters of financial reporting or other matters, and demerger of Capital & Counties Properties PLC and resulting Board ensures that arrangements are in place for the proportionate and changes.
Mr Purewal rotated off the Groups audit following the independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate conclusion of the 31 December 2010 audits, and a new audit partner, follow-up action.
Any whistleblowing incidents would be reported to Alison Morris, is responsible for the Group and subsidiary audits for the each Audit Committee meeting.
There were no incidents in 2011. year ended 31 December 2011.
Non-audit services The Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of non-audit services does not impair the external auditors independence or objectivity.
The term non-audit services does not include reference Rob Rowley to any advice on tax.
The Audit Committee has delegated to the Chairman of the Audit Committee Executive Directors the authority to contract for non-audit services with the external auditor subject to observing the following guidelines: 23 February 2012 a Executive Directors have the authority to commission the external auditors to undertake non-audit work where this is in relation to a speci c project with a cost not exceeding the lower of 50,000 or 15 per cent of the estimated annual level of the auditors fees for the time being.
If the cost is likely to exceed the limits mentioned above, the agreement of the Chairman of the Audit Committee is required before the work is commissioned Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC 70 Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Succession planning The Nomination and Review Committee The Committee also regularly reviews the skills and experience of the Composition Non-Executive members of the Board and their unexpired terms of The members of the Nomination and Review Committee during the offi ce.
The dates of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors are year under review were Mr Burgess Chairman of the Committee, set out in the table below: MrHenderson, Mr Rowley and Mr Sachdev.
The latter was appointed Director Date of appointment to the Committee on 1 June 2011.
John Whittaker 28 01 2011 There were two formal meetings of the Nomination and Review John Abel 02 06 2010 Committee in 2011.
Richard Gordon 07 05 2010 The terms of reference of the Nomination and Review Committee are Ian Henderson 07 02 2005 reviewed annually.
No changes to the terms were made in 2011.
Andrew Huntley 08 07 2009 Responsibilities Louise Patten 22 09 2011 The principal role of the Nomination and Review Committee is to Rob Rowley 17 05 2004 evaluate the skills available on the Board and to determine when Neil Sachdev 01 11 2006 appointments and retirements are appropriate.
Andrew Strang 08 07 2009 The Committee is responsible for carrying out the annual performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors, as Following a review in 2011, the Committee recommended a reduction well as making recommendations to the Board on appointments to the in the overall size of the Board over the next two to three years in Board and on succession planning.
order to improve its eff ectiveness whilst maintaining an appropriate balance of skills, experience and independence.
Ian Henderson will Diversity bestepping down as a Non-Executive Director at the 2012 Annual The Nomination and Review Committee, and the Board, recognises General Meeting and will not therefore be seeking re-election.
Ian will the importance of boardroom diversity, not just gender speci c, and not be replaced.
Both John Abel and Rob Rowley have indicated their the Committee seeks to ensure that all available suitable candidates intention to step down at the 2013 Annual General Meeting, and aretaken into account when considering possible appointments to asearch using a specialist rm of head-hunters for a prospective theBoard.
However, the priority of the Committee and the Board is replacement Chairman of the Audit Committee will be undertaken toensure that the Group continues to have the strongest and most later in the year.
eff ective Board possible, therefore all appointments will continue to be made on merit in accordance with the provisions of the UK Corporate The Nomination and Review Committee has determined that the Governance Code.
balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board and on the Board Committees is satisfactory and is expected to continue to be so The Board has noted the recommendations of the Davies Report following the changes referred to above.
Women on Boards and intends to achieve a minimum of 25 per cent female representation by 2015.
Renewal of Non-Executive appointments At the 2012 Annual General Meeting, Lady Patten will stand to be Appointment of Louise Patten as a Non-Executive Director elected for the first time: Mr Henderson will not be seeking reThe appointment of Louise Patten as a Non-Executive Director election: and all remaining Directors will submit themselves for annual wasrecommended to the Board by the Nomination and Review re-election.
A rm of head-hunters, Korn Ferry Whitehead Mann, was engaged to identify suitable candidates to be considered for Performance evaluation appointment as an independent Non-Executive Director based on As noted above, the Nomination and Review Committee carried out a speci c criteria identi ed by the Committee including previous board comprehensive performance evaluation of the Board, its Committees level experience in the property and retail sectors, and previous and individual Directors during 2011 by way of detailed questionnaires experience of serving on a remuneration committee.
A shortlist of followed by discussion, the results of which were considered early in candidates was drawn up all of whom were interviewed by the 2012 by the members of the Nomination and Review Committee, the Nomination and Review Committee and by members of the Board.
Board, and the relevant Board Committees.
In addition, the Senior Following such interviews, the Committee was unanimous in its Independent Director in conjunction with the other Directors carried recommendation to appoint Louise Patten whose skills and experience, out the annual evaluation of the Chairmans performance.
notably her previous chairmanship of Brixton plc and non-executive directorship of Marks and Spencer plc where she chaired the remuneration committee, were considered to t comfortably with the requirements identi ed at the outset of the recruitment process.
Capital Shopping Centres Group PLC Overview Business model Business Financial Corporate Governance Accounts Other Annual Report 2011 71 and strategy review review responsibility information The responses to all questions relating to the performance of the The Remuneration Committee Board and its Committees, and of the Chairman, were generally highly Composition positive.
There were no signi cant issues arising from the review, The members of the Remuneration Committee during the year under however the Committees conclusions were as follows: review were Mr Henderson Chairman of the Committee until 1 June 2011, Mr Sachdev Chairman of the Committee from 1 June 2011, Summary of 2011 evaluation outcome MrRowley and Lady Patten.
The latter was appointed to the Areas identi ed as performing well Committee on 22 September 2011.
Responses to problems crises There were four meetings of the Remuneration Committee in 2011.
Sound system of internal control Responsibilities Response of management to requests for information The Committees primary responsibilities are to determine the Areas identi ed for focus in 2012 remuneration policy and terms and conditions of service applying Use of the AGM and Annual Report to communicate more toExecutive Directors and Senior Executives of the Group and the eff ectively with shareholders provision of incentivisation and performance related bene ts.
Reduction in overall board size over 23 years The Directors remuneration report which sets out full details of the Committees responsibilities, the Groups remuneration policy and Increased focus on strategy and forward planning details of remuneration in 2011 is set out on pages 72 to 83.
In addition to the above Committees of the Board, the following The Board has taken note of these points and will monitor progress alsomeet: throughout 2012.
Capital Projects Committee The Capital Projects Committee was re-established in 2011 in ordertoreview new projects and project expenditure in detail and, asappropriate, comment on certain projects for the Board.
TheCommittee has no power to approve proposals or to authorise Patrick Burgess expenditure.
The members of the Capital Projects Committee whichmet five times during the year under review are Mr Burgess Chairman Chairman, Mr Whittaker, MrFischel, Mr Roberts, Mr Butterworth 23 February 2012 and Mr Ellis, with other Directors and executives invited to attend from time to time.
Executive Committee The Executive Committee meets every fortnight to consider investment proposals, to review progress on projects and project expenditure in detail and to receive updates on other business matters.
The Committee has powers, within limits, to authorise initiatives and toauthorise expenditure.
The members of the Executive Committee are Mr Fischel Chairman, Mr Roberts, Mr Butterworth, Mr Pereira, MrEllis, Mr Ford, Mr Weir and Mrs Marsden.
Corporate Responsibility Committee The Groups strong commitment to high standards of Corporate Responsibility is the responsibility of the Chairman and the Board andismanaged through a CR Committee.
The members of the CRCommittee are Mr Burgess Chairman of the Committee, MrFischel, Mr Henderson, MrNicoll Director of CR and MrDalton CRExecutive.
There were three CR Committee meetings during 2011.
The CR review is set out on pages 48 to 53.
