CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The evaluation concluded that the performance of the INTRODUCTION BY THE CHAIRMAN Board, the Committees and each individual Director was Governance overview and remains effective and that all Directors demonstrate The division of responsibilities between my role as Nonfull commitment in their respective roles.
Executive Chairman, and the roles of the Joint Chief The 2012 Board evaluation will be undertaken internally Executives, is clearly defined, set out in writing and and in 2013 the Board intends to undergo an externally reviewed annually by the Board.
I am responsible for the facilitated evaluation as is required by the 2010 UK leadership and effective working of the Board, ensuring Corporate Governance Code.
that all members of the Board, including in particular the Non-Executive Directors, have an opportunity to Succession planning contribute effectively, and that there is appropriate and timely communication with shareholders.
In 2012 the Nomination Committee under the Chairmanship of H J M Price will continue the work it The Board has delegated executive responsibility for started in 2011 on succession planning and the running the Group to the Joint Chief Executives who are development of the senior management team.
The responsible for the strategic direction and operational development and implementation of a robust and financial performance of the Group.
There is a succession plan to ensure the smooth continuation of schedule of matters reserved for the Boards decision the business in all eventualities will be one of our and the Board meets at least five times a year with ad governance priorities in 2012. hoc meetings as required.
Board independence Diversity The Board has determined that all the Non-Executive The Board is keen to ensure that Hansteen benefits from Directors are independent.
In determining the the highest quality Board comprising individuals with an independence of S T Gee, the Board considered appropriate balance of skills and experience.
We are whether his previous role as a Non-Executive Director of proud to be a diverse business at all levels.
As at the Ashtenne Holdings plc might affect his independence.
date of this report, female employees account for 45% The Board concluded that his independence of of the total Hansteen workforce with 48% of our female character and judgement are not compromised based employees holding a professional qualification.
on a number of factors, including his experience and knowledge, the significant changes in the economic and Hansteen will continue to ensure that all appointments commercial environment since his tenure at Ashtenne, throughout the business are made on merit against and the fact that he has always exercised strong objective criteria.
Board evaluation The annual Board evaluation was undertaken and the results focused on the processes and practices of Board administration required from a FTSE 250 company.
J D Hambro Chairman HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 88 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Companys promotion to the FTSE 250 in March The Executive Directors regularly meet with institutional 2011 resulted in the Board and its Committees not being shareholders and analysts.
Private investors are also fully compliant with the 2010 UK Corporate Governance encouraged to meet with the Board and to participate in Code the Code.
As part of the process of addressing the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairmen of the Audit, this issue J D Hambro resigned as a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committees are available Audit Committee and handed over Chairmanship of the to answer questions, where appropriate, at the Annual Remuneration Committee to R R Cotton.
The Company recognises that only having two THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS independent Non-Executive Directors on the Details of the Directors are set out on page 76.
The Remuneration Committee does not comply with the Board consists of five independent Non-Executive provisions of the Code however, we believe that for a Directors, including the Chairman, and three Executive Company with only 58 employees, as at 31 December Directors.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman, 2011, two independent Non-Executive Directors, one of Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors are whom chairs the meeting, together with the Nonclearly defined.
The Board is satisfied that the NonExecutive Chairman considered independent on Executive Directors, each of whom is independent from appointment is an appropriate composition.
management and has no commercial or other connection with the Company, are able to exercise Given the size of the Group and the centralised nature of independent judgement.
The appointment of new its operations which are under the direct supervision of Directors is a matter for the Board as a whole.
The management, the Committee does not believe that an Board is responsible to shareholders of the Company for internal audit function is merited at this time but will the strategy and future development of the Group and continue to monitor this position.
the efficient management of its resources.
As a result, the Board has a schedule of matters reserved for its The Company complies with the Corporate Governance decision, which includes approval of annual budgets, Statement requirements pursuant to the FSAs acquisition and divestment policy, approval of major Disclosure and Transparency Rules by virtue of the capital projects, the raising of finance and management information included in this Corporate Governance policies.
The Board is supplied, in a timely fashion, with section of the Annual Report and Accounts together the information it needs to enable it to discharge its with information contained in the Directors Report on duties.
The Board is also kept informed of changes in pages 78 to 83 and in the Report of the Remuneration relevant legislation and changing commercial risks, and Committee on pages 93 to 99. each Director has access to independent professional Other than as referred to above, throughout the year advice and the advice and services of the Company ended 31 December 2011, the Company complied with Secretary.
In accordance with the provisions of the all provisions of the Code published by the Financial Code, all Directors will submit themselves for re-election Reporting Council in June 2010.
The Board is committed annually from the forthcoming AGM onwards.
to high standards of risk management and internal The schedule below sets out the number of principal control and, as such, supports the principles of the Board and Committee meetings held during the year Code.
The way in which it applies these principles is set ended 31 December 2011 together with individual out below and in the Report of the Remuneration attendance by Board Members at those meetings.
A summary of the system of governance adopted by the Company follows: ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 89 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS CONTINUED Audit Nomination Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee J D Hambro 7 2 2 2 M L Jones 8 - 2 - I R Watson 8 - 1 - R P Lowes 7 - - - S T Gee 8 4 2 - R S Mully 8 1 2 3 R R Cotton 8 - 1 3 H J M Price 8 4 2 - Number of meetings during the year 8 4 2 3 J D Hambro resigned from and R S Mully was appointed to the Audit Committee on 24 June 2011.
The Board has the following standing Committees: representatives of the external auditors, Executive Directors and senior management may be invited to Nomination Committee attend the meetings.
The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that management has systems The Nomination Committee comprises H J M Price and procedures in place to ensure the integrity of Chairman, J D Hambro, S T Gee, R R Cotton, R S financial information.
The Committee is also responsible Mully, M L Jones and I R Watson.
R P Lowes resigned for developing and implementing the policy for the during the year.
The Committee is responsible for provision of non-audit services by the auditors.
The reviewing the structure, size and composition of the Audit Committee maintains an appropriate relationship Board and for making recommendations in respect of with the Groups external auditors and reviews the any changes and appointments.
The Committee met effectiveness, objectivity and independence of the twice during the year, once to evaluate its performance external auditors and considers both the scope of their and once to discuss its terms of reference.
work and the fees paid to them for audit and non-audit services.
The Committee monitors the Companys Remuneration Committee internal audit requirements, internal financial controls The Remuneration Committee comprises R R Cotton and the audit process.
The Committee also reviews the Chairman, J D Hambro and R S Mully.
J D Hambro interim and full year financial statements prior to their resigned as Committee Chairman during the year but submission to the Board, the application of the Groups retains his membership of the Committee.
It is accounting policies and any changes to financial responsible for making recommendations to the Board reporting requirements, in addition to undertaking a on all aspects of remuneration policy for Executive review of the Groups risks on a bi-annual basis and Directors.
The Committees report is set out on pages 93 acting as a Risk Committee.
External auditors Audit Committee The Companys external auditors are Deloitte LLP.
The The Audit Committee comprises S T Gee Chairman, audit partner responsible for the Companys audit R S Mully and H J M Price.
J D Hambro resigned during matters is changed every five years in accordance with the year and R S Mully was appointed.
Senior HANSTEEN HOLDINGS PLC 90 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE the Ethical Standards issued by the Auditing Practices adequate to enable them to perform their obligations in Board.
In forming their opinion on the independence and accordance with the scope of the audit.
objectivity of the external auditors, the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has reviewed the briefing paper on takes into account the safeguards operating within effective communication between audit committees and Deloitte LLP.
Under the Companys policy governing the external auditors issued by the Auditing Practices provision of non-audit services by the external auditors, Board.
Having considered the recommendations of the they may not provide a service which places them in a briefing paper in respect of the external auditors, the position where they may be required to audit their own Audit Committee has concluded that the relationship work.
with Deloitte LLP meets the recommendations.
Specifically, they are precluded from providing services The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee, relating to bookkeeping or other services relating to Remuneration Committee and Audit Committee are accounting records or financial statements of the available on the Companys website Company, financial information system design and www.
implementation, appraisal or evaluation services, actuarial services, any management functions, INTERNAL CONTROL investment banking services, legal services unrelated to An ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and the audit, remuneration related services or advocacy managing the most significant risks faced by the Group services.
has been in place throughout the year and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
During 2011, services provided by Deloitte LLP and their That process which accords with the Turnbull guidance associates to the Company, in addition to acting as and the Boards review of that process is set out below.
external auditors, included acting as reporting accountants in respect of the May 2011 equity raising, The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the tax advisers in respect of the Spencer Group Groups system of internal controls, including the review acquisition, and UK and overseas income tax, VAT and of its effectiveness and suitable monitoring procedures, property tax advisory services.
in order to safeguard shareholders investment and the To fulfil its responsibilities regarding the external assets of the Group as well as the integrity of its auditors, the Committee reviewed: accounting records and provide reliable information for use within the business and for publication.
The the scope of the audit as set out in the external Directors acknowledge that such a system is designed auditors engagement letter: to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only the external auditors overall work plan: reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
the external auditors fee proposal: The Directors have reviewed, as part of the year-end a report from the external auditors describing their procedures, the effectiveness of the system of internal arrangements to ensure objectivity and to identify, control for the period under review and up to the date of report and manage any conflicts of interest: and this report, the key element of which is a risk the extent of non-audit services provided by the management process whereby key risks to achieving external auditors to ensure that they are not our objectives and strategy as well as related controls placed in a position to audit their own work.
and monitoring procedures in respect of those controls are identified in a risk register.
At each Audit Committee Where non-audit services are provided, the fees are the risk register is reviewed and updated where based on the work undertaken and are not success appropriate and reports received from the executive on related.
Consideration is given to the nature of and control procedures, and any areas for improvement are remuneration received for other services provided by agreed for subsequent action.
Deloitte LLP to the Company and confirmation is sought from them that the fee payable for the annual audit is ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 91 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE INTERNAL CONTROLS CONTINUED This process is supported by: Management structure There is a clear organisational structure with welldefined lines of reporting and responsibility.
Financial reporting There are reporting disciplines including performance monitoring and profit and cash forecasting.
Investment appraisal The Group has a clearly defined framework for capital and development expenditure and subsequent on-going appraisals.
In addition, the key internal controls include regular meetings of the Board and Audit Committee whose overall responsibilities are set out above.
During the course of its reviews of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
Therefore a confirmation in respect of necessary actions has not been considered appropriate.
