CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED This part of the Annual Report, together theperformance of the Group.
The why it believes she should be elected.
with the Directors remuneration report THE BOARDS ROLE IS TO attendance of Directors at Board The Chairman confirms to shareholders set out on pages 44 to 53, describes how LEAD THE GROUP WITHA meetings are set out on page 34 when proposing re-election or the Company has applied and complied VIEW TO THE CREATION andattendance at principal Board re-appointment that the individuals with the principles contained in the UK OF STRONG, SUSTAINABLE committee meetings as members of performance continues to be effective Corporate Governance Code published FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE such committees during the year are and that the individual continues to in June 2010 the Code.
The Code is AND LONGTERM setout in the reports from each demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-executive Directors are subject combinedcode.
toCompanies Act provisions relating Non-executive Directors are appointed tothe removal of aDirector.
Statement of compliance with the for specified terms of three years which provisions of the Combined Code can be extended by agreement provided The Chairman is, among other The Ordinary Shares are listed on the that the individuals performance things, responsible for chairing Board London Stock Exchange.
In accordance continues to be effective.
The rules for meetingsand leading the Board.
The with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing the appointment and replacement of Chief Executive Officers responsibilities Authority, the Company confirms Directors are set out in the Companys include operational performance, thatthroughout the year ended Articles of Association the Articles Corporate social responsibility and the 31December 2011 and at the date copies of which can be obtained from development and implementation of ofthis Annual Report, it was compliant Companies House in the UK or by the Groups strategy.
He focuses also with the provisions of the Code.
onlong-term growth and development Changes to the Articles must be of the Group, its people and customer Share capital approved by shareholders passing a relationships.
The Boards policy is that Details of the share capital of the special resolution.
The Directors and the the roles of Chairman and Chief Company and the powers of the Company in the latter case by ordinary Executive Officer should be performed Directors in relation to allotment, resolution may appoint a person who is by different people.
The division of issueand market purchases of willing to act as a Director, either to fill a responsibilities between the Chairmans sharesaregiven in the Directors vacancy or as an additional Director.
role and that of the Chief Executive reporton page54.
Officer is documented and clearly All Non-executives have confirmed they understood.
Although the current The Board composition will have sufficient time to meet what is ChiefExecutive Officer has resigned The Board comprises an Executive expected of them and copies of their from his role, due to a recurring Chairman John Devaney, a Chief appointment letters are available on long-term serious back injury, he is Executive Officer Andy Stevens, a request to the Company Secretary and serving his notice and will continue ChiefFinancial Officer Warren Tucker will be available for inspection at the tocarry out some duties until a new and sixother Non-executive Directors AGM.
Under the Articles, Directors are Chief Executive Officer isappointed.
ofwhom Marcus Beresford is the subject to re-election by shareholders SeniorIndependent Director.
All atthe first AGM after their appointment The Senior Independent Directors Non-executive Directors are considered by the Board and are subject to responsibilities include the provision of to be independent and the Chairman re-appointment if they have held office an additional channel of communication was considered to be independent for three years or more since their between the Chairman and the onappointment.
They all held office previous appointment by shareholders Non-executive Directors.
He also throughout the year except Alison and, in the case of Non-executive provides another point of contact Wood, who joined the Board on Directors, if they have held office for forshareholders if they have concerns 1July2011.
Peter Hooley retired nine years or more since first being which communication through the from the Board and stood down as appointed by shareholders.
However, normal channels of Chairman, Chief Chairman of the Audit Committee at inaccordance with the UK Corporate Executive Officer or Chief Financial theconclusion of the Annual General Governance Code, which recommends Officer has failed to resolve, or where Meeting AGM on 6May 2011. that all directors of FTSE 350 companies these contacts are inappropriate.
seek re-election by shareholders on an Biographies of the Directors, giving annual basis, all Directors currently in The Board and its proceedings details of their experience and other office will retire and seek re-election at Board meetings, scheduled in significant commitments, are set out the AGM.
In addition, Alison Wood, who accordance with the annual timetable, onpages 34 and 35.
The wide ranging was appointed by the Board on 1 July take place five times a year on a face to experience and backgrounds of the 2011, is seeking election by shareholders face basis, five times a year by telephone Non-executive Directors enable them at the 2012 AGM for the first time.
The and otherwise as required.
There is todebate and constructively challenge Board has set out in the circular a contact between meetings to progress management in relation to both resolution to elect Alison Wood as the Groups business as required.
thedevelopment of strategy and aNon-executive Director and explains Meetings were held at the head Corporate governance 36 36 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 officeinWimborne, at the Companys can be delegated either tocommittees tothe Chairman for circulation to the London office and at an international orotherwise.
Among the key matters on Board if they have concerns.
In addition, the which the Board alone may make decisions statements were made during 2011.
Senior Independent Director held a are the Groups business strategy, its five meeting with the Non-executives in year plan, itsconsolidated budget, Group All potential situational and transactional theabsence of the Chairman to appraise policies, dividends, acquisitions and conflicts of interest are disclosed, noted the Chairmans performance and his disposals, and all appointments to and and authorised.
Procedures are in place performance was evaluated.
In addition, removals from the Board.
Authority is and operating effectively to keep such the Chairman has held meetings with delegated to management on a structured disclosures up to date.
the Non-executives in the absence basis inaccordance with the provisions of ofthe Executive Directors.
theCorporate Framework ensuring that Performance evaluation proper management oversight exists at The Board conducts an evaluation of The Boards role is to lead the Group the appropriate level.
Matters delegated itsactivities on an annual basis.
During with a view to the creation of strong, inthis way include, within defined 2011, the Board and its committees sustainable financial performance and parameters, the approval of bids and undertook an internal evaluation.
In doing contracts, capital expenditures and Theevaluation included the circulation so, it reviews and agrees Group strategy, financing arrangements.
of a questionnaire, a review of actions ensures that the necessary resources taken in response to the 2009 external arein place, monitors management The Board has adopted procedures evaluation and 2010 internal evaluation.
performance, and supervises the relating to the conduct of its business, The Board considered the output and conduct of the Groups activities within including the timely provision of has approved an action plan to address a framework of prudent and effective information, and the Company issues arising.
During the year, Secretary is responsible for ensuring that undertaken by external facilitators theBoard and senior management these are observed and for advising the isplanned for 2012. participated in two separate meetings Board on corporate governance matters.
devoted to the consideration and The Company Secretary is appointed, A table of action instigated by development of the Groups strategy.
and can only be removed, by the Board.
The Board has adopted a schedule If a Director were to have a concern ofmatters reserved for its specific which cannot be resolved this would approval.
The schedule provides the berecorded in the Board minutes.
On framework for those decisions which can resignation, Non-executive Directors are be made by the Board and thosewhich invited to provide a written statement Board and Committees performance evaluation Evaluation Year Observations Actions Taken Review the Board sub-committee memberships and establish The Board established and approved an executive Risk Committee in October 2009 amanagement committee for risk.
Propose formal terms 2009, to enable the Board and management to manage risk more effectively ofreferenceand executive membership for approval.
The risk management process has been strengthened, and continues to evolve.
Implement a formal induction programme for newly appointed The Board implemented a structured induction programme in 2010 for new Boardmembers.
Board members and those joining Board committees.
All new Board members starting with Michael Wareing have been through the induction programme.
Review diversity within the Board membership and ensure that The Nomination Committee, led by the Chairman, drafted a specification for itisapriority going forward for the Nomination Committee.
anewNon-executive Director position in 2010 and the Board collectively has placed a greater emphasis on diversity within the members of the Board.
Proactively attempt to recruit a diverse member of the Board The Board conducted a thorough search of candidates in 2010, utilising 2010 during2010.
aglobalrecruitment consultant, to recruit Alison Wood as the Groups newestNon-executive Director elected on 1 July 2011.
Increase dialogue between Executive Directors and Non-executive The strategic review process was completely revised for 2011 with the Directors to better leverage skills and experience of Non-executive Boardcommitting more time and input into the Group Strategic Plan.
Review the consultant support to the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee reviewed the relationship with their remuneration consultants, introduced new communication channels andstrengthened the reporting process that has significantly improved theinput of the consultants to the Committee.
Devote time, as part of the Nomination Committees review, to discuss The appointment of the new Chief Executive Officer will be led by the 2011 the profile of the individual required for new Board members before Chairman, taking into account the profile discussed with the Nomination eachappointment.
Committee and specifically ensuring the appointee is the right individual totake forward the Group Strategic Plan.
Establish a plan to bring in new talent for key posts, ensuring talent Talent and succession planning will continue to be a Board focus during 2012. andsuccession planning are driven forward.
Increase the frequency of discussions at the Board on market The Board will implement new reporting and quarterly strategic updates positioning, on technology assets, and on implementation of during 2012. .
Corporate governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 37 37 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Summary of 2011 Investor Relations activity Preliminary Interim Interim Interim 2010 Results management 2011 Results management statement statement Webcast Webcast Ja Jann FFeebb MMar ar A Ap pr r May May Jun June e Jul July y Au Aug S g Se ep p O Oc ct N t No ov v D fide ec c Trade Show Trade Show Investor Conferences Investor Conferences Site Visit Site Visit Investor Meetings Investor Meetings Interim management statement is a short quarterly update on the Groups trading Financial reporting Financial Officer held regular meetings Officer.
Any significant correspondence In the Directors view, the Annual with shareholders to discuss information with shareholders is also made available.
Reportand Accounts for 2011, made public by the Group.
togetherwith the interim management Communication with shareholders takes statements, the interim report Presentations were given on the place via RNS announcements, the andotherreports made during dayofthe announcement of the Companys website, the Annual Report, theyear, present a balanced and preliminaryand interim results.
Copies the interim management statements  of the ofthe associated presentation materials, and at the AGM.
The AGM is attended by Groups position andprospects.
together with webcasts, can be accessed all Directors and shareholders have the at www.
opportunity to hear a statement as The Directors have adopted the going Presentations are conducted in toprogress made during the year, to concern basis in preparing the Annual accordance with the FSAs Disclosure question the Board on its stewardship Report and Accounts as stated in the Rules on the dissemination of inside ofthe Company and to meet Directors Financial review on pages 22 to 27. information to ensure the protection informally.
The results of the votes on ofsuch information that has not already the resolutions proposed at the AGM are Shareholder relations been made available generally to the published on the Companys website.
The Board is accountable to Companys shareholders.
shareholders for the performance and Responsibility statements activities of the Group and engages in The Board is kept informed of investors Statements relating to the regular dialogue with them.
During the views through the receipt of regular responsibilities of the Directors are year the Chairman has been available reports from the Companys brokers onpage 58 and those relating to the and has met with shareholders, while andupdates from the Chairman, Chief auditors are on pages 59 and 109. theChief Executive Officer and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Corporate governance 38 38 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Board committees Board of Directors Audit Nomination Remuneration Executive Directors Committee Committee Committee Committee The Board is ultimately Group Executive responsible for corporate governance and the Groupssystem of internal Contract Bid Investment Corporate Business Risk Internal Talent Safety, control, with day to day Approval Committee Responsibility Ethics & Committee Audit Board Health & responsibility resting with Committee & Compliance Committee Environment Sustainability management.
Principal Board Committees Management Committees The Board is supported in its work by a terms of reference include establishing number of committees.
The Company and implementing internal policies, Secretary acts as secretary to all Board systems and controls to ensure committees.
Committee chairmen thatpotential inside information is provide oral reports on the work communicated to it, considered, verified undertaken by their committees at the and released to the market where following Board meeting.
Information required, the discharge of obligations relating to the Nomination and Audit arising under the Companys share plans, Committees appears below and the determination of the remuneration theactivities of the Remuneration of the Non-executive Directors, the Committee are described in the approval of banking facilities and the Directors remuneration report approval of bids and contracts.
All Board Committee met on 17 occasions during committeesare provided withsufficient the year and, in addition, as required to resources to undertake their duties.
respond to business needs and marketconditions.
The other principal Board committee is the Executive Directors Committee.
The The Group Executive Committee Executive Directors are members of this andthe other principal management Committee under the chairmanship of committees are shown in the the Chief Executive Officer.
is to assist the Chief Executive Officer inthe performance of his duties and its Corporate governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 39 39 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Nomination Committee Membership and attendance Number held 2 Number attended J Devaney Chairman 2 M Beresford 2 J Patterson 2 M Ronald 2 M Hagee 2 M Wareing 2 1 A Wood 1 2 P Hooley 1 Comments from the Chairman 1 A Wood elected on 1 July 2011 and joined the Nomination Succession planning has been a key Committee on 1 December 2011 2 P Hooley retired on 6 May 2011 focus for the Nomination Committee this year as we continually seek the Other attendees righttalent to execute our articulated Chief Executive Officer strategy.
The process for selection for the appointment of Alison Wood was Role and focus managed in conjunction with Korn The Nomination Committees main duties are to: Ferry Whitehead Mann, recruitment Review the structure, size and composition consultants who have signed up to oftheBoard.
thevoluntary Code of Conduct for Consider succession planning for Directors executivesearch firms.
provided a short list of candidates whom I interviewed and confirmed Review of 2011 with the Board my preferred choice.
Highlights: Alison was then interviewed by Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge theExecutive Directors and the andexperience of the Board.
majorityof the Non-executive Considered external appointments Directors before being offered tosubsidiaryBoards.
Considered succession planning to ensure the Thisexhaustive process combined Groupiswell positioned for the future.
with the Committees continual Conducted a thorough and comprehensive search review process of the Board and fora new independent Board member.
senior Group executives provides Initiated the search for a new Chief ExecutiveOfficer.
theGroup with the necessary range Conducted an effectiveness review.
of talent, experience and skills to ensure the Group is well positioned for the future.
The Committee is currently working on the appointment of a successor to the Chief Executive Officer, who for health reasons, will be leaving the Group later this year.
J Devaney Corporate governance 40 40 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Committees terms of reference, Succession planning for Non-executive obligations as Directors of a listed public which were reviewed during the year, Directors is based on maintaining a limited company.
This is supplemented areavailable on the Companys website depth of knowledge and experience on by visits to key locations and meetings FOR MORE INFORMATION at www.
The Nomination Committee with, and presentations by, application to the Company Secretary.
com The Committee is cognisant of the Director succession having regard to needfor diversity when considering anticipated retirement dates for existing Training for Directors is available as thecomposition of the Board and Directors and initiates focused searches required and is provided mainly by considers diversity in the whole, taking for Non-executive Directors as positions means of external courses, internal into account not only gender but are required.
computer based training, or in-house nationality, age and experience.
In addition, Directors Committee will consider the collection The current Board composition in knowledge of the legal and regulatory of detailed data on gender diversity and relation to the Non-executive Directors, environment is updated through the the setting oftargets during 2012. as of 31December 2011, in terms of provision of information by the Groups length of service and current term is advisors and by means of regular Succession planning shown diagrammatically below.
updates from the Company Secretary Succession planning takes place at and the legal team.
Boardand senior management level Directors professional onaregular basis to ensure that the development Group is managed by executives with On appointment, Directors undertake the necessary skills, experience and astructured induction programme knowledge.
The Board has a role to inthe course of which they receive playinoverseeing the development of information about the operations and management resources in the Group.
activities of the Group, the role of the Specifically, the Board wants to see Board and the matters reserved for its depth and quality in management and decision, the Groups corporate robust processes are in place to help governance practices and procedures theBoard in this task.
and their duties, responsibilities and Board Succession Planning J Devaney 1st Term 2nd Term 3rd Term M Beresford J Patterson M Ronald M Hagee M Wareing A Wood 2001 2003 2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021 Corporate governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 41 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CONTINUED Audit Committee Membership and attendance Review of 2011 Highlights: Number held 3 Reviewed the effectiveness of risk management and internal controls with the external auditors Number attended and the Head of Internal Audit.
M Wareing Chairman 3 Reviewed reports from the external auditors M Beresford 3 andthe Head of Internal Audit.
J Patterson 3 Considered reports on a number of matters M Hagee 3 including pension scheme, treasury and funding 1 P Hooley 1 plans, taxation, disaster recovery planning 1 P Hooley retired on 6 May 2011 andcorporate governance issues.
Considered reports on internal controls and Other attendees by invitation specifically controls in relation to the Excellence Comments from the Chairman Chief Financial Officer in Delivery programme and IT controls.
It is the Groups goal to implement Head of Internal Audit Conducted an effectiveness review of the best practice in financial accounting Group Director of Financial Control Committee and the internal and external auditors.
This has been  LLP The Group has an anti-bribery, anti-corruption apriority of the Committee Other senior management as required policy and arrangements for handling whistlethroughout the year and will blowing and the Committee regularly receives Meetings with the Committee are held in the absence continue to be so in future.
and considers reports on calls made to ofanyexecutive management periodically during the year Meetings with the CFO are held with committee members only Wehavetaken measures thehelpline.
throughout the year to ensure Role and focus thatsound policies on internal The Audit Committees main duties are to: controls are in place, to ensure Monitor the integrity of the Groups financial theindependence and effectiveness statements and any formal announcements of the external auditors, and relating to its financial performance, reviewing toensure the appropriate risk accounting policies used and judgements applied.
mitigation framework is in place Consider the effectiveness of the Groups internal throughout the Group.
Monitor and review the effectiveness of the M Wareing Groups internal auditactivities.
Make recommendations as to the appointment, remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditors.
Monitor and review the external auditors independence and objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Review arrangements by which the Groups employees may confidentially raise concerns about possible improprieties.
It is the Committees objective to ensure that arrangements are inplacefor the proportionate and independent investigation of such matters and for appropriate follow up action to be taken.
Corporate governance 42 42 Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The Committees terms of reference, semi-annual representation letter internal control issued by the Financial which were reviewed during the year, fromall business units.
Included in those Reporting Council.
areavailable on the Companys letters are written acknowledgements websiteor on application to the that financial reporting is based upon The Audit Committee monitors CompanySecretary.
reliable data and that the results are theadequacy of internal financial properly stated in accordance with controls and compliance with Group The Chairman of the Committee is Group policies.
The review and standards through a combination of Michael Wareing.
He is an independent monitoring of the effectiveness of aself-assessment process involving all Director.
The Board is satisfied, since theinternal controls including, but business units supplemented by regular hewas the former International notlimited to, financial controls and internal audit reviews and visits.
The ChiefExecutive of KPMG until 2009, theGroups financial and operational Board receives reports on a regular hasbeenChairman of the Audit riskmanagement systems is delegated basisfrom the Audit Committee in Committeeof Wolseley plc for two to the Audit Committee.
relation to the effectiveness of the years and is a chartered accountant, Groups system ofinternal control thathe has recent and relevant financial Risk management is an integral part andhas, accordingly, reviewed the experience as required by the Code.
ofthe system of internal control.
effectiveness of the Groups system of Theother members of the Committee Divisional Presidents are required to internal control in respect of 2011.
The are all independent Directors.
Details ensure that appropriate processes, review covered allmaterial controls, oftheir experience are set out on including the maintenance of business including financial, operational and pages34to35.
unit and divisional risk registers, exist compliance controls and risk toidentify and manage risks and to management systems.
Risk management regularly carry out formal risk andinternalcontrols assessments.
The executive Risk External auditors The Committee believes that the current Committee undertakes a top level The Committee and the external arrangements comprising a rotational review of significant risks and the auditors have safeguards to avoid the programme of internal financial and ChiefExecutive Officer reports possible compromise of the auditors other control reviews by the internal regularlyto theBoard on objectivity and independence.
These audit function, business reviews carried theirmitigation.
include the adoption by the Committee out by the Chief Executive Officer and of a policy regarding the supply of Chief Financial Officer and a process of The latest principal risks and the risk auditand non-audit services and of self-assessment of internal financial management process are highlighted apolicy on the employment of controls by all business units provides onpages 28 and 29. externalaudit staff.
Non-audit services, appropriate coverage of the Groups as defined from time to time in the activities.
Where weaknesses have been The Board is responsible for the policy, can be provided subject to identified, plans for remedying them are Groupssystem of internal control, pre-approval by the Committee where developed and progress monitored.
theaim of which is to manage risks the cost of any individual engagement thataresignificant to the fulfilment exceeds a pre-defined limit.
The The Group operates under a system oftheGroups business objectives Committee has received reports from ofinternal controls which has been andtocontribute to the safeguarding the external auditors confirming their developed and refined over time ofshareholders investment and the independence and objectivity.
tomeetits needs and the risks and Companys assets.
The Audit Committee opportunities to which it is exposed.
is responsible for monitoring and The external auditors operate, in This includes a strategic planning reviewing the effectiveness of the relationto the senior engagement process involving the preparation system.
However, such a system is auditor, a rotation policy after five ofafive year plan, a comprehensive designed to manage rather than yearsand the current audit partner budgeting system with an annual eliminate the risk of failure to wasappointed in early 2009.
The budgetwhich is approved by the achievebusiness objectives, and Committee has reviewed the Board, the regular revision of financial canonly provide reasonable and effectiveness of the external auditors forecasts for the year, the monitoring notabsoluteassurance against and has recommended that a offinancial performance and the .
resolutionbe proposed at the AGM appropriate delegation of authorities tore-appoint the external auditors tooperational management.
The Board confirms that there is andtoallow the Board to set their Delegations and other operational anongoing process for identifying, remuneration.
The Committee is controls are contained in the evaluating and managing the significant satisfied that the external auditors CorporateFramework and the risks faced by the Group.
Specifically which has been in place for the year withregard to the financial reporting under review and up to the date of The nature of services received from process and the preparation of the approval of the Annual Report and and fees paid to the external auditors Group financial statements, the Accounts, is reviewed in accordance during the year are set out in note 2 systemincludes an annual and with the guidance for Directors on totheGroup financial statements.
Corporate governance Cobham plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 43
