Introductory letter from the Chairman of the Board Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand London WC2N 5AF Dear shareholder, I am pleased to once again confirm that your Company is compliant with Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate Governance.
As Chairman of the Board, I am responsible for its leadership and for ensuring its effectiveness.
I expect all Directors, but particularly Non-executive Directors, to constructively challenge proposals that come to the Board for decision and to contribute to the development of strategy.
This is one of the key criteria I have used in evaluating the contribution of Directors during the year.
As a Board, we pride ourselves in high standards of corporate governance.
One of the most pleasing outcomes from the Financial Reporting Councils FRC implementation of the Stewardship Code, was the increase in the number of letters we have received from shareholders setting out their expectations for governance within companies in which they invest.
We monitor trends in corporate governance, both within the UK and internationally, adopting emerging practice that we consider would improve the governance of our business.
Last year, we introduced annual re-election for all Directors and conducted an external independent evaluation of our Board.
This meant we complied with these aspects of the FRCs new 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code a full year ahead of schedule.
We aim to lead our industry in other related respects too, with a strong focus on areas of Corporate Responsibility, environmental management, health and safety, customer service, and employee communication and development.
As I mentioned in my opening statement, regrettably, Bo Lerenius and Sir Christopher Bland will not be offering themselves for re-election at the forthcoming AGM and will step down immediately after it.
Both have provided valuable advice and support to the Board during a challenging period for the Group.
I thank them for their support and will miss their contribution.
We have been particularly fortunate to be able to appoint Simon Palley as an independent Non-executive Director earlier in the year.
Simon has had a successful and broad ranging career in investment banking and private equity, rising to become Managing Partner at BC Partners, one of the leading private equity rms in Europe.
In this section of the Annual Report, we have included overviews from the Chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, together with my overview of the activities of the Nominations Committee which I also chair.
Alison Carnwath Chairman of the Board 68 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors How we govern the Company Compliance with the Combined Code with quarterly updates, environmental performance, the Board The Directors consider that the Company has complied fully with the performance evaluation and Corporate Responsibility matters.
provisions set out in Section 1 of the 2008 Combined Code on Corporate In addition to scheduled Board meetings, the Non-executive Governance the Code throughout the year ended 31 March 2011.
Directors make themselves available throughout the year to support Further details of how Land Securities applied the main principles of Executive Directors and senior management and to provide advice.
the Code can be found in this report and in the Corporate Governance Non-executive Director sessions were held regularly at the section of the Companys website, www.
The website conclusion of Board meetings.
A series of informal dinners was also held, also contains the terms of reference for the Audit, Nominations and attended by the Non-executive Directors and senior employees below Remuneration Committees.
The role of the Board Board balance and independence The Board is responsible for providing leadership for the Group.
It ensures The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive are split, with clear that the Groups strategy is properly debated before it is adopted, that written guidance to support the division of responsibilities.
acceptable risks are taken and appropriate people and financial resources The Chairman was primarily responsible for the effective are in place in order to deliver value to shareholders and benets to the working of the Board, ensuring that all Directors are able to play a full wider community.
It also sets standards for ethical behaviour and part in its activities.
The Chairman is also responsible for ensuring monitors environmental and health and safety performance.
effective communication with shareholders, that any concerns The Board operated in accordance with a written schedule of expressed are relayed to the Board and for making sure that the reserved matters which require Board consideration.
These reserved agreed strategy is implemented in a timely and effective manner.
matters, which are supported by clearly dened written limits of delegated There was strong non-executive representation on the Board, authority across the Group, were reviewed during the course of the year.
which during the year consisted of the Chairman, four Executive A copy is available on the Companys website, www.
Directors and six, increasing to seven following the appointment of The principal matters reserved to the Board include: Simon Palley, independent Non-executive Directors.
authorisation of significant transactions and those in excess of 150m The Board regards each of the Non-executive Directors as being dividend policy fully independent and the Chairman was independent at the time of her internal controls and risk management via the Audit Committee appointment to that position.
remuneration policy via the Remuneration Committee In April 2011, David Rough completed nine years of service as shareholder circulars and listing particulars a Non-executive Director.
In March 2011, the Nominations Committee matters relating to share capital, such as share buybacks considered his independence in the context of guidance on the treasury policy and significant fundraising independence of Non-executive Directors set out in the 2010 UK appointment removal of Directors and the Company Secretary.
A particularly rigorous review was undertaken, given Mr Roughs position as the Groups Senior Board meetings and the agenda Independent Director, with consideration given to the extent to which During the year, the Board held eight principal Board meetings.
he provided challenge to the Executive Directors both at Board and At every meeting, each Executive Director gave a report on his other meetings, his standing within the investment community and particular area for responsibility within the business.
In addition, advice taken from the Groups independent adviser, Makinson Cowell.
a number of specic subjects were discussed, which included: The Committee concluded that David Rough continued to meet the Strategy the Board held an offsite meeting over two days at which criteria for independence.
the Companys strategy was reviewed in the context of the macro and The Board is satisfied that no individual or group of Directors micro economic environment, potential legislative changes, Londons has unfettered powers of discretion and that an appropriate balance position as a global business and financial centre, the impact of exists between the Executive and Non-executive Directors.
The technology on our Retail business, the strategies of successful global Chairman held regular meetings with the Non-executive Directors REITs and the need for the Company to create and exploit without the Executive Directors being present.
A number of these sessions were attended the Chairman met frequently with Executive Directors.
by experts from a number of leading institutions.
In the coming year, the Nominations Committee will seek Business plans the Board reviewed, at six-monthly intervals, the to appoint another Non-executive Director with the assistance of an Groups five year forecast, annual budget and business plan, all of external search rm.
We are confident that this new appointment, which are designed to support the Companys strategy.
In addition, together with the appointment of Simon Palley earlier in the year, will the Board reviewed a balanced scorecard which covers a number replenish the balance, diversity and strength of the Board following the of non-financial measures.
decisions of Bo Lerenius and Sir Christopher Bland to step down.
Progress reporting as part of the detailed Board reporting, the papers circulated to the Board in advance of each meeting included Board access to appropriate information business performance updates from the Chief Executive and the Information was provided to the Board in a form and quality to enable Group Finance Director.
Regular updates on progress with the it to take informed decisions and to discharge its duties.
Directors are Groups key business targets are also circulated and discussed.
provided with regular detailed briengs on the Groups business, the In addition, the half-yearly and annual results and a six-monthly markets in which it operates and the overall economic and competitive comparison of investment property performance to IPD indices environment.
Directors were encouraged to challenge and make further were reviewed in detail.
enquiries of the Executive Directors or senior management, as they Compliance and external relations the Board reviewed investor considered appropriate.
relations, HR and pensions, corporate governance, health and safety Land Securities Annual Report 2011 69 Corporate governance Attendance at Board and Committee meetings Table 54 The Company Secretary, through the Chairman, was responsible for advising the Board on governance matters and for ensuring The number of principal Board and Committee meetings attended by each Director during the financial year was as follows : good information ows within the Board.
All Directors had access Audit Nominations Remuneration to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, as well as to Board Committee Committee Committee 8 meetings 4 meetings 2 meetings 2 meetings external advice at the expense of the Group the procedure for Directors Alison Carnwath 8 8 2 2 2 2 wishing to seek external advice is published on the Groups website, Francis Salway 8 8 www.
No such external advice was sought by any Martin Greenslade 8 8 Director during the year.
Richard Akers 8 8 The minutes of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration David Rough 8 8 4 4 2 2 2 2 Committees were sent to the Board: minutes of the Nominations and Sir Stuart Rose 8 8 2 2 1 2 Remuneration Committees may be subject to redaction with the Bo Lerenius 8 8 4 4 2 2 1 2 agreement of the relevant Committee, where this is considered Sir Christopher Bland 8 8 2 2 necessary to exclude matters relating to a specic Director.
The Kevin OByrne 7 8 4 4 Committee Chairmen also reported to the Board on the outcome Chris Bartram 8 8 4 4 1 1 of Committee meetings at the subsequent Board meeting.
Robert Noel 8 8 Non-executive Directors are free to attend the Companys Simon Palley 4 4 headquarters whenever they wish and to organise meetings with Actual attendance maximum number of meetings a Director could attend as a Board Committee member.
Executive Directors or with senior employees below Board level.
These meetings provide senior managers with exposure to the Board and enable Non-executive Directors to learn more about the day-to-day Last year Independent Audit Limited Independent Audit, an running of the business.
independent rm of consultants who specialise in board performance and corporate governance, was appointed to undertake a thorough review of Professional development, support and training for Directors the performance of the Board and its Committees.
The process involved a Newly appointed Directors benefit from a tailored induction review of information provided to the Board and Committees followed by programme before, or immediately after, their appointment to the condential interviews with the Directors, the Company Secretary and Board.
In the year under review, Simon Palley received training that the Head of Risk Management.
Independent Audits report concluded covered the Groups business and the regulatory regime in which it that the Board and its Committees continue to operate effectively.
operates and benefited from a detailed overview of the business, the It identied a small number of further actions to help support our Board and its structure from the Chairman.
This was coordinated by commitment to continuous improvement.
The key areas of focus were: the Company Secretary, in accordance with guidelines issued by the Formalising at more frequent intervals a review of the interaction of Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
the Groups assets and liabilities.
This was addressed by the formation Non-executive Directors were encouraged to visit the Groups of an Asset and Liability Management Committee which meets three major properties to enable them to gain a greater understanding of the times a year.
In addition, one Board meeting each year is held at an Continuing to improve the relevance and user-friendliness of off-site location and incorporates a visit to one or more of the Groups information going to the Board.
The off-site meeting in February Exploring ways for the Non-executive Directors to increase further 2011 was held over two days in central London, including visits to some their understanding of the business and the time they spend of the Groups properties located in the City of London.
collectively and individually with Executive Directors.
The series of Board development sessions and training has Considering whether agenda time should be made available for more been continued.
These consisted of briengs from external or internal free-ranging discussions.
speakers providing the Board with another perspective or a more Exploring ways of framing the Boards risk appetite in more explicit in-depth overview on matters relevant to the real estate industry and terms and communicating it to the business.
markets in which the Group operates, together with updates on subjects relating to their duties as Directors.
Topics included an overview of the This year a Board effectiveness review was undertaken by Independent planning process in the UK together with an in-depth study of the Audit using a questionnaire process focusing on areas that were raised property development process.
during last years review and providing an opportunity to raise any The Board supports Executive Directors taking up Nonnew concerns or issues.
The results of the report were considered in a executive Directorship positions of listed companies as part of their separate session of the Board at its away day, at which each Director continuing development as this will benefit the Company.
As a matter was asked to comment.
The Board supported the conclusion of the of policy, such appointments are normally limited to one Non-executive independent review, that good progress had been made in addressing Directorship.
In June 2010, Francis Salway took up a Non-executive the issues raised last year.
Prior to approving this appointment, Going forward, the Board has resolved to establish a three year the Nominations Committee considered the likely time commitment evaluation cycle.
In the first year of the cycle, a detailed evaluation will be of Mr Salway in his new role and the benefit for the Group in terms of conducted by independent consultants, who will follow up any issues raised the broadening of his experience.
in a questionnaire in the second year.
In the third, the Chairman will conduct an evaluation through individual meetings with each Director.
Evaluation of the performance of the Board The Chairmans performance and leadership was reviewed by A formal and rigorous evaluation of the performance of the Board, the Senior Independent Director, while the Chairman reviewed the its Committees, the Directors and the Chairman is conducted each year contribution and performance of the individual Board Directors.
as the Company recognises that their effectiveness is critical to its success.
70 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Corporate governance Conicts of interest The Annual General Meeting provided all shareholders with The Board operates a policy to identify, manage and, where appropriate, an opportunity to question the Company on matters put to the meeting approve conicts or potential conicts of interest.
Under this policy, including the Annual Report.
Shareholders attending the Annual Directors were required to declare all appointments to other companies General Meeting were given a detailed presentation by the Group and other interests which could give rise to conicts or potential conicts Chief Executive on the activities and performance of the Group over of interest.
The monitoring of these procedures was delegated to the the preceding year.
From the 2007 Annual General Meeting onwards, voting has The Committee agreed that there was a potential for conicts of been conducted by poll instead of by show of hands.
In this way, all interest to arise in relation to the position of Chris Bartram as Chairman shares represented at the meeting are voted and added to the proxy of Orchard Street Investment Management.
This was addressed by vote lodged in advance of the meeting.
The results of proxy voting ensuring that, where appropriate, he was excluded from discussions and at general meetings were published on the Companys website, relevant information on potential acquisitions of property.
com, as required by the Code.
the Committee considered the positions of Francis Salway, Sir Stuart Rose and Kevin OByrne who were, for at least part of the period under Financial reporting and the going concern basis for accounting review, Directors of Next plc, Marks & Spencer Group plc and The Board seeks to present a balanced and understandable assessment Kingsher plc respectively.
The Committee concluded that in practice of the Groups position and prospects.
conicts of interest were unlikely to occur since operational matters, In order to satisfy themselves that the Company has adequate such as retail leasing, were unlikely to be considered at Board level.
resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future, the Directors have reviewed assumptions about future trading Approach to Investor Relations performance, valuation projections and debt requirements contained Land Securities has a comprehensive Investor Relations programme within the Groups current five year plan and reported against, which aims to provide existing and potential investors with a means internally, on a monthly basis.
of developing their understanding of the Company and raising any This, together with available market information and the concerns or issues they may have.
Principal investors were offered Directors knowledge and experience of the Groups property portfolio meetings with senior management on a regular basis.
In addition, and markets, has given them sufficient confidence to continue to adopt the Chairman maintained contact with principal investors and kept the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
the Board informed of their views.
After making enquiries, the Directors have a reasonable The Groups Corporate Communications team are responsible expectation that the Company has adequate resources to continue in for preparing the Groups Corporate Responsibility Report 2011, operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they which is available at www.
continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the accounts.
The Board also receives independent feedback on Investor Relations through a biennial presentation by Makinson Cowell, Internal controls to manage risk the Groups independent adviser.
Makinson Cowell undertook a The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and comprehensive Investor Relations audit in 2009 10, benchmarking for reviewing its effectiveness.
This system is designed using the 2005 all aspects of the Investor Relations programme and interviewing Turnbull guidance to mitigate, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure principal investors to obtain their views on management and business to meet business objectives.
Accordingly, it can provide only reasonable performance.
The Investor Relations department also receives feedback and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
from analysts and investors every six months through their corporate The system has been in place for the year under review and up to the advisers, with reports provided to the Board.
A further comprehensive date of approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
independent Investor Relations audit will be undertaken in 2011 12.
An investor conference is held every year, focusing on the Retail The key features of our system of internal control include: and London businesses in alternate years.
The conference provided Strategic and business planning the Group produces and agrees investors and analysts with an update on the business, property tours a five year forecast and business plan each year, against which the and, importantly, an opportunity for the attendees to meet management performance of the business is regularly monitored.
Balanced below the Executive Director level.
The presentations and an audio-cast scorecards are prepared that set out targets for a wide variety of key or web-cast of the conference were made available on the corporate performance indicators, including risk management and internal website to enable those investors who could not attend to access all the audit actions.
information disclosed at the conference.
Investment appraisal significant capital projects, major contracts The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director normally and business and property acquisitions are reviewed in detail and attend the annual and half-yearly results meetings to which investors are approved in accordance with delegated authority limits.
Approval invited and their attendance was notied to investors in advance.
The may come from the Board, where they have a value in excess of Senior Independent Director was available to shareholders should they 150m or are otherwise sufciently material, or from the Groups have any concerns which could not be resolved through the normal Investment Committee, which comprises the Groups Executive channels of communication with the Chairman or Chief Executive.
Directors with senior managers in attendance.
No such concerns were raised by shareholders during the year ended Financial monitoring profitability, cash ow and capital 31 March 2011. expenditure are closely monitored and key financial information is In relation to private shareholders, we actively encouraged reported to the Board on a monthly basis, including explanations feedback and communication, both on the Annual Report, at the of variances between actual and budgeted performance.
Annual General Meeting and through regular meetings with the Systems of control, procedures and delegated authorities there United Kingdom Shareholders Association UKSA.
are clearly dened guidelines and approval limits for capital and operating expenditure and other key business transactions and Land Securities Annual Report 2011 71 Corporate governance Risk management process Chart 55 decisions.
Operational and financial procedures and controls are maintained on the Groups intranet.
Risk management the Group has an ongoing process to identify, Identify risks evaluate and manage the risks faced by the Group.
2. management process is set out in Chart 55.
Each risk is rated in Report risks Assess and We contextualise terms of probability of occurrence and potential impact on and mitigation quantify risks risk in terms to Board performance, with mitigating actions, control effectiveness and of our goals and objectives management responsibility identied in relation to each.
Our approach is supported by an oversight structure.
3. the Audit Committee, which reviews the effectiveness of our risk Re-assess risks Develop action management process.
post mitigation plans to mitigate risks The Audit Committee monitors the risks and associated controls over financial reporting processes, including the process by which the Groups financial statements are prepared for publication.
A risk The Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness of internal audit activities including the scope of work, authority and resources of the management framework is in place to identify, evaluate and manage internal audit function.
The Audit Committee on behalf of the Board risks, including key financial reporting risks and related information reviewed the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and risk systems.
The financial reporting controls are monitored and management.
The review covered all material areas of the business maintained through internal controls, which identify and address including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk key financial reporting risks including risks arising from changes in management.
In performing its review of effectiveness, the Audit accounting standards, as well as any areas of accounting judgement.
Committee took into account the following reports and activities: In addition, the integrity of the financial reporting and Internal audit reports on reviews of business processes and activities, consolidation processes and the completeness and accuracy of including the implementation of new controls and action plans to financial information are subject to review by management, the address any identied control weaknesses.
Audit Committee and the Board.
Managements sign off on the effectiveness of the key controls.
External auditors report on any issues identied in the course of Key risk management processes their work, including internal control reports on control weaknesses, An awareness of risk was embedded throughout the organisation.
which were provided to the Audit Committee as well as executive The principal tools used to assess and manage risk were: management.
Six-monthly assessments a compliance questionnaire was Risk management reporting, including the status of actions to completed twice a year before the Groups half-yearly and annual mitigate major risks and the quantication of selected risks.
financial statements are issued by senior managers who provided assurances that our business activities have been conducted The Board confirms that no significant failings or weaknesses have been appropriately a similar questionnaire was completed annually identied from that review.
in respect of joint ventures.
The Company has established a whistleblowing policy and Internal audit this team was responsible for reviewing and testing hotline to enable employees to raise issues on a condential basis.
key business processes and controls, including following up the Although the Audit Committee would be advised of any whistleblowing implementation of management actions and reporting any overdue incidents, none were reported during the year.
actions to the Audit Committee.
The Director of Internal Audit and Risk Management reports to the Chief Executive and had Other disclosures Other disclosures required by paragraph 7.2.
6 of the Disclosure and direct access to the Audit Committee Chairman.
The internal audit Transparency Rules and the Companies Act 2006 are set out in the function operated a risk-based audit approach and provided a Report of the Directors which follows.
summary report on the operation of the system of risk management and internal control to support the Boards annual statement.
A note on our Committees Key controls during the course of the year, a new key controls Over the following pages you can read reports from the Chairmen of the toolkit was implemented.
This was designed in conjunction with Nominations Committee and the Audit Committee.
The Remuneration senior managers who provide quarterly conrmations that key Committee determines the remuneration and conditions of employment controls are both embedded and operating effectively within of the Executive Directors and senior employees, and you will nd the business.
that Committees activity described in detail in the Directors remuneration report.
72 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Letter from the Chairman of the Nominations Committee Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand London WC2N 5AF Dear shareholder, The Committee seeks to ensure that there is a balanced and effective Board in terms of skills, knowledge and experience.
It also reviews the leadership needs of the Group and is responsible for identifying and developing talent across the Group.
This year the Nominations Committee comprised Sir Christopher Bland, Sir Stuart Rose, David Rough, Bo Lerenius and myself.
During the year under review, the principal focus of the Committee was succession planning for both the Board and the senior management positions in the Group.
The Committee looks at identifying and developing internal talent as well as bringing in new people to ensure that we have the right skills in key areas of the business.
We met at two scheduled meetings during the course of the year, with an additional ad hoc meeting to consider and recommend to the Board the appointment of Simon Palley, who had been identied as a suitable candidate to join the Board as a Non-executive Director through the use of external search consultants.
At the remaining two meetings, the Committee considered Board structure, size, composition and succession needs, keeping under review the balance of membership and the required blend of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board.
Last year, we decided to propose all Board members for re-election at the Annual General Meeting every year in order to enhance accountability to shareholders.
Having reviewed the effectiveness and commitment of Non-executive Directors, the Committee recommended their reappointment to the Board.
The Committee concluded that all of the Nonexecutive Directors were devoting sufficient time to their duties, both in terms of preparation for and attending meetings and also in making themselves available to provide advice to Executive Directors and senior management on business initiatives and issues.
If a Non-executive Director has served on the Board for more than six years, the Committee conducts a more rigorous review before making its recommendation to the Board.
There are currently three Non-executive Directors who have served on the Board for more than six years, David Rough, Sir Stuart Rose and Bo Lerenius, who joined the Board in April 2002, May 2003 and June 2004 respectively.
Each of these Non-executive Directors has been subject to a more rigorous review on the sixth anniversary of their appointment and the process undertaken in relation to David Rough, who has now served on the Board for nine years, is described in greater detail in the section headed Board balance and independence within the Corporate governance section.
As I mentioned in my opening statement, we support Lord Davies recommendation that women comprise at least 25% of the Board of every FTSE 100 company.
Our intention is to comply with the recommendation by 2015.
However, my foremost objective is to ensure that Land Securities continues to have the strongest possible leadership, with all appointments made on merit.
Alison Carnwath Chairman, Nominations Committee Land Securities Annual Report 2011 73 Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee Land Securities Group PLC 5 Strand London WC2N 5AF Dear shareholder, I would like to give you an overview of the operation and scope of the Audit Committee and report on its work over the past year.
During the year under review, membership of the Audit Committee comprised David Rough, Bo Lerenius, Chris Bartram and myself.
The Committee aims to ensure that the Group has appropriate processes in place to identify potential risks and develop mechanisms for avoiding or mitigating those risks.
The Committee is assisted in this by the external auditors and by our Internal Audit and Risk Management team.
The Committees written terms of reference are available on the Companys website at www.
Our principal areas of responsibility for oversight are: Internal control and risk management Internal audit External audit including auditor effectiveness and independence Financial reporting.
The Committee met four times during the year.
As Audit Committee Chairman, I invited the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive and Group Finance Director to each meeting and other Directors to attend from time to time.
In addition, the Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit and representatives from the external auditors,  LLP PwC, were present at each meeting.
The Committee met separately with PwC and the internal auditors.
PwC also met separately with the Groups Executive Directors and its senior management.
In addition, as Chairman of the Audit Committee, I met separately with PwC and also the Groups external valuers Knight Frank LLP Knight Frank.
The Committee undertook the following activities during the course of this year: Review of the half-yearly and annual results and consideration of any matters raised by management and the external auditors Review and approval of the audit plans for external and internal audits Monitoring the scope, effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external auditors Discussing the results of internal audit reviews, significant findings, and management action plans to resolve any issues arising and monitoring resolutions Consideration of the report and processes which support the Boards review on the system of internal control Review of reports on the Groups risk management measures and mitigating actions Implementation of a new key controls toolkit which is described in the key risk management processes section of the Corporate governance report.
74 Land Securities Annual Report 2011 Report of the Directors Corporate governance In conjunction with the Board evaluation outlined in the Corporate governance section of this Annual Report, the Committee also reviewed its own effectiveness and concluded that it continued to operate as an effective Audit Committee.
In the coming year, we intend to follow up on last years successful risk workshop by conducting another one for the whole Board.
This will focus on emerging risks for the Group.
During the year under review, the Audit Committee appraised the effectiveness of the external auditors, PwC, and the external audit process.
The evaluation process included feedback from relevant members of management and the results were reported to the Board and Audit Committee.
Throughout the year under review, the Company had a policy and procedures in place to monitor and maintain the objectivity and independence of the external auditors.
The policy requires prior approval by the Chairman of the Audit Committee for non-audit work above a threshold level of 25,000 per engagement, with only one engagement exceeding that threshold within the year.
On a six-monthly basis, the Audit Committee reviewed a summary of all non-audit work.
Details of the amounts paid to PwC are set out in note 7 to the financial statements.
The external auditors confirmed to the Committee that they remained independent and had maintained appropriate internal safeguards to ensure their objectivity.
The Committee also has in place policy and procedures to monitor the objectivity of the external valuers, Knight Frank.
The work of Knight Frank is particularly important to the Group and to investors since their valuations of the Groups portfolio are a significant determinant of the Groups performance and senior management remuneration.
The valuers and external auditors have full access to one another and operate an open dialogue and exchange of information that is independent of the Group.
The Audit Committee Chairman attends key valuation meetings as do the external auditors to be assured of the independence and rigour of the process.
In addition, Knight Frank presents its valuation findings to the Audit Committee at the interim and full year review of results.
In line with the Carsberg Committee report, we have a xed fee arrangement with our valuers.
Given the importance of the work undertaken by Knight Frank, we have disclosed the fees we pay them at note 8 to the financial statements.
The total fees paid by the Company to Knight Frank in the year represented less than 5% of their total fee income for the year.
The Audit Committee regularly reviews the total fees that the Company pays to Knight Frank as a proportion of the total fees paid to all of our property advisers.
The Committee remains satisfied that it represents only a small proportion of the total.
Kevin OByrne Chairman, Audit Committee Although all of the Committee members are considered to be appropriately experienced to fulfil their role, Kevin OByrne is considered to have significant, recent and relevant financial experience in line with the 2008 Combined Code.
Further biographical details of each of the members of the Committee are set out in the Directors section of the Annual Report.
