London & Stamford Property Plc Report and Accounts 2011 23 Corporate governance Statement by the Directors on compliance The Board is assisted by an Investment Committee comprising withtheprovisions of the code the Executive Directors and the senior management team.
The Investment Committee meets monthly to discuss risk, property The Board is committed to maintaining high standards of investment activities and the ongoing management of the Group.
corporate governance and considers that the Company has complied with the provisions set out in section 1 of the UK The Directors are kept up to date on corporate governance Corporate Governance Code throughout the period from its matters through bulletins and training materials provided from admission to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange time to time by the Company Secretary.
The Board receives on1 October 2010 to 31 March 2011, except for the noncomprehensive reports and briefing papers one week prior independence of one of the Non-Executive Directors as noted totheBoard and Committee meetings to enable them to fulfil below.
The role of the Chairman is an executive position.
The Companys principal governance policies and practices Directors have access at all times to the advice and services areset out below.
ofthe Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and that applicable rules and The Board of Directors regulations are complied with.
The Board comprises the Chairman, two Executive Directors and A procedure has been adopted for the Directors, in the five Non-Executive Directors.
The Board meets for scheduled furtherance of their duties, to take independent professional Board meetings six times during the year and additionally as may advice at the expense of the Company.
The following table shows Directors attendance at In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, Board meetings they were eligible to attend during the period: allDirectors are required to submit themselves for election Board Audit Committee atthefirst opportunity following their appointment by the Board Number of meetings 4 2 and thereafter for re-election at least every three years.
All Directors are proposed for election at the forthcoming Annual Attended: General Meeting.
Raymond Mould 3 Non-Executive Directors Patrick Vaughan 4 The Board is satisfied that the Non-Executive Directors are independent of management and have no business or other Martin McGann 4 relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise Mark Burton 4 2 oftheir independent judgement with the exception of Humphrey Charles Cayzer 4 2 Price.
Humphrey Price is not considered to be independent within the meaning of the Corporate Governance Code as Richard Crowder 4 2 aresult of his long working association with the three Executive James Dean 4 2 Directors at Pillar Property Plc and Arlington Securities.
Humphrey Price 4 2 TheBoard nevertheless considers that the knowledge and experience he brings, having been the Finance Director of these With effect from 25 May 2011 James Dean has stepped down from the very successful listed property companies, andhis ability to act AuditCommittee.
independently, make him a most qualified and appropriate NonThe biographies of all members of the Board are set out on Executive Director and Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Non-Executive Directors have significant and relevant There are clearly defined roles for the Chairman Raymond external commercial experience which enables them to make Mould and Chief Executive Patrick Vaughan.
The Chairman is avaluable contribution to the Board.
responsible for the leadership and effectiveness of the Board and On their appointment, Non-Executive Directors are provided with the Chief Executive is responsible for the day to day management a comprehensive Board pack and are briefed on the Groups of the Group and delivery of strategic objectives.
assets, finances, risks and strategy.
The Chairman is also a non-executive director of FF&P Russia The Non-Executive Directors, chaired by the Senior Independent Real Estate Limited and FF&P Russia Real Estate Development Director, Charles Cayzer, have met separately from the Board Limited, for which he received fees of 65,000 and 75,000 and will continue to meet as necessary, but at least annually, respectively in the year.
The Board is satisfied that this without the Executive Directors present to address any matters appointment does not adversely affect his commitment which they may wish to raise.
The Board is responsible to the shareholders for the strategy, control and effective leadership of the Group.
There is a formalschedule of matters reserved for its approval, including: approval of financial statements and dividends: setting overall strategy: acquisitions and disposals: approval of major capital expenditure projects: treasury and financing arrangements: and internal control, risk management and corporate governance.
Financial statements Governance Operating and financial review Overview London & Stamford Property Plc 24 Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate governance Board performance and evaluation Its responsibilities include agreeing with the Board the policy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Executive The Board is committed to undertaking a formal evaluation of Directors and other senior executives, determining awards and itsown performance and that of its Committees and individual targets under management incentives schemes and determining Directors annually.
This process will take place later in the year the individual remuneration packages of the Chairman and asthe Board approaches the end of its first year.
process will be led by the Chairman and will be used constructively to improve Board effectiveness and tackle The Remuneration Committees role is described further in the anyweaknesses.
Remuneration report on pages 25 to 27.
Board committees Relations with shareholders The Board has two Committees, the Audit and the Remuneration Peel Hunt LLP and Credit Suisse Securities Europe Limited act Committees, each having written terms of reference which are as Joint Corporate Brokers to the Company and assist the Board reviewed annually by the Board and which are available on in communicating on a regular basis with major shareholders written request.
Following the announcement of the interim and year end results, the Executive Directors and the Senior The Board considers it appropriate that appointments to the Independent Director host a series of formal meetings Board are decided by the full Board.
Accordingly, the Company andpresentations with shareholders and investors and report does not have a Nominations Committee.
feedback to the Non-Executive Directors.
Audit Committee The Board is kept updated on shareholder related issues The Audit Committee comprises the Non-Executive Directors byregular meetings between the Executive Directors and ofthe Company except for James Dean and is chaired by shareholders at other times during the year.
Its responsibilities include monitoring the The Executive Directors are available, as appropriate, as a integrity of the Companys financial statements, reviewing the contact for shareholders and the whole Board attends and is effectiveness of the Companys internal controls and risk available to answer shareholder questions at the Companys management systems, reviewing whistleblowing arrangements, Annual General Meeting.
Full interim and annual reports are sent overseeing the relationship with the external auditor, monitoring to all shareholders and details of the resolutions to be proposed the external auditors independence and objectivity and reviewing at the Annual General Meeting on 6 July 2011 can be found in the the scope and results of audits.
Notice of Meeting on pages 56 to 58.
Details of the number of The Committee meets at least twice each year, with meetings proxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution will be organised around the Companys financial reporting disclosed at the meeting and posted to the Companys website.
Since its formation on 1 October 2010, the Internal controls Committee has met twice and all members attended both meetings.
The Finance Director and other senior management The Board is responsible for establishing and maintaining the and the external auditors attend meetings by invitation.
Groups system of internal controls and risk management and forreviewing its effectiveness at least annually.
BDO LLP has confirmed to the Audit Committee that they remain independent and have maintained internal safeguards to ensure The main elements of the internal control framework are: the objectivity of the engagement partner and audit staff is a comprehensive and documented system of financial notimpaired.
budgeting and reporting: Sums payable to BDO LLP in relation to the 2011 audit were a management structure that enables effective and efficient 192,000 and in relation to non-audit services provided in the decision making, with close involvement of the Executive year were 529,000.
Directors in day to day operations.
Monthly meetings of the The Committee has considered the level of non-audit fees and Investment Committee, which assesses and monitors strategic nature of non-audit services provided and is satisfied that auditor and operational risk, are a key element of this structure: and independence has been maintained.
the maintenance of a risk register and a financial reporting PwC have been appointed to advise the Company and Group procedures memorandum, both of which identify key financial ontax compliance and planning.
Due to the size and structure of the Group, the Committee does During the year the Group undertook a comprehensive not believe an internal audit function is necessary, but this assessment of governance procedures, risk management and requirement is kept under regular review.
The Company does, internal controls with assistance from BDO LLP.
Key findings and however, undertake a regular review of key controls and recommendations were reported to the Audit Committee.
processes in conjunction with the external audit team.
The system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Groups objectives.
The system can only Remuneration Committee provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material The Remuneration Committee comprises the Non-Executive misstatement or loss.
Directors of the Company except for Humphrey Price and is chaired by James Dean.
Jadzia Duzniak Company Secretary 26 May 2011
