51 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The following sections explain how the Company applies the To avoid potential conflicts of interest, non-executive directors main and supporting principles and the provisions of the UK are required to consult with the Chairman before taking up any Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting additional external appointments.
Council the Corporate Governance Code.
The Board confirms Charles Strauss is the senior independent director and he is that throughout 2011 the Company has complied with the responsible for undertaking the annual review of the Chairmans relevant provisions of the Corporate Governance Code save performance and chairing the Nomination Committee when as detailed below.
considering the role of Chairman.
He is available to shareholders if they need to convey concerns to the Board other than through The Board the Chairman or Chief Executive Officer.
All directors are collectively responsible for the overall success of the Company and for the creation of long-term shareholder In accordance with the Articles of Association directors value.
Executive directors have direct responsibility for business appointed to the Board since the previous annual general operations, whereas the non-executive directors have a meeting, those who have not been subject to re-election at the responsibility to bring independent, objective judgement to bear previous two years annual general meetings and non-executive on Board decisions.
This includes constructively engaging with directors who have served nine years or more on the Board are and challenging management, helping in the development of the all required to retire and may offer themselves for re-election Companys strategy, satisfying themselves on the adequacy of at the next annual general meeting.
See further the section on the reporting and management information standards and re-election of directors on page 46.
No Board appointments reviewing the effectiveness of the executive management.
Throughout 2011 the Board comprised ten directors the The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are performed Chairman, four executive directors and five independent nonby separate individuals in accordance with the Corporate executive directors.
Following the retirement of Robert Philpott, Governance Code.
The division of responsibilities between formerly CEO of Synovate, on 31 December 2011 the Board the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer is set out in formal comprises nine directors.
Details of the current directors and responsibility statements which have been agreed by the Board.
their biographies are set out on pages 44 and 45.
The directors The Chairmans role includes responsibility for: have a broad range of expertise and experience, which we believe contributes significantly to the effectiveness of the Board.
The composition and effective leadership of the Board in reviewing and agreeing the recommended strategic plans and Each of the non-executive directors has confirmed that they have operating budgets been throughout the year, and continue to be, independent of the management of the Group and free from any business or other Ensuring the Board receives relevant and timely information relationship that could materially affect the exercise of their Ensuring that appropriate and related objectives are independent judgement.
The Chairman was independent at the established for the Chief Executive Officer and his direct time of his appointment.
reporting team The other significant commitments of the Chairman are set out Reviewing overall executive performance in his biography on page 44.
Maintaining effective communication with shareholders The Board believes, in principle, in the benefit of executive directors and other senior employees accepting external nonSupporting the Chief Executive Officer.
executive directorships in order to broaden their skills and The Chief Executive Officers role includes responsibility for: knowledge for the benefit of the Company.
The Boards policy on external appointments is designed to ensure that employees Developing, agreeing and executing the Groups strategic plan remain able to discharge their responsibilities to the Group.
Establishing clear operational performance objectives with Directors and employees are usually permitted to retain any senior colleagues fees in respect of such appointments.
Leading the executive management team Directors must not vote in respect of any contract or other proposal in which they or any person connected with them Leading the management of relationships with external have a material interest otherwise than by virtue of their interests stakeholders including the business community, the City, in securities of the Company.
The Articles of Association were shareholders, potential investors and the public amended by shareholders at the 2009 Annual General Meeting Keeping the Board informed of all relevant matters.
to address the new statutory provisions regarding directors duties in relation to conflicts of interest which came into force on 1 October 2008 under the Companies Act 2006.
The Company has taken steps to ensure compliance with the new law on conflicts of interest and has procedures in place to identify and deal with any conflict situations should they arise.
Those procedures have operated effectively throughout 2011.
They include procedures for the Board to authorise any conflicts that may arise if necessary and a regular review of all such actual and potential conflicts last undertaken in March 2012.
GOVERNANCE 52 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Board meetings All directors are fully briefed on important developments in the The Board meets nine or ten times a year and more frequently various business activities which the Group undertakes and by telephone if appropriate when business needs require.
regularly receive information concerning the Groups operations, During the year, Board meetings took place on average more finances, key risks and its employees, enabling them to fulfil than once a month.
At least one Board meeting is extended their duties and obligations as directors.
in length to consider fully the ongoing development of the The Board is supplied in advance of each meeting with an Companys strategic plans.
Board meetings are structured to agenda and supporting documentation.
At each Board meeting allow open discussion and all directors participate in discussing there are a number of standard agenda report items on the the strategy, trading and financial performance and risk monthly performance of the business, key developments and management of the Company.
Senior managers and external advisors There is a list of matters that have been reserved to the Board are also invited to attend meetings where relevant input is for decision.
These include approval of: needed.
The Board receives briefings from the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees following meetings of Group strategy, annual budget and operating plans those Committees.
results announcements dividend policy circulars and listing particulars matters relating to share capital major capital projects, investments and commitments.
The attendance of directors at meetings of the Board and at Board Committees of which they were members during the year is set out below: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in year 15 561 John Napier 15 61 Jerry Buhlmann 15 1 Harold Mitchell 13 Robert Philpott 14 Nick Priday 15 John Brady 15 61 Simon Laffin 15 51 Martin Read 15 41 Charles Strauss 15 51 Lorraine Trainer 15 61 In addition to the above, and in each case at the invitation of the Director liability relevant Committee chairman, Jerry Buhlmann attended four The Company has in place an appropriate level of directors and meetings of the Remuneration Committee and two meetings officers insurance cover in respect of legal action against the of the Audit Committee, Nick Priday attended all meetings of directors.
In addition, the Company has given an indemnity to the Audit Committee and two meetings of the Remuneration its directors in respect of third party claims, as described in Committee and John Napier attended one meeting of the the Directors report on page 46.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the From time to time the non-executive directors, including the company secretary and, if required, external professional advice Chairman, meet without the executive directors present to at the Companys expense.
If a director has particular concerns, consider matters relating to the running of the Board and the he or she may specifically request that they be recorded in the Company and the effectiveness of the Board itself and of the Board minutes.
Board committees Induction and training Terms of reference for all Board committees are regularly Directors undertake an induction programme when they join reviewed and are available on the Companys website at the Board and receive a range of information about the Group.
com and from the company secretary on request.
The induction programme also includes, where appropriate, meetings with other members of the Board and briefings and Audit Committee presentations regarding the Groups operations from senior Simon Laffin is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The Chairman reviews any training and development chartered management accountant and the Board is satisfied that needs with each director as and when necessary, to enable he has appropriate recent and relevant financial experience to ongoing training needs to be met.
lead the Committee in its duties and deliberations.
The other two members of the Committee are Charles Strauss and Martin Read.
53 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Biographical details of the members of the Audit Committee, all Internal Audit of whom are independent non-executive directors, are set out on The Committee regards the Internal Audit team as a critical part page 45. of our system of internal controls.
We oversaw the appointment of a new Director of Risk and Audit, Linda Chan, in July 2011.
Letter from the Chairman of the Audit Committee She has had extensive experience in internal audit with Tui Travel, the Automobile Association and Centrica, as well as Dear Shareholder Deloitte LLP, where she specialised in risk and internal audit During the year we held five meetings, inviting along others as we services.
Linda reports jointly to the Audit Committee and the thought necessary, including the Group Chairman, CEO and Chief Group Chief Financial Officer, and has direct contact with me Financial Officer, the external auditors, the company secretary, at any time she wishes.
the Group Financial Controller and following her appointment We oversaw a comprehensive review of the purpose and objectives the Director of Risk and Audit.
We also met privately with the of the internal audit function in the second half of the year.
This internal and external auditors on a number of occasions.
took account of the Committees desire to improve further our The Audit Committee reviews the internal control framework controls, balancing risk versus enterprise, and giving coverage for the Group, which involves working with the external auditor, across the whole of our international network.
The result was a internal auditors and the Companys risk committees.
The number of enhancements: Committee also reviews both internal and external reporting.
An increase in the team from 3 to 11 people, with a dedicated IT audit team and, for the first time, 4 team members based External Auditors in our regional offices The Committee is responsible for making recommendations to the Board in relation to the selection of the external auditors, Improved common methodology and working practices for for approving their terms of engagement and the scope of and all units materiality levels for the audit, and for monitoring both their Additional focus on core financial controls, the balance sheet independence and their use for non-audit services.
Details of the and key operating risks inherent to our business, such as various amounts paid to the external auditors are given in Note 5 sales and collections and contracts management to the financial statements.
A formal tender process to appoint a new co-sourcing partner We recommended to the Board that a tender process be held in to provide supplementary resources, specialist skills and May 2011 for the external audit, as it had been seven years since local indigenous presence.
The Committee felt strongly that given our international diversity and complexity in over 80 countries, it Since it is not practical, or desirable, for controls to be imposed wanted a single firm to undertake the global audit.
This would be solely by the centre, great store is put by business units taking both more timely and more efficient and would ensure common responsibility for their own controls.
The annual compliance self standards across our many reporting entities.
certification process was therefore reviewed and updated.
We As a result, a shortlist of four global audit firms, including both insist that the chief executive officer and chief financial officer of the incumbent Deloitte LLP and one non-Big Four firm, was each entity, at regional, global and Group levels, completes an drawn up.
Both oral and written presentations were made to a annual certificate to confirm that: panel comprising the CFO, the Group Financial Controller and The Groups policies and procedures were adhered to the Audit Committee chairman, and then to a meeting of the Committee attended by the CEO and all members of the panel.
The accounts as submitted were accurate and complete and Costs and quality submissions were rigorously examined.
At the prepared in accordance with Group accounting policies end of the process the Committee unanimously recommended to There were no actual or potential breaches of laws or the Board the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP.
regulations The Committees recommendation was subsequently accepted There were no known frauds by the Board and announced on 28 June 2011.
There were no related party transactions other than those Given that Ernst & Young LLP was appointed as auditor during properly disclosed the year, the appointment of a new audit partner satisfies the rotation requirements of the ICAEW policy.
There were no conflicted directorships We did consider the balance between fees for audit and non-audit All relevant information was disclosed to the auditors.
work for the Group in the year, and concluded that the nature and As they are not controlled by the Group, joint ventures and extent of the non-audit fees paid to Deloitte LLP up to 16 June associates companies have their own policies and procedures, 2011 and to Ernst & Young LLP since then, did not present a and the Group therefore places reliance on the systems of threat to the external auditors independence.
This will continue internal controls operating within our partners businesses.
to be monitored as the Committee is well aware of the importance of auditor independence.
We also reviewed our policy on auditors providing services beyond strict audit work, confirming that all such additional work costing over 25,000 would need specific individual approval by the CFO, with work costing over 100,000 needing approval by the chairman of the Audit Committee.
GOVERNANCE 54 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued Other actions taken to strengthen financial controls were: Our own performance The Committee reviewed its own terms of reference.
It also The new Group-wide financial reporting and consolidation discussed its own performance, inviting the views of management system was rolled out across the Group, significantly and internal and external auditors.
Whilst we felt that considerable improving the reporting and consolidation process progress has been made, the Committee recognised that there A programme of testing financial controls was undertaken was more to do in the current year.
Resulting recommendations are presented to business units and then regularly followed up by internal audit Review of internal control effectiveness The Board, advised by the Audit Committee, reviewed the An independent report was commissioned on a bad debt in effectiveness of the whole system of risk management and internal Spain.
This loss was announced at the time it came to light in controls.
The Board concluded that the processes in place are February 2011.
Both the recommendations and the broader appropriate, improved during 2011 and are still improving.
implications of this report were carefully reviewed by the The Board considers that this fully satisfies the requirements of Audit Committee and the recommendations have now been the revised Turnbull Guidance on Internal Controls.
fully implemented Simon Laffin The whistle-blowing procedures, known as Speak-up, have Chairman of the Audit Committee been re-communicated and emphasised.
14 March 2012 Risk Committees Following the sale of Synovate, the Group has two risk Remuneration Committee committees for Aegis Media, chaired by the Group CEO, and The Remuneration Committee is chaired by Lorraine Trainer.
for Head Office, chaired by the Group Chief Financial Officer.
The other two members of the Committee are John Brady Both committees report to the Audit Committee.
They discuss and John Napier.
Both Lorraine Trainer and John Brady are key risks faced by the Group, assess the probability and independent non-executive directors and John Napier was quantify the effect of those risks and review and approve risk considered to be independent on his appointment as Chairman management mitigation plans.
A third risk committee was in July 2008.
The Corporate Governance Code suggests a chaired by the Synovate CEO prior to the sale of Synovate.
remuneration committee should comprise at least three independent non-executive directors in addition to the chairman During 2011, Aegis revised the Group risk management of the Board, however the Board continues to consider the framework to increase focus on the major risks that the Group current composition of the Committee to be effective, efficient faces.
The evaluation methodology has also been modified to and appropriate to the Companys needs.
place more emphasis on measuring the effect on both our reputation and financial results see the Principal Risks & Members of the Committee have no conflict of interest arising Uncertainties section on pages 30 to 33. from cross directorships.
Members of the Committee have no The Audit Committee has been stressing the importance of the personal financial interest, other than as shareholders, in the evaluation of risks being considered by all managers and so Committees decisions.
becoming part of how everyone works.
The responsibility to Meetings of the Committee were generally attended, in whole manage risk sits with all employees, not just the Risk Committees.
or in part, by the Chief Executive Officer, the Group human resources director and the company secretary.
Two meetings Reporting of the Committee were also attended, in part, at the invitation The Audit Committee has been encouraging the development of of the chairman, by the Chief Financial Officer.
Apart from internal performance reviews, and considerable progress has members of the Committee, no-one attending its meetings been achieved by the finance team.
is present as of right and no-one including members of the We review the external financial statements with input from both Committee attends when their own remuneration is discussed.
We ensure that reporting The Committee usually meets five times a year and more complies with accounting standards and rules.
During the year, frequently if required.
Its main the Committee focused particularly on: responsibilities are: Significant judgemental areas, such as accruals, goodwill and determining and recommending the policy and framework for taxation provisions, taking full input from the external auditors the remuneration of the Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and executive directors Agreeing segmental reporting Forward cash and debt capacity that confirmed our going within policy terms and in consultation with the Chairman, concern status Chief Executive Officer and external advisers as appropriate, determining the total remuneration packages of the Chairman, Any changes in accounting policies and practices.
There were Chief Executive Officer and other executive directors in fact no significant changes considering proposals in relation to other senior executive Ensuring the integrity of the Companys financial statements management by challenge and external review overseeing the design of the Groups share based long term Compliance with accounting standards and the Corporate incentive schemes, including approving the value of awards Governance Code and overseeing the operation of performance conditions.
Compliance with UK Listing Authority regulations and stock exchange and legal requirements.
55 Aegis Group plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 During the year the principal business of Committee meetings During the year the Committees principal business included included the following: considering and recommending to the Board the renewal of the appointment of John Napier and the retirement by determining the remuneration payable to certain senior rotation and re-election of Harold Mitchell, Robert Philpott employees on their appointment to the Group and Lorraine Trainer at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
adopting the rules for the bonusrelated share scheme linked to the revised bonus scheme introduced for Aegis Media in Employee concerns 2010 and reported last year As mentioned above, the Group has arrangements in place that allow employees, in confidence, to raise concerns about possible conducting the annual review of base salaries for executive wrongdoing in matters of financial reporting or other matters, directors and the Chief Executive Officers recommendation without fear of reprisal, provided that such concerns are raised for his executive team based on review of actual performance in good faith.
The Audit Committee reviews these arrangements to ensure that there is proportionate and independent the consideration and approval of bonus payments for 2010 investigation of any reported concerns and that appropriate ongoing review and monitoring of performance conditions for follow up action is taken.
vesting awards under the Groups performance share plans and long term incentive plans and agreeing adjustments as Relations with shareholders reported last year The Board encourages an active policy of regular, constructive adjusting the shareholding guidelines associated with the dialogue with its shareholders, which is led by the Chairman, 2003 ESOS and performance share plan as reported last year Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer.
Executive directors meet regularly with major shareholders.
approving new awards under the Groups performance The Board encourages investor contact, including holding oneshare plans to-one meetings and group events with existing shareholders reviewing the Groups executive incentive and reward and non-holders alike.
During the year executive directors arrangements and adjusting the trigger measure for Aegis held investor meetings in North America and the UK.
NonMedia and Aegis Group plc executive staff bonuses from executive directors are also available to meet with institutional operating profit to, respectively, profit before management shareholders on request.
charge and shareholder profit JP Morgan Cazenove, the Groups joint financial advisers, drafting of the Remuneration report provide the Board with written reports covering changes in valuation and ownership, market and sector issues on a reviewing the design of the Groups share schemes monthly basis, and along with Numis Securities are available approving the termination arrangements for Robert Philpott, for shareholder relations advice.
CEO of Synovate, and other senior managers following conclusion of the sale of Synovate The Annual General Meeting is an opportunity for shareholders to address questions to the Chairman and the respective considering the impact of the Synovate disposal on the chairmen of the Board committees or other members of the outstanding awards and options held by Synovate employees Board directly.
following the sale of Synovate and the Groups withdrawal Published information, including press releases, presentations from market research activities, considering the continued and webcasts of our results meetings, is available on our appropriateness of the TSR peer group and the calculation of corporate website, www.
eps under the long term incentive schemes and agreeing Further information about the Group can be obtained by adjustments.
Nomination Committee Andrew Moberly The Nomination Committee comprises all of the non-executive Company Secretary directors together with the Chief Executive Officer and is chaired by the Chairman of the Board.
The Committee meets as and 14 March 2012 when required but at least once a year.
The Committee is responsible for: reviewing the Board structure, size and composition identifying and nominating to the Board candidates for appointment or re-appointment as directors reviewing the renewal or otherwise of terms of appointment for non executive directors, with any individual in question not taking part in the discussion.
