Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 28 Corporate governance statement Our commitment to compliance The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and The Board remains committed to the principles of good their responsibilities are clearly defi ned in writing, reviewed corporate governance and supports the best practice annually and approved by the Board.
In summary, the guidelines contained within the UK Corporate Governance Chairmans role is to lead and manage the Board.
The Code the Code published in June 2010, which can be found Chairman stimulates contribution from all Directors and is on the FRCs website www.
responsible for ensuring that constructive interaction remains cfm.
This statement explains the Companys governance between the individual members of the Board.
The Chief policies and practices and sets out how the principles of the Executive, in turn, is responsible for the day-to-day Code have been applied during the year ended 31December management of the Groups operational activities and for the 2011 the year.
The Board confi rms that, save as where proper execution of the strategy, as approved by the Board.
detailed below, the Company has complied with the Code There is no dominant individual or group of individuals on the throughout the year.
Board infl uencing the decision making processes and the Board is comfortable that the contribution of all the Directors Board of Directors is valued.
The Board believes that it oversees the Group The membership of the Board as at 31December 2011 is effectively and maintains a proactive approach.
The Board comprises two Executive Directors, fi five Non-Executive Directors and the There is a documented schedule of matters which are reserved Chairman.
The Chairman, Greg Lock, was considered by for the Board and these matters include, amongst other the Board to be independent on appointment and Ian Lewis, matters, the agreement of the primary strategy and budgets, John Ormerod and Brian McBride are all considered to be as well as the approval of acquisitions and major capital independent.
Brian McBride is the Senior Independent expenditure.
This schedule is reviewed annually or more Director, following his appointment to the Board on frequently where required and during the year, the schedule 10 January 2011.
Prior to this date, John Ormerod acted was updated on two occasions.
as the Senior Independent Director, pending the new Diversity appointment to the Board.
The Board supports equal opportunities and recognises the The Board acknowledges that the Company is not in benefi ts that diverse skills, experience and points of view can compliance with paragraph B.
1.2 of the Code, which requires bring to an organisation and the decision making ability at least half the Board, excluding the Chairman, to be required from the Board.
In this regard, the Board has independent Non-Executive Directors.
Both Philip Hulme considered the recommendations made in the Davies Report, and Peter Ogden, who are Non-Executive Directors and the Women on Boards, published in February 2011, as well as founders of the Company, are not considered independent, the continuing debate on the matter and whilst the Board due to their long tenure, substantial shareholding in the recognises the principles involved, appointments will primarily Company and their previously held executive positions in the remain based on merit.
Notwithstanding this, the contribution that these It was further agreed that the Nomination Committee will two Directors make to the Board is highly valued, as the two actively seek candidates from the widest talent pool possible Directors bring a wealth of experience to the Board, not only and will in addition to taking into account the skills and from having founded the Company, but from their other experience desired for the appointment, also have regard for ongoing businesses activities.
the benefi ts of wider diversity, including gender.
However, a Roles and responsibilities of the Board search for additional members to the Board will only be The Board is responsible for the overall management and launched when the Nominations Committee recommends this, performance of the Group.
To this effect, the Board sets the following a review of the Boards composition, and therefore it Companys strategic aims and ensures that suffi cient resources was not considered appropriate to set any targets on diversity are in place to meet these objectives and reviews the at this time.
performance of senior management in order to ensure that Board effectiveness they are meeting the agreed objectives.
The Directors set Upon joining the Board, all Directors receive a comprehensive those values and standards which ensure that obligations to induction programme, tailored to their specifi c requirements.
shareholders and other stakeholders are understood, their New Directors receive an induction pack which contains expectations are met and that satisfactory dialogue with information on the Groups business, its structure and shareholders is maintained.
A framework of controls exists operations, the Board procedures, various corporate to ensure that risks are properly identifi ed, effectively assessed governance related matters and details regarding Directors and prudently managed.
All new Directors are introduced to the Groups senior management team and major shareholders are invited to meet them as well.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 29 All Directors receive appropriate documentation in advance The performance of the Chairman is assessed by the Nonof each Board and Committee meeting, including detailed Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director.
briefi ngs on all matters, in order to enable the Directors All the Directors provided positive feedback to the Senior to discharge their duties effectively in reaching a decision.
Independent Director on the performance of the Chairman.
In addition, the Directors receive regular reports on the Board support performance of the Group and matters of importance.
Senior The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board management regularly present to the Board, the results and on all corporate governance matters and for ensuring that all strategies of their respective business units, and all Directors Board procedures are followed, applicable rules and regulations are encouraged to meet with the senior management team, are complied with and the Board is updated on regulatory and thereby enabling the Board to remain familiar with key elements governance matters.
All Directors have access to the advice of the business and the management of the Group.
and services of the Company Secretary.
The Board, its Directors and its Committees are subject to A procedure is in place to enable individual Directors to obtain annual performance reviews, which are led by the Chairman, independent professional advice, at the Companys expense, or the relevant chairman in the case of each Committee.
Each where they believe it is important to the furtherance of their chairman sets the scope and format for the review.
the Board evaluation was initiated with the completion and Board meetings return by each Director of an assessment questionnaire.
Details of the Directors attendance at Board and Committee An analysis by the Chairman of the returned questionnaires meetings are provided on pages 27, 32, 34 and 35. crystallised those areas upon which to focus during individual meetings between each of the Directors and the Chairman.
Directors The information obtained through both the analysis of the The Company arranges insurance cover in respect of legal returned questionnaires and the individual discussions were action against the Directors and to the extent allowed by summarised and, together with recommendations for legislation, the Company has issued an indemnity to each improvement, included in a report for discussion and Director against claims brought by third parties.
consideration by the Board as a whole.
Whilst the Board Whilst the Companys Articles of Association require a Director was broadly assured that it fulfi lled its role effectively, to be subject to election at the fi first AGM following his or her recommendations of improvement related primarily to the appointment and thereafter every third year, the Board has development of the strategy, monitoring progress in the decided that, in accordance with the UK Corporate implementation and in ensuring proper oversight and Governance Code, all Directors should be subject to re-election constructive challenge by the Board.
In this regard, plans to at the next AGM on 18 May 2012. incorporate these suggested improvements are underway.
Board Committees The Board recognises that the UK Corporate Governance The Board has delegated certain governance responsibilities Code requires that an externally facilitated evaluation on its to three principal Board Committees: Audit Committee: effectiveness be undertaken at least once every third year and Remuneration Committee: and Nomination Committee.
The in this regard the Board is currently compliant to this Code.
Terms of Reference for each Committee can be obtained from The Board has considered in detail whether to satisfy this the Companys website www.
com investors or requirement during the year, but could not conclusively from the Company Secretary, by request.
The composition of determine the added value incrementally to the traditional the Committees appear on pages 27, 32, 34 and 35 and evaluation process and how this would deliver signifi cant directly following this report, are reports from the chairman of benefi t. The Board continues to believe that its internal each Committee setting out the main responsibilities of the evaluation process is both robust and thorough and, therefore, respective Committees and their main activities during the year.
decided not to have an externally facilitated evaluation for These reports may be found from pages 32 to 42. this year.
The Board will keep the matter under review and will continue to explore the market and consider providers for possible externally facilitated evaluations in the future.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 30 Corporate governance statement continued Relations with shareholders The Board conducts an annual review of the effectiveness of The Board values the importance of meeting the Companys the systems of internal control including fi financial, operational shareholders to obtain their views and has established a and compliance controls and risk management systems.
programme to communicate with the shareholders, based Where weaknesses have been identifi ed, safeguards are on the fi financial reporting calendar.
The Board is informed of any substantial changes in the All systems of internal control are designed to identify, evaluate ownership of the Companys shares and the Companys and manage signifi cant risks faced by the Group continuously.
corporate brokers provide monthly reports on the ownership The key elements of the Groups controls are as follows: of the Companys shares.
In addition, meetings are held with Responsibilities and authority structure major shareholders following both the full-year and half-year The Board has overall responsibility for making strategic results.
Normally, these meetings are with the Chief Executive decisions and there is a written schedule of matters reserved and Finance Director.
The whole Board is briefed on the for the Board.
The Group Executive Committee meets on a outcome of these meetings and any issues raised are quarterly basis to discuss day-to-day operational matters, in discussed.
addition to the separate Executive Committees which have In addition, once a year, the Companys top 15 shareholders been established for each of the Groups operations in the UK, are invited to meet the Chairman and the Company Secretary France and Germany and which also meet quarterly.
The to provide feedback on the Companys management and raise Executive Directors therefore discuss operational matters with other comments.
Specifi cally, at these meetings, the Company the senior management teams, at least at four separate Secretary discusses the Companys corporate governance meetings per quarter.
A fl at reporting structure is maintained arrangements and invites feedback on any areas of particular across the Group, with clearly defi ned responsibilities for interest from the shareholders.
The information received is then operational and fi financial management.
used as part of the evaluation of the Boards effectiveness.
Control environment The Chairman and the Senior Independent Director are The Group operates defi ned authorisation and approval contactable at the Companys registered offi ce to answer any processes throughout all of its operations.
Access controls queries that both institutional and individual shareholders may exist where processes have been automated to ensure the have.
All of the Directors aim to attend the AGM and value the security of data.
Management information systems have been opportunity of welcoming individual shareholders and other developed to identify risks and to enable assessment of the investors to communicate directly and address their questions.
effectiveness of the systems of internal control.
Accountability In addition to mandatory information, a full and balanced is reinforced and further scrutiny of costs and revenues explanation of the business of all general meetings is sent in encouraged, by the linking of staff incentives to customer advance to shareholders.
Resolutions at the Companys satisfaction and profi tability.
general meetings have been passed on a show of hands and Planning and reporting processes proxies for and against each resolution together with any A three-year strategic plan is prepared or updated annually and abstentions are announced at such meetings, noted in the reviewed by the Board.
A comprehensive budgetary process is minutes, available on the Companys website and notifi ed to completed annually and is subject to the approval of the Board.
Performance is monitored through a rigorous and detailed Internal controls fi financial and management reporting system, by which monthly The Board has overall responsibility for maintaining and results are compared to budgets, the previous year and the reviewing the Groups systems of internal control, ensuring that agreed targets.
The results and explanations for variances are the controls are robust and effective enabling risks to be regularly and routinely reported to the Board.
Appropriate appropriately assessed and managed.
The Groups systems action is taken where variances arise.
and controls are designed to manage risks, safeguard the Management and specialists within the Finance Department Groups assets and to ensure reliability of information used both are responsible for ensuring the appropriate maintenance of within the business and for publication.
Systems are designed fi financial records and processes that ensure fi financial to govern, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve information is relevant, reliable, in accordance with the business objectives and can provide reasonable, but not applicable laws and regulations, and distributed both internally absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
and externally in a timely manner.
A review of the consolidation and fi financial statements is completed by management to ensure that the fi financial position and results of the Group are appropriately refl ected.
All fi financial information published by the Group is subject to review by the Audit Committee.
Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 31 Risk management Business ethics The Group Risk and Insurance Department monitors The Company has a comprehensive Business Ethics Policy in developments and oversees compliance with legislative and place and should an employee be found in breach of the policy, regulatory requirements.
A comprehensive risk management appropriate disciplinary actions are applied.
Part of this policy is programme is developed and monitored by the Group Risk the Companys whistleblowing procedure where concerns of Committee, the members of which include senior operational wrongdoing can be reported to the Group Internal Auditor or managers across the Group, the Finance Director, the Group the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Following the effective Risk Manager and the Group Internal Auditor.
The Group Risk date of the new UK Bribery Act, on 1 July 2011, the Company Committee is chaired by the Groups Chief Executive.
Further also reviewed its policy and procedures to actively prevent information on the Companys risks can be found within the bribery within the Companys business, in addition to Risk report on pages 20 and 21.
Through a programme of establishing a separate and specifi c Anti-Bribery Code of assessment, appropriate measures and systems of control are Ethics, across the Group.
Detailed business interruption contingency plans Internal audit are in place for all key sites and these are regularly tested, in The Group has an internal audit function led by the Group accordance with an agreed schedule.
Internal Auditor who reports to the Chairman of the Audit Capital expenditure and investments Committee.
Procedures exist and authority levels are documented to The Board, acting through the Audit Committee, has directed ensure that capital expenditure is properly appraised and the work of the Internal Audit Department towards those areas authorised.
Cases for all investment projects are reviewed of the business that are considered to be of the highest risk.
and approved at divisional level.
Major investment projects The Audit Committee approves a rolling audit programme, are subject to approval by the Board and Board input and ensuring that all signifi cant areas of the business are approval is sought for all merger and acquisition proposals.
independently reviewed over approximately a three-year period.
Centralised treasury function The programme and the fi findings of the reviews are continually The Board has established and reviews regularly key treasury assessed to ensure they take account of the latest information policies over matters such as counterparty exposure: and in particular, the results of the annual review of internal borrowing arrangements: and foreign exchange exposure control and any shifts in the focus areas of the various management.
All cash payments and receipts are managed businesses.
The effectiveness of the Internal Audit Department by centralised fi finance functions within each of the operating and the Groups risk management programme are reviewed companies.
Weekly reporting of cash balances to the Group annually by the Audit Committee.
Finance Department ensures that the position of the Group, Compliance with DTR as a whole, is properly controlled.
The management of liquidity The information that is required by DTR 7.2.
6, information and borrowing facilities for customer specifi c requirements, relating to the share capital of the Company, can be found ongoing capital expenditure and working capital of the within the Directors report from page 44. business is undertaken by the Group Finance Director, with By order of the Board regular reporting to the Board.
Quality and integrity of staff Rigorous recruitment procedures are in place to ensure that new employees are of a suitable calibre.
Management continuously monitors training requirements and ongoing Stephen Benad appraisal procedures are in place to ensure that required Company Secretary standards are maintained.
Resource requirements are identifi ed 12 March 2012 by managers and reviewed by the relevant national Executive Committee.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
