Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 32 Audit Committee report Audit Committee Members Role Attendance record John Ormer Joh od 1.
John Ormerod Chairman Non-Executive Director 7 7 Audit Committee Aud 2.
Ian Lewis Non-Executive Director 6 7 Chairman Ch 3.
Brian McBride since 10 Jan 2011 Senior Independent Director 6 7 Responsibilities of the Audit Committee In addition to the formal meetings, the Chairman of the The key responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to oversee Committee has regular informal discussions with the Finance and monitor: Director, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors.
He also receives directly, the reports of internal audit as they are The integrity of the Companys fi financial reporting and issued.
In addition, he receives feedback on the preparation reviewing any fi findings raised during the external audit.
and audit of the accounts, as work progresses and as any The Companys relationship with the external auditor, signifi cant judgements arise.
including the selection, appointment, reappointment and engagement of the external auditor, their independence and The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
fee, the level and nature of non-audit work provided by the Main activities of the Committee during 2011 external auditor, the nature and scope of the external audit The Audit Committee met seven times during 2011 and its and the external auditors effectiveness.
work included: The effectiveness of the Companys systems for internal Reviewing the fi financial statements for both the 2010 controls and risk management.
full-year and the 2011 half-year, as well as the interim The effectiveness of the Companys procedures for handling management statements, considering reports from external complaints from whistle blowers, detecting fraud and for auditors as appropriate.
As part of reviewing these fi financial preventing bribery.
statements, the Committee considered the key judgements The Companys internal audit function, including the made, including the revenue recognition on managed resourcing of this function, the internal audit plan and service contracts.
The Committee also considered the managements response to audit issues raised.
accounting treatment for acquisitions made during the year.
The full terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available Reviewing the relationship with the external auditor.
com investors Committee reviewed the independence and effectiveness Membership and meetings of the external auditor.
This was achieved through receiving All members of the Audit Committee are independent Nonfeedback from Committee members and relevant Executive Directors and are considered by the Board to be management: reports from the auditors on their quality appropriately experienced for the Committee to perform controls and independence policies: as well as performing effectively.
The Board considers the Chairman of the Audit a review of the report published by FRCs Audit Inspection Committee to have recent and relevant fi financial experience.
Unit on Ernst & Young and the other major fi rms.
The Committee updated its policy on the provision of non-audit Details of the members of the Audit Committee and their work provided by the external auditor, a summary of which attendance at the Committee meetings during the year are is set out below.
The Committee monitored compliance provided above and on page 27. with this policy by approving the audit fee and monitoring Other Board members, as well as the Group Internal Audit the level of non-audit work provided by the external auditor.
Manager, Group Financial Controller and the external auditor The Committee considered the reappointment of the routinely attend, at the Committees request, meetings of the external auditor and concluded that the external auditor Committee.
remained effective and independent and recommended their reappointment.
The Committee also meets privately, at least annually, with the Overseeing the Companys implementation of its policy external auditor and the Group Internal Audit Manager and and procedures to prevent bribery and corruption, the these private meetings were convened twice with the external Companys review of its business ethics policy and the auditor and once with the Group Internal Audit Manager.
procedures in place for reporting and investigating allegations of inappropriate behaviour.
The Committee Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 33 concluded that the policies and procedures on all such Summary of policy for engagement of auditors to matters remained adequate and effective, but initiated an undertake non-audit work independent assessment to be carried out during the fi first The external auditors are appointed primarily to report on half of 2012 in order to review the implementation of the annual and interim fi financial statements.
The Committee enhanced procedures designed to minimise the risk of places a high priority on ensuring that this independent bribery and comply with the UK Bribery Act.
role of reporting to shareholders is not compromised.
The Reviewing the risk management procedures and internal Committee recognises however, that there are occasions when controls.
The Committee oversees the implementation of the auditors are best placed to undertake other accounting, risk management procedures on the basis of which the advisory and consultancy work in view of their knowledge of Board assesses risk, sets risk appetite and monitors the Companys business, confi dentiality and cost considerations.
The Committee reviewed The Committee has therefore established procedures to ensure controls in selected areas including treasury, foreign that any non-audit work is only undertaken by the auditors exchange and counterparty risk, as well as tax compliance where there is no risk of compromise to their independence.
Drawing on the work of internal audit, the Committee assist the Board with the review of the To this end the Committee has formally defi ned areas of work effectiveness of internal controls.
for which the auditors will be prohibited from engagement and Overseeing the internal audit function, including a review of areas where, subject to following the stipulated processes of the departments resources, the internal audit reports and authorisation and, where appropriate, competitive tendering, managements response.
The Committee particularly the auditors may be engaged.
The former areas of work focussed on the internal audit work undertaken in relation include the preparation of accounting records and fi financial to the implementation of the Group-wide ERP system.
statements which will ultimately be subject to audit.
The latter Reviewing the Committees effectiveness.
In prior years, areas of potential engagement may include acquisition due this was principally carried out by the Board providing input diligence and tax compliance and advice.
In all cases signifi cant through submission of a completed questionnaire.
In 2011, non-audit engagements are subject to prior approval by the to encourage more comprehensive feedback, this was audit committee or if approval is required between meetings, done by the Company Secretary meeting with each by the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Other than in Committee member, Chairman of the Board, Executive exceptional circumstances the Committee does not expect Directors, as well as internal and external audit, to seek the value of non-audit services to exceed the aggregate their views on areas for change and improvement.
The value of audit and audit related services in any fi financial year.
main fi findings and recommendations were, amongst others, increased exposure of the Committee to the senior fi finance managers across the Group, monitoring further the continuing development of risk management processes as well as reviewing the Committees role in merger and John Ormerod acquisition activity.
Plans were agreed to address the Chairman of the Audit Committee various recommendations.
Receiving updates and training on the recent developments 12 March 2012 in accounting and governance.
This was provided by the Company Secretary and the Companys auditors.
The Company Secretary also facilitates attendance by Committee members at seminars on topics such as fi financial reporting, risk management and corporate governance.
Financial statements Governance Business review Overview
