Computacenter plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 34 Nomination Committee report Nomination Committee Members Role Attendance record Gr Gre eg Lock 1.
Greg Lock Chairman Chairman 2 3 Nomination Committee No 2.
Ian Lewis Non-Executive Director 1 3 Chairman Ch 3.
Brian McBride since 10 Jan 2011 Senior Independent Director 3 3 Responsibilities of the Nomination Committee Main activities of the Committee during 2011 The key responsibilities of the Nomination Committee are to The Nomination Committee met on three occasions during assist the Board with: 2011 and its work included: The search and selection process for the appointment of Reviewing the performance of the Directors who stood both Executive and Non-Executive Directors to the Board.
for re-election at the 2011 AGM and recommending their Reviewing whether to recommend a Director for re-election re-election.
Reviewing, in my absence, the renewal of my appointment Determining whether the Boards composition remains as Chairman of the Board.
appropriate, with particular regard to the balance and Considering the composition of the Board through a review skills, knowledge, experience and diversity, including that of the skills, knowledge and experience of the individual of gender.
members and concluding on the appropriateness of Succession planning of the Board and the induction, the Boards combined ability to adequately challenge training and development of the Directors.
and support the Companys aspirations.
Further details are also provided in the Corporate Governance Report.
The full terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available on our website, www.
com investors Membership and attendance The members of the Nomination Committee are all the Greg Lock independent Non-Executive Directors and the Chairman is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee Chairman of the Board.
However, input from all the Directors is sought by the Committee and the Committee involves the 12 March 2012 Board as a whole when performing its key responsibilities.
Details of the membership and attendance at Committee meetings during the year are provided above and on pages 26 and 27.
The Company Secretary is the secretary to the Committee.
