CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED COMPOSITION THE CORE OF THE AUDIT The Committee comprised Doug Webb, who is the Chairman, COMMITTEES FUNCTION Andrew Palmer and Thom Wernink.
Both Doug Webb and Andrew Palmer have recent and relevant financial experience.
IS THE ASSURANCE Doug Webb is Chief Financial Officer of London Stock OF THE FINANCIAL Exchange Group plc and Andrew Palmer is a member of the REPORTING AND Financial Reporting Review Panel of the Financial Reporting VALUATION PROCESSES Council and a former Finance Director of a FTSE100 company.
Thom Werninks expertise in the property sector brings an appropriate balance of skills to the Committee.
By invitation, there are a number of regular attendees at AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT each meeting including the Finance Director, the Group At the core of the Committees role is the assurance of the Financial Controller, representatives of the valuers, processes that support financial reporting, the valuation the internal and external auditors.
The Chairman of the process, internal control, risk management and legal and Company and the Chief Executive attend regularly by regulatory compliance.
This report describes the activities invitation and the other Directors attend by invitation, as which underpin this work as well as other areas addressed appropriate.
Throughout the year, the Committee meets by the Committee during the year.
separately with each of the internal and external auditors in the absence of management.
Assurance of the risk management process, testing of internal controls and setting the internal audit programme As part of the Board evaluation, the Committee was also continued to form key priorities for the Committee in 2011. reviewed by the external evaluator and it was found to The internal audit programme is developed by reference to be working efficiently.
A number of minor administrative the Group Risk Register, providing the Committee with a improvements were suggested.
further means of monitoring actions to manage and mitigate those risks identified as posing the greatest threat to the ACTIVITIES Company.
During the year, internal audits were carried out In 2011, the Committees principal activities included: on a number of business processes, including the risk management process itself.
reviewing the integrity, consistency and key judgements in the Companys half-year and full-year financial statements: In 2012, the Committee will continue to follow a risk-based approach.
In addition to the Committees regular reviewing the property valuation reports and considering responsibilities, areas of focus will include the control any significant changes to the valuation of individual processes relating to acquisitions and disposals and the assets: this represents the single largest area of judgement implementation of MRI in the UK.
MRI is a finance and in preparing the Companys financial statements: property information system which is currently in use across assessing the independence of the valuers and assurance our operations in Continental Europe and will replace legacy of the valuation process: systems in the UK.
oversight and challenge of the internal control process DOUG WEBB and the control environment: CHAIRMAN OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE reviewing the Companys controls for the prevention of bribery and corruption with specific reference to the Bribery Act 2010: oversight and challenge of the risk management process: monitoring the independence and effectiveness of the internal and external auditors: and reviewing the business continuity plans, including two full-scale IT disaster recovery tests and a remote working exercise.
The 2011 internal audit programme included the Companys development process, the insurance programme and the accounts payable process.
In 2011, presentations were given by the Heads of Tax, Treasury, Business Information Systems and Investor Relations and the Group Risk and Insurance Manager, the Group Reporting Manager and the General Counsel and Company Secretary.
During the year, the Committee met twice with DTZ, the valuers of the Group property portfolio, and once with Jones Lang LaSalle, the valuers of the APP joint-venture property portfolio.
Following the takeover of DTZ in December 2011, the Committee confirmed that appropriate procedures were in place for the sign-off of the 2011 year-end valuation.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 62 www.
com Corporate Governance INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK EXTERNAL AUDIT The Committee, on behalf of the Board, is responsible for On an annual basis, the Committee considers the reviewing the internal control framework.
This review is appointment, remuneration and independence of the consistent with the Code and covers all material areas of external auditor.
Following a competitive tender, Deloitte LLP the Group, including risk management and compliance was appointed auditor in 2007 and in accordance with best with controls.
The framework and internal controls system practice on partner rotation, the lead audit partner will are designed to manage but not to eliminate the risk of change for the 2012 financial year.
failure of the Group to meet its business objectives and, as such, only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance The Committees policy for the use of the external auditor against material misstatement or loss.
for non-audit services recognises that there are certain circumstances where, due to its knowledge of the Company, To enhance the monitoring of the framework, a number of Deloitte LLP will be in the best position to perform non-audit improvements to reporting were made to the internal audit services.
The policy specifies sign-off procedures for approval reports, including the introduction of KPIs for the time taken of all non-audit services.
Should fees for a specific project be to resolve open internal control items, increasing the detail expected to exceed 100,000, sign-off is required by the of reporting on open items and an improved reporting Chairman of the Committee and the Finance Director, or in format.
The Committee also monitors the effectiveness of his absence, the Chief Executive.
Where fees are expected the framework through written and verbal reports from the to be in excess of 250,000, approval is required by the Finance Director and the internal and external auditors on Committee.
The policy also has a non-exhaustive list of progress with internal control activities.
services that Deloitte LLP should not provide as they could be detrimental to its independence as an external auditor.
Reports received cover: This policy was amended, following the acquisition in 2010 of Drivers Jonas by Deloitte LLP, to formalise the occasions reviews of business processes and activities, including when the business can instruct Drivers Jonas for real estate action plans to address any identified control weaknesses services.
The full policy is available at www.
or recommendations for improvements to controls or processes: The Committee recommends the remuneration of the external auditor to the Board and keeps under review managements own assessment of the strengths and the ratio of audit fees to non-audit fees to ensure that the weaknesses of the overall control environment in their independence and objectivity of the external auditor is area of responsibility and the action plans to address not put at risk.
In 2011, the fee for audit and audit-related the weaknesses: services was 0.8 million.
The fee for non-audit services the results of the internal audits: was 0.4 million, 0.3 million of which was in respect of tax compliance and tax advisory services.
Deloitte LLP is internal control recommendations made by the external also the auditor of the APP and Big Box joint ventures.
auditor: and follow-up actions from previous internal control Deloitte LLP has provided written confirmation of its recommendations.
Following a satisfactory outcome of the review of its effectiveness as auditor, the The Committee monitors managements action plans Committee is satisfied that Deloitte LLP continue to provide to improve internal controls which have been identified appropriate levels of scepticism and challenge and has following the above reviews.
The Committee confirms that recommended to the Board that Deloitte LLP be proposed it has not been advised of any failings or weaknesses which for re-election as auditor at the 2012 AGM.
it regards to be significant.
INTERNAL AUDIT The Company has a whistleblowing policy and has put The Committee believes that the value of internal audit is in place a third-party service whereby employees can, in enhanced by having a third party perform this function, as confidence, raise concerns whether in relation to financial this supports the independent challenge of management reporting or other matters.
Arrangements are in place for and gives greater access to expertise than an internal reporting such concerns to the Committee.
The Committee function could provide.
KPMG LLP performed this role has ensured that any such reports are acted on promptly and throughout 2011.
The Committee undertakes an annual fully investigated, with external support where necessary.
review of the effectiveness of the internal auditor.
Following review, the Committee extended KPMG LLPs engagement to March 2013.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 63 www.
