CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT UK CORPORATE GOVERNANCE CODE Throughout 2011, the Company complied with the UK COMMITTED Corporate Governance Code.
TO GOOD THE BOARD, BALANCE AND INDEPENDENCE Details of the roles and biographies of the Directors who served during the year are shown on pages 54 and 55.
The GOVERNANCE Board comprises a Non-Executive Chairman, two Executive Directors and five independent Non-Executive Directors, all of whom are equally responsible for the proper stewardship I BELIEVE THAT and leadership of the Group.
The Board considers it is GOVERNANCE SHOULD currently of appropriate size for the discharge of its duties.
BE EMBEDDED AT EVERY As set out later in this report, the Nomination Committee LEVEL IN THE BUSINESS has begun a search process for new Directors.
Accordingly, the size of the Board may increase.
Taking into account the provisions of the Code, the Board has determined that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent.
The Chairman was considered independent on appointment.
Good corporate governance is central to all aspects of our business and the recently introduced UK Corporate Procedures have been put in place for managing Directors Governance Code the Code represents a step forward conflicts of interest.
Directors are required to submit any for the governance of listed companies.
This report sets out potential or actual conflicts they may have with the how we complied with the Code and how we applied its Company to the Board for approval.
principles to the running of the business.
BOARD ACTIVITIES AND ATTENDANCE Having announced the appointment of David Sleath as AT BOARD MEETINGS Chief Executive in December 2010, an independent All Directors are expected to attend each Board meeting and executive search firm was engaged to assist with the search meetings of Board Committees of which they are members.
Following a process which In exceptional circumstances, when a Director is unable to involved a number of members of the Board, Justin Read attend, he will be provided with the papers and given an was appointed to this position in August 2011.
With the opportunity to discuss his comments with the Chairman announcement of our new strategy, we also made a number prior to the meeting.
This ensures that his views are given of changes to the senior management structure reflecting due consideration.
Attendance at Board and Board the two main themes of this strategy, Disciplined Capital Committee meetings is set out in the table on page 58.
During 2012, we will continue to focus on risk management and the governance Board papers are generally circulated one week in advance processes that support our strategy.
Board papers, copies of presentations made during meetings and analysts reports are available to the In the final quarter of 2011, we conducted our second Directors.
Sector updates are circulated periodically and external Board evaluation.
It concluded that the Board was Directors receive weekly press cuttings.
Between meetings, effective and professional.
The atmosphere at Board meetings the Chief Executive and the Chairman are available and was found to be conducive to open dialogue and constructive regularly communicate with the Directors to update them challenge.
Further details, including our progress in on recent developments.
addressing actions from the previous years evaluation, are provided on page 59.
In 2012, the Nomination Committee Balance of Non-Executive and Executive Directors will renew its focus on succession planning for the Board, ensuring that the boardroom continues to provide a forum 2 Executive Directors for challenge and debate.
1 Non-Executive Chairman 5 Independent Non-Executive The Board recognises the benefits of gender diversity as well Directors as diversity in a wider sense.
All appointments to the Board are made not only on the basis of individual merit but also having regard to the composition of the Board as a whole.
Succession planning provides one means by which we can create a more diverse Board.
At SEGRO, we believe that developing a talent pipeline is essential for addressing diversity issues, particularly in real estate, a sector which has traditionally been male-dominated: approximately half of our senior management team below the Board are women.
NIGEL RICH CBE CHAIRMAN Annual Report and Accounts 2011 56 www.
com Corporate Governance All Directors have access to the advice and services of Board meetings are held on a regular basis, with additional the Company Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring meetings being arranged when necessary.
During 2011, compliance with Board procedures.
Directors have the right there were 10 scheduled Board meetings.
The Chairman, to seek independent professional advice at the Companys with the assistance of the Company Secretary, is responsible reasonable expense.
The Company maintains directors for ensuring good information flows within the Board.
and officers liability insurance which gives appropriate They manage the agendas to ensure that items reserved cover for legal action brought against its Directors.
for consideration by the Board are discussed and they track the progress of actions raised at previous meetings.
The Throughout the year, the Chairman met with the NonChairman further ensures that there is adequate time Executive Directors, individually and collectively, to discuss available for the discussion of all agenda items, in particular business matters.
The Chairman, the Chief Executive and strategic issues.
The table below sets out details of the the Company Secretary are always available for the Directors matters considered at Board meetings.
to discuss any issues concerning Board meetings or other matters.
Senior managers are invited to present to the Board.
During 2011, these presentations included briefings on the investment and asset disposal programme, risk appetite, treasury matters and the UKLF acquisition.
BOARD ACTIVITIES Each meeting Annually Throughout the year Health and safety.
Approval of full-year and Twice-yearly valuation.
Chief Executive reports Recommendation and approval of dividends.
on key strategic issues, Approval of the portfolio Twice-yearly review of significant risks.
progress with matters strategy and medium-term considered by the plan.
Regular reports on the Groups key risks.
Executive Committee Off-site strategy review.
Approval of significant RIS announcements, including and HR matters.
Evaluation of the Reports on financial, tax effectiveness of the Board Presentations from senior managers across the business and treasury matters.
Operations reports on Approval of treasury Review of analysts reports and shareholder feedback.
development and other Discussion and approval of Group strategy.
Regular reports from the Chairmen of the Audit, Investment reports on Charity and community Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
disposal and investment engagement report.
Updates on governance and reports on legal and Reports on the Groups Progress with the Groups regulatory matters.
Key Performance sustainability programme Indicators.
Approval of significant investment and disposal proposals.
Approval of the annual budget.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 57 www.
com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED 2011 TABLE OF ATTENDANCE AT SCHEDULED MEETINGS Remuneration Audit Nomination 5 Name Board Committee Committee Committee Nigel Rich 10 N A N A 0 1 Ian Coull 3N AN AN A Andrew Palmer 10 8 5 0 Chris Peacock 10 8 N A 0 2 Justin Read 4N AN AN A Mark Robertshaw 10 8 N A N A 3 David Sleath 10N AN A0 4 Ian Sutcliffe 3N AN AN A Doug Webb 10 N A 5 N A Thom Wernink 9 N A 4 0 Total number of meetings 10 8 5 0 1 Retired from the Board on 28 April 2011.
2 Joined the Board on 30 August 2011.
3 Appointed to the Nomination Committee on 22 March 2011.
4 Resigned from the Board on 28 April 2011.
5 In 2011, Nomination Committee activities were undertaken by the Board.
Further information is provided on page 60.
ROLE OF THE BOARD AND The division of responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief COMMITTEE STRUCTURE Executive and Senior Independent Director are set out in The Board is responsible for creating and delivering writing.
The roles and responsibilities for each of these sustainable shareholder value.
Individually, the Directors act positions were revised and approved by the Board during the in a way they consider will promote the long-term success year.
The Chairman is primarily responsible for the leadership of the Company for the benefit of shareholders, with regard and effective working of the Board.
He ensures a constructive to the interests of the Groups employees, the impact of the relationship exists between the Executive and the Nonbusiness on the community and the environment and the Executive Directors.
The Senior Independent Director acts interests of stakeholders.
as a sounding board to the Chairman and serves as an intermediary for other Directors when necessary.
The Board is collectively responsible for the success of the Group.
The Executive Directors are directly responsible for Responsibility for all operational matters, including the business operations while the Non-Executive Directors are implementation of Group strategy, is delegated to the responsible for bringing independent judgement and Chief Executive.
The Executive Committee supports the scrutiny to the decisions taken by the Board.
Chief Executive in the delivery of strategy, establishing financial and operating targets and monitoring performance There is a Schedule of Matters Reserved for Decision by the against those targets.
The Finance Director, the Chief Board which was updated in early 2012.
Matters requiring Operating Officer, Chief Investment Officer and the Group Board approval include: HR Director are also members of the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee has its own Terms of Reference Group strategy: and meets monthly.
Following a governance review, it was decided that health and safety, sustainability and information Recommendation and approval of the dividends: systems would become matters for the Executive Committee Group capital structure: rather than for separate committees.
The Executive Committee delegates some of its responsibilities to a Financial reporting including approval of results: further four Committees: Appointment of Directors: the Investment Committee: Risk identification and management: the Operations Committee: Internal controls: the Risk Management Committee: and Corporate governance: and the Treasury Committee.
Major acquisitions, disposals and capital investments.
These Committees have their own Terms of Reference The Board has delegated a number of its responsibilities and membership includes at least one member of the to the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees, Executive Committee.
details of which are set out below.
The Terms of Reference of these Committees can be found at www.
com in the investor section.
The Company ensures that these Committees are provided with sufficient resources to undertake their duties.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 58 www.
com Corporate Governance BOARD EVALUATION Evaluation 2010 Actions taken in 2011 Evaluation 2011 Encourage the Non-Executive Directors Presentations were given by the Group Continue to receive presentations to meet with senior managers.
Insurance and Risk Manager, the from senior managers.
Head of Treasury, the Head of Investor Relations and the Investment Director.
Arrange more site visits, especially for Non-Executive Directors visited teams Continue with site visits, tours and Non-Executive Directors.
and assets in Dsseldorf, Munich, Berlin, meetings with local management.
Paris, Milan, Manchester and Slough.
Allocate additional time to the A Board risk workshop was undertaken The Board to dedicate time to review consideration of risks associated as well as a review of catastrophic risks progress with strategy, including the with strategy.
A Board meeting portfolio disposal programme and to was devoted wholly to strategy.
The focus on the risk management Board also reviewed risk appetite.
processes that support the strategy.
Formalise the reporting on Bribery Internal audit of Bribery Act compliance.
The Nomination Committee to consider Act compliance.
Procedures put in place for ongoing Board succession, diversity and to monitoring.
EVALUATION The table above sets out the action points identified in the When the Board concluded its last external evaluation in internal Board evaluation carried out in 2010, the progress 2008, it agreed to repeat the process on a three-yearly basis.
made during 2011, and the action points identified in the Following a review of external facilitators, JCA Group was 2011 external evaluation.
appointed to undertake an evaluation during the final quarter of 2011.
JCA Group had no other connection with The Senior Independent Director, with the Non-Executive the Company.
The evaluation was based upon input from Directors, led a performance evaluation of the Chairman.
all members of the Board, the Company Secretary and the The Chairman, with the Non-Executive Directors, conducted Group HR Director.
JCA Group presented the final report to a performance evaluation of the Chief Executive.
the Board in December, which was followed by a discussion of the conclusions and recommendations.
JCA Group confirmed to the Senior Independent Director that all JUSTIN READS INDUCTION information provided was a fair reflection of the feedback from the Directors and was not influenced inappropriately by the Chairman.
A full, formal and tailored induction programme was arranged for Justin Read.
The programme included site The review confirmed that the Board was effective, the visits, meetings with the Directors and the senior quality of Board dialogue was good and that there was a managers within the business, as well as meetings with climate of trust and transparency, with a strong level of external advisors including the internal and external challenge and no group-think.
The Executive Directors were auditors, the corporate brokers and the valuers.
seen as being open and engaged, while the Non-Executive Directors brought a range of skills and experience, ensuring constructive debate.
T TH HIS IS WEL WELL L--S ST TRUCTURED IIN NDUC DUCT TION ION PROGRA PR MME A number of recommendations were made for the smooth H HE EL LPED PED M ME E T TO O ESTABLISH running of Board meetings including identifying major items for discussion in advance of meetings and ensuring that T TH HE E KE KEY Y PRIORI PRIO TIES IN MY adequate time is provided to discuss them.
Sufficient time NEW ROLE should also be set aside for monitoring progress in implementing the new strategy and ensuring it delivers shareholder value.
The Directors continue to derive value from site visits and, for Non-Executive Directors, tours and meetings with employees below Board level help them to remain engaged with the business.
JCA Group commented on the performance of the three Board Committees and it was noted that each was performing effectively, but that the Nomination Committee would have to meet more frequently in the coming year to consider Board succession, diversity and the talent pipeline.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 59 www.
com CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED BOARD DEVELOPMENT Within the next two years, three Non-Executive Directors, Directors are encouraged to continually update their including the Senior Independent Director and Chairman knowledge of the business and professional skills.
Directors of the Remuneration Committee, will have served visited a number of the Companys assets with members of approximately nine years on the Board, and in early 2012, the management team and individually attended seminars the Committee considered their succession.
The Committee and conferences associated with their areas of expertise or has discussed the preferred size of the Board and also the responsibility.
These have included conferences on the benefits that increased gender diversity can bring.
The Davies Report, remuneration trends and risk management.
Committee has assessed the specific skills, attributes and During the year, internal specialists and external advisors experience that would be required of the Non-Executive presented to the Board on a wide range of subjects including Directors given the composition of the Board as a whole.
the outlook for the property market, the economic climate A review of executive search firms is underway and, once and risk.
Presentations will continue to be given to the a firm is selected, the Committee will commence a process Board in 2012. to appoint two new Non-Executive Directors.
During 2011, Board meetings were held in Manchester, Berlin The remit to executive search firms will be to review and Dsseldorf.
The Board met with local management teams candidates from a wide range of backgrounds to ensure the in these locations and had tours of the local property portfolios.
Candidates without prior board Individual Non-Executive Directors also visited assets and experience will also be considered if they demonstrate the teams in Milan, Munich, Paris and Slough.
intrinsic capabilities required for the role.
Site visits and meetings with the senior management team The Non-Executive Directors have considered succession ensure that all Non-Executive Directors gain appropriate planning and talent management for the Companys senior knowledge of the business and have access to its operations executives below Board level.
The Committee recognises and people.
To enhance his understanding of the day-to-day the benefits of diversity throughout the workforce and issues facing the Group, the Chairman has regular group is supportive of the Companys talent management lunches with employees ranging in seniority from a cross programme, which applies at all levels of the organisation, section of the business.
with the aim of developing a diverse talent pool of future senior managers and directors.
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE The composition of the Remuneration Committee, its RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS activities during 2011 and the way it applied the principles In accordance with the Code, all Directors will submit of the Code are described in the Remuneration Report on themselves for election or re-election at the 2012 AGM.
The Nomination Committee has confirmed that the Directors continue to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment NOMINATION COMMITTEE to their respective roles.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Nigel Rich.
The other members of the Nomination Committee are David RISK MANAGEMENT Sleath, Andrew Palmer, Chris Peacock and Thom Wernink.
The Board recognises that there are significant risks which can affect the strategy of the Company and that it has The Nomination Committee has responsibility for making overall responsibility for Group risk management.
The Board recommendations for new appointments to the Board and reviews the Risk Register twice a year.
During the year, the ensuring that the process is formal, rigorous and transparent.
Board reviewed the Companys risk appetite and held a risk Towards the end of 2010, the Committee recommended to workshop facilitated by a third party to undertake an inthe Board that David Sleath be appointed as Chief Executive depth risk review.
This process was described in the 2010 Annual Report.
To ensure the participation of those Directors with The Risk Management Committee, which is supported by financial experience, the process to select a Finance Director the Group Risk and Insurance Manager, implements the to succeed David Sleath was undertaken by the Board on Group Risk Management Policy and oversees the process behalf of the Nomination Committee.
A role profile was for the identification and management of risk.
The Risk prepared and Egon Zehnder was retained to assist with the Management Committee is chaired by the Finance Director appointment.
The Board reviewed the candidates and made and is attended by the Chief Executive and senior managers.
the decision to appoint Justin Read in May 2011.
It reports to the Audit Committee and Executive Committee on the processes for monitoring risks and to the Board on During the year, the Board made appointments to the newly the most significant risks and actions being taken to mitigate created roles of Chief Operating Officer and Chief Investment them.
The assurance of the risk management process is Officer.
To assist in making these appointments, Spencer delegated to the Audit Committee.
Stuart was engaged to assess the skills required and the ability of the candidates to perform these roles.
Both appointments were approved by the Board.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 60 www.
com Corporate Governance Risks and opportunities associated with country, region Roadshows were held in London, Edinburgh and and overall Group business objectives are reviewed Amsterdam, following the release of the financial results, regularly.
Within each area of the business, the risks are to meet both existing and potential institutional investors.
considered in terms of impact and likelihood, taking into Other roadshows are held periodically throughout the year.
account the unmitigated risk assuming controls fail and In addition, the Chief Executive and Finance Director residual risk with controls operating normally.
Identifying attend investor conferences to present, participate in panel these two risk measures allows the Risk Management discussions and meet investors.
In 2011, the Chief Executive Committee to monitor the most important controls and and or Finance Director attended conferences in the US, UK prioritise risk management activities.
The most significant risks are detailed in the Risk Register.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director are available Each risk is assigned to an executive owner who has to shareholders, should they have concerns which contact developed a plan to manage or mitigate individual risks through the usual channels has failed to resolve or is to an agreed position.
The Executive Committee regularly otherwise inappropriate.
In March 2011, the Chairman reviews emerging risks and considers actions to mitigate wrote to a number of major shareholders and offered a them as they arise.
meeting with himself and the Senior Independent Director.
Meetings were held with three of these shareholders.
This risk management reporting structure assists Board All Directors are available for meetings with shareholders members in making informed judgements when taking if requested.
Risk management will continue to be an important priority for the Board in 2012.
The principal The Chairman regularly attends the financial results risks and uncertainties facing the Group are set out on presentations.
The Board is kept informed about any pages 50 to 53. discussions with shareholders and the Directors are regularly provided with analyst research and reports.
RELATIONS WITH SHAREHOLDERS The Board is accountable to shareholders for the continued The Companys website www.
com provides success of the Company.
The Chief Executive and Finance shareholders with comprehensive information on the Groups Director are the Companys principal spokesmen with recent business activities and financial developments, where investors, fund managers, analysts, the press and other they can view webcasts, press releases and recordings of interested parties.
The Board is committed to providing interviews with the Chief Executive.
investors with regular announcements of significant events affecting the Group and frequent updates on current CONSTRUCTIVE USE OF THE AGM trading.
During the year, investor tours were arranged in The Notice of AGM is dispatched to shareholders at least Continental Europe and the UK.
20 working days before the meeting.
The Company proposes separate resolutions on each substantially separate issue.
At the meeting the Chief Executive makes a presentation to shareholders on the progress and performance of the Group prior to the formal business of the meeting.
All Directors are encouraged to attend the AGM and to OUR STRATEGY DAY be available to answer shareholders questions either during or after the meeting.
All of the Directors serving as at the In November 2011, approximately 80 investors and date of the 2011 AGM attended it.
For each resolution, analysts attended an Investor Day where David Sleath shareholders have the option to direct their vote either for and Justin Read presented the new strategy and or against a resolution or to withhold their vote.
At the 2011 direction for the Company.
Andy Gulliford and Phil AGM, voting was conducted by a poll.
The Board believes Redding gave presentations on the logistics market that this is more democratic than voting on a show of hands and growth opportunities in key conurbations.
These as all shares voted at the meeting, as well as proxy votes presentations were followed by an interactive session.
lodged prior to the meeting, are counted.
The Company There was also a tour of the Groups key assets at the intends to continue with this practice.
Slough Trading Estate and at Park Royal.
Following the meeting, the results of votes lodged for and Find out more online by visiting www.
com against each resolution are announced to the London Stock Exchange and displayed on the Companys website.
Annual Report and Accounts 2011 61 www.
