SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate Board meetings governance in the implemetation of its strategy of investing in The Board met five times during the year.
Its function is to the West End of London.
formulate strategy and monitor and control operating and financial performance.
This is achieved through the regular The Board has undergone change in its membership during the review of operations and detailed reports on activity within the year.
Following the announcement on 30 November 2010 that Groups property portfolio, quarterly financial reporting and Jonathan Lane intended to retire from his role as Chief Executive forecasts, and regular reviews of risks and internal controls.
during 2011 and, at the invitation of the Board, he would become In addition to Board meetings, there is frequent and regular Deputy Chairman.
After a formal search and selection process communication between executive and non-executive Directors for a new Chief Executive, it was announced in May 2011 that to ensure that the non-executive Directors are fully aware of all Brian Bickell, then Finance Director, would be appointed to the aspects of the Groups operations.
The non-executive Directors role with effect from 1 October 2011. met twice during the year without executive Directors or the The process to recruit a new Finance Director commenced Company Secretary present.
culminating in the selection of Christopher Ward, which was announced in October 2011.
He will join the Board in Board Committees January 2012.
The Board has three Committees: Audit, Remuneration and Nomination.
The terms of reference of these Committees are Compliance available on the Groups website.
The Company Secretary acts Throughout the year, the Board applied the principles of the UK as Secretary to each of the Committees.
Minutes of all Corporate Governance Code and complied with all of its Committee meetings are circulated to all Directors.
Separate provisions with the exception of provision B.
1.2: that at least half reports from the Committees are set out on pages 47 to 57. the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise nonexecutive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings is set out below: Set out below is an explanation of how the Group applied each Audit Remuneration Nomination of the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and in Board Committee Committee Committee doing so how it complied with its provisions: Number of scheduled Leadership meetings 5 3 3 3 The Group has a Board which is responsible to shareholders for Attended Attended Attended Attended the strategic direction of the Group and the stewardship of its Executive activities.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are split.
Directors The Chairman is responsible for the leadership of the Board, J S Lane 5 ensuring its effectiveness and setting its agenda.
The Chief B Bickell 5 Executive has responsibility for the management of the Groups S J Quayle 5 day-to-day operations.
A formal statement of the division of T J C Welton 5 responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive has been adopted by the Board.
The Group has a Senior Non-Executive Independent Director, and with effect from 1 October 2011, Directors created a new role of Deputy Chairman.
P J Manser 5 3 There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for the Board for J R K Emly 5 3 decision which is available on the Groups website.
The matters J C Little 5 3 3 3 include approval of all acquisitions, disposals, major contracts, W G McQueen 5 3 3 3 risk management and other strategic decisions.
O J D Marriott 5 3 3 3 H S Riva 5 3 3 3 Effectiveness Board composition The meetings recorded above were the scheduled Board and The composition of the Board does not comply with the UK Committee meetings.
Additional meetings were held to deal Corporate Governance Code recommendation that at least half with routine, operational and other matters as required and the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise are not included in the meetings reported above.
During the year, the Board comprised four executive Directors, four independent nonexecutive Directors, one non-executive Director not deemed independent and the Chairman who was deemed independent on his appointment.
The Board considers its composition, in view of the nature of the Groups activities, is appropriate for the effective governance of its business.
The Nomination Committee keeps the composition of the Board under review.
During the year it considered the Board composition following the changes referred to above and led the process of the selection of new Directors, described in the Committees report on page 47.
44 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 corporate governance Diversity Board performance In September 2011, the Board approved a policy in line with The Board undertakes an annual review of its performance and Lord Davies recommendations in his report Women on Boards.
the performance of its Committees to ensure that they continue The Board considers its current composition has the appropriate to operate effectively.
balance of skills and diversity to meet the requirements of the This year an external specialist board evaluation adviser was business.
Diversity encompasses all aspects including gender appointed to assist the Boards review.
They only provide board and is considered during the search and selection process for performance evaluation services.
In consultation with the executive and non-executive Directors and staff.
The Board does Chairman and the Company Secretary they set the context for not consider it appropriate at this stage to set quotas for board the evaluation and devised tailored questionnaires to the representation, but will monitor developments in best practice.
specific needs of the Group.
Board members were then requested to complete questionnaires addressing the The gender ratios of the Groups 19 staff are set out below: performance of the Board, Committees, Chairman and individuals.
Anonymity of all respondents was ensured in order Directors All staff including to promote an open exchange of views.
executive Directors The questionnaires addressed the following issues: 18% Board composition, expertise and dynamics: Board support, time management and Committees: Strategic, operational and risk review: and 47% 53% Priorities for change.
82% The results were considered at the July 2011 Nomination Committee and Board meetings and in particular the Board considered: The current composition of the Board and the need for Senior management succession planning for the non-executive Directors coming to the end of their tenure was recognised.
The attributes which will be sought in future non-executive Director appointments were identified: The role of the Board in overseeing executive succession was addressed: 50% The appropriate level of contact between executive Directors 50% and non-executive Directors outside meetings and the role that the Board might play in overseeing the development of female male employees: The operational priorities of the Company and its strategic plan.
It was agreed that the Board agenda strikes the correct balance between strategic and performance issues: The process to identify the Groups key risks, the extent to Directors training which they are controlled by the Group and the plans for The Chairman is responsible for ensuring Directors maintain the mitigation of risk which were appropriate: skills and knowledge required to fulfil their roles as Directors The composition and performance of the Committees as well and this is considered as part of the annual appraisal process.
as the performance of the Chairman.
Training records are maintained by the Company Secretary and reviewed by the Chairman.
Directors are encouraged to Re-election of Directors maintain their professional skills and familiarity with the At the 2011 Annual General Meeting the Board for the first time business.
As part of this process, non-executive Directors have adopted the recommendation of the UK Corporate Governance frequent dialogue with executive Directors and senior staff and Code that all directors stand for re-election each year.
All carry out regular inspections of the Groups portfolio.
Directors will stand for re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
All new Directors receive induction training led by the Chairman and administered by the Company Secretary.
There were no new Directors appointed during the year, though upon his appointment, Christopher Ward will receive a tailored induction programme.
Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Groups expense in furtherance of their duties as Directors.
45 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 corporate governance f A comprehensive manual recording the key business Accountability processes and related controls across the whole of the Internal control and risk management procedures Groups business is regularly updated and updates are The Directors are responsible for the Groups systems of internal reported to and reviewed by the Audit Committee.
controls and risk management and for reviewing their effectiveness.
Such systems are designed to manage, rather The Audit Committee has not identified any material than eliminate, the risks faced by the business and can provide weaknesses in the Groups control structure.
In view of the only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Groups focussed nature of its business and on advice from the misstatement or loss.
Their adequacy and effectiveness are Audit Committee, the Board has resolved that at the present monitored through the risk management and audit processes time there is no need to establish an internal audit function.
and by both the financial and estate management audits which Directors remuneration are reported to the Board.
This is set out in the Remuneration Report pages 48 to 55.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified in the review process and how they are managed or mitigated are Relations with shareholders summarised in the Business Review on pages 34 and 35.
The Company considers its relationship with shareholders to be The Board confirms that procedures to identify, evaluate and extremely important.
The Board encourages contact with all manage the significant risks faced by the Group have been in shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and throughout place throughout the year under review and up to the date of the year.
The Chairman and Committee Chairmen are present approval of this Annual Report.
at the Annual General Meeting to deal with any matters raised by shareholders and all other Directors attend.
Executive Directors and staff meet regularly to review the risks facing the business, the controls established to minimise those risks The Chief Executive and executive Directors meet investors and their effectiveness in operation.
The aim of these reviews is to regularly during the year to discuss strategic and other issues provide reasonable assurance that material risks and problems within the constraints imposed by the Disclosure Rules and are identified with appropriate action taken at an early stage Transparency Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The meetings including insurance being in place where appropriate.
Reports on frequently include visits to the Groups portfolio.
this review process are submitted during the year to the Audit When the Group announces its annual and half year results, the Committee and the Board to enable them to assess the Chief Executive and executive Directors make presentations to effectiveness of the process and ensure that the Group complies institutional investors and analysts and hold one to one briefings with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
Non-executive Directors, including the The key elements of the Groups procedures and internal financial Senior Independent Director, also attend a number of these control framework, which are monitored throughout the year, are: presentations and briefings.
The presentations of annual and half year results are made available on the Groups website in a The close involvement of the executive Directors in all aspects the Investor Relations section.
The Board receives regular of day-to-day operations, including regular meetings with reports from its corporate advisers on shareholder meetings.
The senior staff to review all operational aspects of the business: Chairman met with a number of shareholders during the year.
b Clearly defined responsibilities and limits of authority.
The The Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders as Board has responsibility for strategy and has adopted a an alternative channel of communication with the Board and all schedule of matters which are required to be brought to it for non-executive Directors are available to shareholders.
decision including acquisitions, disposals, major contracts and major refurbishment proposals which require the Going concern approval of the Board: The Groups business activities, together with the factors c A comprehensive system of financial reporting and affecting performance, position and future development are set forecasting.
Consolidated accounts are prepared quarterly out in the Business Review on pages 12 to 31.
The financial and submitted to the Board.
Income statements and cash position of the Group including cash flow, liquidity, borrowings flow forecasts, and forecasts of bank facility covenant including undrawn facilities, debt maturity analysis and tenant compliance are prepared at least quarterly, approved by the lease profiles are set out on pages 25 to 28.
Board and used to monitor actual performance: The Directors have a reasonable expectation that the Group has d The Finance Director has overall responsibility for the adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the preparation of the financial information which is submitted foreseeable future.
Therefore, they continue to adopt the going to the Audit Committee and the Board.
The Audit Committee concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
ensures that the internal controls in the financial reporting process are in place and adequate: e The day-to-day estate management of the Groups portfolio On behalf of the Board is outsourced to three managing agents.
The Group John Manser monitors the performance of each managing agent and has Chairman established extensive financial and operational controls to 30 November 2011 ensure that each maintains an acceptable level of service.
The Group also uses the services of an external consultant to review periodically the operational processes and controls of each managing agent: 46
