SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 nomination committee report John Manser Chairman The Committee appointed an executive search firm to assist with John Emly the recruitment of a successor to the Chief Executive.
There was Jill Little one internal candidate, Brian Bickell, the Groups Finance Director.
Gordon McQueen He and the three shortlisted external candidates went through an Oliver Marriott identical and rigorous selection process.
The process concluded Hilary Riva with a recommendation to the Board that Brian Bickell be appointed as Chief Executive with effect from 1 October 2011.
The Committee comprises the Chairman, four independent non-executive Directors and one non-executive Director who Once the appointment of Brian Bickell as Chief Executive had been did not meet the criteria for independence under the UK announced in May 2011 the search for a new Finance Director Corporate Governance Code.
An executive search firm was appointed to assist in did not change during the year.
The Committee considered it was appropriate to appoint the same firm as was used for the Chief Following the announcement in November 2010 that Jonathan Executive recruitment.
There were no internal candidates.
The Lane intended to retire as Chief Executive a formal search and process culminated in a recommendation to the Board to appoint selection process for his replacement commenced.
Full biographical details of Christopher Ward in the Board, on the recommendation of the Committee, resolving are set out on page 43. in May 2011 that Brian Bickell, the Groups Finance Director, be appointed Chief Executive with effect from 1 October 2011.
The executive search firm for both recruitment assignments Jonathan Lane became Deputy Chairman on 1 October 2011. considered diversity and gender when selecting candidates for consideration.
It is a signatory to the Executive Search Firms The process to recruit a replacement Finance Director Voluntary Code of Conduct covering boardroom appointments.
The selection of Christopher Ward was made in October 2011.
He will formally commence his Succession planning employment and join the Board in January 2012.
Succession planning at Board and management levels continues as part of the regular work of the Committee.
Terms of reference The Committees terms of reference which are available on the John Emly will not stand for re-election and will retire at the 2012 Groups website encompass: Annual General Meeting having served on the Board since 2000.
The Committee will review the composition of the Board during the Keeping under review the composition of the Board: course of the year ahead and may consider the appointment of an Succession planning: and additional non-executive Director in due course.
Directors standing for re-election and election Activities during the year At the Annual General Meeting held in February 2011, all The Committee met three times during the year to consider: Directors were proposed for re-election.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will again offer themselves for re-election or election at the 2012 Annual Standing matters Additional matters General Meeting with the exception of John Emly, who will retire Directors for re-election Appointment of Deputy from the Board at the conclusion of the meeting.
Chairman Review of the annual Following the annual board performance reviews of individual Committee report Recruitment of Chief Directors, the Chairman considers: Executive Board and Board Committee that each Director subject to re-election continues to operate performance evaluation and Recruitment of Finance as an effective member of the Board, and evaluation of the skills of the Director that each Director subject to re-election and election has the directors for re-election skills, knowledge and experience that enable them to discharge their duties properly and contribute to the effective operation of the Board.
Chief Executive and Finance Director succession The Board, on the advice of the Nomination Committee, On 30 November 2010, the Group announced that Jonathan therefore recommends the re-election of each Director standing Lane intended to retire from his role as Chief Executive during for re-election.
2011 and that following the appointment of his successor, he Christopher Ward will join in January 2012.
Following his would stay with the Group in a newly-created role of Deputy appointment by the Board, a resolution will be proposed for his Chairman.
In this role, Jonathan Lane will support the Chairman election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
and provide continuity, enabling the Group to benefit from his experience and knowledge gained over 25 years as Chief Executive of the Group.
On behalf of the Board Prior to commencing the process the views of shareholders were John Manser sought on the Groups succession process.
