SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 audit committee report Gordon McQueen Chairman Terms of reference Jill Little The Committees terms of reference which are available on the Oliver Marriott Groups website encompass: Hilary Riva Financial reporting: The Committee comprises only independent non-executive Internal control and risk management: Directors.
The Committees composition did not change during the Compliance, whistleblowing and fraud: and year.
The Chairman, Gordon McQueen, is a Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Scotland, a Fellow of the Chartered External audit.
Institute of Bankers in Scotland and is the member of the Committee with recent and relevant financial experience.
Activities during the year The Committee met three times during the year to undertake its The Finance Director, members of the finance team and the auditors annual work cycle as follows: have attended each meeting.
The auditors have the opportunity for discussion with the Committee without management present.
Standing matters Additional matters Reviewing the year end results, preliminary announcement Considered the impact of the Bribery Act 2010 on the Group and annual report and its associated policies Reviewing the half year results Approve non-audit assignments Meeting with valuers to discuss the valuation process Tender of audit services Reviewing on a six monthly basis the risk and internal control framework Reviewing management accounts against forecasts Reviewing the appropriateness of the going concern assumption Reviewing the key business procedures and controls Reviewing audit and non-audit fees Reviewing the independence of the auditors Reviewing the auditors performance and making a recommendation for the appointment of the Groups auditors by shareholders Planning for year end Reviewing the whistleblowing policy Reviewing the need for an internal audit function Reviewing the Committees performance Reviewing the Committee Report 56 SHAFTESBURY PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 audit committee report Tenure of auditors and tender for audit services Auditor confirmation  LLP or its predecessor firms has been the  LLP have confirmed to the Committee: Companys auditor since it listed on the London Stock Exchange in That they have internal procedures in place to identify any aspects October 1987.
Senior Statutory Auditors are only permitted to serve of non-audit work which could compromise their role as auditors for five years.
In view of the impending rotation of the Senior and to ensure the objectivity of their audit report: Statutory Auditor following the 2010 audit, the Committee That the total fees paid by the Group during the year do not considered it an appropriate time to tender the provision of the represent a material part of their firms fee income: and Groups audit services for the forthcoming financial year.
That they consider that they have maintained their audit The audit tender process involved the comparison of independence throughout the year.
 LLP against the audit approach and service proposed by three other leading audit firms.
This process The Committee is satisfied with the independence of the auditors included a detailed explanation of the Groups business to each of based on the information provided.
The Committee interrogated the proposals they each put forward for the conduct and resourcing of the Groups On behalf of the Board audit should they be appointed or reappointed as the Groups Gordon McQueen auditors, and the fees they envisaged charging.
Having completed Audit Committee Chairman a critical evaluation of each firms proposal, the Committee resolved to recommend to the Board that  LLP be 30 November 2011 proposed to shareholders for re-appointment as the Groups auditors at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
Audit partner At the conclusion of the 2010 audit, Bowker Andrews the Senior Statutory Auditor was replaced on completion of his five year term by Andrew Paynter in line with the Auditing Practices Boards Ethical Standards for Auditors.
Award of non-audit assignments to the external audit firm The policy of the Committee is that non-audit assignments will not be awarded to the external audit firm where there is a risk that their audit independence and objectivity could be conflicted.
The award of all non-audit assignments to the Groups auditors in excess of 25,000 is subject to the prior approval of the Committee.
One assignment was approved during the year under this policy for the Groups corporate tax compliance work.
Audit fees Fees payable to the Groups auditors for audit and non-audit services are set out below: 2011 2010 000 000 Audit fees 119 128 Taxation compliance and associated matters 158 116 Review of the half year financial statements 19 19 Other services 49 37 Total non-audit fees 226 172 The audit fees for the Company and the Group are relatively low due primarily to the simple corporate structure of the Group.
The balance of audit to non-audit fees is considered by the Committee.
