time honoured traditions Richard Woodalls pork, bacon and sausages are produced to time honoured recipes dating back to 1828.
Colin Woodall, the 8th generation of the Woodall family, still has appetite for his top quality air dried hams, bacon and sausages.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 25 26 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc corporate governance statement Statement by the Directors on compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
delegated to the Chief Executive who, supported by the Executive Directors Principles of good governance and Executive management, implements the Boards strategy and manages the Groups business.
Upon appointment, all Directors undertake a formal The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The introduction to all the Groups activities and are also provided with the adoption and maintenance of good governance is the responsibility of the opportunity for on-going training to ensure that they are kept up-to-date Board as a whole.
This report, together with the Directors Remuneration on changes in relevant legislation and the general business environment, Report on pages 35 to 40, describes how the Board applies the principles including the review of relevant literature and attending external courses.
of good governance and best practice as set out in the UK Corporate Procedures are in place for Directors to seek both independent advice, at Governance Code the Code which can be found on the Financial the expense of the Company, and the advice and services of the Company Reporting Councils website www.
A statement of compliance Secretary in order to fulfil their duties.
with the Code can be found at the end of this report.
The Company Secretary is responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board The Board procedures are complied with and for advising the Board, through the Chairman, on all governance matters.
The appointment and removal of During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Board consisted of an Executive the Company Secretary is determined by the Board as a whole.
Chairman, a Chief Executive, two other Executive Directors until 26 July 2010 after which there were three and three Non-Executive Directors.
All The Board considers the Non-Executive Directors to be independent and the Non-Executive Directors are deemed to be independent.
The Code have accepted the following definition of an independent director: states that at least half the board, excluding the chairman, should comprise Non-Executive Directors determined by the Board to be independent.
Has not been an employee of the Company or Group within the The Board is confident that up to 26 July 2010 it had complied with last five years: the Code: however, since that date compliance with the Code would Within the last three years has not had a material business require the appointment of a further Non-Executive Director.
After careful relationship with the Company either directly, or as a partner, consideration, the Board has concluded it would be more beneficial at the shareholder, director or senior employee of a body that has such a present time to maintain a relatively small board rather than increase the relationship with the Company: number of directors.
The Board will keep this under review in particular as Has not received additional remuneration from the Company apart to the needs and requirements of the business and with diversity in mind.
from a directors fee, and does not participate in the Companys share option or performance-related pay scheme, or as a member The Board meets each month to direct and control the overall strategy of the Companys pension scheme: and operating performance of the Group.
To enable them to carry out Has no close family ties with any of the Companys advisors or these responsibilities all Directors have full and timely access to all relevant senior employees: information.
A formal schedule of matters reserved for decision by the Board Holds no cross-directorships or has no significant links with other covers key areas of the Groups affairs including acquisition and divestment directors through involvement in other companies or bodies: policy, approval of budgets, major capital expenditure projects, profit and Does not represent a significant shareholder: and cash flow performance and general treasury and risk management policies.
Has not served on the board for more than nine years from the date During the year responsibility for the Groups day-to-day operations was of their first election.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 27 The Board has completed a register relating to potential conflicts of interest Controller, together with the external auditors and, when requested, with its Directors and confirm that no such conflicts exist.
This register will internal audit attend the meetings as appropriate.
The Company Secretary be reviewed annually or at such other time as is deemed necessary.
also attends the meetings as secretary to the Committee.
Both the external auditors and internal audit have the opportunity to access the Committee, The Board, led by the Chairman, has carried out a formal evaluation of without the Executive Directors being present, at any time, and the its performance and that of its Committees under a system based on a Committee formally meets with both the external auditors and internal questionnaire circulated to all Directors which was used to facilitate a audit independently at least once a year on this basis.
The evaluation exercise showed that the Board and its Committees were working well but, as expected, a number of actions The Committee reviews the Groups accounting policies and internal were agreed to improve effectiveness.
The Chairman has evaluated the reports on accounting and internal financial control matters together performance of individual Directors through one-to-one meetings.
The with reports from the external auditors.
The Audit Committee has overall Chairman meets with the Non-Executive Directors at least once a year to responsibility for monitoring the integrity of financial statements and related share his assessment of Executive Board member performance.
In addition, announcements and for all aspects of internal control and meets at least the Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, meet, three times a year, two of which involve a review of the Groups interim without the Chairman present, in order to appraise his performance.
and full year financial statements.
There is also a whistle blowing policy in place which includes arrangements by which staff can, in confidence, raise The Companys Articles of Association provide that one third of the Directors concerns about possible improprieties in matters of financial reporting and retire by rotation each year and with the proviso that each Director shall other matters.
seek re-election at the Annual General Meeting every three years.
All new Directors are subject to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity The terms of reference for the Audit Committee are available from the following their appointment.
The Board is aware that the Code recommends Company Secretary.
the re-election of all directors every year which for the Company would be applicable in 2012.
The Directors have decided this year to continue with The Chairman of the Audit Committee will be available at the Annual the requirements as stated in the Articles of Association.
General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be raised on the Committees activities.
Directors biographies and membership of the various Committees are shown on page 19.
The formal terms of reference for the Board Committees Internal Control together with the terms and conditions of appointment of Non-Executive Directors are available for inspection at the Companys Registered Office The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for the Groups system and at the Annual General Meeting.
of internal control, which safeguards the Shareholders investment and the Groups assets, and for reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material Board Committees misstatement or loss, as it is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Audit Committee The Group operates within a clearly defined organisational structure with The Audit Committee comprised of the three independent Non-Executive established responsibilities, authorities and reporting lines to the Board.
Directors chaired by John Worby, the Groups Senior Independent Director, The organisational structure has been designed in order to plan, execute, who is a chartered accountant, has considerable recent relevant financial monitor and control the Groups objectives effectively and to ensure that experience and has spent many years in the food industry.
It is a requirement internal control becomes embedded in the operations.
of the Code that the Audit Committee should comprise of at least three independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company therefore complies The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports to the Board on issues with this requirement.
relating to internal controls and risk management following each Audit Committee meeting.
The Board confirms that the key on-going processes The Chairman, the Finance Director, who is ultimately responsible for and features of the Groups internal risk based control system, which accord assessing the Groups internal financial controls, and the Group Financial 28 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc with the Turnbull guidance, have been fully operative throughout the year and up to the date of the Annual Report being approved.
These include: a process to identify, evaluate and manage business risk as detailed in the Group Operating and Financial Review on pages 11 to 16 : a strong control environment: an information and communication process: a monitoring system and a regular Board review of effectiveness.
The Group Finance Director is ultimately responsible for overseeing the Groups internal controls.
During the year the management team identified the key business risks within their operations, considered the financial implications and assessed the effectiveness of the control processes in place to mitigate these risks.
The Board reviewed a summary of the findings and this, along with direct involvement in the strategies of the businesses, investment appraisal and the budgeting process, enabled the Board to report on the effectiveness of internal control.
Following its review the Board determined that it was not aware of any significant deficiency or material weakness in the system of internal control.
The Groups interest in its associate is not included in the internal control procedures disclosed above.
Financial Reporting The Group prepares annual budgets that are agreed by the Board.
Operational management are required to report to the Board on a monthly basis on financial performance including trading results, balance sheet, cash flows and related key performance indicators.
Forecasts are updated on a half yearly basis together with information on key risk areas.
The use of a standard reporting pack by all Group entities ensures that the information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the preparation of the consolidated financial statements.
Internal Audit The Audit Committee considers annually the extent and effectiveness of the work of the internal audit function.
The Groups internal audit function comprises of Company employees supported by Grant Thornton, which provides specialist advice and resources where necessary.
The role of internal audit is to advise management and to report to the Audit Committee on the extent to which systems of internal control are effective and to provide independent and objective assurance that the processes by which significant risks are identified, assessed and managed are appropriate and effectively applied.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 29 The Audit Committee reviews and approves the annual internal audit plan than the statutory audit, to ensure such objectivity and independence is and receives regular updates on progress in meeting the plan objectives.
There is also an established policy for the work the external The internal audit approach is risk based and takes into account the overall auditors can and cannot do so as not to compromise their independence Group risk framework, as well as risks specific to individual operations.
The and in addition, the Chairman of the Audit Committee is consulted prior plan set out at the beginning of the current year was achieved.
Internal to awarding to the external auditors any non-audit services in excess of audit findings together with responses from management are considered 20,000. by the Audit Committee and where necessary challenged.
Internal audit has direct access to the Chair of the Audit Committee and meets with him During the year, the auditors also provided tax advice and were consulted and other members of the Audit Committee without Company Executives on corporate transactions.
Their auditor objectivity and independence was being present at least once a year.
safeguarded through use of a separate tax partner and separate corporate transactions partner.
External auditors During the year the Audit Committee considered the following factors in assessing the objectivity and independence of Ernst & Young LLP: Ernst & Young LLP has been the Companys auditors since 1972 following the take-over of a local Hull based practice.
The Audit Committee assesses i The auditors procedures for maintaining and monitoring annually the qualification, expertise, resources and independence of the independence, including those to ensure that the partners and staff auditor and the effectiveness of the audit process.
The assessment as to the have no personal or business relationships with the Group, other effectiveness is conducted through an external audit questionnaire with than those in the normal course of business permitted by UK ethical senior finance management.
ii The auditors policies for the rotation of the lead partner and key The Audit Committee is also responsible for recommendations for the audit personnel.
The Audit partner changed in 2007 and the senior appointment, reappointment or removal of the external auditors.
Committee reviews the external audit function every four to five years, the iii Adherence by management and the auditor to the Groups policy last such review being in 2008.
The Committee also approves the terms of for the procurement of non-audit services.
engagement and remuneration of the external auditors, and monitors their independence.
There is a policy in place in relation to the types of non-audit services the external auditors should not carry out so as not to compromise Remuneration Committee their independence and these would include internal accounting or other financial services, internal audit services, executive or management roles or The Remuneration Committee comprises the three independent Nonfunctions, and remuneration consultancy.
Executive Directors chaired by Steven Esom.
It is a requirement of the Code that the Remuneration Committee should consist of at least three Following consideration of these matters at a meeting of the Audit independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Company therefore complies Committee in May 2011, a unanimous recommendation was made to with this requirement.
Martin Davey attends meetings of the Remuneration the Board for the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Committee by invitation and in an advisory capacity.
No Director attends external auditors to be proposed to Shareholders at the 2011 Annual any part of a meeting at which his own remuneration is discussed.
Executive Directors determine the remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Auditor independence The Committee recommends to the Board the policy for executive The Board is satisfied that Ernst & Young LLP has adequate policies and remuneration and determines, on behalf of the Board, the other terms and safeguards in place to ensure that auditor objectivity and independence is conditions of service for each Executive Director.
The Group meets its obligations for maintaining an appropriate performance conditions for the annual cash bonus and long term incentive relationship with the external auditors through the Audit Committee, schemes and approves awards and the issue of options in accordance whose terms of reference include an obligation to consider and keep with the terms of those schemes.
The Remuneration Committee also, in under review the degree of work undertaken by the external auditor, other consultation with the Chairman, monitors the total individual remuneration 30 Report & Accounts 2011 Cranswick plc package of senior executives including bonuses, incentive payments and recommendations to the Board on new appointments of Executive and Nonshare option and other share awards.
The Remuneration Committee has Executive Directors.
It also gives full consideration to succession planning in access to advice from the Company Secretary and to detailed analysis of the course of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities executive remuneration in comparable companies.
In addition, from time facing the Group and what skills and expertise are therefore needed on to time the Committee undertakes a more detailed review using external the Board and from senior management in the future.
This year the review was carried out by AON Hewitt.
Details after reviewing the requirements of the Company, recommended the of the Committees current remuneration policies are given in the Directors appointment of Jim Brisby as Sales and Marketing Director, as he has been Remuneration Report on pages 35 and 40. an integral member of the sales team that has grown the business over the last 15 years, and the promotion of Adam Couch to Chief Operating Officer The terms of reference for the Remuneration Committee are available from following eight years as an Executive Director and Managing Director of the the Company Secretary.
The Chairman of the Remuneration Committee will attend the Annual The current Directors seeking re-election at the Annual General Meeting General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be will be Patrick Farnsworth and Adam Couch.
Jim Brisby who was appointed raised on the Committees activities.
since the last Annual General Meeting will stand for election.
The Board has set out in the Notice of Annual General Meeting their reasons for supporting Nomination Committee the election and re-election of these Directors at the forth coming Annual General Meeting.
Their biographical details on page 19 demonstrate the The Nomination Committee comprises of Patrick Farnsworth, the Committees range of experience and skills which each brings to the benefit of the Chairman since 26 July 2010, Martin Davey, Chairman of the Committee Company.
until 26 July 2010, John Worby and Steven Esom.
It is a requirement of the Code that a majority of the members of the Nomination Committee should The terms of reference for the Nomination Committee are available from be independent Non-Executive Directors, and the Chairman should be the Company Secretary.
either the Chairman of the Board or a Non-Executive Director.
The Company complies with these requirements of the Code.
The Chairman of the Nomination Committee will attend the Annual General Meeting to respond to any Shareholder questions that might be The Committee meets at least once a year and reviews the structure, size raised on the Committees activities.
and composition of the Board and is responsible for considering and making Meetings attendance Details of the number of meetings of, and members attendance at, the Board, Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during the year are set out in the table below: Board Audit Remuneration Nomination Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 12 4 6 2 Mark Bottomley 12 - - - Jim Brisby maximum 8 8 - - - Adam Couch 12 - - - Steven Esom 12 4 6 2 Martin Davey 12 - - 2 Bernard Hoggarth 12 - - - Patrick Farnsworth 12 3 6 2 John Worby 12 4 6 2 All who were Directors at the time attended the Annual General Meeting.
Cranswick plc Report & Accounts 2011 31 Shareholders Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code The Board attaches great importance to maintaining good relationships The Directors consider that the Company has, during the year ended 31 with all Shareholders who are kept informed of significant Company March 2011, complied with the requirements of the Code other than as developments.
Presentations are made to analysts and institutional set out below: Shareholders on the half year and full year results and to discuss Company direction.
Significant matters relating to the trading or development of The Company did not comply with Code provision B.
1.2 since 26 the business are disseminated to the market by way of Stock Exchange July 2010 as the number of independent Non-Executive Directors announcements.
was less than half the Board.
This situation is still under review by the Board as stated above.
The views of Shareholders expressed during meetings with them are communicated by the Chairman to the Board as a whole, and through this By order of the Board process the Boards Executive and Non-Executive Directors are able to gain a sound understanding of the views and concerns of the major Shareholders.
The Chairman discusses governance and strategy with major Shareholders Malcolm Windeatt from time to time.
Other Directors are available to meet the Companys Company Secretary major Shareholders if requested.
The Senior Independent Director is 16 May 2011 available to listen to the views of Shareholders, particularly if they have concerns which contact with the Chairman has failed to resolve, or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Principles of corporate governance and voting guidelines issued by the Companys institutional Shareholders and their representative bodies are circulated to and considered by the Board.
The Board also welcomes the attendance and questions from Shareholders at the Annual General Meeting which is also attended by the Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees.
Information pursuant to the Takeovers Directive The Company has provided the information required under DTR 7.2.
6 within the section headed Change of control in the Directors report on page 24.
