Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance and to complying with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code where practicable.
This report, together with the directors remuneration report, set out on pages 30 to 42, describes how the relevant principles of governance set out in the Code have been applied by the Company.
Compliance The information contained in this report demonstrates that, throughout 2011, the Company has complied fully with all relevant provisions set out in the Code.
On pages 4 to 7 of the Chief Executives review we provide an explanation of the Groups business model and the basis on which the Group generates value over the long term and the strategy for meeting our corporate objectives.
The Board The Board has ultimate responsibility for the overall leadership of the Company and in this role it assists in the development of a clear strategy for the Group, monitors operational and financial performance against agreed goals and objectives and ensures that appropriate controls and systems are in place to manage risk.
It has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it and this is posted on the Companys website www.
At the date of this report the Board comprises the Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, the Chief Technology Officer and four independent non-executive directors who have a range of business, financial and international skills and experience.
This provides an appropriate balance within the Board.
Biographical notes appear on pages 22 and 23.
The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive have written accountabilities that have been approved by the Board.
The Chairman and non-executive directors meet together without the executive directors present on an ad hoc basis and the non-executive directors meet at least annually in the absence of the Chairman in order to appraise his performance.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman and the Group Chief Executive meet on a regular basis.
All members of the Board have full access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
Where necessary the directors may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Directors are granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of their positions to the extent permitted by law.
In addition the Company maintained directors and officers liability insurance cover throughout the year.
Training and briefings are available to all directors on appointment and subsequently, as appropriate, taking into account their existing experience, qualifications and skills.
In order to build and increase the non-executive directors familiarity with, and understanding of, the Groups people and businesses and the markets in which it operates.
Presentations from senior managers are made at Board meetings on a regular basis.
The Board also usually holds at least one Board meeting a year at a Croda operating site.
In September the Board held its meeting in Brazil during a visit to our manufacturing site at Campinas.
Earlier in the year the Board also visited the Rawcliffe Bridge manufacturing site in the UK.
These visits allow the non-executives to tour the sites and observe the operations at first hand as well as providing the opportunity to meet the local management and employees and gain their insight into the business.
Non-executive directors also undertake site visits on an individual basis.
Attendance at meetings Details of the attendance by directors at meetings of the Board and the Board committees on which they are eligible to sit are set out below: Board Nomination Committee Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Eligible Eligible Eligible Eligible to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended to attend Attended M C Flower 10 10 3 3 5 5 3 M C Buzzacott retired 1 August 2011 7 7 2 2 3 3 2 2 A M Ferguson appointed 1 July 2011 4 4 1 1 3 3 2 2 S Musesengwa 10 10 3 3 5 5 3 3 P N N Turner 10 10 3 3 5 5 3 3 S G Williams 10 9 3 3 5 4 3 2 M Humphrey 10 10 3 3 5 3 M S Christie 10 10 3 S E Foots 10 10 3 Attended by invitation In addition to the formal Board meetings, all the directors attended a half day meeting to review the Groups strategy and attended the Annual General Meeting.
They also met with the Companys financial and public relations advisers to discuss the feedback from investors and analysts on the Groups 2010 annual results.
24 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information Re-election of directors The Companys Articles of Association require the directors to offer themselves for re-election at least once every three years and for newly appointed directors to offer themselves for election at the first annual general meeting AGM after the date of their appointment.
However, the Board is observing the recommendation set out in the Code requiring directors of FTSE 350 companies to be subject to annual election and so all the directors will be standing for election.
Following individual performance assessments, the Board is satisfied that each director continues to perform effectively and demonstrate commitment to the role.
Further details about the directors are given in the notice of the AGM which is in a separate document issued to shareholders with the annual report.
Conflicts of interest The Board has an established process for declaring and monitoring actual and potential conflicts.
The Articles of Association of the Company allow the non-conflicted members of the Board to authorise a conflict or potential conflict situation.
No conflicts were identified or authorised during the year.
Non-executive directors Croda complies with the Code in having experienced non-executive directors who represent a source of strong independent advice and judgement.
At present there are five such directors, including the Chairman and the Senior Independent director, Nigel Turner, each of whom has significant commercial experience.
Their understanding of the Groups operations is enhanced by regular business presentations and by site visits.
The independence of the non-executive directors is kept under review.
The non-executive Chairman was independent on his appointment in 2005 but, as Chairman, is not classified as independent.
From January 2011, until his retirement in August 2011, Mike Buzzacott served alongside Nigel Turner as a non-executive director of Genus Plc, a company which has no other connection with Crodas business.
Steve Williams has a consultancy role with Eversheds LLP, which provides some legal services to the Group.
The Board does not consider that these roles would affect the directors judgement in relation to Croda and its business and, therefore, it is the Boards opinion that all the nonexecutive directors who have served during the year are independent in character and judgement with no relationships or circumstances which are likely to affect, or could appear to affect, their judgement.
During 2011 no non-executive director or the Chairman had served on the Board for more than nine years from the date of their first election.
Details of the professional commitments of the Chairman and the non-executive directors are included in their biographies on pages 22 and 23.
The Board is satisfied that these do not interfere with the performance of their respective duties to the Company.
The terms and conditions of appointment of non-executive directors can be inspected during normal business hours at the Companys registered office by contacting the Company Secretary and are available at the AGM.
Board committees The Board has three main committees which are established by Board resolution and each has written terms of reference which can be found on the Companys website.
Report of the Audit Committee Alan Ferguson appointed 1 July 2011, Chairman from 1 August 2011 Mike Buzzacott Chairman - retired 1 August 2011 Stanley Musesengwa Nigel Turner Steve Williams The Audit Committee, which consists of all the non-executive directors other than the Chairman, meets at least three times a year to coincide with key dates in the Companys financial reporting cycle.
The Board is satisfied that each of the Committee members has the relevant experience to enable them to contribute to the Committees work.
The Chairman, the executive directors, the Group Financial Controller, the Group Risk and Control Manager and representatives from the external and internal auditors attend meetings by invitation.
The chairman of the Audit Committee holds independent meetings with the Group Risk and Control Manager and also with the external auditors, without the executives being present.
The Committees remit is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibility for ensuring that the Groups financial systems provide accurate and up to date information on its financial position and that the Groups published financial statements represent a true and fair reflection of this position.
As part of its normal responsibilities the Committee monitors the integrity of the financial statements of the Group.
This includes reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements contained in the statements and the consistency of, and any changes to, accounting policies.
In addition it is responsible for monitoring the effectiveness of the Groups internal controls and risk management systems including that of the Groups internal audit function.
It reviews and approves the annual internal audit plan and the key points from all internal audit reports across the Group, agrees the annual audit plan with the external auditors and reviews the findings of the audit and the interim review with the external auditors.
25 Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance During the year the Committee Members also: l reviewed the Group policy and strategy in relation to taxation: l received reports and presentations concerning key specific risks identified by the Risk Management Committee: l monitored compliance with the Group risk management programme: l considered initial work on a review of risk strategy and processes including determination of a risk maturity profile: and l supervised a process whereby the external auditors presented to the Board which resulted in their continued appointment.
Audit independence The Committee and the Board place great emphasis on the objectivity of the Groups external auditors,  LLP PwC, in their reporting to shareholders.
The PwC audit partner is present at all Audit Committee meetings to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
The overall performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, and feedback is provided to senior members of PwC unrelated to the audit.
This activity also forms part of PwCs own system of quality control.
The scope of the forthcoming years audit is discussed in advance by the Audit Committee.
Audit fees are reviewed by the Committee and then referred to the Board for approval.
The rotation of audit partners responsibilities within PwC is required by their professions ethical standards, is actively encouraged and has taken place.
Assignments awarded to PwC are subject to controls by management that have been agreed by the Audit Committee in order to ensure that audit independence is not compromised.
The chairman of the Audit Committee is required to give prior approval of work carried out by PwC and its associates in excess of predetermined thresholds: part of this review is to determine that other potential providers of the services have been properly considered.
As reported last year, PwC is providing advisory services in relation to the implementation of computer systems which has increased significantly their non-audit activities for 2011.
Given the nature of these services the full Audit Committee considered and approved PwCs appointment.
This work, undertaken in a number of the Groups smaller locations, will continue through 2012 into 2013 as the Group completes the roll out of its ERP system to the global sales network.
All responsibility for the design and implementation of the ERP system resides with management.
This includes managing the systems operation, monitoring its internal controls and ensuring data integrity.
PwCs role is restricted to assessing the systems implementation against the design criteria developed by management.
These controls provide the Committee with adequate confidence in the independence of PwC in their reporting on the audit of the Group.
Report of the Nomination Committee During 2011 the committee comprised: Martin Flower Chairman Mike Buzzacott retired 1 August 2011 Alan Ferguson appointed 1 July 2011 Mike Humphrey retired 31 December 2011 Stanley Musesengwa Nigel Turner Steve Williams The Nomination Committee consists of the non-executive directors and the Group Chief Executive.
It meets on an ad hoc basis and is responsible for nominating, for approval by the Board, candidates for appointment to the Board and succession planning.
During the year the Committee led the process to find a suitable successor for Mike Humphrey as Group Chief Executive.
Spencer Stuart, an external search consultancy which Croda has employed on other Board appointment assignments, was retained to assess potential internal candidates and identify possible external candidates against a candidate specification developed by the Committee.
After taking full consideration of Spencer Stuarts findings and the perceived requirements of the Company, the Committee endorsed the nomination of Steve Foots.
At the same time the Committee was instrumental in reaching agreement with Mike Humphrey on the terms of an orderly transition on his retirement.
Early in the year the Committee started the process to find a new Chairman for the Audit Committee to replace Mike Buzzacott on his retirement in August 2011.
Spencer Stuart was retained to draw up a list of candidates.
Following interviews with each Board member, the Committee recommended Alan Fergusons appointment to the Board.
His experience in senior finance positions in international businesses was thought to be of significant benefit to the Company.
The Committee maintained its focus on succession planning and development programmes for senior employees by reviewing the progress of the three new Group wide leadership development programmes introduced during 2011 and the development of a new assessment process designed to help identify those individuals who required further development or more radical action to enable them to improve.
The Committee carried out its customary corporate governance review and was satisfied that the size, structure and composition of the Board and the required time commitment from non-executive directors remained appropriate and that all the non-executive directors continued to fulfil the criteria of independence and were able to commit the required time for the proper performance of their duties.
26 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information The Board supports the principles set out in the Code regarding Board appointments and agrees that having a diverse mix of skills, experience and backgrounds, including gender diversity, on the Board is very important.
It has considered the recommendations of the Davies report on Women on Boards and will ensure that any long list of candidates for future Board appointments includes a good proportion of women.
However, the Board is uncomfortable with the idea of setting out the percentage of women it aims to have on the Croda Board, as it believes that all Board appointments should be based on merit and not on a policy of positive discrimination.
Ultimately the best way to get women onto the Board is to increase the number of women rising to senior positions within the Company and this will receive increased focus as part of the Companys own succession planning and development programmes.
The Board will also keep the criteria for Board candidates under review to ensure that they do not inadvertently exclude particular categories of candidate.
Remuneration Committee Stanley Musesengwa Chairman Mike Buzzacott retired 1 August 2011 Alan Ferguson appointed 1 July 2011 Martin Flower Nigel Turner Steve Williams The Remuneration Committee, which consists of the non-executive directors, is responsible for advising on remuneration policy for senior executives and for determining the remuneration packages of the executive directors and the Chairman.
The Group Chief Executive is normally invited to attend all its meetings.
Further details of the Committees activities during the year can be found in the directors remuneration report set out on pages 30 to 42.
A resolution will be proposed at the AGM to approve the report.
Board and Committee evaluation The Board usually carries out an annual self-evaluation exercise towards the end of the financial year.
In view of the changes to the composition of the Board as a result of the appointment of a new non-executive director in July and the impending change of Group Chief Executive at the year end, the Board took the decision to defer such an exercise until 2012.
It was felt that greater value would be obtained from carrying out a more formal review during 2012 once the new Board had been in place for several months.
Accordingly, an externally facilitated evaluation will take place later in the year.
Other Committees The management of the business is delegated by the Board to the Group Chief Executive.
He utilises a series of committees to assist him in this task.
Group Executive Committee During 2011 the Committee comprised: Mike Humphrey Chairman - Group Chief Executive Steve Foots - President Europe Sean Christie - Group Finance Director David Barraclough - President Asia Pacific Miguel fide Bellis - President Latin America Kevin Gallagher - President North America Keith Layden - President Actives & Enterprise Technology Kevin Nutbrown - President Global Operations Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel Steve Foots became Chairman of the Committee following Mike Humphreys retirement on 31 December 2011.
On 6 February 2012 he relinquished his role as President, Europe and the European business was divided into two areas under the leadership of Sandra Breene, President Consumer Care Europe and Maarten Heybroek, President Performance Technologies & Industrial Chemicals Europe.
Consequently, both have joined the Group Executive Committee.
The Committee meets quarterly and its remit is responsibility for the development and implementation of strategy, operational plans, policies, procedures and budgets, the monitoring of operating and financial performance, the assessment and control of risk and the prioritisation and allocation of resources.
Finance Committee The Finance Committee meets monthly to review operating results, identify operational and risk issues and examine capital expenditure proposals.
During 2011 the members were: Mike Humphrey Chairman - Group Chief Executive Sean Christie - Group Finance Director Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller Treasurer Kevin Nutbrown - President Global Operations Since the year end Steve Foots has assumed the chairmanship of the Committee.
The other members of the Group Executive Committee are invited to attend all meetings of the Finance Committee.
27 Croda International Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance Risk Management Committee During 2011 the Committee comprised: Sean Christie Chairman Group Finance Director David Barraclough - President Asia Pacific Miguel fide Bellis - President Latin America Steve Foots - President Europe Kevin Gallagher - President North America Keith Layden - President Actives & Enterprise Technology Graham Myers - Group Financial Controller Treasurer Kevin Nutbrown - President Global Operations Louise Scott - Company Secretary & Legal Counsel Steve Foots is no longer a member of the Committee since becoming Group Chief Executive on 1 January 2012.
The Committees role is to evaluate, propose policies and monitor processes to control the business, operational and compliance risks faced by the Group.
It normally meets four times a year.
Group SHE Steering Committee The Group also operates a Safety, Health and Environment SHE Steering Committee which is chaired by Kevin Nutbrown, President Global Operations and comprises the heads of regional businesses, operational functions and the VP Group SHE.
It meets quarterly and monitors progress against the Group SHE objectives and targets, reviews safety performance and determines the requirement for new or revised SHE policies, procedures and objectives.
Routine Business Committee The Routine Business Committee comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director with the Company Secretary and Group Financial Controller acting as alternates.
The Committee may make decisions with one executive director and the alternate for the other executive director being present.
It attends to business of a routine nature and to the administration of matters, the principles of which have been agreed previously by the Board or the Group Executive Committee.
Investor relations The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its shareholders.
The Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director maintain regular contact with major shareholders and they ensure that their views are communicated to the Board as a whole through the reporting of feedback from shareholder meetings and the provision of brokers reports.
The Board invites the Companys brokers and financial public relations advisers to attend at least one meeting each year at which the economic and investment environment, Crodas performance, both generally and in comparison with its sector peers, and investor reaction are discussed.
The Senior Independent director and other non-executive directors are available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested, however no such meetings were requested during the year.
The AGM provides an opportunity for private shareholders to raise questions with the members of the Board.
The directors are also available to answer questions after the meeting in a more informal setting.
The annual report, including notice of AGM, is sent to shareholders at least twenty working days before the meeting.
There is a separate investor relations section on the Companys website www.
com which includes, amongst other items, presentations made to analysts.
Internal control The Code provision C. 2.1 on internal control requires the directors to conduct, at least annually, a review of the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, including financial, operational, compliance and risk management controls, and report to the shareholders that they have done so.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance 2005 and in order to discharge this responsibility, the directors have utilised an organisational structure with clear operating procedures, lines of responsibility, and delegated authority.
In particular there are clear procedures and defined authorities to act for: l capital investment, with detailed appraisal, authorisation and post-investment review: l financial reporting, with specific internal controls and risk management systems governing the financial reporting process and preparation of the annual financial statements.
These systems include clear policies and procedures for ensuring that the Groups financial reporting processes and the preparation of its consolidated financial statements comply with all regulatory reporting requirements.
This framework is enshrined in the Groups policy documents which set out the core business processes and accounting principles to be employed at all Group companies.
Compliance with the policies is ensured by regular internal reviews supplemented by focused audit work: and l comprehensive monitoring and quantification of business risks, under the direction of the Risk Management Committee.
The Group co-ordinates its approach to risk management globally through its Risk Management Committee.
The Committee is chaired by the Group Finance Director and comprises the heads of each business unit, the Group Financial Controller and the Company Secretary.
The Group Risk & Control Manager attends all the meetings.
Each operating site and function within the Group compiles its own risk register, highlighting the key risks it faces along with the mitigating controls in place to offset the risk.
These registers are reviewed and consolidated to ensure there is a comprehensive view of the material risks facing the Group along with the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
The Groups approach to risk management is discussed in more detail in the Financial review on pages 10 and 11 and in the Groups separate Sustainability report.
28 Directors report | Business review Directors report | Governance Financial statements Other information The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, and has reviewed its operational effectiveness throughout the financial year and up to the date of approval of the annual report using a process which involved: l written confirmations from relevant senior executives and divisional directors concerning the operation of those elements of the system for which they are responsible: l internal audit work carried out by KPMG LLP who report through the Group Risk & Control Manager to the Audit Committee: and l reports from the external auditors.
Such a system is designed to mitigate rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provides reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Board also, where appropriate, ensures that necessary actions have been, or are being, taken to remedy significant failings or weaknesses identified from the review of effectiveness of internal controls.
Going concern The Groups activities, together with the factors likely to affect its future development, performance and position are set out in the Chief Executives review and the financial position of the Company, its cashflows and liquidity are described in the Financial review.
The financial statements, which appear on pages 48 to 97, have been prepared on a going concern basis as, after making appropriate enquiries, including a review of forecasts, budgets and banking facilities, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
