Corporate Governance Statement introduction from the chAirmAn We are committed to the highest standards of corporate governance and consider it critical for upholding our business integrity wherever we work around the world.
The Board has been fully briefed on the new UK Corporate Governance Code.
Key areas include annual re-election of all Directors, Board diversity, external evaluation, greater emphasis on risk, and a clear explanation of business model and strategy.
We welcome these changes and are committed to complying with them.
As part of our planned and continuing strengthening of the Board, I am pleased to welcome as a new Non-Executive Director to the Board, Mr Patrick Obath.
Mr Obath has an exceptional industry track record combined with significant East African experience that will prove useful as we move into an active operational phase across our regional portfolio.
We have a solid and experienced leadership team, which is collectively responsible for the Companys long-term success and has a clear understanding of its roles and responsibilities.
We promote an honest and open environment in which both Executive and Non-Executive Directors can constructively contribute tothe Companysdevelopment.
I am satisfied that the members of the Board, in particular the Non-Executive Directors, have sufficient time to undertake their roles at Board and Committee level with the Company, so as to be able to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
At our Annual General Meeting in June 2012, we will put all of our Directors up for re-election in compliance with the Code and anticipate continuing to put all Directors up for re-election annually.
Our good governance culture is robust and is fully focused on maintaining high ethical standards and strong personal integrity.
This is formalised in our Group Code of Business Conduct, which has been adopted across the business and clearly sets out expectations of how our employees should behave.
We have reviewed and updated the Code in the light of the Bribery Act 2010 and have also rolled out an Anti-Bribery Policy across the Group.
This section of the Afren annual report describes how the Company has applied the main principles and complied with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code throughout the year and, where specific provisions may not appear to have been met, provides an explanation.
Further information on the Code can be found at www.
I hope this report gives you a clear understanding of how we comply with the UK Corporate Governance Code and our governance arrangements.
egbert imomoh Chairman comPliAnce with the uK corPorAte GovernAnce code This statement explains how the Directors applied the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code during the year ended 31 December 2011.
TheDirectors consider that the Company complied in full with the provisions set out in Section 1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code for the whole of the year ended 31 December 2011.
BoArd comPosition And indePendence The Board currently has nine members made up of three Executive Directors, five independent Non-Executive Directors and the Non-Executive Chairman.
NineDirectors served on the Board in the 2011 financial year.
Constantine Ogunbiyi stepped down as Executive Director on 4 January 2011, following his appointment asChief Executive of First Hydrocarbon Nigeria FHN.
Mr Obath joined the Board on 2 February 2012 as a Non-Executive Director.
The Board considers that there is an appropriate balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors for governing the business effectively and promoting shareholder interests.
It also considers that both Executive and Non-Executive Directors have the necessary skills, knowledge and experience to enable them togovern the business effectively.
Our Non-Executive Directors contribute international operational know-how and were chosen for their wide range of skills and experience.
They understand the sectors in which we operate and have valuable knowledge of international capital markets.
In addition, they bring in-depth understanding of the health, safety, environmental, political and community challenges we face.
Each Non-Executive Director is appointed for a three-year fixed term, renewable by mutual agreement.
All Non-Executive Directors appointment letters are available for inspection at the registered address of the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors: scrutinise, measure and review the performance of management assist in strategy development review the Groups financial information ensure appropriate and effective systems of internal control and risk management review the relationship with the external Auditors through the Audit & Risk Committee review the remuneration of and succession planning for the Board.
64 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors met twice during the financial year without the Executive Directors being present.
The Directors are listed below: Afren BoArd of directors Year of Year vacation Executive Non-Executive Board member Position appointed of office Director Director Egbert Imomoh Non-Executive Chairman 2005 X Osman Shahenshah Chief Executive 2004 X Toby Hayward Non-Executive Director 2009 X Peter Bingham Non-Executive Director 2005 X John St. John Non-Executive Director 2007 X Ennio Sganzerla Non-Executive Director 2009 X 1 Patrick Obath Non-Executive Director 2012 X Shahid Ullah Chief Operating Officer 2008 X Darra Comyn Group Finance Director 2010 X 2 Constantine Ogunbiyi Executive Director 2008 2011 X 1 Appointed on 2 February 2012.
BoArd structure The Board is responsible for providing leadership, setting the Groups strategic objectives and key policies, ensuring that appropriate resources are in place to enable the Group to meet its objectives, reviewing the Groups performance and overseeing the Groups internal control systems and is responsible to shareholders for the proper management of the Group.
At the end of the period of this report, the Board comprised of a Non-Executive Chairman, three Executive Directors and four Non-Executive Directors.
Afren benefits from an experienced Board with extensive African experience and relationships plus a broad range of commercial, financial and other relevant expertise.
Brief biographies are included on pages 58 and 59.
The Nomination Committee periodically reviews the composition of the Board including the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and considers succession planning for both Executive and Non-Executive Directors and the Groups senior management.
It is also responsible for the process for new Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of new Directors and is responsible for ensuring that appointments are made on merit and against objective criteria.
In making appointments to the Board, the Nomination Committee considers the skills, experience and knowledge of the existing Directors and assesses which of the potential candidates would bring the most benefit to the Board.
It considers the potential candidates knowledge and experience of the territories in which we operate, the oil and gas industry, capital markets and the regulatory environment, and that, in the case of Non-Executive Director appointments they have sufficient time to devote to the role.
The Chairman ensures that any new Directors are provided with a full induction on joining the Board.
Non-Executive Directors are appointed for an initial term of three years, which may be extended by mutual agreement subject to satisfactory performance.
The letters of appointment of each Non-Executive Director are available for inspection at the registered office of the Company.
The Board meets on at least five occasions during the year to review trading performance, budgets and funding, set and monitor strategy, examine acquisition opportunities and report to shareholders.
The Chief Executive holds informal meetings with the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors to discuss issues affecting theGroup, such as target objectives, strategy, key performance indicators and remuneration matters.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it for decisions and responsibility for developing and implementing the Groups strategic and financial objectives is delegated to the senior management of the Group.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are separate and the responsibilities of Chairman and Chief Executive are independently defined.
It is the Chairmans responsibility to ensure that the principles and processes of the Board are maintained, including the provision of accurate, timely and clear information in relation to the Group and its business.
The Chairman is also responsible for encouraging debate and constructive criticism, speaking and acting for the Board and representing the Board to shareholders, and presenting shareholders views to the Board.
The Board considers that none of the Chairmans other commitments interfere with the discharge of his responsibilities to the Company.
It is also satisfied that he makes sufficient time available to serve the Group effectively.
The Group does not have a Deputy Chairman, but has identified Mr Bingham to act asChairman should the need arise at short notice.
Afren plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Statement continued indePendence The independence of each of the Non-Executive Directors is considered upon appointment, annually and at any other time a Directors circumstances change in a way that warrants reconsideration.
Following a review of Board composition, the Company has reassessed the independence of all its Non-Executive Directors.
It regards all as independent within the meaning of the term as defined in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board has a policy that it uses to determine the independence of its Directors.
This policy provides that the test of independence is whether the Director is independent of management and any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of objective and unfettered or independent judgement by the Director or the Directors ability to act in the best interests of the shareholders.
Where a Director is considered by the Board to be independent, but is affected by circumstances that may give rise to a perception that the Director is not independent, the Board has undertaken to explain the reasons why it has reached its conclusion.
The Board considers relationships with management, major shareholders, associated companies and other parties with whom the Group transacts business against predetermined materiality thresholds, all of which are setoutin the policy.
Tested against this policy, the Board considers that each of the Directors has retained independence of character and judgement and has not formed associations withmanagement or others that might compromise their ability to exercise independent judgement or act in the best interests of the Company.
The Board gave particular consideration to the independence of Mr Peter Bingham and Mr John St. John.
This is because, historically, Non-Executive Directors were eligible for share option awards prior to the Companys admission to the Official List of the United Kingdom Listing Authority in December 2009.
Mr Bingham and Mr St. John are the only independent Non-Executive Directors who still have unexercised options.
The Share Option Scheme Rules were amended in November 2009 to prohibit the award of share options to Non-Executive Directors.
Since Afrens admission to the Official List, no share options have been granted to any Non-Executive Director.
We take the view that this does not impact the independence of the Non-Executive Directors.
For more information see the Directors Remuneration Report.
Some of the Directors hold, or previously held, positions in companies with which we have commercial relationships.
The Board has assessed all of the relationships between the Company and companies in which the Directors hold or held positions.
It has concluded that, in all cases, the relationships do not interfere with the Directors exercise of objective, unfettered or independent judgement or their ability to act in the best interests of our business.
In the case of Mr St. John, the Board has considered the fact that he is a shareholder in St. John Advisors Ltd and a partner in STJ Advisors LLP, two companies in the financial advisory sector with which Afren has had commercial dealings.
It is Mr St. Johns breadth of expertise, experience, knowledge and connections gained while providing capital markets advice to companies that brings significant value to the Board.
Prior to Mr St. Johns appointment, the Board assessed the relationships between Afren and St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisers LLP.
It remains satisfied that Mr St. John is able to apply objective, unfettered and independent judgement and act in the best interests of the Company, notwithstanding his role with St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisers LLP.
In addition, any commercial dealings with St. John Advisors and STJ Advisers have been approved by the independent Non-Executive Directors, as they will be should they continue in the future.
Mr St. John and the Executive Directors absent themselves fully from these deliberations.
Transactions during the year that amounted to related party transactions under the International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS are outlined in note 35 tothe financial statements.
The Company does not consider the level of fees paid to St. John Advisors Ltd and STJ Advisers LLP to be material to either business.
All transactions with Directors, including Mr St. John, qualify under the exemption for smaller related party transactions in respect of the Related Party Rules ofthe UKLA Listing Authority.
senior indePendent director Mr Toby Hayward is the Senior Independent Director.
Mr Hayward was selected for the role because of his experience and expertise.
In his role as Senior Independent Director, Mr Hayward is available to assist in resolving shareholder concerns should alternative channels be exhausted or inappropriate.
BoArd committees The Board has delegated certain responsibilities and duties to a number of key Committees in particular the Audit & Risk, Remuneration and Nomination, each of which has defined terms of reference that are summarised below and available in full on the Company website.
The Board is kept fully informed of the work of these Committees.
A summary of the operations of these Committees is also set out below.
Each Committee and Director has the authority to seek independent professional advice where necessary, at Afrens expense, to discharge their respective duties.
Inaddition, each Director and Committee has access to the advice of the Company Secretaries, Ms Shirin Johri and Mr Elekwachi Ukwu.
The Directors have collective responsibility for the conduct of the Groups business and are expected, wherever possible, to attend all Board meetings, relevant Committee meetings and the Annual General Meeting AGM.
A table detailing the Directors attendance at each of the Companys scheduled Board and Committee meetings during 2011 is included below.
66 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance BoArd And committee memBers AttendAnce The number of Board and Committee meetings held during 2011, together with details of each Directors attendance, is shown below: Number of Board meetings held while Number of Board Audit and Risk Remuneration Nomination aBoard member meetings attended Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings 5 5 3 2 2 Egbert Imomoh 5 5 2 Osman Shahenshah 5 5 Toby Hayward 5 5 3 2 Peter Bingham 5 5 3 2 John St. John 5 5 3 2 Ennio Sganzerla 5 5 3 2 2 1 Patrick Obath 5 Shahid Ullah 5 5 Darra Comyn 5 5 2 Constantine Ogunbiyi 5 During the year the Board agreed to increase the number of scheduled Board meetings from four to five.
In addition to the five scheduled meetings, the Board also met on a quorate basis on 12 other occasions toaddress specific matters.
In addition to the one scheduled meeting, the Nomination Committee met on a quorate basis on four other occasions to discuss the recruitment of an additional Non-Executive Director.
During the year ended 31 December 2011, the Boards scheduled activities included: receiving reports from key businesses within the Group receiving regular reports on the financial position of the Group and the various businesses within it approving the budget and long-term plan approving preliminary and full-year results discussing and approving strategy considering opportunities for business development discussing risk management and controls, including a detailed review of the Risk Register receiving reports from the Remuneration Committee, Audit Committee and Nomination Committee receiving reports on governance issues affecting the Group conducting a review of Board effectiveness.
Board performance evaluation The Board undertakes a formal and rigorous review of its performance and that of its Committees each financial year.
In the year under review the evaluation was led by an independent external consultant, Tom Bonham Carter of Armstrong Bonham Carter LLP.
The evaluation process involved comprehensive interviews with each Director and the Company Secretary.
The evaluation covered the Board, the Committees and each Director.
Feedback from the evaluation process was provided to the Board in the form of a presentation and a written report to the Board.
The review identified that the Board had a number of strengths which was exemplified in the record of the Company in acquiring and developing assets and its balance sheet management.
Thereview also suggested areas for further development covering the development of strategy, Board composition and succession planning, monitoring operations, and stakeholder management.
The Board has addressed these issues since the review and will continue to do so going forward.
training and development All new Directors receive a personalised induction programme, tailored to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is designed to develop their knowledge and understanding of the Group.
The Chairman agrees the personalised induction plan for each new Director and ensures that it is appropriately tailored.
In the last year the Board received training focusing on recent corporate governance developments.
The Board intends to hold one meeting overseas each year, to facilitate the Directors understanding of the Groups international operations.
future Board changes At the time of the Companys next Annual General Meeting Mr John St. John will step down from the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees, Mr Patrick Obath will join the Audit and Risk and Remuneration Committees, and Mr Toby Hayward will be appointed as Chairman of the Remuneration Committee.
In May 2011 the Financial Reporting Council began consulting on possible amendments to the Code that would require companies to publish their policy on boardroom diversity and report against it annually, as recommended by Lord Davies in his Women on Boards report published in February 2011, and to consider the boards diversity amongst other factors, when assessing its effectiveness.
The Nomination Committee is considering, as part of its general review of the Board, requirements of diversity, specifically gender.
Afren plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Statement continued Audit And risK committee The Audit and Risk Committee comprises Mr Peter Bingham Chairman, Mr John St. John, Mr Ennio Sganzerla and Mr Toby Hayward.
The Board has determined that Mr Hayward a chartered accountant and Mr St. John who has extensive experience in financial markets have recent and relevant financial experience through their previous and current roles.
The other Committee members also have a range of financial, commercial and other relevant experience.
Mr St. John will step down asamember of the Committee after the AGM and will be replaced by Mr Patrick Obath.
The Chairman of the Company, the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and other senior executives attend meetings of the Committee by invitation.
DeloitteLLP Deloitte is also invited to attend meetings of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Committee also meets privately with Deloitte representatives at least once a year and as and when required to discuss any matters the auditors may wish to raise without Executive Directors being present.
During the year the Committee met onthree occasions, at each of which there was full attendance.
The Committees remit includes reviewing the internal control framework, internal audit process, financial reporting practices and external audit process, andrecommending to the Board whether to reappoint the external auditor.
It also ensures that the Board regularly assesses business risks, and risk management andmitigation strategies.
In doing so, the Committee places reliance on reports from executive management, external audit and internal auditreviews.
In monitoring the financial reporting practices, the Audit and Risk Committee reviewed the accounting policies, areas of judgement, going concern assumption and compliance with accounting standards, the Disclosure and Transparency rules and the UK Corporate Governance Code.
During the year the Committee reviewed, prior to publication, the half-year and annual financial statements and other major statements affecting the Group that concerned price sensitive information.
The Group maintains a Risk Register.
The Register contains the key risks faced by the Group, including their likelihood and impact, as well as the controls and procedures implemented to mitigate these risks.
The content of the Register is determined through regular discussions with senior management and is reviewed by the Audit and Risk Committee.
These key risks are summarised on pages 22 to 25 of the Business Review section of this Annual Report.
The Audit and Risk Committee has a policy for assessing whether to employ the external auditors to supply services other than audit services, and closely monitors the level of audit and non-audit services the external auditors provide to the Group.
Non-audit services are normally limited to assignments that areclosely related to the annual audit, or where the work is of a nature that a detailed understanding of the Group is necessary.
The external auditors are specifically excluded from providing internal audit services, litigation support, remuneration advice and legal advice services.
TheCommittee assesses every other piece of non-audit work separately, and places it depending on which professional services firm it considers best suited.
Inaddition, any non-audit work with a total fee greater than 25% of the annual audit fee must be approved by the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee prior to the appointment beingmade.
The Board is satisfied that this policy is conducive to the maintenance of auditor independence and objectivity.
During the year external auditors performed asignificant amount of non-audit related work in relation to the acquisition of the Groups interests in the Kurdistan region of Iraq, as well as Tax advisory services, work that would ordinarily be performed by external auditors for companies involved in such projects.
The Audit and Risk Committee is satisfied that the carrying out of this work has not impaired the independence of the external auditors.
A breakdown of the fees paid to the external auditors in respect ofaudit and non-audit work isincluded in note 7 to the financial statements.
The Audit and Risk Committee has recommended to the Board that the current auditors, Deloitte LLP, be reappointed as external auditor.
In making the recommendation, it has taken into consideration the independence matters noted above and the past service of the auditors who were first appointed in 2005 following a full tender process.
The Committee has also considered the likelihood of a withdrawal of the auditor from the market and noted that there are nocontractual obligations to restrict the choice of external auditor.
68 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance A summary of key matters discussed by the Audit Committee during the financial year is shown below.
tABle 1: Key mAtters considered By the Audit And risK committee in 2011 theme Agenda items financial reporting Judgemental issues regarding the results for the year ended 31 December 2010 including review of accounting policies Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the year ended 31 December 2010 Draft full-year results and associated documentation for the year ended 31 December 2010 Judgemental issues regarding the results for the six months ended 30 June 2011 Independent auditors report in respect of the results for the six months ended 30 June 2011 Draft half-year results and associated documentation for the six months ended 30 June 2011 Plans for the preparation of the full-year results for the year ended 31 December 2011 internal controls Review of internal controls Proposed whistle-blower policy implementation and arrangements for employees to raise concerns in confidence Reports on whistle-blower confidential hotline activity Further development of internal control systems internal audit Conclusion of a comprehensive internal audit effectiveness review Anti-Bribery policy implementation and arrangements Consideration of internal audit plan for 2012 Regular reviews of internal audit findings independent auditor Review of the policy regarding non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor Review of audit and non-audit fees paid to the independent auditor and its independence Recommendation regarding the reappointment of the independent auditor Approval in line with policy of non-audit work undertaken by the independent auditor risk Annual review of risks Review of Group risk register Latest guidance from the FRC regarding going concern and liquidity risks nominAtion committee The Nomination Committee currently comprises Mr Egbert Imomoh Chairman, Mr Ennio Sganzerla and Mr Toby Hayward.
This meets at least once a year and isresponsible for reviewing and recommending to the Board suitable candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company.
It regularly reviews the structure, sizeand composition including the skills, knowledge and experience required on the Board.
There is a formal, rigorous and transparent procedure for the appointment ofnew Board Directors, based on merit and against objective criteria.
The Nomination Committee met five times during the year to deal with the recruitment of additional Non-Executive Directors and consider the composition oftheBoard.
The searches for Non-Executive Directors involved the use of independent recruitment consultants.
The table below shows a summary of key matters discussed by the Nomination Committee during the financial year.
tABle 2: Key mAtters considered By the nominAtion committee in 2011 theme Agenda items Board balance Recruitment of additional independent Non-Executive Directors succession planning Executive and Non-Executive Directors Senior management Board appointments Election and re-election of Directors in accordance with the Companys Articles of Association and UK Corporate Governance Code Chairmans external commitments Women on Boards report from Lord Davies Afren plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Statement continued remunerAtion committee The Remuneration Committee currently comprises Mr John St. John Chairman, Mr Ennio Sganzerla and Mr Peter Bingham.
It is responsible for: making recommendations to the Board on Afrens overall framework for remuneration and its cost, and, in consultation with the Chairman and ChiefExecutive determining remuneration packages of each Executive Director: reviewing the scale and structure of Executive Directors remuneration and the terms of their service or employment contracts, including share-based schemes, other employee incentive schemes adopted by Afren from time to time, and pension contributions.
Executive Directors of the Company are notpermitted to participate indiscussions or decisions of the Committee regarding their own remuneration: and ensuring that payments made on termination are fair to the individual and Afren.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors is determined bytheChairman and the other Executive Directors outside the framework of the Remuneration Committee.
The Remuneration Committee has taken into account the feedback received at the last AGM in relation to the Directors Remuneration Report and has consulted with shareholders in recent months to ensure full communication of Afrens approach to Directors, remuneration going forward.
Details of the Directors remuneration and the work of the Remuneration Committee can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 73 to 81. internal controls The Board has applied principle C. 2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code by establishing a continuous process for identifying, evaluating and managing thesignificant risks the Group faces.
The Board regularly reviews the process, which has been in place from the start of the year to the date of approval ofthisreport.
Thisis in accordance with revised guidance on internal control published in October 2005 the Turnbull Guidance.
The Board is responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for the ongoing review of its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage, ratherthan eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
It can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Incompliance with provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Board regularly reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system ofinternal control.
The Boards monitoring covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk management.
It is based principally on reviewing reports from management to consider whether significant risks are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and whether any significant weaknesses arepromptly remedied and indicate a need for more extensive monitoring.
As well as regular ongoing reviews of the Groups system of internal control, the Board also performed a specific assessment for this annual report.
Itconsidered all significant aspects of internal control arising during the period covered by the report, including relevant internal audit work undertaken.
TheAudit Committee assists the Board in discharging its review responsibilities.
The function of the Groups Director of Business Process is to carry out internal audit and compliance monitoring work, supported by independent specialist consultants as required.
The reporting line is to the Group Finance Director, however reports of work undertaken are also provided to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and any requests from the Audit Committee of specific review areas are included in the work programme, and the Chairman of the Audit Committee has direct access to the Groups Director of Business Process.
The Board and the Audit Committee have considered the need for a formal internal audit department but consider the current structure to be most suitable for the present.
The Audit Committee will review this annually and it is the intention of the Company to establish aninternal audit function within the next 12 months.
control framework and activities The Board has established a management structure with defined lines of responsibility and clear delegation of authority.
The various committees are key elements of the overall control structure.
These include the Executive Committee, which meets at least bi-monthly and is responsible for all strategic and operational activities dayto day.
The Group has developed a formal structured business planning process, which operates on an annual cycle.
The Board approves the consolidated annual budget, and performance against budget is monitored and reported to the Board.
The Groups risk assessment process is described on pages 20 to 21.
The Audit and Risk Committee and senior executives of the Company regularly review significant risks, their potential impact on the Groups financial position, and actions taken to manage those risks during the year.
70 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance uK Bribery Act 2010 The UK Bribery Act 2010 received royal assent on 8 April 2010.
In 2011 the UK Government issued the Bribery Act Adequate Procedures guidance.
Wedeveloped an Anti-Bribery Policy and implemented compliance procedures which have been cascaded through the organisation during the course of 2011 via a compulsory training programme for all employees.
This training, consisting of information sessions, was delivered to employees in our offices in Nigeria, Cte dIvoire, Kenya, USA and England, and has reached over 250 officers and key contractors.
Afren expects compliance with high standards of integrity andadherence to policies and internal controls throughout the organisation.
Assessment During the course of its review of the system of internal control, the Board has not identified, nor been advised of, any failings or weaknesses which it has determined to be significant.
The Board remains satisfied with the arrangements by which staff can raise concerns in confidence about possible improprieties in relation to financial reporting orother matters, as well as via an external reporting line.
relAtionshiPs with shAreholders The Board represents the shareholders and is accountable to them for creating and delivering value through effective governance of the business.
It is fully committed to maintaining regular shareholder communication for which it has developed a strategy for engaging and communicating with shareholders, keyaspects of which are outlined below.
In addition to frequent dialogue with major institutional shareholders, meetings are regularly held following significant announcements.
Press releases were issued throughout the year and the Company maintains a website www.
com where all press releases are posted, together with major corporate presentations and Reports and Accounts.
Additionally, this Annual Report, which is sent to all registered shareholders, contains extensive information about the Groups activities.
The Board welcomes enquiries from individual shareholders, both on matters relating to their shareholdings and the business of the Group.
It also encourages shareholders to attend the Annual General Meeting AGM to discuss the Groups progress, make their views known and to raise any matters of concern directly.
Through regular meetings, the CEO, CFO and Investor Relations Team maintain a dialogue with institutional shareholders on strategy, performance, plans and objectives.
TheCompany reports formally to shareholders twice a year with its half-year and full-year results.
The CEO and CFO give presentations on the full-year results to institutional investors, analysts and the media.
With offices in London, the Groups Investor Relations department acts as a focal point for contact with investors throughout the year.
The Chairman meets regularly with institutional investors to hear their views and discuss issues of mutual importance and communicates the views of investors to the Board as awhole.
The senior independent Director is also available to meet shareholders at their request.
All Non-Executive Directors are available to meet with major shareholders if requested.
conflicts of interest The Company amended its Articles of Association in June 2008 to deal with, along with other issues, the provisions on conflicts of interest in the Companies Act 2006 which came into force in October 2008.
Following this the Company established procedures for the disclosure and review of any conflicts of interest, actual orpotential, which the Directors may have and for the authorisation of such conflict matters by the Board.
In deciding whether to authorise a conflict or potential conflict, the Directors must have regard to their general duties under the Companies Act 2006.
Theprocedure operates to ensure the disclosure of conflicts, and for the consideration and, if appropriate, their authorisation by non-conflicted Directors.
TheBoard may review the authorisation of a conflict matter, and the terms of authorisation, at any time.
The Nomination Committee supports the Board inthisprocess, both by reviewing requests from Directors for authorisations of situations of actual or potential conflict and making recommendations totheBoard.
It can also review any situations ofactual or potential conflict that the Board has previously authorised, and make recommendations astowhetherthe authorisation remains appropriate.
Afren plc 71 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Statement continued insurAnce cover The Company maintains Directors and Officers liability insurance cover, the level of which is reviewed annually.
election And re-election The Board is committed to transparency in determining Board membership.
All new Directors are required by the Companys Articles of Association to be elected by shareholders at the first Annual General Meeting AGM after their appointment.
Subsequently, Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders every three years.
In accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Directors will comply with the Corporate Governance Code recommendation tosubmit themselves for re-election every year if they wish to continue serving and are considered by the Board to be eligible.
comPAny secretAries Ms Shirin Johri is the Group Company Secretary and has been called to the New York Bar.
Ms Johri is supported by Mr Elekwachi Ukwu, who is the Joint Company Secretary.
An England & Wales solicitor, Mr Ukwu has also been called to the Nigerian Bar.
The Company Secretaries are responsible for developing and maintaining the information systems and processes that enable the Board to fulfil its role.
They are also responsible to the Board for ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and advice on governance matters.
All Directors have access to the Company Secretaries, whom the Board has the power toappoint and remove.
code of Business conduct At Afren, we uphold the highest ethical standards for the conduct of our business activities.
We operate with integrity and honesty both throughout the organisation and with all our external stakeholders that include governments, business partners, shareholders, contractors and local communities.
In March 2009 the Board approved a Code of Business Conduct to formalise Afrens commitment to high ethical standards and to reinforce prompt and consistent action in maintaining these standards.
The Code of Business Conduct was updated in 2011 to provide further guidance on a range of topics and to ensure compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
The Code sets out the standards of business ethics to which we expect all employees, including Directors, toadhere regardless of their position or location.
Consultants, contractors and business partners are also expected to act in accordance with the Code, whichisavailable on our website at www.
The Group operates a whistle-blowing policy which is reviewed annually.
In addition to Afrens existing policies and procedures, an independent, external reporting line allows employees in any country to report concerns regarding fraud or other unethical practices in confidence.
The service is provided by Safecall who report toasenior management team responsible for determining the best course of action.
shAre deAlinG code The Company has a Share Dealing Code which covers dealings by Directors, Persons Discharging Managerial Responsibilities PDMR and relevant employees.
The Code complies with the provisions set out in the Model Code contained in Annex 1 to Listing Rule 9 of the UK Listing Authority Listing Rules.
It restricts dealings in shares and other relevant securities by PDMRs and employees during designated prohibited periods and at any time when they are in possession ofunpublished, price-sensitive information.
mArKet disclosure We are committed to maintaining the highest standards of disclosure.
These ensure that all investors and potential investors have the same timely access torelevant information, to assist them in making informed decisions.
We publish copies of announcements to the market, investor presentations, the Annual Report and other relevant information on our website.
72 Afren plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011
