Directors report Corporate governancereport Chairmans introduction Your Board is accountable to the Companys shareholders for creating and delivering sustainable shareholder value through the management of the Groups business.
We are committed to high standards of corporate governance which we recognise are fundamental to business integrity and enabling the Group to operate successfully.
Fulfilment of the principles of good governance is founded on personal accountability of members of the Board and all employees.
I and your other Board members believe this is driven from the top of the Company and should pervade throughout the organization.
I expect all directors and employees to act honestly, with integrity and fairness and this is supported by established policies and is reinforced through a culture which is driven from the Board members across the organisation.
As an increasingly global business, the Board expects its various operations to act in accordance with the laws and customs of the countries in which it operates: adopt proper standards of business practice and procedure and respect the culture of every country where it does business.
Together with the executive team who have day to day management of the business, the Board plays a key role in setting these standards.
During the year, your Board has maintained an active interest in reinforcing these values, for example through close monitoring of the Groups progress on the global implementation of procedures, structures and training to reflect the principles in the UK Bribery Act.
As a unitary Board, your directors also have a shared responsibility for the long term success of the Company.
This is performed through the formulation and execution of the Groups strategy, making enquiries of management, assessing performance, demonstrating independence, knowledge and experience and holding management to account.
We consider the board is sufficiently diverse, having regard for the recommendations on diversity, and has the right balance of skills, experience and background.
2011 has been a year of significant change for CSR.
Your Board has played an active role in matters concerned directly with these changes, overseeing the acquisition of Zoran being the most significant, whilst also ensuring continued focus on ensuring the Company and wider Group continues to conduct its business in keeping with the principles of good governance and sound management.
The following report and the report of the Remuneration Committee on pages 61 to 73 explains how the Board operates, the roles of the Board members and how the Board and its Committees function to ensure compliance with the principles of corporate governance.
In this report and the Business Review on pages 5 to 38 we also explain how we encourage our employees across the Group to accept their individual accountability for ensuring that the Group as a whole operates to high standards of governance.
Ron Mackintosh Statement of compliance The Companys shares are listed on the London Stock Exchange, and therefore, under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, the Board must report on compliance with the Main Principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council formerly the Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code.
The Code was introduced from June 2010 and was effective for the Company for the reporting period commencing on 1 January 2011.
Following its successful application in 2011 in connection with the acquisition of Zoran, the Companys American depositary receipts are listed on the NASDAQ Stock Market LLC NASDAQ and the Company is therefore subject to the rules of the NASDAQ and US Securities laws and the rules of the US Securities and Exchange Commission the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
Other than the provision relating to the balance of executive and non-executive directors on the Board, the Board has complied with the provisions of the Code.
Throughout the year, the provision of the Code on the balance of independent non-executive directors and of executive directors was not met.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 48 Full version AR 290898. pdf 52 14 03 2012 17:20:32 For the period from 1 January 2011 to 31 August 2011, the Board comprised the Chairman, Mr Ron Mackintosh, four independent non-executive directors, being Mr Anthony Carlisle, Mr Andrew Allner, Mr Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio and Ms Teresa Vega, one non-executive director, who was not independent, Mr James Collier, who was co-founder of the Company and formerly executive director and Chief Technical Officer and four executive directors, being Mr Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer, Mr Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer, Mr Kanwar Chadha, Chief Marketing Officer and Mr Chris Ladas, Operations Director.
In connection with the acquisition of Zoran Corporation which was completed on 31 August 2011, effective from that date Dr Levy Gerzberg, formerly the Chief Executive Officer and a co-founder of Zoran Corporation, was appointed to the Board as a non-executive director.
The Board recognized that Dr Gerzberg would not satisfy the requirements under the Code as an independent non-executive director based on his previous executive role within Zoran.
The Board however considers that Dr Gerzbergs experience and considerable knowledge of Zoran and of its technologies and markets will contribute significantly to the understanding of the Board and to the conduct of its business.
With effect from 12 September 2011, Mr James Collier, a non-executive director, stood down from the Board.
Following Mr Colliers resignation, it remains the case that less than half of the Board is independent pursuant to the provisions of the Code.
Notwithstanding the non-compliance with the provisions of the Code, the Board remains satisfied that an appropriate balance of skills and experience has been in place to enable the Board to perform its responsibilities effectively.
An overview of the balance of skills and experience on the Board is given below.
Succession planning and organisational development In its report for 2010, the Board explained that succession planning would be considered during the first quarter of 2011 with the support of an external consultancy appointed to support the Board in conducting a measured review, which included interviews with members of the Board and other executives and managers in the Company.
As a result of the significant time and attention given to the acquisition of Zoran Corporation, the planned review of succession planning was deferred.
This is because the Board believes that a proper evaluation of succession planning should be instituted during the first half of 2012, when sufficient time has been allowed to integrate Zoran and consider the implications for succession planning reflecting the requirements of the enlarged group.
The Board is satisfied that this approach will allow for a proper and considered evaluation of the skills, experience and knowledge which would best enhance the Board.
Ethics policy All employees of the Group, including the directors and senior officers, must comply with the Groups Ethics Policy first adopted in 2009 following the Companys registration with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
In addition, the Company has adopted an Executive Ethics Policy that applies to board members, senior officers and other specified employees and is intended to meet the code of ethics requirements of Section 406 of the US SarbanesOxley Act.
A copy of the Executive Ethics Policy may be found at www.
Information on the Companys website is not incorporated by reference in the filing of the Form 20-F with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The following statements describe how the Board operates and the respective roles of the Chairman, non-executive and executive directors.
The Board As at 30 December 2011, the Board comprised ten members, being the Chairman, Mr Ron Mackintosh, four executive directors and five non-executive directors.
Of those in post as at 30 December 2011, nine directors including Mr Mackintosh had served throughout the year.
The four executive directors in office at 30 December 2011 who had served throughout the year were Mr Joep van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer, Mr Will Gardiner, Chief Financial Officer, Mr Kanwar Chadha, Chief Marketing Officer and Mr Chris Ladas, Operations Director.
The four non-executive directors who served throughout the year, each of whom is considered independent of management, were Mr Anthony Carlisle, Mr Andrew Allner, Mr Sergio GiacolettoRoggio, and Ms Teresa Vega.
Dr Levy Gerzberg, who was a co-founder of Zoran, was appointed to the Board with effect from 31 August 2011.
Mr Mackintosh has served as Chairman of the Board since May 2007 and as a non-executive director of the Company since May 2004.
In the opinion of the Board, on each of his appointments as a non-executive director and as Chairman, Mr Mackintosh was independent of management.
The Board is satisfied that Mr Mackintosh is able to devote the necessary time commitment to the role of Chairman of the Board.
Mr Anthony Carlisle has served as the Senior Independent Director since May 2009 and Mr Andrew Allner, a chartered accountant with recent and relevant financial experience, has served as Chairman of the Audit Committee since May 2009.
Mr Gardiner is the director responsible for health and safety.
Mr Brett Gladden served as Company Secretary throughout the year.
Board balance and diversity The Board believes that it has an appropriate balance of diverse skills and experience that contribute to the effective performance of the business and contribution of the Board.
The Board includes executive and non-executive directors with extensive knowledge of the background and development of the Group.
This includes directors with experience in each of the significant acquisitions completed in recent years of SiRF in 2009 Mr Kanwar Chadha and Zoran in 2011 Dr Levy Gerzberg, both of whom were co-founders and board directors of the respective companies.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 49 Full version AR 290898. pdf 53 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Directors report Corporate governance report continued The Board has a wide experience of working in industries relevant to those in which the Group operates.
This experience encompasses the cycle of product research, development, strategic marketing and communications, customer knowledge, and wider corporate development, including financial management and experience in mergers and acquisitions.
The Board believes that it is important to consider board diversity within the context of ensuring those appointed to the Board are able to contribute effectively based on relevant skills and knowledge.
Reflecting the global business within which the Group operates, the Board comprises directors from five different nationalities with experience of managing businesses in each of the continents in which the Group is present.
A detailed biography for each member of the Board is given on pages 46 and 47.
The conduct of the business of the Board The Board meets regularly during the year as well as on an ad hoc basis as required by time critical business needs.
During 2011 a number of additional meetings were held beyond the scheduled business in connection primarily with the acquisition of Zoran.
The Board is responsible for the overall conduct of the Groups business and is accountable to shareholders for the effective and proper management and control of the Company and Group and has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its decisions.
These include the review and approval of: Group strategy and long term plans: The annual budget and plan: Acquisitions and disposals and requests for major capital expenditure: Group financial structure, including tax and treasury: and Annual and quarterly financial results and other significant financial matters.
This process is undertaken following discussions in conjunction with senior executive management, who in turn are responsible for the day-to-day conduct of the Groups operations and for reporting to the Board on the progress being made in meeting the objectives.
The schedule of matters reserved for the Board was reviewed in December 2011.
The Chairman ensures that the Board functions effectively, overseeing the timely and effective provision of information to the Board and that the business of the Board is properly conducted.
A comprehensive file of briefing papers and a meeting agenda is provided for each director in advance of each meeting.
Decisions are taken by the Board, taking into account, where appropriate, the recommendations of its Committees and advice from external consultants and executive management.
The non-executive directors of the Board have diverse business, financial and technical experience, details of which are summarised on pages 46 and 47 and they each play a full role in contributing to the determination of agenda items and the consideration of matters brought before the Board.
This includes: considering, approving and monitoring performance against strategic objectives through detailed reviews conducted at Board level: providing entrepreneurial leadership within a framework of prudent and effective controls, which enable risks to be assessed and managed: and setting the Groups values and standards and ensuring that its obligations to its shareholders and other stakeholders are understood and met.
Non-executive directors are expected to constructively challenge and contribute to the development of strategy, scrutinise the performance of management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of performance.
The Board regularly reviews strategy as part of its normal business.
This includes holding off-site meetings during each year, the agendas for which cover a broad range of financial, commercial and technical aspects concerning the strategic objectives for the Group.
During 2011 the one off-site meeting was held in the autumn, with members of the management team attending, from CSR and from the newly acquired Zoran.
As part of the process for reviewing strategy both within its normal business and the off-site review, the Board considers the known and potential challenges associated with the execution of the objectives.
The Board also considers the risks to the Group in delivering the strategy, assessing managements mitigation of identified risks and also to what extent risks should be accepted in the execution of its objectives.
The Boards schedule for each year includes provision for one visit outside the UK to sites within the Group.
These are considered an important part of enhancing its understanding of the Group, its business and employees and the time allowed is usually one week.
During 2011, the Board had intended to undertake a business visit to Japan.
With the timing of the acquisition of Zoran, it was not possible to incorporate this visit.
Non-executive directors attend meetings with management outside the normal cycle of formal meetings, either to receive up-dates in areas of specific interest or to discuss the planning and execution of tasks connected with specific matters, which during 2011 included assessing the strategic and business case for the acquisition of Zoran and consideration of due diligence results and, subsequently preparation of documentation issued to shareholders in connection with securing their approval for the acquisition of Zoran, in addition to work associated with the introduction of the new incentive share plan.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 50 Full version AR 290898. pdf 54 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Independence of non-executive directors and segregation of duties In accordance with the provisions of the Code, consideration has been given to the independence of all the non-executive directors.
The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
The Board considers that Dr Gerzberg, formerly Chief Executive Officer and a co-founder of Zoran Corporation, acts in a manner which is independent of management and the Company.
The division of responsibilities between the non-executive Chairman and Mr van Beurden, Chief Executive Officer, is sufficiently clear and established in the opinion of the Board that it is not required that it be formally documented.
The Chairman is responsible for the running and leadership of the Board.
It is the responsibility of the Chairman to: i Run the Board and set its agenda, taking into account the concerns of all Board members: ii Ensure that Board members receive accurate, timely and clear information, in particular about the Companys performance, to enable the Board to carry out its duties effectively: iii Enable constructive debate and effective decision making, ensuring sufficient time is allowed for discussion of complex or contentious issues: iv Ensure that Board decisions are effectively implemented: v Promote the highest standards of corporate governance and business ethics throughout the Group: vi Ensure effective communication with shareholders.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading and managing the business within the authorities delegated by the Board and to promote the interests of the Company and Group as a whole.
It is the responsibility of the Chief Executive Officer to: i Devote substantially the whole of his time and his attention and skill to the duties of his office: ii Develop strategy proposals for recommendation to the Board and ensure that agreed strategies and associated plans are reflected in the business: iii Be responsible to the Board for the performance of the business consistent with agreed strategy, plans and policies: iv At all times keep the Board and the Chairman promptly and fully informed of his conduct of the business and affairs of the Company and of the Group as a whole and provide such explanations as the Board or the Chairman may require in connection therewith: v Faithfully and diligently perform such duties and exercise such powers, consistent with the office to which he is appointed, as is from time to time assigned or vested in him by the Board.
The Chief Executive Officer has day-to-day responsibility for the Group and has reporting to him executive management who in turn are responsible for the performance of discrete commercial and operational activities of the Group.
This includes management teams responsible for reviewing the implementation of established objectives and assessing performance of particular functions against those objectives.
Representatives from these teams in turn attend and report to an executive leadership forum which includes the executive directors.
The Chief Executive Officer also meets regularly with the managers and leaders in various established forums that fit with the operational cycles of the Group.
The Chief Executive Officer formally reports at each meeting of the Board on salient matters arising from the execution of his responsibilities.
The Board met 19 times during the year through scheduled regular meetings and ad hoc meetings reflecting the business needs of the Group and the attendance of each of the directors is shown on page 60.
Evaluation of the performance of the Board The Board has undertaken an annual evaluation of the performance of the Board and its committees on which it has reported since 2006.
Since inception of the evaluation, the review has been conducted through a written survey prepared by the Company Secretary.
The Board has considered the provisions of the new Code and its guidance on the conduct at least once every three years of an evaluation of the performance of the Board supported by an external agent.
In the autumn of 2010, Armstrong Bonham-Carter was appointed to support the evaluation process to consider the effectiveness of the Board, and its committees, individual contributions and the Groups performance as a whole.
The evaluation was conducted through the latter part of 2011, which was later than originally anticipated at the time of appointing Armstrong Bonham-Carter, reflecting the significant time of the Board given to completing the acquisition of Zoran.
Armstrong Bonham-Carter submitted their reports and findings on the Board and its Committees during December 2011.
Overall the findings were that the Board and its Committees were performing effectively.
The Board will consider the detail of the evaluation in the first quarter of 2012 and actions taken by the Board will be reported upon in the annual report for 2012.
Policy on appointment and re-appointment In accordance with the provisions of the Code, which was effective for the reporting period of the Company commencing on 1 January 2011, the Board determined to adopt the provisions in regards to election and re-election of CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 51 Full version AR 290898. pdf 55 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Directors report Corporate governance report continued directors ahead of the Codes actual implementation date.
Accordingly, all directors serving on the Board stood for re-election at the Annual General Meeting held on 18 May 2011, and this practice will continue for future AGMs.
Dr Gerzberg was appointed a non-executive director with effect from 31 August 2011 following completion of the acquisition of Zoran and has a letter of appointment effective for a three year term from that date.
In accordance with the Companys Articles, Dr Gerzberg will be offering himself for election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting being the first General Meeting of the Company since his appointment.
During the year, the letters of appointment for Mr. Carlisle, the Senior Independent Director first appointed in July 2005 and Mr. Andrew Allner, chairman of the Audit Committee and the member of the Board with relevant and recent financial experience first appointed in October 2008 were renewed each for a period of three years.
Further information on each of the directors standing for re-election and election are set forth in the Notice of the Annual General Meeting which is in a separate document issued to all shareholders.
On appointment, all directors are asked to confirm they have sufficient time to devote to their duties which, along with their duties and roles are confirmed in their letter of appointment.
They are also advised that they have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and, in addition, that they are entitled to seek independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
As part of their induction, the directors are provided with a detailed file explaining their role and duties, in addition to background information on the Company and Group as well as the function and recent deliberations of the Board and its committees.
In addition, where appropriate, meetings with advisers to the Company and Board are arranged to assist in briefing a director on appointment.
Directors are also provided with information and assistance in the event of any change in their role.
Indemnities to Directors In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, directors are granted an indemnity from the Company to the extent permitted by law in respect of liabilities incurred as a result of the performance of their duties in their capacity as directors of the Company.
The indemnity would not provide any coverage to the extent that a director is proven to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
The Company has also arranged insurance coverage in respect of legal action against the directors and officers.
Communications with shareholders The Board makes considerable efforts to maintain good relationships with shareholders.
Principally via the executive directors, the Company seeks to build on a mutual understanding of objectives with its major shareholders through regular meetings and presentations following announcements of each quarters results.
The Board believes engagement with all shareholders, including smaller investors, is important.
Accordingly, after holding the AGM in London in the past few years, the decision has been taken to revert to Cambridge, where the Groups head office is based in the expectation this will encourage greater attendance, and reflecting feedback from a number of smaller shareholders.
The Senior Independent Director, Mr Anthony Carlisle, is available to meet institutional shareholders should there be unresolved matters they wish to bring to his attention.
The Board is also apprised of discussions with major shareholders to ensure that executive and non-executive directors consider any matters which might be raised by those shareholders and to enable all directors to understand shareholders views.
This includes feedback from the meetings attended by executive directors and the Chairman, in addition to reports from the Companys advisers on their engagement with shareholders on behalf of the Company.
During 2011, the Chairman met with a number of shareholders to discuss the proposed acquisition of Zoran, the Boards remuneration policy in light of proposed changes being put to shareholders at the General Meeting which was held in August 2011, each of which were approved and to discuss the Groups strategy.
Non-executive directors attend the Annual General Meetings and will also make themselves available to meet with shareholders on other occasions where requested.
Corporate information is available on the Companys website, www.
Information on the website is not incorporated by reference in the filing of the Form 20-F with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
Committees of the Board The Board has three Committees, Remuneration, Audit and Nomination.
Throughout the year, each of Mr Allner, Mr Carlisle and Mr Giacoletto-Roggio were members of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Mr Mackintosh chairs the Nomination Committee, is a member of the Remuneration Committee and attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
In accordance with the Code, the duties of the Committees are set out in formal terms of reference.
These are available from the Company Secretary and can be found on the Companys website, www.
Membership of the Committees is shown on pages 46 and 47.
Information on the Companys website is not incorporated by reference in the filing of this Annual Report with the US Securities and Exchange Commission.
The Company Secretary acts as secretary to each of the Committees.
Each Committee undertakes an annual review of its terms of reference and makes recommendations to the Board for changes where appropriate.
The Board considers that the terms of reference of these Committees are generally responsive to the relevant NASDAQ rules but may not address all aspects of these rules, see US Listing Requirements on pages 58 and 59.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 52 Full version AR 290898. pdf 56 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Remuneration Committee Mr Sergio Giacoletto-Roggio is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, a position he has held since September 2007.
The other members of the Committee at 30 December 2011 were Messrs Allner, Carlisle and Mackintosh.
The principal function of the Remuneration Committee is to establish and review the terms and conditions for the executive directors, and the overall policy framework for the remuneration of other senior executives and the Group as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee met five times during the year and the attendance of its members is shown in the table on page 60.
The report to shareholders on the role of the Remuneration Committee and how directors are remunerated, together with details of individual directors remuneration are shown on pages 61 to 73.
During 2011, Mr Giacoletto-Roggio and the Chairman engaged with principal shareholders and representative bodies in connection with the introduction of the new executive incentive plan which was approved at the general meeting held in August 2011 and which is summarised on pages 64 and 65 of the report of the Remuneration Committee.
Nomination Committee Mr Ron Mackintosh is the Chairman of the Nomination Committee, a position he has held since May 2007.
The other members of the Nomination Committee at 30 December 2011 were Messrs Allner, Carlisle and Giacoletto-Roggio.
The role of the Nomination Committee is to consider appointments to the Board and to consider succession planning at senior levels within the Company.
The Nomination Committee reviews the composition of the Board, particularly in relation to the diversity of skills, experience and terms of office and seeks to ensure that both executive and non-executive directors have the necessary skills and attributes for the future success of the Group.
The Nomination Committee retains external search consultants as appropriate to assist the Committee in identifying candidates for appointments to the Board.
During 2011, the Nomination Committee did not meet separately, but did meet as part of the formal proceedings of the Board to consider the appointment of Dr Gerzberg.
Audit Committee Mr Andrew Allner is the Chairman of the Audit Committee, a position he has held since May 2009.
The Board has determined that Mr Allner, a Chartered Accountant, has recent and relevant financial experience for the purposes of the Code and is an audit committee financial expert for the purposes of US securities laws.
The Board has further determined that for the purposes of US securities laws, Mr Allner is independent in accordance with the definition of independence in Rule 5605 a 2 of the listing rules of the NASDAQ Stock Market.
The other members of the Audit Committee at 30 December 2011 were Messrs Carlisle and Giacoletto-Roggio.
Mr Mackintosh, Chairman of the Board, attends meetings of the Audit Committee by invitation.
The experience and expertise of the members of the Audit Committee are summarised on pages 46 and 47.
The attendance of its members is shown in the table on page 60.
Each member of the Committee is financially literate, having the necessary ability and experience to understand financial statements.
As part of encouraging continuous improvement, the Audit Committee supports management in identifying targets and objectives for extending existing processes and ensuring that it works in tandem with changes to the Group which are a feature of operating in a dynamic industry.
Areas in which the Committee worked with management in this regard are considered in more detail below.
Introduction from the Chairman of the Audit Committee Your Audit Committee believes that it is essential for the success of the Company that there is a sound framework of internal controls, risk management and management and financial reporting to enable the Board to assess the performance of management in achieving its strategic and operational objectives and hence enable improvement in its business and financial performance.
In the following sections of this report, we explain how during 2011 the Audit Committee has contributed to this process in reviewing and providing guidance to management in the execution of a number of important projects, linked to the continuing development of the Group and also matters linked to ongoing regulatory compliance.
During 2011 the principal area of focus was the review of reports from management and advisers in connection with the proposed acquisition of Zoran Corporation including those disclosures made to shareholders in the prospectus and circular issued respectively under UK and US reporting requirements and following the acquisition, measures in connection with the subsequent integration of Zoran, including management reporting, tax planning, the implementation of common accounting policies and addressing findings from internal audit work.
The Committee also considered the Groups response to the UK Bribery Act including implementation of training for employees worldwide.
These areas augmented the routine business of the Committee which is undertaken according to its terms of reference which are also explained in more detail below.
Andrew Allner Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee assists the Board in carrying out its responsibilities in relation to financial reporting requirements, risk management and the assessment of internal controls.
In conjunction with these activities, the Committee is responsible for the development, implementation and monitoring of the Companys policy on external audit and for overseeing the objectivity and effectiveness of the auditors.
The Audit Committee monitors the conduct of the audits of the consolidated reports and financial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries.
This includes consideration of the areas of focus of the audits in conjunction with the external auditors and assessment of their findings and recommendations, where relevant.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 53 Full version AR 290898. pdf 57 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Directors report Corporate governance report continued The Audit Committee recommends the appointment and re-appointment of the Groups external auditors and considers the scope of their audit work, the terms of their appointment, their fees and the cost effectiveness of their work.
The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the Groups internal control systems, accounting policies and practices, risk management procedures and compliance controls, as well as the statement on internal controls before it is agreed by the Board for each years annual report.
A detailed agenda of matters for discussion at the meeting, together with supporting papers is provided in advance of each meeting of the Audit Committee.
The agenda incorporates a range of standard business items considered at each meeting.
Routine business items include reports from the Chief Financial Officer and Internal Auditor as well as a draft form of the announcement on the Groups financial results for each quarter.
In addition, the Audit Committee addresses a number of other items as part of its schedule of business through the course of a year, such as risk management, business continuity planning, treasury policy and procedures, tax planning and the Groups policy manual as well as such ad hoc matters as are deemed appropriate.
The schedule of agenda items for the calendar year was last reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee in July 2010 and was considered to remain appropriate for 2011.
The Audit Committee invites the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Internal Auditor and senior representatives of the external auditors to attend meetings as appropriate to the business being considered.
In addition, the Audit Committee has the right to invite any other employees to attend meetings where this is considered to be appropriate.
The conduct of the business of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee met five times during the year in the execution of its responsibilities.
The more material matters considered and any proposals for action were reported by the Chairman of the Audit Committee to the subsequent meeting of the full Board.
During 2011, in addition to the routine business, the Audit Committee received reports on additional matters falling within its terms of reference, including in connection with the acquisition of Zoran, the financial analysis and appropriate disclosures as required under UK and US reporting regimes as well as work to ensure the Group was able to comply with the requirements of Section 404 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 for the 2011 financial year.
More details on this work are set out below.
The Audit Committee reviews all proposed announcements to be made by the Group to the extent they contain financial information.
Each quarter, as part of its routine business, the Audit Committee receives a detailed report from the Chief Financial Officer on the performance of the Group.
In addition to a summary of the balance sheet and income statement, the report incorporates detailed analysis on a range of key metrics which tracks the performance of the Group and its business units.
This information forms part of the discussions by the Audit Committee to ensure that material matters are properly considered and discussed with management and where appropriate the external auditors.
The information and the discussions in turn support the understanding of the Audit Committee and the Board on the nature of disclosures which should be made in the Groups financial results.
The Audit Committee monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit function, considering and approving the scope of the annual internal audit plan, and thereafter reviewing reports on the results of internal audit work which has been conducted.
The Audit Committee receives reports on a quarterly basis setting out the findings from the reviews performed, in addition to the progress made in addressing any outstanding recommendations arising from earlier audits which have been conducted.
The plan provides for a rolling schedule of visits to all offices within the Group, as well as the review of various functions and activities both financial and non-financial.
Following the acquisition of Zoran, the Committee considered and discussed the extended scope of the internal audit with due regard to the additional operations, facilities and activities conducted by Zoran.
Since the Company became subject to the reporting requirements of the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Audit Committee has received reports from management regarding the Companys compliance with requirements under the Exchange Act including those rules and regulations that apply by reason of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 that relate to financial reporting and other disclosure matters.
These requirements relate, among other things, to disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting which applied as of the end of the 2010 financial year.
The Internal Auditor reports on various aspects of ensuring compliance with Sarbanes-Oxley each quarter based on the approved internal audit plan.
As part of the adoption of the plan, the Audit Committee also considers and approves the utilisation of external resources to assist in timely execution and reporting where required.
At 30 December 2011, the Group had cash resources of $278 million a decrease from the prior year of $440 million.
The net outflow follows the return of capital to shareholders resulting from the share buybacks and payment of a final and interim dividend during the year, in addition to the cash element of the consideration on acquisition of Zoran.
These are discussed in the Business Review on pages 22 to 25.
The Audit Committee monitors the Groups Treasury function on a regular basis, including where appropriate periodic external audits of the Treasury functions policies, procedures and working practices.
The Groups Treasury Policy was most recently reviewed in October 2011 and the findings reported for consideration by the Audit Committee at its scheduled meeting in October.
The review included an assessment of approved counterparties with whom the Company might place cash on deposit and other amendments to reflect developments within the Group, including the acquisition of Zoran.
The routine business of the Committee at each meeting includes an update on a range of ongoing litigation and litigation related matters concerning the Group.
This review is also supported by a sub-committee of the Board led by the CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 54 Full version AR 290898. pdf 58 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Chairman, the purpose of which is to consider matters connected with material litigation.
Both the Audit Committee and the Litigation sub-committee have access to the advice and support of the Groups executive management and outside counsel where considered appropriate.
The results of these meetings are reported to the Board on a regular basis.
In response to the requirements of the UK Bribery Act which came into effect in April 2011, the Committee has received reports each quarter on the process for raising awareness within the organization across functions and territories on appropriate processes and engagements with third parties.
This includes the promulgation of a global policy and Group-wide online training, in addition to targeted presentations to specific functions and teams.
This has included the incorporation of employees from Zoran following completion of the acquisition where training has continued into the early part of 2012.
Interaction with the external Auditors During 2011, as part of its formal business, the Audit Committee met on five occasions with the external auditors.
On two occasions the Audit Committee also held separate meetings with the external auditors at which no executive director or employee of the Company was present.
In relation to the appointment of external auditors and in order to safeguard auditor independence and objectivity, the Audit Committee has a policy of permitted services which details the services that can be provided by the Groups auditors and those services which require specific advance approval by the Audit Committee.
The policy also details services that the Groups auditors are not permitted to provide.
The objective is that the auditors should not be employed to provide services where either the nature of the work or extent of the services and fee payable might impair the auditors independence or objectivity.
The external auditors are permitted to undertake some non-audit services, providing this has been awarded after due consideration of their skills, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group, on for example, advisory services and due diligence activities associated with potential acquisitions.
For permitted services, the Audit Committee has delegated the determination of fees to the Chief Financial Officer, provided the fee does not exceed 100,000.
No services can be provided in excess of 100,000 without the prior approval of the Audit Committee.
The policy, which was updated in July 2011, was complied with throughout the year.
The Audit Committee is aware of and has approved the audit and non-audit services which have been provided during 2011 by the Companys external auditors, Deloitte LLP.
Those non-audit services concerned advice on tax matters which was considered to be appropriate, given their in-depth knowledge of the affairs and financial practices in the Group, due diligence associated with the acquisition of Zoran and work on each of the UK and US prospectus and UK circular to shareholders in connection with seeking approval of the acquisition.
The Audit Committee considered the appointment of Deloitte for this work and determined that, not only was their appointment the most cost effective way of conducting the business but also that no conflicts of interest existed between such non-audit work and the role as auditor.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that, notwithstanding this work, Deloitte LLP have retained objectivity and independence during the year.
The following table sets forth the fees paid by the Company to the external auditors as approved by the Audit Committee.
2011 2010 2009 $000 $000 $000 Audit fees 1,007 745 936 Audit-related services 44 44 103 Taxation services 466 394 511 Other services 2,380 2,189 Total 3,897 1,183 3,739 Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought as required under the Committees policy.
During 2011, total non-audit related fees were $2,846,000.
The most significant element stated above in Other Services related to the acquisition of Zoran.
The appointment of Deloitte in relation to the acquisition of Zoran was approved by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considered that performance of the relevant non-audit services by Deloitte was the most cost effective way of conducting the requisite work and therefore in the best interest of the Group having due regard to the competence and knowledge possessed by Deloitte, including in previously supporting a similarly complex cross border acquisition by the Company in 2009 of SiRF Technology Holdings Inc.
The Committee was also satisfied that no conflicts of interest existed or would arise in the conduct of the work on behalf of the Group.
During the year a total of $4.03 million was paid to other accounting firms for non-audit work, including $444,000 for work in relation to tax advice to the group provided by  LLP, Ernst & Young and BDO.
Deloitte LLP has been the Companys auditors since July 2002 and the cost, scope and effectiveness of the audit are reviewed regularly.
The most recent full review, including release of tenders to other possible audit firms was conducted in 2005.
In 2011, the Chairman of the Audit Committee led a meeting which reviewed the effectiveness of the external auditors which concluded that Deloitte was performing satisfactorily and should be recommended for re-appointment at the Annual General Meeting.
Following completion of the audit in respect of the financial period ended 31 December 2010, the Audit Partner Mr Panos Kakoullis, having completed his period as Audit Partner stood down and was replaced by Mr Peter ODonoghue.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee attends the Companys Annual General Meeting to respond to any shareholder questions that might be raised concerning the Audit Committees activities.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 55 Full version AR 290898. pdf 59 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Directors report Corporate governance report continued Internal control Philosophy and policy The objective of the directors and senior management is to safeguard and increase the value of the business and assets of the Company.
Part of this objective requires the development of relevant policies and appropriate internal controls to ensure proper management of the Companys resources and the identification of risks which might serve to undermine them.
The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
The systems and processes established by the Board are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against misstatement or loss.
The Board has delegated responsibility for the review of practices and procedures to the Audit Committee.
The Companys senior management, in conjunction with external advisers, are responsible for undertaking periodic reviews of the suitability of current systems on which they report to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee considers the findings from such reviews to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes implemented by senior management.
This includes discussions with senior management of the Group and consideration of reports that have been submitted.
These findings are in turn regularly reviewed and discussed by the full Board.
The Board is satisfied that this process accords with the internal control guidance for directors set out in the Turnbull Report Internal Control: the Revised Guidance for Directors on the Combined Code and that through its interface with management, the Board is aware of the major risks facing the Group and the steps taken by the Group to mitigate such risks, so far as is possible.
A risk evaluation process has been in place throughout 2011 and was in place up to the date of approval of this Annual Report and the financial statements.
The risk evaluation process has been the subject of review by the Audit Committee during 2011.
This ongoing review process included an update on the progress in addressing the disclosure and management of key risks affecting the Group.
During October 2011, KPMG LLP was appointed to support management in the conduct of a comprehensive review of the Groups approach to the identification, scoring, ranking and measures for mitigating risk across all aspects of the Groups activities.
This has included support with the annual review of risks which might affect the Group which is conducted across all functions.
The executive leadership review the results of these scores and the ranking of risks.
In their review, the executive leadership consider how the risks might impact upon the achievement of the Groups strategic objectives and the overall performance of the business.
Where a risk is considered to be material, a member of the executive leadership is made responsible for developing a plan intended to mitigate against the risk actually occurring or to respond in the event the risk were to occur.
The plans are the subject of review by the Audit Committee for the material risks each half year.
Consistent with a practice first implemented at the end of the prior financial year, a meeting of the Board dedicated to the consideration of key risks of the Group was held in January 2012 in order to allow for detailed discussion on issues of risk and risk management and to augment the process for approval of the Annual Report and financial statements.
The meeting considered the basis on which risks affecting the Group were identified, and how management intends to manage the risks going forward, including how action plans are prioritised.
That meeting determined that the steps being taken by management were satisfactory.
Managing risks The Board discusses with management the actions it considers necessary to remedy any failings and weaknesses which have been determined to be significant from its review of the system of internal control.
This has involved considering the matters reported to it and developing plans and programmes that it considers are reasonable in the circumstances.
A summary of the structures and processes in place to identify and manage risks across the Group are set out below.
Risk profiling There is an ongoing process to identify and evaluate risks faced by the Group, through the conduct of regular meetings by the Groups senior management, and engagement of external consultants where, in the opinion of the Groups senior management, this is considered appropriate.
Findings are reported to the Audit Committee together with recommended actions for managing the risks and a timetable for implementation of appropriate mitigation.
The assessment of prioritised risks is refreshed on a regular basis to reflect changes to the business and any observations or proposals arising from events since the last review.
A schedule of the prioritised risks is developed and reviewed by management to ensure that possible mitigation measures are considered and plans for action agreed.
Responsibility is assigned within the Group for carrying out proposed actions which are also reviewed and up-dated by management.
Controlling risk The Group has policies which address a range of key business risks, including financial, treasury, health and safety and the protection of intellectual property.
The policies are made available to relevant employees through an intranet site and also via employee briefings on specific topics.
Training is provided to employees to ensure that new policies CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 56 Full version AR 290898. pdf 60 14 03 2012 17:20:32 are understood, for example in connection with the introduction during the year of the Groups policy and requirements in response to the UK Bribery Act, as well as training on utilizing the on-line access to policies and procedures.
Periodically, reviews are performed in order to verify that ongoing practices within relevant parts of the Group comply with current policies.
In addition, policies are themselves reviewed against best practice and in order to take appropriate account of developments both within or external to the Groups business operations.
As part of a process of continuous improvement, steps are ongoing to embed internal control and risk management further into the operations of the Group and to deal with areas of improvement which come to managements and to the Boards attention.
As explained in the Directors Report Business and Financial Review on pages 5 to 38, the Group has a treasury policy for the placement of cash deposits with financial institutions.
As part of its schedule of matters, and reflecting management recommendations, the Audit Committee considered a revised Treasury Policy in October 2011.
This was subsequently submitted to and formally adopted by the Board.
As one aspect of ensuring a culture of integrity and encouraging high standards throughout the organisation, the Group has a formal whistle-blowing policy.
The policy provides information on the process to follow in the event that any employee feels it appropriate to make a disclosure where they believe there has been improper conduct or actions which could cause the Groups good standing to be called into question.
The policy was most recently updated during 2010.
The revised policy was adopted by the Board at its meeting in December 2010 and the revised policy was published on the Groups intranet.
All employees have been reminded of the existence of its policy and purpose.
The policy has been translated into certain languages where it was felt the English language version may inhibit a detailed understanding of its terms.
A separate policy has been implemented in France in order to comply with the legislation in that country.
The policies outline how employees can report matters of concern and of the Companys commitment to respond appropriately to circumstances warranting investigation.
The Audit Committee is satisfied that the policy provides an adequate basis for employees to make representations in confidence to the Group and for appropriate and proportionate investigation.
In response to the growth in the Groups operations globally, new arrangements allowing for a more effective capture and reporting on whistle-blowing issues were implemented during 2011 supported by an external agent selected based on their experience in supporting a number of larger companies and institutions in the areas of whistle-blowing and compliance with the UK Bribery Act.
Monitoring and managing the status of residual risk The actions arising from external and internal assessments of risks are consolidated and during 2011 the results were reported to the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee assesses the findings and proposed actions for addressing residual risks and also advises on areas for further attention.
Internal financial controls The Group has a comprehensive system for regular monitoring and reporting of financial performance and assessing the adequacy of the Groups systems of internal controls.
Risk assessment and evaluation is an integral part of the annual planning cycle.
This includes assessment of the Groups strategic direction, objectives and financial returns and the risks in achieving them.
As part of the planning cycle, a detailed budget is prepared by management and thereafter is reviewed and formally adopted by the Board.
The budget and other targets are regularly updated via a rolling forecasting process and regular business review meetings are also held involving senior management worldwide, at which the Groups overall performance is assessed.
The results of these reviews are reported to and discussed by the Audit Committee and the Board at each meeting.
A summary of the key financial and non-financial risks inherent in the Groups business is given on pages 39 to 45.
These processes are supported by discrete reviews conducted by the Internal Auditor and external advisers, as determined by the Audit Committee, in addition to the routine audits.
The Board confirms that it has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of internal controls which were in place throughout the financial year and up to the date of signing the Financial Statements for the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011.
Controls and procedures under the Sarbanes-Oxley Act The Group is subject to the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.
In particular, Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires a report of management on the effectiveness of the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
As part of its internal audit process, the Group has a programme for the review of its internal control over financial reporting to ensure compliance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
The Companys management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and the Companys Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have issued their report attesting to the Groups compliance with Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act as at 30 December 2011.
Managements certification and the independent auditors opinion on internal control over financial reporting are reported as required in the Companys SEC filings.
During the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011, there have not been any changes in the Groups internal control over financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Groups internal control over financial reporting.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 57 Full version AR 290898. pdf 61 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Directors report Corporate governance report continued The executive management, with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of the Groups disclosure controls and procedures as defined in Rules 13a-15 e and 15d-15 e under the US Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or the Exchange Act as at 30 December 2011.
Based on such evaluation the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as at 30 December 2011, the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that the information which the Group is required to disclose in the reports that are filed or submitted under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within the time periods specified in the SECs rules and forms and that such information is accumulated and communicated to management, including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as the principal executive and financial officers, respectively, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.
Based on that evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Groups disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.
US listing requirements The Companys American depositary shares are listed on NASDAQ and we are therefore subject to the rules of NASDAQ and US securities laws and the rules of the SEC applicable to foreign private issuers.
NASDAQ requires US companies listed on the exchange to comply with NASDAQs corporate governance rules but foreign private issuers, such as the Company are exempt from those rules.
However, pursuant to NASDAQ Listing Rule 5615, the Company is required to disclose a summary of any material ways in which the corporate governance practices of the Company differ from those required by NASDAQ for US companies.
The material differences are as follows: Independence The NASDAQ rules require that a majority of the Board be comprised of independent directors and the rules include detailed definitions that US companies must use for determining independence.
The Code requires that at least half the Board excluding the Chairman should comprise independent non-executive directors.
The Companys Board currently comprises four executive directors, five non-executive directors and the Chairman.
In accordance with the Combined Code, the Chairman of the Board of Directors is not considered independent.
While the Board does not explicitly take into consideration NASDAQs detailed definitions of independence, it has carried out an assessment based on the requirements of the Code and has determined in its judgment that all of the non-executive directors are independent within those requirements.
Nomination of Directors NASDAQ rules require that nominees to a companys board of directors be selected, or recommended for the boards selection, either by a majority of the companys independent directors or by a nomination committee comprised solely of independent directors.
Our Nomination Committee leads the process for Board appointments and makes recommendations to the Board in relation to new appointments of executive and non-executive directors and on succession planning, board composition and balance.
It is chaired by the Chairman of the Board, and its other members are non-executive directors.
Committees NASDAQ rules require US companies to have a nominations committee, an audit committee and a compensation committee, each composed entirely of independent directors, with the nominations committee and the audit committee required to have a written charter that addresses the committees purpose and responsibilities.
Both our Nominations and our Remuneration Committee have terms of reference and compositions that comply with the Combined Codes requirements.
Our Nominations Committee is chaired by the Chairman of the Board and its other members are non-executive directors of the Company.
Our Remuneration Committee is chaired by a non-executive director who is considered independent of management and the Board, and additional members are two other independent non-executive directors together with the Chairman of the Board.
The Audit Committee is composed entirely of non-executive directors whom the Board has determined to be independent and who meet the requirements of Rule 10A-3 under the Exchange Act.
We consider that the terms of reference of these committees, which are available on our website www.
com ir  corporate-governance are generally responsive to the relevant NASDAQ rules but may not address all aspects of these rules.
Code of conduct Under NASDAQ rules US companies must adopt a code of conduct applicable to all directors, officers and employees.
The Group has adopted a Group Ethics policy, which applies to all its employees, including directors and officers.
It sets out what conduct is expected of employees as they adhere to our Business Principles and draws their attention to CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 58 Full version AR 290898. pdf 62 14 03 2012 17:20:32 the Groups policies.
In addition, the Company has adopted an Executive Ethics Policy that applies to executive directors, senior officers and other specified employees and is intended to meet the code of ethics requirements of Section 406 of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act.
Quorum Under NASDAQ rules companies are required to have a minimum quorum of 33.33% of the shareholders of ordinary shares for shareholder meetings.
However, our articles of association provide for a quorum for general meetings of shareholders of two shareholders regardless of the level of their aggregate share ownership.
Related party transactions The NASDAQ rules require companies to conduct appropriate reviews of related party transactions and potential conflicts of interest via the companys audit committee or other independent body of the board of directors.
We are subject to extensive provisions under the Listing Rules issued by the FSA in the UK the Listing Rules governing transactions with related parties, as defined therein, and the Companies Act 2006 also restricts the extent to which companies incorporated in England and Wales may enter into related party transactions.
Our articles of association contain provisions regarding disclosure of interests by our directors and restrictions on their votes in circumstances involving conflicts of interest.
The concept of a related party for the purposes of NASDAQs listing rules differs in certain respects from the definition of a transaction with a related party under the Listing Rules.
Shareholder approval Stock option plans NASDAQ rules require listed companies to obtain shareholder approval before a stock option or purchase plan is established or materially amended or other equity compensation arrangement is made pursuant to which stock may be acquired by officers, directors, employees or consultants of the company, subject to certain exceptions.
The Companys directors or Remuneration Committee may amend the schemes and plans of the Company, except that any amendment relating to the identity of option holders, the limitations on their benefits, the basis for determining an option holders entitlement to shares other than provided for in accordance with the rules or the adjustment of rights for option holders in the event of a variation in share capital may not be made to the advantage of option holders without prior approval of the shareholders of the Company in general meeting, except for minor amendments relating to tax and administrative matters.
Amendments to the SAYE Scheme and to the CSR plc Share Option Plan are subject to the prior approval of the UK Inland Revenue, while they are to retain their approved status.
Other transactions NASDAQ rules require listed companies to obtain shareholder approval prior to the issuance of securities in certain circumstances related to a change of control of the issuer, the acquisition of the stock or assets of another company under certain circumstances and in connection with certain transactions involving the sale, issuance or potential issuance of 20% or more of common stock or voting power of the issuer.
As a foreign private issuer, the Company complies with corporate governance practices customary in its home jurisdiction, the United Kingdom.
While not dealing directly with the transactions enumerated in the NASDAQ listing requirements, there are various provisions requiring shareholder vote, which can best be summarized as follows: Under the Listing Rules, shareholder approval is usually required for an acquisition or disposal by a listed company if, generally, the size of the company or business to be acquired or disposed of represents 25% or more of the assets, profits or gross capital of the listed company or if the consideration to be paid represents 25% or more of the aggregate market value of the listed companys equity shares.
Shareholder approval may also be required for an acquisition or disposal of assets between a listed company and parties, including: a directors or shadow directors of the company or its subsidiaries: b any person who is, or was in the last 12 months preceding the date of the transaction, a holder of 10% or more of the nominal value of any class of the companys or any holding companys or its subsidiarys shares having the right to vote in all circumstances at general meetings: or c any of the associates of persons described in a or b.
In accordance with our Articles of Association we also seek shareholder approval annually for issuing shares and to dis-apply the pre-emption rights that apply under law in line with limit guidelines issued by investor bodies.
CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 59 Full version AR 290898. pdf 63 14 03 2012 17:20:32 Directors report Corporate governance report continued Attendance at meetings The table below shows the attendance of each of the directors at meetings of the Board and its Committees held during the 52 week period ended 30 December 2011.
of Meetings Board Audit Remuneration Nomination A J Allner 18 5 5 1 J A J van Beurden 19 A E C G Carlisle 19 5 4 1 K Chadha 19 1 J D Y Collier 16 D D W Gardiner 19 2 L Gerzberg 3 S Giacoletto-Roggio 19 5 5 1 C A Ladas 18 R W Mackintosh 19 5 1 Ms T M Vega 18 1 Retired from the Board on 12 September 2011.
2 Appointed to the Board on 31 August 2011.
Annual General Meeting resolutions The resolutions to be proposed at the Annual General Meeting to be held on 23 May 2012, together with explanatory notes, appear in the separate Notice of the Annual General Meeting, which has been sent to all registered shareholders.
By Order of the Board Brett Gladden, Company Secretary 17 February 2012 CSR plc Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 60 Full version AR 290898. pdf 64 14 03 2012 17:20:32
