48 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance This report for shareholders sets out Dairy Crests approach to and register and the Groups health & safety policies, processes and compliance with the principles contained in the Combined Code on performance.
Reports on Group operations, human resources, Corporate Governance published by the Financial Reporting Council governance and regulatory matters affecting the Group were provided in June 2008 Code and explains any departure from its provisions.
to the Board on a regular and timely basis.
Briefings on market This report has been prepared following the main principles of activity, together with the views of shareholders and analysts on the the Code.
Those not referred to in this statement are dealt with Company, were also provided to the Board.
elsewhere in the Annual Report.
The Code is publicly available at www.
The relevant parts of this report have been reviewed The Group maintains appropriate insurance cover for Directors and by Ernst & Young LLP and their opinion is set out on page 110. other Officers and in 2010 the Articles were amended to permit the indemnification by the Company of its Directors and other Officers by The Board way of a qualifying third party indemnity in accordance with S234 of the Code main principle A.
1: Every company should be headed by an Companies Act 2006.
Such indemnity has been put in place.
effective board, which is collectively responsible for the success of the company.
The Chairman periodically meets individually or collectively with the Non-executive Directors in the absence of Executive Directors.
The Dairy Crests Board recognises its responsibility to provide process for appraising the Chairmans performance is set out on entrepreneurial and responsible leadership to the Group within a page 50. framework of prudent and effective controls described below allowing assessment and management of the key issues and risks impacting Board committees the business.
The Board sets Dairy Crests overall strategic direction, Summary reviews management performance and ensures that the Group has There are five principal Board Committees: Audit: Remuneration: the necessary financial and human resources in place to meet its Nomination: Corporate Responsibility and Management Board.
The Board is satisfied that the necessary controls and roles and responsibilities of each of these Committees are detailed resources exist within the Group to enable these responsibilities to below.
All the Audit and Remuneration Committee members and a be met.
majority of Nomination Committee members are independent Nonexecutive Directors under the Code.
The Committees are provided The Board also ensures that the principal goal of the Company is to with sufficient resources via the Company Secretariat and, where create shareholder value, while having regard to other stakeholder necessary, have direct access to independent professional advisers interests and takes responsibility for setting the Companys values to undertake their duties.
Accordingly, the long-term interests of shareholders, together with consideration of the wider community of interests Audit Committee represented by employees, customers and suppliers, and community Andrew Carr-Locke has chaired the Audit Committee for the year and the environment are factored into the Groups management ended 31 March 2011.
The other members are Howard Mann and processes.
They are reinforced through employee participation in Stephen Alexander.
Neil Monnery and Carole Piwnica were members share ownership plans.
Appropriate account is also given to social, of the Committee until they stood down from the Board during the environmental and ethical issues within the Groups control and risk year.
Andrew Carr-Locke is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of assessment processes.
The steps taken to achieve these goals are Management Accountants.
Consistent with the Guidance on Audit communicated to shareholders and other interested parties through Committees formerly known as the Smith Guidance, all members of the Groups External Affairs Director, the Companys website www.
the Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
co. uk and to employees via the Group intranet and through Locke is deemed by the Board to be the Audit Committee financial formal and informal briefings and newsletters.
Through formal policies expert with recent and relevant financial experience and independent summaries of which are published on the Companys website the for the purposes of the Code.
All of the Committee members have Board seeks to engender a culture where business ethics, integrity extensive commercial experience see page 11.
The Committees and fairness are values that all employees endorse and apply in their terms of reference comply with the Code, are available on request everyday conduct.
and are published on the Groups website.
Further information on the Companys application of the Code and on the Audit Committee and its During 2010 11, the Company continued its programme of work during the year is set out in its report on pages 52 and 53. embedding its core values with employees.
Details of activity undertaken during the year are set out in the Corporate Remuneration Committee Responsibility Report on pages 31 to 33.
Further details will be Howard Mann has chaired the Remuneration Committee since 20 provided in the online Corporate Responsibility Report which will be July 2010 when Neil Monnery stood down from the Board.
The other published on the Companys website in the summer.
members of the Committee are Andrew Carr-Locke and Stephen Alexander.
Carole Piwnica was a member of the Committee until 9 In 2010 11 the Board met 12 times, one of those meetings was held at December 2010.
The Committee met three times in 2010 11.
Details of the Groups French subsidiary, St Hubert in Ludres, France.
Details of Directors attendance at meetings during the year are set out at page Directors attendance at meetings during the year are set out at page 11.
A detailed description of the Committees remit and work during 11.
2010 11, including further information on the Companys application of the principles of the Code, is contained in the Remuneration Report There is a documented schedule of matters reserved to the Board which was approved by the Board on pages 38 to 44.
Its terms of including strategy and management, financial structure and capital, reference comply with the Code, are available on request and are reporting and controls, Board and Committee appointments, published on the Groups website.
The full terms and conditions of executive remuneration, dividend policy and corporate governance appointment of the Companys Non-executive Directors are available compliance.
During 2010 11, the Board received regular briefings for inspection at its registered office and a summary is available on the on the Groups performance including detailed commentary and Groups website.
The chairman of the Committee provided a report to analysis and key issues and risks affecting the Groups business.
the Board following each meeting of the Committee.
Amongst other matters, it reviewed the content of the Groups risk Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 49 Nomination Committee Other committees Anthony Fry chairs the Nomination Committee having been appointed The Groups Strategy and Policy Leadership Team, chaired by the to that role on 12 May 2011.
The Committees other members are Chief Executive, which consists of Executive Board members and Howard Mann and Andrew Carr-Locke.
Neil Monnery and Carole other senior executives, meets periodically.
The Strategy and Policy Piwnica were members of the Committee until their resignations from Leadership Team is used to assist the Executive Directors in the the Board in 2010.
The Committee meets as and when required.
It did execution of their duties by helping to shape and influence the Groups not meet separately from the Board in the year ended 31 March 2011. strategy and policy.
Through its diverse membership representing Company executives and advisers attend meetings by invitation only.
the various constituencies of the Group it helps to ensure that key The Committee updates the Board and makes recommendations as stakeholders are consulted and have the opportunity to input into the and when required.
design and preparation of the Groups strategy, policy and key business decisions.
To ensure consistency of approach and cross-learning, The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are available members of the Strategy and Policy Leadership Team also chair on request and are published on the Groups website.
The Group leadership teams responsible for the following areas: finance: Committee is responsible for succession planning at Board level, information technology systems: supply chain: human resources: overseeing the selection and appointment of Directors and making its innovation: marketing: sales: vision and values: and health and safety.
It is also responsible, in conjunction Reports are provided from these various leadership teams and from with the Chairman, for evaluating the commitments of individual the operating boards of each of the Groups business units which are Directors and the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on responsible for monitoring the performance of those business units, the Board and ensures that the membership of the Board and its as appropriate, to the Management Board, the Strategy and Policy principal committees are refreshed periodically.
Where appropriate, the Leadership Team and the Board.
Committee will prepare an outline of the role and capabilities required for particular appointments and use an external search consultancy Chairman and chief executive and or advertising in relation to Board appointments.
2: There should be a clear division of responsibilities at the head of the company between the running of the During 2010 11, its focus remained on succession planning for the board and the executive responsibility for the running of the companys Board.
With the assistance of external consultants the Committee led business.
No one individual should have unfettered powers of decision.
a successful external search for candidates to succeed Neil Monnery and Carole Piwnica.
In its search the Committee was focussed on There is a clear division of responsibilities between the roles of identifying candidates with suitable skills and experience to fulfil the Chairman who serves in a non-executive capacity and Chief Executive requirements of the role and to ensure a complimentary balance of which is set out in writing and which has been approved by the Board.
skills and experience amongst the Directors as well as diversity in the make up of the Board.
To date the Committees work has resulted in Board balance the appointment of the Richard Macdonald and Stephen Alexander Code main principle A.
3: The board should include a balance of who bring with them a wealth of broad commercial and regulatory executive and non-executive directors and in particular independent experience and in particular, valuable experience of the FMCG and non-executive directors such that no individual or small group of agricultural sectors.
With the assistance of external consultants, the individuals can dominate the boards decision taking.
Committee continues to search for additional candidates to join the Board further to improve the balance of skills and diversity amongst As at the date of this report, the Board comprises three Executive its members.
Directors, four independent Non-executive Directors and a Nonexecutive Chairman.
Anthony Fry is Non-executive Chairman and Corporate Responsibility Committee chairman of the Nomination Committee: Mark Allen is Chief Executive: The Corporate Responsibility Committee is chaired by Richard Alastair Murray is Group Finance Director: Martyn Wilks is Executive Macdonald.
The Committee was chaired by Carole Piwnica and Neil Managing Director Foods : Howard Mann is a Non-executive Director, Monnery was a member until their respective departures from the Senior Independent Director and chairman of the Remuneration Board.
The Committee, whose other members are Andrew Carr-Locke, Committee: Andrew Carr-Locke is a Non-executive Director and Mark Allen, Alastair Murray, Martyn Wilks, Arthur Reeves Director of chairman of the Audit Committee: Richard Macdonald is a NonExternal Affairs, Rob Tansey Group HR Director and Robin Miller executive Director and chairman of the Corporate Responsibility Company Secretary & General Counsel, oversees the Groups Committee and Stephen Alexander is a Non-executive Director.
corporate responsibility programme and ensures that key social, ethical and environmental risks are identified, assessed and prioritised Biographies of each of the current Directors, their responsibilities accordingly.
Terms of reference for the Committee are available on and principal Board Committee memberships can be found on request and are published on the Groups website.
During the year the pages 10 to 11. committee met three times and details of Directors attendance are set out on page 11.
Details of the Committees activities during 2010 11 During 2010 11, all the Non-executive Directors including the are set out in the Corporate Responsibility Report at pages 31 to 33.
Chairman confirmed to the Board that they had sufficient time available to fulfil their obligations as Directors and, should any Management Board individuals position change, that they would inform the Board.
Details The Chief Executive chairs the Management Board which comprises of the Chairmans other significant professional commitments are the other Executive Directors, the Company Secretary & General included in his biography on page 11.
Counsel and the Group Human Resources Director.
Other senior executives, such as the Director of Group Financial Control and The Board considers Howard Mann, Andrew Carr-Locke, Richard Director of Corporate Development attend by invitation.
The Macdonald and Stephen Alexander to be independent.
Anthony Fry Management Board is responsible, amongst other matters, for was considered independent on his appointment as Chairman.
The implementing the Groups strategic direction and monitoring the Code states that the test of independence is not appropriate in relation performance of the business and its control procedures on a day-toto the Chairman after his appointment.
Governance 50 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Appointments to the Board Each Director completes a questionnaire appraising the Code main principle A.
4: There should be a formal, rigorous and Chairmans performance.
Using the output from the completed transparent procedure for the appointment of new directors to the questionnaires the Non-executive Directors, led by the Senior board.
Independent Director, meet in the absence of the Chairman to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
The Senior Independent Appointments to the Board and its Committees are reserved for the Director then meets with the Chairman to discuss the outcome of Board, based on recommendations from the Nomination Committee.
the evaluation of his performance, following which the whole Board Article 116 of the Companys Articles provides that the Directors considers the Chairmans performance with him.
may appoint any person to be a director either to fill a vacancy or as The Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief Executive an additional director.
Where a person is so appointed as a director the content of which is in accordance with the Companys normal pursuant to the Articles, that director shall retire from office at the performance and development review procedures.
The Chief next AGM and shall then be eligible for election by the members.
Executive appraises the performance of the other Executive The members may by ordinary resolution appoint any person to be Directors with regard to their management and operational a director of the Company either to fill a vacancy or as an additional responsibilities, in accordance with the Companys normal director.
The appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is a performance and development review procedures.
The outcome matter reserved to the Board as a whole.
of the reviews of performance of all of the Executive Directors is scrutinised by the Remuneration Committee.
Information and professional development Having dealt with individual Directors performance, the Board Code main principle A.
5: The board should be supplied in a timely collectively considers the output of the evaluation questionnaires manner with information in a form and of a quality appropriate to in so far as they relate to the effectiveness of the Board in general enable it to discharge its duties.
All directors should receive induction and its Committees.
on joining the board and should regularly update and refresh their skills and knowledge.
Evaluation of Executive Director performance for 2010 11 was conducted in April 2011 in accordance with the Companys normal Under the Chairmans stewardship the Company Secretary advises the performance and development review procedures.
Board on all governance matters and ensures Board procedures are followed and applicable rules and regulations complied with.
Given the changes to the composition of the Board during the year, the Board decided that evaluation of the Chairman and the The Company Secretary ensures that Directors undergo a Board in March 2011, consistent with normal practice, would be comprehensive induction programme on appointment.
Richard premature and of little meaningful value.
It was felt that time would be Macdonalds and Stephen Alexanders induction programmes included much better spent establishing relationships and working practices visits to a number of the Groups main operating sites Foston, amongst the Directors with a view to a full review to be conducted Nuneaton, Crudgington, Severnside, Frome and Davidstow.
Richard with the aid of external facilitation later in the year once the new Macdonald visited the Groups milk delivery depot at Oxford and he Directors had been given sufficient time to experience the operation undertook a milk round accompanying a roundsman based there.
of the Chairman and the Board for a suitable period of time.
Once Both of them also met with management and staff representing a an externally facilitated review, focused on identifying ways to further cross section of the business including at the Groups Aldershot offices enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of the Board, has been Customer Direct Division and at the Groups head office in Esher.
concluded, we will report on the outcome of that review in the Companys next annual report and accounts.
Directors attend independent training on technical accounting and other governance related matters from professional service providers Re-election and institutions and bulletins from the Group on developments in Code main principle A.
7: All directors should be submitted for the dairy sector generally.
Through meetings and presentations by re-election at regular intervals, subject to continued satisfactory management below Board level and visits to operational sites, the performance.
The board should ensure planned and progressive Directors keep abreast with the Groups business.
All Directors individually, and each of the Board Committees, have Following publication of the UK Corporate Governance Code in June access to the advice and services of the Company Secretariat and the 2010, the Board decided that although compliance with that new Company Secretary.
They all receive from the Company Secretariat code would not be required during 2010 11, it would nonetheless a regular report on corporate governance issues.
There are also follow its recommendation at provision B.
7.1 that all directors of FTSE procedures in place enabling Directors in the furtherance of their duties 350 companies should be subject to annual election by shareholders.
to seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
Consequently, at the Companys 2010 AGM, all Directors stood for election or re-election, as appropriate, and shareholders approved Performance evaluation a change proposed to the Articles requiring that all Directors be Code main principle A.
6: The board should undertake a formal and subject to annual election by shareholders.
At the 2011 AGM, Richard rigorous annual evaluation of its own performance and that of its Macdonald and Stephen Alexander shall stand for first election committees and individual directors.
following their appointment during the 2010 11 year and all other directors shall stand for re-election as required by the Articles.
The Board conducts an annual evaluation of individual Directors performance, its own performance and that of its Committees.
The The contribution that each of the candidates seeking re-election evaluation process, designed to improve the Boards effectiveness, is by shareholders makes to the Group was evaluated by the Board.
normally conducted as follows: Having regard to the roles that they perform and individual input and Following completion of a self-assessment questionnaire by each contribution they make, the Board concluded that each candidates Director, the Chairman meets with them individually to appraise performance more than justified nomination for re-election by their performance and effectiveness and to identify any training shareholders.
Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 51 Risk management and internal controls F inancial reporting there is an annual budget presented to Code main principle C. 2: The board should maintain a sound and approved by the Board which includes consideration of system of internal control to safeguard shareholders investment and the major business and financial risks, an assessment of the the companys assets.
likelihood of crystallisation and actions in place to mitigate these risks.
Each Division is required to report monthly to the Introduction Board on financial performance.
Monthly financial information The Board has overall responsibility for ensuring a sound system of includes trading results, balance sheet and cash flow information internal control and risk management.
The schedule of written matters by business Division with comparison against prior year and reserved to the Board ensures that the Directors are responsible for budget.
Each Division periodically reassesses its forecast for the control of, amongst other matters, all significant strategic, financial the financial year.
Annually, a strategic plan is also presented to and organisational risks.
the Board, which reviews financial projections for the following three years and includes consideration of current and likely future An overview of the principal risks surrounding the Group is contained strategic, operational and market environment matters.
The in the Business Review section of the Directors Report at pages 16 Audit Committee with input from the Groups Internal Auditors to 17.
To manage these and other commercial and operational risks exercises oversight over the Groups control processes designed the Group has an established programme that assists management to ensure the integrity of internal and external financial reporting.
throughout the Group to identify, assess and mitigate business, financial, operational and compliance risks on a continuous basis.
A ccounts Reviews the performance of each business Division The Board views management of risk as integral to good business and its management of the risks related to it are reviewed monthly practice.
The programme is designed to support managements by the Chief Executive, Finance Director, Executive Managing decision making and to improve the reliability of business performance.
Director Foods, Director of Financial Control, External Affairs Director and other senior managers in Accounts Review meetings.
Internal controls Amongst other matters the review includes a detailed analysis of The Directors have overall responsibility for the Groups system of each Divisions key risks and plans for mitigation as well as the internal control and risk management and for reviewing its effectiveness continued appropriateness of those risks.
As part of the continual to support its strategy and objectives.
The systems of internal risk management cycle, additional key risks together with plans for control are based on an ongoing process of identifying, evaluating mitigation are, as appropriate, added to each Divisions risk register.
and seeking to manage key risks and includes the preparation and refreshment of Divisional risk registers and the Group risk register B usiness Division reviews on a quarterly basis, each together with appropriate risk mitigation activities along with the other business Division is required to complete a self-assessment risk management processes set out at pages 16 to 17.
The systems controls questionnaire that requires the approval of business of internal control were in place throughout the year and up to the unit management.
In addition, the Audit Committee and the date of approval of the Annual Report and Financial Statements.
The Management Board receive copies of all Group Internal Audit effectiveness of these systems has been periodically reviewed by reports which detail audit issues noted and corrective action the Audit Committee and the Board, in accordance with the Turnbull plans.
They also receive reports from the External Auditors on the Committee Guidance on Internal Control revised October 2005. conclusions of their interim review and final audit.
Control systems Control of significant risks The main components of the organisation for internal control are As required by the Code, the Board has established an ongoing summarised below.
Their foundation is in the considerable value that process, in accordance with the Turnbull Committee Guidance On the Group places, throughout its activities, on seeking to ensure that Internal Control revised October 2005, to identify, evaluate and employees are of the highest quality and integrity.
Formal control is manage significant risks faced by the Group.
During the year the Audit exercised through a management structure, which includes clear Committee reviewed the Groups risk register process and endorsed lines of responsibility and documented delegations of authority from the process set out on pages 16 to 17 which is intended to ensure a the Board.
Processes underpinning the financial reporting systems continual appraisal and re-appraisal of risk, the on-going relevance of are managed and monitored by line and functional management and the Groups risk registers and that they are embedded in the Group as regular reporting.
Separately, the effectiveness of these internal controls an every-day tool for the management of risk.
This process, approved is reviewed by an Internal Audit function that operates on a Group wide by the Board following review by the Audit Committee, includes basis.
It reports its results to the executive management team and the consideration of Divisional and Group registers identifying and directly to the Audit Committee.
These controls and processes have evaluating the significant Divisional and Group risks and related financial, been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval operational and compliance controls.
With oversight from the Board and of the Annual Report and Accounts.
Audit Committee which uses the services of the Group Internal Audit function, individual members of the Groups senior management team Board the Board exercises its responsibilities through an are responsible for the ownership and mitigation of significant risks.
organisational structure with clearly defined levels of responsibility The Audit Committee, the Board, the Management Board and senior and rules relating to delegated authorities.
The Board meets management in Accounts Reviews regularly review the identified risks, regularly throughout the year and receives oral and written changes in their status and the composition of the Groups risk matrix.
presentations to maintain control over strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters.
The Management Board Function of controls is responsible for monitoring financial performance, assessing During the year the Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the capital expenditure proposals, agreeing media spend, senior Groups system of internal control.
The systems of internal control are management appointments and embedding risk management designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve and controls in the Group.
The Managing Director of each business objectives.
They can only provide reasonable and not absolute Division, in conjunction with senior management, operates and assurance against material errors, losses, fraud or breaches of laws and maintains controls appropriate to its own activities which conform regulations.
The Groups systems of risk management and control have to Group policies and procedures.
been used in the process for the preparation of the Financial Statements.
Governance 52 Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance continued Report of the Audit Committee improvement is needed and make recommendations as to the Code main principle C. 3: The board should establish formal and steps to be taken.
transparent arrangements for considering how they should apply the financial reporting and internal control principles and for maintaining an The Committees work during the period and up to the date of this appropriate relationship with the companys auditors.
report included: R eviewing the Interim Financial Statements, Preliminary Members Announcement and the Annual Report and Accounts prior to Details of the members of the Audit Committee are set out at page their submission to the Board.
In doing so it took into account 11 with details of their attendance at meetings during the year being the External Auditors view and considered reports from financial set out at page 11. management and Group Internal Audit.
R eviewing significant accounting policies, financial reporting Terms of reference issues and judgements used in the preparation of the Companys The Audit Committees terms of reference available on request and Preliminary Announcement, Interim Announcement and Annual published on the Groups website comply with the Code.
refreshed its terms of reference in March 2010, including, amongst R eviewing managements letters of representation in connection other matters, their continued compliance with the requirements of with the Companys Financial Statements and the External Auditors the Code, the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control October 2005 management letter.
and the Guidance on Audit Committees 2008 formerly known as R eviewing areas where control weaknesses had been identified the Smith Guidance, the Committee conducted a further review in by Group Internal Audit or the External Auditor and monitoring the March 2011 and was satisfied that they remained appropriate and mitigation and remediation plans of management.
that they comply with the above-mentioned guidance.
Under its terms R eviewing the regular reports of the External Auditor and the of reference, the Committee is responsible for providing advice to the comments provided on the strength of the Groups internal Board on the Groups Interim and Financial Statements: on accounting controls.
policies and on the control of its financial and business risks as well as R eceiving and reviewing regular reports from the Groups Internal reviewing the work of the Internal and External Auditors.
A pproving the External Audit plan including audit scope, level Frequency of meetings of materiality, resources dedicated to the audit engagement, the The Audit Committee met four times in 2010 11.
The Chairman of seniority expertise and experience of the engagement team and the Audit Committee provided a report on the work of the Committee satisfying itself as to the appropriateness and adequacy of the plan.
and any significant issues that may have arisen at the Board meeting E valuating the performance of the External Auditor and satisfying following each Committee meeting.
itself as to the effectiveness of the audit.
R eviewing the Groups risk management processes and controls: Attendees at meetings and their effectiveness.
The Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, Chairman and other R eviewing the effectiveness of the Groups whistle blowing senior management attend Committee meetings by invitation of the procedures and satisfying itself that they allow for appropriate Committee.
Representatives of the Groups External Auditor and the investigation and suitable follow up actions.
head of Group Internal Audit, also attend these meetings by invitation.
Reviewing the effectiveness of the Committee.
In 2010 11, the External and Internal Auditors attended all meetings, had direct access to the Committee during the meetings and time External Auditor was also set aside for them to have private discussions jointly and The Committee is responsible for overseeing the relationship with the independently with the Committee, in the absence of management.
Audit Committee activity During the year, the Committee: During 2010 11, the Committees work schedule embraced the A pproved the Audit Engagement Letters and fee proposal, and Code requirements to: satisfied itself as to the External Auditors ability to conduct an Monitor the integrity of the Financial Statements of the Company, effective audit for such fee.
and any formal announcements relating to the Groups financial R eviewed and assessed the External Auditors independence performance, including reviewing significant financial reporting and objectivity taking into account relevant UK professional judgements and any disclosures contained in them: and regulatory requirements.
In doing so the Committee Review the Companys internal financial controls and its reviewed the External Auditors own policies and procedures to internal control and risk management systems and to make safeguard its objectivity, independence and integrity together recommendations to the Board: with its representations as to independence.
The Committee Monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups Internal Audit received assurances from the Audit Engagement Partner that the function: External Auditors reward and remuneration structure includes no Make recommendations to the Board, for it to put to the incentives for audit engagement partners to cross sell non-audit shareholders for their approval in general meeting, in relation to the services to audit clients.
The Committee also considered the appointment, re-appointment and removal of the External Auditor Groups policy on the use of the External Auditor for the provision and to approve the remuneration and terms of engagement of the of on-audit services.
That policy contains an absolute prohibition External Auditor: against the use of the External Auditor for certain services.
In Review and monitor the External Auditors independence and respect of other services which are not absolutely prohibited but objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process, taking into do not fall into the scope of the engagement for the External consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory requirements: Audit, there is a requirement that the agreement of the chairman and, of the Committee, or the Committee, must first be obtained Review the Groups policy on the engagement of the External where anticipated fees for the provision of such services are up Auditor to supply non-audit services and report to the Board, to 75,000 and over 75,000, respectively.
The Committee is identifying matters in respect of which it considers action or satisfied that such non-audit services as have been provided Dairy Crest Annual Report 2011 53 by the External Auditor during the year have been provided in Company with regard to its appointment.
The Audit Committee has accordance with the Groups policy.
not considered it necessary since its initial appointment to require Approved the annual audit plan and ensured that it was the firm competitively to tender for the audit work.
In the light of consistent with the scope of the audit engagement.
the assessments and review undertaken and having considered Reviewed the findings of the audit, including discussion of any a recommendation of the Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young major issues arising, any accounting and audit judgements LLP as the Companys and Groups External Auditor, the Board and the internal control reports including responses from endorsed the Committees recommendation which was approved by management and any proposed remedial action.
Reviewed the effectiveness of the audit and the External Auditor.
At its meeting in May 2011, the Audit Committee considered the Internal Audit function appropriateness of the reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the The Committee is required to assist the Board to fulfil its Groups External Auditor for the 2011 12 year.
responsibilities relating to the adequacy of the resourcing and plans of the Group Internal Audit function.
In doing so the Committee: Taking into account the output of the Committees review of the Reviewed and assessed the annual Internal Audit Plan and External Auditors independence and objectivity, and, the effectiveness progress against it throughout the year.
of the audit process, which it commenced at its March 2011 meeting, Reviewed all reports on the Group from Internal Audit.
together with other relevant review processes conducted throughout Reviewed the interaction between the Internal Audit function and the year, the Committee was satisfied that it should recommend to the External Auditor.
Board the re-appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the Companys Reviewed and monitored managements responsiveness to the and Groups External Auditor at the AGM on 19 July 2011. findings and recommendations of Group Internal Audit.
Reviewed a report from the head of Group Internal Audit on risk Communication with investors management and control.
Code main principle D. 1: There should be a dialogue with Reviewed Group Internal Audits charter dealing with that shareholders based on the mutual understanding of objectives.
functions role, scope, resourcing, reporting responsibilities, The board as a whole has responsibility for ensuring that a organisational independence and assessment.
satisfactory dialogue with shareholders takes place.
Engaged  LLP PwC to conduct an independent review of the effectiveness of Group Internal Audit.
The Group believes it is important to explain business developments and financial results to its shareholders and to understand any Review of effectiveness of Group Internal Audit shareholder concerns, and that suitable arrangements are in place During the year the Committee engaged PwC to conduct an to ensure a balanced understanding of the issues and concerns independent quality assessment of the Group Internal Audit function.
The Chief Executive and Group Finance The key objectives of the review were to provide: Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
They are an independent review of the Internal Audit function in keeping supported by the Companys External Affairs Director who, among with corporate governance best practice: and other matters, organises presentations for analysts and institutional recommendations for improving the effectiveness of the Internal investors and holds meetings with key institutional shareholders to Audit function.
discuss strategy, financial performance and investment activities immediately after the interim and full year results announcements.
In order to achieve the above-mentioned aims, PwCs work Slide presentations made to institutional shareholders are also focussed on the Internal Audit functions structure, resourcing, available on the Companys website.
All the Non-executive Directors and management, processes and procedures aimed to ensure and, in particular, the Chairman and Senior Independent Director, effective and efficient planning and completion of audit work, use of are available to meet with major shareholders, if such meetings are technology, communication and reporting and conformity with the required.
Further financial and business information is available on the Institute of Internal Auditors standards.
Investor Centre section of the Companys website.
The independent review found that the Internal Audit function Feedback from meetings with shareholders is provided to the provides effective assurance around financial processes and Board to ensure that the Non-executive Directors have a balanced controls, has full access to all areas of the Group and is of good understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders.
It highlighted, however, that greater This includes communication with the shareholders at the AGM, assurance could be derived from better formal linkage of the Internal regular feedback from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Audit plan with the Groups formal risk management processes.
Work Director on their meetings with major shareholders, and periodic to achieve better formal linkage between the Internal Audit plan and reports to the Board on investor relations together with feedback risk management processes is underway and Internal Audit formally from the Companys brokers on the views of major shareholders.
reviews the mitigation activities contained in the Groups risk registers in order to provide the Committee with greater assurance over the The principal method of communication with private shareholders implementation and effectiveness of those mitigating controls.
The is through the Annual Report and Interim Statement, the AGM and Committee was satisfied that the independent review showed the through the Companys website.
Group Internal Audit function provides effective assurance over financial process and controls and that although those areas should Annual general meeting remain the core focus of the function, additional valuable assurance Code main principle D. 2: The board should use the AGM to could be provided by the function broadening its scope through the communicate with investors and to encourage their participation.
adoption of a wider risk-based approach.
A business review is presented by the Chairman at the AGM Reappointment of Ernst & Young LLP to facilitate shareholder understanding of the Groups activities.
Ernst & Young LLP was first appointed as External Auditor to the Arrangements are made for all Executive Directors, the Chairman, Company in 1996.
There are no contractual restrictions on the the Senior Independent Non-executive Director, the remaining NonGovernance
