AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION The Company is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
The paragraphs below and in the Remuneration Report on pages 62 to 78 describe how the Board has applied the principles set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code the Code.
The Code, issued by the inappropriate to the particular In addition, the Chairman was THE BOARD Financial Reporting Council in circumstances of the not independent on The Company is headed by a May 2010, is part of the Listing Company.
The areas in which appointment Code provision Board which comprises a Rules and applied to the the Company has not applied A3.1.
Whilst a formal review balance of seven executive Company throughout the year.
the Code during the year of each Directors training Directors, including the essentially arise from the requirements was not Chairman and Chief Executive, The Company has substantially composition of the Board and undertaken, Directors are and eight non-executive complied with the provisions of are summarised in the table encouraged to keep up to Directors.
Biographical details the Code throughout the year, below: date and are provided with of each of the Directors are set except where the Board has regular communications to out on page 48 and 49.
The determined that they are enable them to do so.
Board was refreshed in the Provision Area Details of non-compliance and mitigating circumstances A4.1 Composition of the Board The Board has not identified a senior independent non-executive Director since it believes that to identify such an individual is potentially divisive to a unitary body, as this Board is, and disruptive to the role of the Chairman.
A4.2 Board Evaluation The non-executive Directors did not meet as a group without the Chairman since his performance was assessed by the Remuneration Committee without the Chairman being present.
B1.1 Composition of the Board Less than half of the Board are independent non-executive Directors.
The Board believes that its current composition is appropriate and that a good balance is achieved from its non-executive Directors in terms of skill and independence.
B2.1 Composition of the Independent non-executive Directors do not comprise a majority of the Committees Nominations Committee members since Mr Balsemo is the only independent non-executive Director appointed.
Nevertheless, the Board believes that the Committee operates well.
B6.2 Board Evaluation The Board has determined to continue to conduct evaluation internally by means of a questionnaire, rather than through contracting external consultants every three years.
The process is refreshed regularly and has proved valuable in driving the Boards agenda.
C3.1 Composition of the Audit The Committee included two independent non-executive Directors rather than three as set Committee out in the Code.
The Nominations Committee will take this into account at the time of the next Board appointment.
The Board believes that the Committee operates independently and benefits from the skill and experience of its current composition.
D1.5 Service contracts and The service contracts of Messrs Morgan and Dacre exceeded the one year recommended compensation in the Code during the year.
However, both will reduce to one year over the next twelve months, as explained in the Remuneration Report on page 78.
D2.1 Composition of the The Committee comprises one independent non-executive Director, rather than two as set Remuneration Committee out in the Code, as explained on page 63 of the Remuneration Report.
56 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION year with the appointment of Other matters addressed by Messrs Hemingway and The Companys Articles were two new Directors including a the Board are: Gillespie are not regarded by last amended by a special new Finance Director and the Board as independent resolution of Ordinary Approval of the Groups Independent Director.
under the Code because they shareholders in February 2010 strategy.
have advised the Company in accordance with the Approval of the Groups BOARD MEETINGS over many years: nor is Mr Companies Act 2006. annual budget.
The Board normally meets five Nelson because he is an Ensuring maintenance of The terms and conditions times a year and at such other advisor to the Chairman.
a sound system of internal of appointment of the times as are necessary.
It Nevertheless, the Board control and risk non-executive Directors are discusses and approves the believes that these nonmanagement.
available for inspection at Groups strategy.
In addition, executive Directors make an the Registered Office of the the Board receives reports and CHAIRMAN AND important contribution to its Company during usual recommendations from time to CHIEF EXECUTIVE deliberations and have business hours.
time on any matter, which it The division of responsibilities invaluable experience of the considers significant to the between the Executive BOARD EVALUATION Company, its business and its Group.
Most meetings include Chairman and the Chief staff.
Although Messrs The Board has undertaken its a presentation on one of the Executive is understood and Dunstone and Balsemao have annual evaluation of its own Groups divisions or on specific works well.
The Chairmans been non-executive Directors performance and that of its topics.
During the year, role is to lead the Board and for more than nine years, individual Directors.
It reviewed presentations included digital oversee the Companys both have continued to its performance by reference developments within A&N operations and strategy at a demonstrate independence to the schedule of matters Media, a talent review, a specific meeting and is in terms of character and reserved for it.
The evaluation presentation on technology updated on progress at each judgement.
process took the form of a and a study of the future of meeting by the Chief Executive.
questionnaire sent to each INFORMATION advertising.
The Chief Executives role is to Director, seeking their views on AND PROFESSIONAL manage the Company, The Board met six times during the handling of strategy by the DEVELOPMENT develop strategy and ensure the 2010 11 financial year, Board: the structure of Board Procedures have been its successful implementation.
which were attended by all meetings, quality of papers established to ensure that the Directors, except that Mr Fallon and communications: areas of Number of Number Board receives timely and was unable to attend two operations presented: balance meetings of appropriate information both eligible meetings of them and Messrs Dacre, of skills: consideration of to attend attended for its meetings and regularly Dunstone, Balsemo and Directors views: and solicited between meetings.
All Directors Executive Directors Beatty were each unable to other comments.
The Chairman are offered such training as is The Viscount attend one of them.
Individual reported the consensus view considered necessary, both on Rothermere 6 6 attendance by Directors is set on performance to the Board appointment and at any out below.
M W H Morgan 6 6 at its meeting in October 2011, subsequent time.
Both Mr enabling it to conclude that it S W Daintith 2 2 MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE Daintith and Mr Trempont had been effective in the year D M M Dutton 6 6 BOARD were provided with induction under review.
No changes to P M Dacre 6 5 The Boards specific on appointment, including procedures were judged P M Fallon 6 4 responsibilities are set out in a meetings with senior necessary.
schedule of matters reserved management across the K J Beatty 6 5 BOARD COMMITTEES to the Board which is published Group.
There is an agreed J P Williams 4 4 The Board has established on the Companys website at procedure for Directors to take Non-executive nonNominations, Remuneration, www.
co. uk corporate independent professional independent Directors Audit, Risk and Corporate governance.
advice at the Companys J G Responsibility Committees with expense, if necessary.
These are summarised below: Hemingway 6 6 mandates to deal with specific T S Gillespie 6 6 ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION Board and Committee aspects of its business.
The The Companys Articles of D H Nelson 6 6 appointments: remits of these committees are Association require that a The approval of financial Independent non-executive published on the Companys Director appointed by the statements and all Directors website at www.
Board must stand for election information sent to C W Dunstone 6 5 Details of the membership of at the next Annual General shareholders: these committees are given on F P Balsemo 6 5 Meeting.
Thereafter all The setting of dividends: pages 48 and 49 and 58 to 60.
D J Verey 6 6 The setting of fees payable Directors are subject to Each committee reports to N W Berry 6 6 to Directors: re-election at least every three the Board at every regular Approval of major D Trempont 4 4 years.
The Board has decided, meeting.
In October 2011, acquisitions and disposals however, to adopt the The Board believes that five the Board carried out a review and capital expenditure: provision in the Code that all non-executive Directors of the performance of its and Directors should seek annual may be considered to be committees and concluded Review of Group pension re-election.
independent under the Code, that they had been effective Schemes.
namely Messrs Dunstone, in the year.
Balsemo, Verey, Berry and Trempont.
DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 57 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION meetings were attended by all diversity discussion is broader system is designed to provide INVESTMENT AND FINANCE serving members.
It is about reasonable assurance over the COMMITTEE attendance by members is set ensuring that there is an safeguarding of assets and Operating decisions are out below: appropriate range and shareholders investment and delegated to the Investment balance of skills, experience the reliability of financial and Finance Committee which Number and background on the Board.
Any such system determines all matters relating of Number meetings of Achieving this balance is a key can, however, provide only to the Groups financial affairs.
eligible meetings determinant of any new Board reasonable, and not absolute, to attend attended The Investment and Finance appointment we make.
The Viscount Committee works alongside The Group operates on a Rothermere 3 3 The Committee continued to the DMGT Leadership Team divisional basis with each of review succession planning J G with the objective of improving the divisions described on for both executive and Hemingway 3 3 investment decision making and pages 6 and 7 of the Annual non-executive Directors.
It also Group strategy development.
F P Balsemo 3 3 Report having considerable formally nominated Mr Daintith The Committee comprises The Committee reviews the autonomy as regards its to the Board as Finance the Viscount Rothermere its structure, size and composition operation and establishment Director in succession to Mr chairman and Messrs Morgan, of the Board and makes of control systems.
Overseeing Williams, as explained in last Daintith, Dutton, Hemingway recommendations to the the divisional structure is a years Annual Report.
Mr Daintith Board on any changes.
central management succeeded Mr Williams in RELATIONS WITH During the year it nominated responsible to the Board.
The Deputy Finance SHAREHOLDERS Mr Trempont to the Board Certain functions are Director, Mr Perry, is secretary as a new independent undertaken centrally, notably The Company maintains to the Committee.
It newsprint buying, insurance, a regular programme of of strategy development, Ms determined from its search of treasury, tax, pensions, and risk contact with its institutional FitzGerald, attends meetings international, including female, and assurance including shareholders.
In the past year, at the invitation of the candidates centred in the internal audit.
this has included meetings in Committee.
It held eight US with a strong technology London, Scotland, Canada The Directors confirm that meetings during the year background, that Mr Tremponts and the USA.
they have reviewed the which were attended by all experience made him the effectiveness of the Groups Non-executive Directors are of its members, except by Mr preferred candidate.
system of internal control for the kept informed of the views of Hemingway in June and Dominique Trempont is based period up to the date of the institutional shareholders by September.
in Menlo Park, California, and approval of the Accounts.
The the regular distribution of is an executive and board VALUE CREATION AND Board has not identified any analysts reports and feedback member in large multinational STRATEGY significant failings or is provided from institutional high tech companies and The basis on which the weaknesses during this review.
Company generates value In reviewing the effectiveness All shareholders are welcome over the longer term and His appointment has brought of the system of internal control, to attend the Annual General the strategy for delivering its considerable technology and the Board has considered Meeting, of which 20 working objectives are set out in the international experience to material controls including days notice is given, where Chief Executives Review on the Board, widening further those undertaken through its they have the opportunity pages 12 to 21. the range of insights and committees, including to speak to Directors.
perspectives brought to its COMPANY SECRETARY financial, operational and In the interests of transparency deliberations.
compliance controls and risk The Company Secretary, Mr and to assist private management systems as External advice was taken, but Jennings, is responsible for shareholders, the Company follows: advertising was not required in advising the Board through the posts all announcements and this instance.
Chairman on all governance general presentations given to 1 O perations of the Audit issues.
All Directors have The Committee considered the analysts and institutions on its Committee access to the advice and benefits of diversity, including corporate website.
The Audit Committee, on services of the Secretary.
gender, during this search as Shareholders and others behalf of the Board, has recommended by the Code.
In interested in the Group are responsibility for the review of NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE May it considered the Davies encouraged to use the site internal financial controls.
It The Nominations Committee Report, published in February, and to email questions which fulfils its remit by: comprises three Directors: the on how to increase the number they might have to investor.
Viscount Rothermere its considering a summary of of women on the Board.
chairman, Mr Hemingway Group internal audit reports Questions to particular and Mr Balsemo.
Mr Perry, is and such individual reports It subsequently reviewed the Directors should be addressed secretary to the Committee.
as it sees fit, managements Companys statement on through the Secretary.
The Chief Executive and the response to any gender diversity.
It agreed to recommendations and the HR director attend most re-evaluate its search criteria.
INTERNAL CONTROLS AND progress of any required meetings at the invitation Whilst supportive of the Davies MANAGEMENT OF RISK actions.
recommendation, which is a The Board has overall reviewing a summary of focused aspiration, the The Committee met three responsibility for the Groups letters to management Committees view is that the times during the year and all system of internal control.
This prepared by the Groups 58 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION external auditors following The department also the Group by embedding the succeeded Mr Williams as a their audit procedures.
coordinates with a number of DMGT risk management model member in March.
Mr Verey considering significant the divisions who undertake into the operating divisions.
provides a non-executive financial reporting issues and internal controls assurance The remit and operation of the perspective to the review of approving any changes to reviews within their divisions.
Risk Committee are described risk management processes Group accounting policies, in more detail below.
within the Group, as well as In addition to the schedule of which are set centrally.
providing a direct link to the reviews set out in the annual 5 R eview of relevant and Audit Committee.
2 Risk & Assurance plan, an annual fraud risk timely financial information DMGT Risk & Assurance carries assessment is completed by Divisional and executive The Committee met four times out internal audit activities for each key business in the Group Boards regularly review during the year and all meetings the Audit Committee across detailing fraud risks and relevant and timely financial were attended by all serving the Group.
It has a direct mitigating controls.
Where information that is produced members.
Individual reporting line to the Audit mitigating controls are not from the management attendance by members is set Committee and operates identified, Risk & Assurance information systems operated out below.
under its internal audit charter follow up with divisional across the Group.
This is Number which covers: its purpose and management to ensure that supported by a framework of of Number objective: its authority and these controls are subsequently rolling 12-month forecasts as meetings of eligible meetings scope: independence issues: implemented.
All divisions well as annual budgets that to attend attended standards of professional are required to notify Risk & are approved at a divisional M W H Morgan 4 4 practice: performance Assurance of any fraud level by the Investment and S W Daintith 3 3 monitoring: planning: and incidents identified.
action to be taken where it is the year, the Finance Director felt that control weaknesses implemented a new format for H Kass 4 4 An annual plan is developed may exist.
the management accounts, D J Verey 4 4 each year using a risk focused known as the GRID.
This approach and considering The Head of Risk & Assurance M J Page 4 4 standardises the information every part of the Groups meets regularly with the Audit J P Williams 2 2 and presentation across operations.
Input is received Committee chairman and, at The Head of Risk & Assurance, divisions and includes some from divisional and executive each Audit Committee Mr Ashby is Secretary to the additional information thus management, the Audit meeting, reports on the internal Committee.
enabling better variance Committee, external auditors, audit activity across the Group, analysis of actual results The Group adopts a prudent and with reference to past including progress against versus budget, forecast risk strategy, weighing reviews and key risks.
The Audit completion of the annual plan, and prior year.
opportunities for potential Committee approve the a summary of the findings of gain against threats to internal audit plan for the assurance reviews undertaken 6 O perations of the overall business objectives forthcoming year in September.
both by internal audit and by Investment and Finance and profitability.
Senior Any necessary changes to divisional teams and the results Committee management addresses the plan during the year are of follow up reviews.
The evaluation of the benefits the opportunities and agreed with the Chairman of and risks of investment 3 Confirmation of Key Internal uncertainties relating to the Audit Committee.
opportunities and financing Controls the business activities of the proposals is undertaken by Risk & Assurance schedule, In 2011, the Finance Director Group.
The risk management the Investment and Finance plan and complete internal implemented new internal process consists of the Committee.
Above certain audit reviews in accordance controls and financial reporting identification, evaluation defined levels, however, with the annual plan across the checklists replacing the and control of risks, the Board must approve year: working closely with local existing year end checklist.
which could threaten the programmes relating to and divisional management to Operating businesses within the achievement of the Groups acquisition and divestment determine a detailed scope of Group are required to confirm strategic, operational and proposals and capital each review.
Audit findings are their compliance with key financial objectives, as well as expenditure.
categorised according to their internal financial controls to the the active management of significance and the overall Group Accounting department RISK COMMITTEE opportunities.
The processes control environment is rated for annually which, in turn, reports The oversight and described below were in place each review.
Audit findings are to the Finance Director.
Risk & management of significant throughout the year.
cleared at the completion of Assurance review these risks around the Group is the fieldwork and a formal The Committee oversees the submissions and follow up on undertaken by the Risk report is issued which includes quality and formality of risk exceptions as appropriate.
Risk Committee and it accords with agreed actions and the management processes across & Assurance will complete a the Turnbull Guidance on timescale for remediation of the Group by embedding the short audit at each sizeable internal control, appended to control weaknesses identified.
DMGT risk management model business location around the the Code.
Regular follow up of audit into the operating divisions.
Group to validate these key The Committee comprises points is completed by Risk & The Committee considers the controls in 2012.
Messrs Morgan, its chairman, Assurance to ensure that Group risk register a 4 Risk Committee Daintith, Dutton, Verey, Kass, management actions are consolidation of divisional and The Risk Committee oversees the legal director of A&N completed within the central function risk registers the quality and formality of risk Media and Mr Page, its deputy timeframes agreed.
with Group-wide risks overlaid management processes across finance director.
In addition, the DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 59 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION Committee reviews specific the degree of regular issues, approves any changes whistle blowing.
risks and monitors communications from editorial to Group accounting policies In addition, the Committee has developments in relevant management to staff on these and reviews a summary of primary responsibility for making legislation and regulation to matters over the past five years recommendation letters to a recommendation to the consider the impact these was encouraging.
The report management prepared by Board on the appointment, might have on the Group and also included a number of the Groups external auditors reappointment and removal of on its system of internal control.
recommendations for process following their audit the external auditors, together This year the Committees main improvements that are now procedures.
with approval of their focus was on the UK Bribery being implemented.
The Committee comprises four remuneration.
As part of its Act and implementation of the The Committee reports to the non-executive Directors: role in ensuring the Groups compliance Board after each of its meetings Messrs Verey, its chairman, effectiveness of the audit programme.
This included an to assist the Board in its Hemingway, Berry and Nelson.
process, the Committee also update to the Groups Code of determination of the overall The Code recommends that undertakes an annual Conduct and whistle blowing effectiveness of the system of an audit committee should assessment of the policy: issuance of a number internal control and risk comprise at least three members, qualifications, expertise and of new employee policies and management.
all of whom should be resources of the external a training programme for the independent non-executive auditors.
AUDIT COMMITTEE 2,000 staff with roles potentially Directors.
Only Messrs Verey The appointment of Deloitte LLP impacted by the new Act.
The Audit Committee, on and Berry are considered to as the Groups external auditors Other topics considered by the behalf of the Board, has be independent under the incumbents since the last audit Risk Committee included: key responsibility for the review of Code.
Nevertheless, the Board tender in 2001 is kept under risks and their management financial risk management believes that the Committee annual review, and, if satisfactory, for two major capital projects: and of internal financial operates independently.
the Committee will recommend health and safety, fraud as controls, as these directly Members qualifications are the reappointment of the audit part of the annual fraud risk relate to the quality of set out in their biographies on firm.
The appointment of Deloitte assessment, data protection: financial reporting.
The Board is followed a formal tender process information security: and the Committee is mandated satisfied that Mr Nelson, senior undertaken in 2001 and, rather business continuity and to: partner of a firm of chartered than adopting a policy on disaster recovery planning review all public financial accountants, and Mr Verey, tendering frequency, the annual Members of the Risk Committee statements of the Company the Committee chairman, have review of the effectiveness of the also maintain direct links with and of the Group, including recent and relevant financial external audit is supplemented each of the main divisions the half year and annual experience.
The Company by a periodic comprehensive through attendance of financial statements, before Secretary, Mr Jennings, also a reassessment by the Committee.
divisional board meetings as such statements are Chartered Accountant, is The last such reassessment was directors of these boards.
submitted to the Board: secretary to the Committee.
performed in 2008 09, as with consider any appointment Editorial Process Review The Audit Committee met four many suppliers, when having of external auditors to During the year the Risk times during the year and all received assurances on the Group companies, to review Committee and the Editor-inmeetings were attended by all continued quality of the audit, audit fees and to consider Chief initiated an internal serving members.
Individual the Committee determined to any questions of resignation review of Editorial Processes.
attendance by members is set recommend the reappointment or dismissal of auditors: This was performed by the out below: of the incumbent firm.
As the monitor and review the Head of Editorial Legal appointment of the auditors is for resources and effectiveness Services under the direction of, Number one year only, being subject to of internal audit including of Number and reporting, initially, to the meetings of annual approval at the approval of the Editor-in-Chief.
The completed eligible meetings Companys AGM, there is no appointment and removal to attend attended report was then presented contractual commitment to the of the Head of Risk & to the Risk Committee.
The D J Verey 4 4 Assurance : current audit firm and, as such, scope included processes J G agree the internal audit the Committee may undertake and controls to support Hemingway 4 4 programme for the an audit tender at any time at its compliance with the PCC N W Berry 4 4 forthcoming year: and discretion.
code, the Data Protection Act to consider a summary of D H Nelson 4 4 In performing its review, the and the Bribery Act, including: Group internal audit reports The Finance Director attended Committee evaluated the editorial policies and the and such individual reports all meetings and the Chief adequacy of the audit firms policy over the use of inquiry as the Committee sees fit Executive two meetings by key processes and controls in agents : ethics: training: and corresponding invitation.
certain key areas including, communications: and management responses to but not limited to: payments in Mail Newspapers.
The Committee has any recommendations, and implemented the procedures to monitor the progress of arrangements for ensuring The Committee concluded any required actions.
set out in the updated independence and that the report provided Guidance on audit committees, objectivity, including the comfort over the processes The Committee monitors the published by the Financial rotation of key audit and controls to support financial reporting process Reporting Council in December partners: compliance with the PCC and the Groups statutory 2010, which are within its control.
appropriateness of the code, the Data Protection Act annual audit.
It also considers planned audit scope and its It reviews the Groups policy on and the Bribery Act.
Further, significant financial reporting 60 DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 AT A GLANCE CHAIRMANS STATEMENT BUSINESS REVIEW CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY DIRECTORS REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REMUNERATION REPORT FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE continued SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION execution: arrangement.
In these areas, their audit.
the robustness and the choice of firm is determined Non-audit fees payable to perceptiveness of the on the basis of professional Deloitte LLP in 2010 11 auditors in their handling of expertise and competitiveness.
amounted to 0.6 million, the key accounting and compared to 1.2 million the SERVICES WHERE THERE IS A audit judgements: and previous year.
REAL THREAT TO the quality of their reporting.
INDEPENDENCE During the year, the Procedures exist to monitor the The third category is services Committee received reports independence of the external where there is a real threat to from management on auditors and include a policy independence and from litigation matters, investor on employment of former which the external auditors are relations messages, audit principals.
These preparations for the Bribery year, the Committee reviewed services are specifically Act, on analyst and media its policy on the provision of prohibited by the APB Ethical reaction to the Groups 2010 non-audit services in with the Standard and comprise: preliminary announcement light of the Ethical Standard, and Annual Report, on going internal audit and IT services issued by the Auditing Practices concern and on developments where the external auditor Board in December 2010. in international financial would place significant REVISED POLICY ON NONreporting standards.
reliance as part of its audit AUDIT FEES work: The Committee also reviewed The Audit Committee valuation and tax services the annual internal audit and litigation support where considers services under the plan, summaries of reports the respective valuation, three headings, set out in the received and reviewed the calculations or estimation Ethical Standard.
effectiveness and resources of the likely outcome would of the Groups internal audit SERVICES WHERE THREATS TO have a material effect on function.
In September, it DELOITTES INDEPENDENCE the financial statements: carried out an annual review ARE CONSIDERED LOW any services where the of its terms of reference and The first category comprises auditor would undertake of its effectiveness and pre-approved services where the role of management or concluded that it did not need threats to Deloittes take on the role of to recommend to the Board independence are considered advocate: and any substantive changes to its low, typically where the contingent fee arrangements remit or operations.
In engagement is routine in where the outcome is September, the Board nature and the fee immaterial dependent on a future conducted its own review of in the context of the total or contemporary audit the Committees performance annual Group audit fee.
In judgment relating to a and confirmed that the addition such pre-approved material matter in the financial Committee had fulfilled its services include those which statements or on a new obligations and been effective are audit-related, as defined or uncertain tax law in the year under review.
by the APB Ethical Standard.
Services which may fall in this Euromoney Institutional In addition to considering the category include the review of Investor plc is subject to the non-audit fees to be incurred, the Half Yearly Report, requirements of the Code in its the Committee also considers reporting on regulatory returns own right.
As disclosed in its both the nature of the services and accountancy advice.
latest annual report, it has in to be performed and the place its own system of internal safeguards required to SERVICES WHERE THERE control and risk management maintain independence.
COULD BE A PERCEIVED processes which forms part of THREAT TO INDEPENDENCE In July, it approved the the Groups overall framework The second category is services appointment of Deloitte to of control.
The joint ventures where there could be a carry out part of an IT project and associates of the Group perceived threat to for A&N Media, designed to are not included in the Groups independence for which improve business confidence system of internal control approval is required before they in its information security and described above.
Non-audit risk management which had D J Verey services in these areas are the potential to exceed the Audit Committee Chairman considered by the Committee 100,000 limit in the on an individual basis and are Committees policy on On behalf of the Board put out to tender where the non-audit fees.
Deloitte were amounts in question are appointed on merit.
Non-audit services project is not one on which Secretary in this category would include they would need to place 2nd December, 2011 those with a contingent fee significant reliance as part of DAILY MAIL AND GENERAL TRUST PLC ANNUAL REPORT 2011 61
