SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Combined Code The Chairman and Non-Executive Directors meet as a group without The Financial Services Authority FSA requires listed companies the Executive Directors present.
The Non-Executive Directors meet to disclose, in relation to the Combined Code as revised in 2008 in the absence of the Chairman if there are any concerns, which the the Code, how they have applied its principles and whether they Chairman has failed to resolve, or to consider his performance or have complied with its provisions throughout the accounting year.
The Board of Kesa Electricals plc supports the principles of corporate The role of the Chairman is to ensure that the Board has full and timely governance advocated by the Code and the Board believes that it access to all relevant information.
The Chairman leads the Board and complies in full with the terms of the Code.
represents the Board to the Chief Executive as necessary between Board meetings.
Directors The Board consists of a Chairman, a Chief Executive plus one further The duties of the Board and its committees are set out clearly Executive Director and following the appointment of Alan Parker in in formal terms of reference, copies of which are available from October 2010 six Non-Executive Directors.
There is a clear division www.
com which are reviewed regularly, stating the of responsibilities between the Chairman and Chief Executive.
items specically reserved for decisions by the Board.
The Board establishes overall Group strategy, including new activities and All the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board to be withdrawal from existing activities.
It approves the Groups commercial independent in character and judgement and there are no relationships strategy and the operating budget and monitors divisional or circumstances which could affect, or appear to affect, a Directors performance through the receipt of monthly reports and management judgement.
Peter Wilson is the Senior Independent Director.
The process for the approval of acquisitions divestments Robb, an independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the for the most part is a matter reserved for the Board save that it Audit Committee, is a qualied accountant.
He is considered to have delegates to the Chief Executive the responsibility for such activities recent and relevant financial experience.
up to a specified level of authority.
Similarly, there are authority levels covering capital expenditure, which can be exercised by the Chief Executive.
Beyond these levels of authority, projects are referred to The Board is aware of the other commitments of its Directors and is satisfied that these do not conict with their duties as Non-Executive the Board for approval.
The Executive Directors do not hold any Non-Executive Directorships in other companies.
Other matters reserved to the Board include: The Non-Executive Directors are appointed for specified terms and Overview of financial control, audit and risk management.
the details of their respective appointments are set out in the report Remuneration: on Directors remuneration and related matters on page 35.
Copies The Groups framework of executive remuneration and of their respective letters of appointment or contracts are available for its cost in the light of recommendations made by the inspection at the Companys registered ofce and will also be available Remuneration Committee.
for inspection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors.
Senior management succession plans and the overall direction All Directors are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first of management development.
opportunity after their appointment and thereafter in accordance with Pension schemes.
Article 82 of the Companys Articles of Association.
The Directors are Corporate responsibility.
following the best practice requirements of Principle B7.1 of the UK The appointment or removal of the Company Secretary.
Corporate Governance Code 2010 and all will be retiring at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and all except Michel Brossard The Board is supplied in a timely manner with information in a form and Peter Wilson are offering themselves for re-election.
Subject to and of a quality appropriate to enable it to discharge its duties.
This his being re-elected as a Director it is intended that Alan Parker will includes monthly management accounts irrespective of whether or not replace Peter Wilson as Senior Independent Director after the a Board meeting is scheduled.
There is also a procedure under which forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
Directors, in furtherance of their duties, are able to take independent professional advice, if necessary, at the Companys expense.
The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed and all Directors have access to his advice and services.
30 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE The Directors receive training as part of their induction from the The Committee normally meets at least four times a year.
Both the Companys legal advisers on the duties and responsibilities of being external auditors and the Director of Audit and Risk Management Directors of a publicly limited company.
The training needs of the were present at the meetings and, in addition, it is common practice Directors are periodically discussed at Board meetings and briengs for the Committee to meet the external auditors without management are given by the Company Secretary on various elements of corporate present.
The Director of Audit and Risk Management has the right governance, regulatory compliance and best practice.
to request a meeting without other management present, and he regularly meets the Chairman of the Audit Committee without During the financial period, the Board, and each of the Audit and management being present.
The Chief Executive and the Finance Remuneration Committees undertook performance evaluations.
Director attend meetings as appropriate.
The individual committee members initially completed separate questionnaires.
The results were compiled and analysed by the The Chairman of the Audit Committee reports the outcome of Company Secretary, who prepared reports to the Board and each of meetings to the Board and the Board receives the minutes of all the committees.
The areas covered included the role of the Executive Audit Committee meetings.
and Non-Executive Directors and the Board Board committees, preparation for and the performance at meetings, the effectiveness The main role and responsibilities are set out in written terms of of the Board Board committees, leadership and culture and corporate reference which encompass those recommended by the Combined governance.
The results were considered by the Board and each of Code, i. e: these committees in meetings.
The Board and Board committees consider that they are operating effectively.
To monitor the integrity of the financial statements of the Company, reviewing significant financial reporting issues and judgements The Senior Independent Director, Peter Wilson, also met with the contained therein.
Non-Executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman, to assess To review the financial reports for publication and to ensure the Chairmans effectiveness.
Details of the Chairmans professional compliance with all accounting policies and standards.
commitments are included in his biography on page 25.
To review the Companys compliance with legal and .
During the year ended 30 April 2011 the Board met eight times.
To review the Companys internal financial control and risk This is felt adequate to enable effective running of the Company.
management systems and to review risk exposures and steps The attendance record of individual Directors at Board and committee taken to monitor and control them.
meetings is detailed below: To monitor and review the effectiveness of the Companys internal audit function.
Board Audit Remuneration Nomination To make recommendations to the Board in relation to the 8 meetings 5 meetings 2 meetings 1 meetings appointment of the external auditor and to approve the David Newlands 8 N A N A 1 remuneration and terms of engagement of the external auditor.
Thierry Falque-Pierrotin 8 N A N A 1 To monitor and review the external auditors independence, Dominic Platt 8 N A N A N A objectivity and effectiveness, taking into account UK professional Michel Brossard 8 5 2 1 and regulatory requirements.
Bernard Dufau 8 5 2 1 To monitor the operation of formal complaints procedures, Michel Lonard 8 5 2 1 including whistleblowing.
Alan Parker 3 2 0 0 To satisfy itself that the Companys code of conduct is Andrew Robb 7 5 2 1 beingenforced.
Peter Wilson 8 5 2 1 The removal and appointment of the Group Director of Risk Management and Internal Audit.
Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2010.
These responsibilities have been discharged in the following manner The Board has established a number of committees, including Audit, in the past financial year: Remuneration and Nomination: At its meetings in June, September, December 2010 and February a Audit Committee 2011, the focus was the review of the Annual report and financial The Audit Committee consists of six Non-Executive Directors, statements, the half-year report and financial statements and considered by the Board to be independent.
They are Andrew Robb the interim management statements respectively.
For the Annual Chairman, Peter Wilson, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau, Michel report and financial statements, and the half-year report the Lonard and from 1 October 2010 Alan Parker.
The Committee has at Committee received reports from the external auditors identifying least one member, Andrew Robb, who possesses recent and relevant any accounting or judgemental issues requiring its attention.
It will be seen from the Directors biographical details, appearing on pages 24 and 25, that the members of the Committee bring to it a wide range of experience from positions at the highest level, both in the UK and France.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 31 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE A quarterly report from the Director of Audit and Risk Management c Nomination Committee was presented at each of the four meetings, which highlighted any The members of the Nomination Committee are David Newlands significant risk and control issues.
In addition, at the May meeting, Chairman, Thierry Falque-Pierrotin, Peter Wilson, Andrew Robb, the Director of Audit and Risk Management submitted the internal Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau and Michel Lonard and from audit plans for the coming year.
The Committee would be chaired The external auditors presented their audit plans at the February by the Senior Independent Director on any matter concerning meeting and there was a detailed review of the external auditors the Chairmanship of the Company.
performance at the September meeting.
Presentations were made to the Committee on the subject of risk, The Nomination Committee has written terms of reference its identication, management and control.
covering the authority delegated to it by the Board.
These include As a matter of routine, the Committee was presented with the following duties: information on material litigation involving Group companies.
The Committee reviewed all financial statements prior to To review regularly the Board performance, including structure, theirpublication.
size and composition and make recommendations to the Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary.
As noted above, one of the duties of the Audit Committee is to Board appointments and removals are matters reserved for the make recommendations to the Board in relation to the appointment Board.
It is the responsibility of the Nomination Committee to of the external auditors.
The Committee, in assessing whether identify and nominate candidates for the approval of the Board, to recommend the auditors for re-appointment, takes a number to ll Board vacancies as and when they arise and to review of factors into account.
These include: succession plans for both Board and senior executive positions.
Setting policy for granting of service agreements including The quality of reports provided to the Audit Committee and the mitigation policy.
Board and the quality of advice given.
The level of understanding demonstrated of the Groups business Share capital and control and industry.
The disclosures required under DTR 7.2.
6 are to be found on page 28 The objectivity of the auditors views on the controls around the of the Directors report.
Group and their ability to co-ordinate a global audit working to tightdeadlines.
Relations with shareholders The Company recognises the importance of communicating with its The Committee has put in place safeguards to ensure that the shareholders and does this through its Annual and Interim reports and independence of the audit is not compromised and the auditors at the Annual General Meeting.
Although it does not have precise rules are restricted in their ability to perform any non-audit activities.
covering meetings with institutional shareholders, it is always ready to Arrangements are in place for the auditors to report to the Committee enter into a dialogue with investors, and meetings take place frequently.
on actions they take to comply with the professional and regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their independence The Board believes that good communication with shareholders is from the Company.
There are programmes for the Chief Executive and Finance Director to meet with the Companys institutional investors in the UK b Remuneration Committee and Europe and presentations are made on the operating and financial The Remuneration Committee consists exclusively of Non-Executive performance of the Group and its longer term strategy.
Road Shows Directors considered by the Board to be independent: Peter Wilson are held in the UK and Europe immediately after the presentation Chairman, Michel Brossard, Bernard Dufau, Michel Lonard, Andrew of the full year and interim results.
If it is not possible to arrange Robb and from 1 October 2010 Alan Parker.
Subject to his being face-to-face meetings, meetings are held by telephone conference.
elected as a Director it is intended that Alan Parker will replace Peter The presentations made to representatives of the investment Wilson as Chairman of the Committee immediately after the Annual community following the announcement of the full year and interim General Meeting in September.
The Committees responsibilities results are available online at www.
com as is a web include setting remuneration policy, ensuring that the remuneration cast of the results presentations.
and terms of service of the Executive Directors are appropriate and that Directors are fairly rewarded for their individual contribution to the The Non-Executive Directors are given regular updates as to the views Companys overall performance.
It also ensures that the allocation of of institutional shareholders, and the Senior Independent Director, shares under the Groups share schemes are on a fair and equitable Peter Wilson, is available to meet with institutional shareholders should basis and in accordance with agreed performance criteria.
The there be unresolved matters that shareholders believe should be application of corporate governance principles in relation to Directors brought to his attention.
remuneration is described in the report on Directors remuneration and related matters on pages 35 to 41.
32 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE The principal communication with private investors is through the The key procedures, which operated throughout the year, are as follows: Annual report, the Interim report and the Annual General Meeting.
A presentation is made at the Annual General Meeting to facilitate Risk assessment: greater awareness of the Groups activities.
Shareholders are given The Group sets out its objectives clearly as part of its mediumthe opportunity to ask questions of the Board and the Chairman term planning process.
These objectives are then incorporated of each Board committee at the meeting and meet the Directors as part of the budgeting and planning cycle and are supported informally after the meeting.
Separate resolutions are proposed for by the use of both financial and non-financial key performance each item of business and the for, against and abstention proxy indicators.
votes cast in respect of each resolution proposed at the meeting are The operating companies make presentations on risk to their counted and announced after the shareholders present have voted audit committees whose reports in turn are reviewed by the on each resolution.
Notice of the Annual General Meeting is posted Group Audit Committee, which reports to the Group Board on to shareholders with the Annual report at least 20 working days before the risks and any weaknesses facing the businesses.
the date of the Annual General Meeting.
The detailed assessment of strategic risks is delegated to the Chief Executive.
This review is carried out as part of the annual Financial and other information, including the terms of reference for budgeting and the monthly reporting and reforecasting cycles.
the Board and Board committees, are available from the Companys The Audit Committee has delegated responsibility for registered ofce and are also available on the Companys website considering operational, financial and compliance risks on a www.
regular basis and receives reports on the controls over these risks.
This includes risks arising from social, environmental Accountability, risk management and internal control and ethical matters.
It is a requirement of the Combined Code that the Board should Control environment and control activities: present a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys The Group consists of a number of operating companies, position and prospects.
In this context, reference should be made each with its own management and control structures.
to the statement of Directors responsibilities on page 42, which The Group has established procedures for delegated authority, includes a statement in compliance with the Code regarding the which ensure that decisions that are significant, either because Groups status as a going concern, and to the report of the auditors of the value or the impact on other parts of the Group, on page 43, which includes a statement by the auditors about their are taken at an appropriate level.
The Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each significant risk that has been identied.
The Board recognises that its responsibility to present a balanced These strategies include not only internal controls but also and understandable assessment extends to interim and other price other approaches such as insurance, joint ventures and sensitive public reports and reports to regulators as well as information specialised treasury instruments.
required to be presented by law.
The Board has in place systems and The operating companies work within a framework of policies procedures for controlling and managing the preparation and release and procedures laid down in organisation and authority of these reports.
manuals, and personnel are required to comply with these procedures.
Policies and procedures cover key issues such Internal control as authorisation levels, segregation of duties, compliance with The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal legislation and physical and data security.
The Group has also control and for reviewing its effectiveness and confirms that such a established a whistleblowing policy.
review has taken place during the year ended 30 April 2011 and up Information and communication: to the date of this report.
Such a system is designed to manage rather The Group has a comprehensive system of budgetary control, than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and including monthly performance reviews for each major business can provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance against material and division.
These reviews are at a detailed level within the misstatement or loss.
The Board has reviewed the effectiveness operating companies and at a high level for the Group Board.
of the key procedures which have been established to provide On a monthly basis, the achievement of business objectives, internalcontrol.
both financial and non-financial, is assessed using a range of key performance indicators.
These indicators are reviewed In line with publication of guidance for Directors on internal control to ensure that they remain relevant and reliable.
in the Combined Code, the Board confirms that there is an ongoing There are clear procedures in the major operating companies process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks for employees to report suspected improprieties.
These include those relating to social, environmental and ethical matters.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Audit Committee, which reports its findings for consideration by the Board, and is in accordance with the 2010 UK Governance Code and the Turnbull Committee guidance.
Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11 33 SECTION 3 MANAGEMENT AND GOVERNANCE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Monitoring: Whilst management at each operating business has responsibility for The effective application of internal control within the Group the identication and evaluation of significant risks applicable to their is monitored by the following: business and any mitigating actions to be taken, Group executive management reviews, identies and evaluates the risks which are The Audit Committee, which in respect of the Group: significant at a Group level as well as the mitigating actions against monitors the integrity of the financial statements and any formal those risks.
These are then considered by the Board.
The type announcements relating to the financial performance: of risks identied include strategic risk, external factors such as the reviews internal financial controls and systems, and other competitive environment and regulations, health and safety, retention internal control and risk management systems including reports of key management and macro market risks.
The internal audit plans from the external auditors and internal audit on any material are designed to address the controls and actions in relation to each control weaknesses: businesss significant identied risks.
Where appropriate the risk reviews risk management systems: management process will include the use of insurance.
monitors and reviews the effectiveness of the internal audit function and the functions work plans.
The Directors can confirm that they have reviewed the effectiveness of this system of internal control, and that it accords with the guidance The business head of each major operating company, who: of the Turnbull committee on internal control.
maintains systems that continually identify and evaluate significant risks resulting from their strategies and that apply The Boards review of the system of internal controls has not identied to their areas of the business: any significant failings or weaknesses, and therefore no remedial reviews and monitors the effectiveness of internal control actions are required.
systems through an operating company audit committee and reports from internal and external audit functions: has responsibility for identication and evaluation of significant risks to their business area, together with the design of mitigating controls: has responsibility for their local audit committee: supported by their operating company audit committee, reports on any control weaknesses or breakdowns that could be material to the Group: certies with the Finance Director for the operating company that all necessary information has been provided to the auditors.
The Internal Audit and Risk Management function, which: works with the operating companies to develop, improve and embed risk management tools and processes into their business operations: oversees the operation of the individual operating businesss audit committee: ensures that business risks are identied, managed and regularly reviewed at all levels of the Group and that Directors are periodically appraised of the key risks in accordance with the Turnbull guidance: provides the Board and the Group Audit Committee with assurance on the control environment across the Group: ensures that the operating companies have appropriate organisation and processes to carry out regular reviews of their internal controls: monitors adherence to the Groups key policies and principles.
34 Kesa Electricals plc Annual report 2010 11
