Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Corporate governance statement The Board is collectively accountable to the Companys Compliance with Section 1 of the Combined Code shareholders for good corporate governance and all Directors are on Corporate Governance responsible for complying with their legal and fiduciary obligations.
In the year to 26 March 2011, the Company was subject to the Combined Code.
The Board confirms that the Company has The Board is committed to complying with the highest standards complied throughout with the provisions and applied the principles of corporate governance, which is the system of internal principles, of the Combined Code save in respect of the separation of the controls and processes it approves and by which the fide La Rue roles of Chairman and Chief Executive for a brief period when Group is run in order to achieve its objectives while complying with Nicholas Brookes took on the role of Executive Chairman from the required standards of accountability and probity.
12 August 2010 to 31 December 2010 while the Company was The Groups corporate governance procedures, which are without a Chief Executive, pending a new appointment.
approved by the Board, define the matters reserved to the Board, Board of Directors the terms of reference of various Committees of the Board and the Composition of the Board functions delegated to these Committees as well as defining the Following the appointment of Victoria Jarman 22 April 2010 the jobs of the Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Board comprises five independent Non-executive Directors, the Non-executive Directors.
The Company reviews and amends its Non-executive Chairman and two Executive Directors.
The Board corporate governance policies to reflect changes to the Combined has concluded that its composition throughout the year was and Code on Corporate Governance published in June 2008 the remains appropriately balanced.
Combined Code, legislation or good practice.
In June 2010, the Financial Reporting Council introduced changes to the Combined There is a clear division between the management of the Board Code, which will now be known as The UK Corporate Governance and the Executive Directors responsibility for managing the Code, to help company boards become more effective and Groups business.
However, no individual or small group can more accountable to their shareholders.
The Board has carefully dominate decision taking.
The roles of the Chairman and Chief considered the changes made to the Combined Code and intends Executive are separated and clearly defined, except for a brief to comply fully.
period between 12 August 2010 to 31 December 2010 when the Chairman took on the role of Executive Chairman until a new Chief The Board approved the Code of Business Principles which Executive was appointed.
The Chairman is primarily responsible strengthened, reinvigorated and replaced the existing Code for the working and leadership of the Board.
The Chief Executive of Conduct during the year and defines the Groups business is responsible for running the business and implementing Board principles.
This is discussed further in this section of the Annual strategy and policy.
Report and in the Corporate responsibility report on page 28.
The document can be found on the Groups website.
The Directors biographies appear on page 33 and the Boards policy is that the Chairman and Executive Directors should accept The Company has complied with the provisions of the Combined appointments to the boards of other companies only with the prior Code relating to internal control, which require the Board to review approval of the Board and that Non-executive Directors must seek the effectiveness of internal controls and to have in place an the agreement of the Chairman and confirmation by the Board ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the key before accepting additional commitments that may affect the risks including financial, operational and compliance controls as time they devote to their role.
well as risk management systems.
As part of the Boards process for reviewing the effectiveness of the system of internal control, Board changes it delegates certain matters to the Audit Committee including: Victoria Jarman joined the Board as a Non-executive Director on 22 April 2010.
The review of external and internal audit plans Simon Webb left the Board on 31 May 2010 and James Hussey Consideration of internal and external audit reports on the stepped down as Chief Executive on 12 August 2010. system of internal control Colin Child was appointed Group Finance Director and an Any material control weaknesses and discussions with Executive Director with effect from 1 June 2010.
Colin Child took management on the actions taken on problem areas identified on the additional role of Chief Operating Officer for the period from by Board and Audit Committee members, in internal audit 12 August 2010 to 31 December 2010. reports or in external audit management letters Tim Cobbold was appointed an Executive Director and Chief This process has been in place throughout the year and up to the Executive on 1 January 2011. date of approval by the Board of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Board concluded its latest review in April 2011, having The Non-executive Directors hold letters of appointment which will particular regard to the events of the year and the forthcoming be displayed at the AGM, together with the Executive Directors implementation of the UK Bribery Act.
Amongst the changes service agreements and Directors indemnification agreements.
made as a result of the review, the Company has taken the Tim Cobbold was appointed a Director since the last AGM and, following actions: being eligible, will offer himself for election at the AGM.
A number of new management appointments The Board has a policy that each Director be required to submit Reinforcement of the Companys absolute focus on quality, themself for annual reelection and accordingly all other Directors including upgrades in processes and the introduction of will retire and offer themselves for reelection.
independent monitoring of paper testing The existing commitments of Directors appear on page 33 and A review of the process of appointment and reappointment of the Board is satisfied that these commitments do not conflict and arrangements with overseas agents which will result in the with their ability to carry out effectively their duties as Directors processes being enhanced to cater for the new requirements of the Company.
of the UK Bribery Act Subject to the provisions of relevant statutes, the Companys A formal review of the Groups risk assessment and risk Articles and any directions given by special resolution, the management procedures Directors may exercise all the powers of the Company.
This does not extend to associated companies or joint ventures where the Group does not have management control.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 37 Corporate governance statement continued Succession planning The controls by their nature are designed to manage, rather than The Board reviews its composition at least annually, assessing eliminate, risk and can only provide reasonable but not absolute the skills profile, type and number of Non-executive Directors assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Details of the required to enable the Board to perform effectively.
It also reviews processes and controls are set out below.
The Board reviews the Groups internal talent review process in planning Executive matters reserved to itself and the performance of management in Director and senior management succession.
achieving agreed goals and objectives at its meetings.
The Board timetable ensures that the Board receives regular reports and Objectives of the Board presentations from the Executive Directors, operational managing The Board agreed a number of specific areas for focus in the directors and key functions.
Directors receive agendas and Board coming year as a result of the 2010 review as follows: papers generally five days before each Board meeting: minutes Delivering value to shareholders and other stakeholders are circulated as soon as possible after the meeting.
The Board reviews progress on implementing actions arising from the Board Strategic growth options and competitive landscape and its Committee meetings each month.
Succession planning There is also a defined procedure for dealing with urgent matters Risk management between Board meetings.
Role and operation of the Board Any Director can request additional information from management The Board has a programme of fixed meetings during the year at any time.
All Directors have direct access to the advice and and it also met on an ad hoc basis as required.
The Boards core services of the General Counsel and Company Secretary who procedures are: is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are followed.
The Board decides the appointment and removal of the Set out in the terms of reference for the Board, its Committees Company Secretary.
and Directors Board evaluation and effectiveness review The control of risk through agreed evaluation and control The Board and each of the Nomination, Remuneration and Audit procedures reviewed and revised annually Committees completed an evaluation of their performance in May Monitoring the composition of the Board through the Nomination 2011.
The Risk Committee was evaluated by the Board.
The Committee process involved completion of questionnaires which focused on process, structure, behaviours and key issues, such as strategy The Board has also reserved certain matters to itself to reinforce and succession, against delivery of the Boards objectives and its control of the Group.
Full details are set out on the Groups addressing any issues identified during the previous review or website.
These include: which became relevant during the year.
Determining the responsibilities of Directors, in particular those The Chairman and each Committee Chairman has discussions of the Chairman and Chief Executive with each Director or Committee member based on the responses Approving internal control processes and each Directors own views regarding effectiveness of the Board or Committee as a whole and the individual Directors Approving the final and interim Financial Statements performance.
The Senior Independent Director is responsible Approving, in conjunction with the Audit Committee, the for appraising the Chairmans performance in discussions with recommendation of dividends the Non-executive Directors in the absence of the Chairman.
The Chairman and the Non-executive Directors also meet in the Approving appointments to, and removals from, the Board and absence of the Executive Directors.
The results are discussed the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees by the Board and individual Committees and the final report Approving the Groups strategy and annual budget highlighting any areas for improvement agreed by the Board.
Authorisation of authority levels, financial and treasury policies Conflicts of interests and any acquisition or disposal Directors have a duty to avoid a direct or indirect interest which conflicts, or possibly may conflict, with the interests of the Group The Board delegates authority to run the business to the unless that conflict has been authorised by the Board.
The Chief Executive manages the Groups day conflict may arise by reason of a situation or a specific transaction.
to day activities and presents to the Board the strategic options The Board has established a process to review at least annually for growth in shareholder value.
In conjunction with the Executive and, if thought appropriate, authorise any conflict of interest and Committee, comprising the divisional managing directors and has carried out such review and authorised all Directors situational other senior executives, the Chief Executive sets the operating conflicts.
Any transactional conflicts are reviewed as they arise.
plans and budgets required to deliver the agreed strategy.
Directors are asked to review and confirm reported conflicts of The role and responsibilities of the Chairman, Chief Executive, interests as part of the year end process.
Group Finance Director, Senior Independent Director and other Directors are also clearly defined.
Full details are set out on the Indemnity Groups website.
The Executive Directors and the Executive To the extent permitted by the Companies Act 2006 and the Committee operate within clearly defined limits of authority UKLA Listing Rules the Company indemnifies certain officers so delegated by the Board.
that the Company may advance defence costs in civil or regulatory proceedings on such terms as the Board may reasonably The Board provides leadership of the Group within a framework determine but any advance must be refunded if the Director of prudent and effective internal controls, including financial, or officer is subsequently convicted.
operational and compliance controls and risk management systems.
These are required to identify and manage the risks The indemnity will not provide cover where the Director or officer and their potential effect whilst ensuring that material changes has acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
are reported to the Board in a timely fashion.
The Board reviews the effectiveness of those controls and systems and is assisted by the Audit and Risk Committees.
fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 38 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Details of attendance at Board and Committee meetings Induction and training The number of Board meetings and Committee meetings attended All new Directors receive an induction on joining the Company, by each Director during the year was as follows: for which the Chairman is responsible.
This covers such matters as the strategy, operation and activities of the Group including Directors attendance Audit Nomination Remuneration key financial data, and business, social and environmental risks to 2010 11 Committee Board Committee Committee the Groups activities, corporate governance matters such as the Number of role of the Board and individual Committees, and the Companys meetings held 4 33 6 10 corporate governance procedures as outlined in this report.
They Nicholas Brookes 33 6 10 are advised on the duties and obligations of directors of a listed Colin Child company.
Site visits and meetings with senior management appointed 1 June 2010 31 31 are also arranged.
Any newly appointed Director, who has not Tim Cobbold previously been a director of a listed company, is invited to attend appointed 1 January 2011 6 6 1 1 external training covering such duties and responsibilities.
Directors Warren East 4 25 5 are briefed, where appropriate, by the Companys internal and Sir Jeremy Greenstock 27 5 9 external advisers, on changes to legislation, regulation or market Sir Julian Horn-Smith 3 26 5 8 practice, as well as receiving briefings from individual businesses James Hussey throughout the year.
The Board received specific briefing on the resigned 12 August 2010 9 9 1 1 key issues of the UK Bribery Act and on its implementation during Victoria Jarman appointed 22 April 2010 4 33 6 the year.
The Directors, especially Committee Chairmen, have the Gill Rider 3 30 6 10 opportunity of attending appropriate training sessions.
Simon Webb resigned 31 May 2010 2 2 The Board visits an operational site at least annually Overton in 2010.
Directors are also encouraged to visit other sites and Appointed to the Nomination and Risk Committees 1 January 2011 meet with staff.
The General Counsel and Company Secretary, Number of meetings held during the year while a serving Director in conjunction with the Chairman, ensures that there is proper Role of Non-executive Directors communication between the Board and its Committees and senior The Non-executive Directors, all of whom are considered management and that Non-executive Directors receive appropriate by the Board to be independent as at 26 March 2011, have information.
The Chairman reviews and the General Counsel and an appropriate range of business, financial and international Company Secretary facilitates induction and other professional experience which is relevant to the Companys activities.
of the Non-executive Directors holds a material shareholding Directors may take independent professional advice at the in the Company.
Under the Combined Code, Nicholas Brookes Companys expense, although no such advice was sought during ceased to be independent after his appointment on 22 July 2004 the year.
as Chairman but the Board considers that his contribution and objectivity in Board and Committee discussions were fully Appointments consistent with those of an independent Director.
Following a decision by the Board in 2010, all Directors are required to submit themselves for annual reelection.
New Directors Sir Jeremy Greenstock was appointed the Senior Independent are subject to election by shareholders at the first opportunity after Director on 1 January 2010.
Shareholders may contact the Senior their appointment.
Non-executive Directors are appointed for an Independent Director if they feel their concerns are not being initial period of two years with the expectation of three two year addressed through normal channels.
terms subject to satisfactory performance.
Non-executive Directors confirm on appointment and any The Board may invite a Non-executive Director to serve a further reappointment that they are able to allocate sufficient time to term after six years following a detailed review at the end of this enable them to discharge their duties properly.
Directors who have period, subject to reelection.
been unable to attend Board or Committee meetings have made known their views on pertinent matters before the meeting.
The Board, having carried out the effectiveness and evaluation process, considers the performance of each of the Directors standing for election and reelection at this years AGM to be fully satisfactory and is of the opinion that they have demonstrated continued commitment to the role.
The Board strongly supports their election and reelection and recommends that shareholders vote in favour of the resolutions at the AGM.
Corporate responsibility Information on the Groups initiatives and commitment to corporate responsibility can be found in the Corporate responsibility report on pages 27 to 31. fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 39 Corporate governance statement continued Business ethics Nomination Committee fide La Rue delivers high profile products to customers across The Committee consists of five independent Non-executive the world, offering them security, confidence and efficiency.
It is Directors at the date of this report together with the Chairman essential that the Group maintains the trust and confidence of its and the Chief Executive.
customers, and everyone it deals with, both inside and outside The Committee meets at least once a year and otherwise as fide La Rue, by demonstrating complete integrity in the way the necessary and makes recommendations to the Board with Group and its business partners behave.
regard to any vacancies for Executive or Non-executive Directors fide La Rue has clear core values and principles which govern how or changes that are considered necessary.
The Committee has the Group does business and which everyone within fide La Rue the power to employ the services of such advisers as it deems must follow.
The way fide La Rue delivers these will be reflected necessary in order to carry out its responsibilities.
The Committee in the way the Group competes for business and delivers also reviews the time commitment required of Non-executive its services.
Directors at least once a year.
The Board, as a whole, approves the appointment and removal of Directors and retains appropriate All employees are required to follow the Code of Business executive search consultants, having prepared a job specification Principles approved by the Board when performing their duties as for the particular role to be filled.
The principal activity of the employees or where they are representing fide La Rue.
In addition, Committee during 2010 11 was succession planning and the all business partners worldwide must follow this Code of Business recruitment of a new Group Finance Director and Chief Executive.
Principles when they are representing fide La Rue.
Remuneration Committee More detailed policies and procedures supplement the Code of Gill Rider was appointed to the Remuneration Committee in Business Principles.
The main principles are that employees and July 2006 and she has been the Committee Chairman since where relevant business partners must: 26 July 2007.
Details of the Committee and of the remuneration Not accept, offer or encourage bribes policy can be found in the Remuneration report on pages 42 to 50.
Comply with health and safety requirements and protection General Business Committee for the environment The Committee meets when necessary to deal with routine matters arising between scheduled Board meetings.
Only Comply with employment and data protection law independent Non-executive Directors may decide matters relating Comply with competition anti trust law to the administration or the implementation of the Companys share schemes other than for the purpose of allotting shares Conduct business dealings with customers, suppliers and third on exercise.
parties honestly Risk Committee Avoid conflicts of interests in any business dealings The terms of reference and the composition of the Risk Committee Comply with the Companys Share Dealing Code were amended in 2009.
Core responsibilities of the Risk Committee are to: The policies and procedures related to the appointment and reappointment of and management of distributors, sales agents Assist the Board by assessing and reporting on the effectiveness and consultants were strengthened during the year to further of the Companys internal control and risk management systems improve the management of bribery and corruption risks.
The Assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities by reviewing the Group Third Party Partner team continues to develop and refine framework for managing risks throughout the Group the processes and procedures for the appointment of distributors, sales agents and consultants.
All applications for appointment and Provide an appropriate level of reporting on the status of risk reappointment of Third Party Partners TPPs are managed by this management within the Group central team which reports directly to the General Counsel and Promote awareness of internal control issues and risk Company Secretary.
management Due diligence undertaken on TPPs will be extended during Provide an appropriate level of reporting to the Board, which 2011 12.
An online training module dedicated to issues retains the overall responsibility, on the status of internal risk surrounding working with TPPs was launched during the year management for mandatory completion by relevant employees involved in this activity.
The Committee, chaired by the General Counsel and Company Secretary, meets and reports to the Board at least twice a year.
Committees of the Board Other members of the Committee include the Chief Executive, The Board has established Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Group Finance Director, heads of the principal functions, all General Business and Risk Committees with appointed Chairmen divisional managing directors and the Group Director of Business and fixed terms of reference which are reviewed annually.
Any Director is entitled to attend any meeting.
At the The terms of reference and duties of the Audit, Nomination, year end, following review by the Audit Committee of internal Remuneration and Risk Committees appear on the Groups financial controls and of the processes covering these controls, website and are also available on request.
The Board is satisfied the Board evaluates the results of the risk management that the Committees discharged their responsibilities satisfactorily.
procedures conducted by senior management.
Membership of these Committees is given in the Directors biographies on page 33.
Further details of Committees and key The Committee is assisted by Group wide committees which activities performed during the year are given in this Annual Report.
deal with specific areas of risk such as the Health, Safety and Environment Committee and the Security Committee.
Details of risk management and particular risks within the Group are set out on pages 20 to 23. fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 40 Overview Business review Corporate governance report Financial statements Audit Committee of the Board The Audit Committee places great emphasis on the objectivity Warren East is Chairman of the Audit Committee having been of the Groups auditors, KPMG Audit Plc, in reporting to appointed on 1 April 2009.
He is the chief executive of a listed shareholders.
company with strong financial experience.
In addition, Victoria The KPMG audit partner is present at Audit Committee meetings Jarman had relevant financial experience with Lazard Corporate to ensure full communication of matters relating to the audit.
This Finance and before that KPMG.
All members of the Audit activity also forms part of KPMGs own system of quality control.
Committee are independent Non-executive Directors.
The external The Audit Committee has discussions with the auditors, without auditors, Chairman, Chief Executive, Group Finance Director, management being present, on the adequacy of controls and General Counsel and Company Secretary and the internal on judgemental areas and receives and reviews the auditors auditors, Ernst & Young LLP, attend each meeting at the invitation highlights reports and management letters which are one of the of the Committee Chairman.
Ernst & Young LLP and KPMG Audit main outputs from the external audit.
Plc each meet the Committee without Executive Directors or employees of the Company being present.
The scope and key focus of the forthcoming years audit is discussed with, and approved by, the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee provides an independent overview of the effectiveness of the internal financial control systems and financial Independence of auditors reporting processes.
Its principal responsibilities include: The Audit Committee has a detailed policy specifying which services the external auditor is allowed to perform on behalf of the The appointment of the external auditor and the agreement Group and the relevant procedures to be followed by the Group.
of terms of engagement at the start of each audit Briefly, the procedures cover: Approving and reviewing progress on audit plans across the businesses Selecting the statutory auditor and approving the audit fee Reviewing the integrity of the interim and full year financial Being satisfied that there are no relationships between the statements auditor and the Group other than in the ordinary course of business Reviewing and monitoring the external auditors independence and objectivity Commissioning non audit work Reviewing reports on the effectiveness of the Groups Circumstances in which it is appropriate for incumbent auditors whistleblowing procedures and arrangements, details of which to provide non audit work are set out on pages 22 and 28 fide La Rue has procedures for procuring audit and consulting During the year, the Audit Committee reviewed the effectiveness services from external sources as follows: of the internal audit function and of the external audit and KPMG Audit related services, covering regulatory and statutory reporting Audit Plcs role in performing it.
Non audit related services, covering the nature and extent of non Internal audit audit services whilst seeking to maintain the balance between The Board through the Audit Committee monitors the internal objectivity and value for money control systems through reports received from the internal audit function during the year.
The internal audit function is outsourced The allocation of non audit work is considered in accordance with to Ernst & Young LLP.
For 2010 11, the focus of internal audit the Groups policy on the engagement of external auditors and continued to ensure that efforts were better aligned to the risks the commissioning of non audit services.
The external auditors that fide La Rue faces whilst maintaining an emphasis on reviewing are prohibited from performing certain non audit related services the adequacy and effectiveness of general finance and IT controls including remuneration consultancy and advice and the design, across the Group on a cyclical basis.
Internal audit acts as a development or implementation of financial information or internal service to businesses by assisting with the ongoing improvement control systems.
There is a system of internal control Incumbent auditors may, but only with the prior approval of the reviews, which includes a self assessment programme covering Chairman of the Audit Committee, provide some non audit related both financial and IT controls, and actions agreed are followed up services, where the selection criteria include detailed proposals, by management to ensure that satisfactory control is maintained.
timescales, local resource and cost.
During 2010 11 the amount The internal audit plan is set and reviewed by the Audit Committee, of non audit fees paid to KPMG Audit Plc was 0.3m.
together with reports from the external auditors KPMG Audit Plc on internal control matters noted as part of their audit work.
The external auditors have safeguards in place to avoid their objectivity and independence being compromised.
They report Auditors to the Audit Committee on how they comply with professional and The Audit Committee assesses annually the qualification, expertise regulatory requirements and best practice designed to ensure their and resources and independence of the external auditors and independence.
Key members of the KPMG Audit Plc audit team the effectiveness of the audit process.
The Audit Committees rotate and the firm ensures, where appropriate, that confidentiality assessment is performed by an audit satisfaction questionnaire is maintained between different parts of the firm providing services completed by the Chairman, relevant senior management and to fide La Rue.
A copy of the Corporate governance statement will be made KPMG Audit Plc have been the Companys auditors since available on the Groups website.
The Audit Committee considers that the relationship with the auditors is working well and remains satisfied By order of the Board with their effectiveness.
During the year, the Audit Committee considered the tenure, performance and audit fees of the external auditor, and the level of non audit work undertaken, and recommended to the Board that a resolution for the reappointment of KPMG Audit Plc for a further year as the Companys auditor be proposed to shareholders at the AGM Edward Peppiatt in July 2010.
The resolution was passed and KPMG Audit Plc Company Secretary was reappointed for a further year.
24 May 2011 fide La Rue Annual Report 2011 41
