Board of directors Nigel Northridge Michael Sharp Chairman 55 Chief Executive 54 Joined board Joined board January 2010 May 2006 Committees Experience Nomination Chairman Michael Sharp was appointed Chief Remuneration Executive in September 2011 having Experience previously held the post of Deputy Chief Nigel Northridge became Chairman of the Executive from November 2008 and Chief Company and the Nomination Committee Operating Officer from May 2006.
Mr Northridge is currently to 2004, Mr Sharp was Trading Director of non-executive chairman of Paddy Power plc Debenhams Limited and from January 2004 and a non-executive director of Inchcape plc to May 2006 was Chief Operating Officer of and the PGA European Tour.
He previously worked was senior independent director of Aggreko in various capacities within the Burton plc, chief executive of Gallaher Group plc and Group, including as managing director of a non-executive director of Thomas Cook Principles and Racing Green and buying Group plc.
and merchandising director of Topshop andTopman.
Chris Woodhouse Finance Director 50 Joined board May 2006 Experience Chris Woodhouse has been Finance Director of the Company since May 2006.
Prior to the IPO in May 2006 he was Finance Director of Debenhams Limited having been appointed in December 2003.
Mr Woodhouse is currently Group non-executive chairman ofGondola Group Limited and non-executive chairman of Agent Provocateur Limited.
He was previously deputy chairman of Halfords Group and commercial director and deputy chief executive of Homebase Group.
He is aformer finance director of Birthdays Group and Superdrug Stores Plc.
Mr Woodhouse isaFellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales and anAssociate of the Association .
44 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Dennis Millard Martina King Adam Crozier Senior independent director 62 Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director 47 Joined board 50 Joined board April 2006 Joined board April 2006 Committees August 2009 Committees Remuneration Committees Remuneration Chairman Audit Chairman Remuneration Audit Nomination Audit Nomination Experience Nomination Experience Dennis Millard assumed the role of senior Experience Adam Crozier was appointed Chairman of independent director in April 2010.
He is Martina King is a non-executive director the Remuneration Committee in April 2009. also Chairman of the Audit Committee.
of Capita Group plc, Cineword PLC and Mr Crozier is currently chief executive of MrMillard is currently chairman of Trade Doubler AB and managing director ITV plc.
Previously he was chief executive Halfords Group plc and Smiths News plc of Aurasma, a division of Autonomy PLC.
of Royal Mail Holdings plc and the Football and a non-executive director of Xchanging Her former appointments include nonAssociation Limited, a non-executive PLC and Premier Farnell plc.
His former executive director of Johnston Press Plc director of Camelot Group plc and has held appointments include group finance director and Independent Media Distribution PLC, a number of senior positions at Saatchi & of Cookson Group plc, finance director managing director, Europe of Yahoo Limited Saatchi UK including joint chief executive.
ofMedeva plc and non-executive director and sales director and then managing of Exel plc, Arc International and EAG Ltd. director of Capital Radio.
Ms King is also MrMillard is a member of the South African atrustee of Coram and Suffolk Foundation Institute of Chartered Accountants.
and a governor of Seckford Foundation and Woodbridge School.
Composition of the board Mark Rolfe Sophie Turner Laing Directors No.
Executive 2 Non-executive 6 Independent non-executive director Independent non-executive director 52 51 Joined board Joined board October 2010 August 2009 Committees Committees Remuneration Remuneration Audit Audit Nomination Nomination Experience Experience Mark Rolfe is currently a non-executive Sophie Turner Laing is currently managing director of Barratt Developments plc, director, entertainment, news and broadcast Hornby plc and The Sage Group plc.
He is operations at British Sky Broadcasting also chairman of Lane, Clark and Peacock Group plc and on the board of AETN UK LLP.
MrRolfe previously worked in various and NGC Network International LLC.
In finance and executive roles within Gallaher addition, she is a vice president of BAFTA, Group plc including as finance director a trustee of The Media Trust and governor for seven years until the company was of the National Film and Television School.
Her previous roles include controller, programme acquisition at the BBC and vice president, broadcasting at Flextech now Virgin Media Television.
Ms Turner Laing was also co-founder and managing director of HITEntertainment PLC.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 45
