Corporate governance report In accordance with the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority, theCompany confirms that throughout the year ended 3September 2011 and as at the date of this Annual Report, itwascompliant with all the relevant provisions as set out intheUK Corporate Governance Code the Code issued bytheFinancial Reporting Council.
The board The board held six meetings during 2011 which were fully attended The role of the board of Debenhams is to provide entrepreneurial by all the board members apart from the meeting on 28 June 2011 leadership of the Company within a framework of controls enabling which Adam Crozier was unable to attend due to a schedule clash risk to be assessed and managed.
It is collectively responsible for the with ITV.
In addition to the directors, board meetings were attended long-term success of the Company.
by the Retail Operations Director, the Human Resources Director, the Group Trading Director, the Marketing Director and the Company As at 3 September 2011, the board of Debenhams plc comprised Secretary.
The board also held its annual off site meeting in February threeexecutive directors, five independent non-executive to consider the Companys strategy.
No individual or small group of directors and the non-executive Chairman.
Since the year end the individuals dominate the boards decision-making process.
number ofexecutive directors has reduced to two following the retirement ofRob Templeman as Chief Executive on 4 September In accordance with the Code there is a formal schedule of matters 2011.
MichaelSharp, the Deputy Chief Executive, succeeded Rob reserved for the boards consideration which is regularly reviewed.
Templeman as Chief Executive on 5 September 2011.
Dennis Millard Specific matters reserved for the boards consideration include the is the senior independent director.
approval of the Companys business model and strategy, determining the level of risk the Company is willing to take in achieving the All the directors will comply with the new Code requirement to Companys strategic and operational plans, approving the Companys submit themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting in Financial Statements, major capital expenditure, major acquisitions January 2012.
Biographies for the members of the board can be found and disposals, approving changes to governance and business on pages 44 to 45 of this report.
policies and conducting a review of the effectiveness of the board and Following the publication in February of the Davies Review on its committees.
The board delegates the operational decisions for the Women on Boards, the graph below illustrates that Debenhams implementation of these matters to the Companys management.
has already achieved the 2015 aspirational target of 25% female Reports from the executive directors are circulated in advance of each representation on the board.
Below board level, women account for board meeting and focus on major operational matters.
Reports are also 44% of senior management.
produced by specialists on general and Company business areas and by other executives and external advisers on key business areas.
Going forward, various sectors of the business will be presenting to the board Gender ratios on a rotating basis.
In 2011 matters considered by the board included presentations on key divisional operations, marketing and PR, health and safety, approval of the annual budget, assessing the corporate risk map and reviewing governance issues affecting theCompany.
The Chairman and the Chief Executive There is a clear division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and these are set out in writing and agreed bytheboard.
The main responsibility of the Chairman is the effective running of the board ensuring that the board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Debenhams plc board Senior executives Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives.
He ensures Male 75% Male 56% that the board determines the nature and extent of the significant Female 25% Female 44% risks the Company is willing to embrace in the implementation of its strategy.
The Chairman is responsible for promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Company.
The Chairman is available to shareholders and has visited shareholders during the year.
He takes the lead on issues of director development, through induction programmes and regular reviews.
By chairing the Nomination Committee, he regularly considers succession planning and the composition of the board.
46 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts The Chairman who sets the board agenda, together with the The questionnaires addressed the following issues: Company Secretary, ensures that the members of the board and its Board composition, expertise and dynamics committees receive clear, comprehensive, up-to-date and timely information so that there can be thorough consideration of the Board support, time management and board committees issues prior to, and informed debate and challenge, at board and Strategic, operational and risk oversight committee meetings.
Where directors have not been able to attend meetings due to conflicts in their schedule, they receive and read Succession planning and human resource management the papers for consideration at that meeting, relaying any comments Priorities for change to the Chairman in advance of the meeting where possible.
The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman on all board governance A 360 review of individual performance was also conducted which matters and reviews the Companys governance processes such as was provided in confidence to the Chairman.
The composition and the induction, development and evaluation of the board members.
performance of the committees of the board was considered in the The Companys induction process aims to enable new members review and was highly rated.
of the board to make a full contribution to its discussions, be aware Lintstocks report was discussed at the board meeting held on of the business policies in place and to refresh their knowledge on 13October 2011.
The following areas were addressed in the report: corporate governance, best practice and general compliance.
On the anniversary of each appointment the induction process is reviewed The current composition of the board was reviewed and the with the respective board member in order to obtain feedback on attributes which ought to be sought in future non-executive the induction provided with a view to enhancing future inductions.
director appointments were identified, as was their priority.
Alldirectors have access to the services of the Company Secretary and The level of board support and the information the board receives may take independent professional advice at the Companys expense were highly rated, although it was suggested that there could be in conducting their duties.
The Company provides insurance cover further rationalisation of the material which the board receives and indemnities for its directors and officers.
The Chief Executive is responsible for all executive management The relationship between individual directors and the relationship matters affecting the Company.
His principal responsibility is the between the board and top-level management were highly rated, day-to-day running of the Companys business and the achievement aswas the boards oversight of succession.
of the agreed strategic objectives.
The performance of the board in overseeing strategy was rated Non-executive directors highly and recent improvements in this area were noted.
It was All the Debenhams non-executive directors are considered by suggested that this will need to be re-evaluated under the new the board to be independent and free from any relationship or Chief Executive and that there may be the potential for greater circumstances that could affect their independent judgement.
Input on certain core strategic issues was also Theyhave a wide range of skills and experience and provide considered by board members based upon feedback from the constructive challenge in the board room.
Length of service There was broad consensus as to the key risks which the Company The table below details the length of service of the Chairman and faced.
It was felt that the risks are well understood, regularly ofeach non-executive director: debated in detail and that well-considered contingency plans are inplace.
Date of last Current length Date of re-election by of service as at Supporting the new Chief Executive in shaping the focus of Name appointment shareholders year end the board was identified as the number one priority over the Nigel Northridge 1 January 2010 11 January 2011 1 year 8 months coming year.
To this end, the role of the board in assisting with the Dennis Millard 9 May 2006 12 January 2010 5 years 4 months development of a new strategic plan and supporting the new Chief Executive in his communications with the market wasconsidered.
Adam Crozier 9 May 2006 11 January 2011 5 years 4 months Martina King 1 August 2009 12 January 2010 2 years 1 month The review content for each subsequent evaluation is designed to Mark Rolfe 1 October 2010 11 January 2011 11 months build upon learning gained in the previous year to ensure that the recommendations agreed in the review are implemented and that Sophie Turner Laing 1 August 2009 12 January 2010 2 years 1 month year-on-year progress is measured.
Performance evaluation Board committees This years formal evaluation of the performance of the board, The board committees are the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination its committees, the individual directors and the Chairman was Committees.
The terms of reference which are reviewed annually conducted, in accordance with the Code, by Lintstock Ltd, an external of each committee can be found at www.
During facilitator who has no other connection with Debenhams.
the year, the board approved the constitution of a Sustainability Committee, a committee of the board whose aim is to further The first stage of the review involved Lintstock engaging with the integrate the corporate social responsibility of the business within Chairman, the Chief Executive and the Company Secretary to set the its operations.
The Sustainability Committee is chaired by Martina context for the evaluation and to tailor the questionnaires used to the King and its members are employees whose roles within the business specific circumstances of Debenhams.
In particular, based upon the fall within four key work streams, namely sustainable sourcing, input of the incoming Chief Executive, certain specific questions were environment, logistics & distribution and people.
Further information framed around the opportunities and challenges for Debenhams, on the role and operation of that committee can be found on page 38. both domestically and internationally.
The Remuneration Committee All respondents were then requested to complete an online The Committees membership and responsibilities are detailed within questionnaire addressing the performance of the board and its the Remuneration Report on page 53. committees.
The anonymity of all respondents was ensured in order to promote the open and frank exchange of views.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 47 Corporate governance report continued Nomination Committee Nigel Northridge Chairman, Nomination Committee Directors and meetings Name of director Position Meetings attended Nigel Northridge Committee Chairman Chairman 1 1 Adam Crozier Independent non-executive director 1 1 Martina King Independent non-executive director 1 1 Dennis Millard Senior independent non-executive director 1 1 Mark Rolfe Independent non-executive director 0 0 Sophie Turner Laing Independent non-executive director 1 1 The Nomination Committee is chaired by Nigel Northridge.
The other members are Adam Crozier, Martina King, Dennis Millard, Mark Rolfe and Sophie Turner Laing.
Other individuals such as the Chief Executive, the HR Director and external advisers may be invited to attend for all or part of any meeting, as and when appropriate.
The Company Secretary also attends meetings in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Committee met once formally during the year.
The Committee is responsible for board recruitment.
The Committees aim is to ensure that the right skill sets are present in the boardroom to deal with the challenges and opportunities facing the Company thereby enabling it to compete effectively in the marketplace.
TheCommittee regularly considers the time commitment required from the existing non-executive directors and is responsible for succession planning.
Both in its recruitment and succession planning processes, the Committee takes into account the board size, structure and composition having regard to the balance of skills, knowledge, experience and diversity of psychological type, background and gender so as to ensure that the board is not composed of solely like-minded individuals.
In line with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Nomination Committee is this year recommending that all the directors of the Company stand for re-election at the next Annual General Meeting.
The monitoring and approval of any director conflicts of interest, including other external directorships, also falls within the remit of this Committee.
The Committee has this year focused on implementing its agreed succession plan for the role of Chief Executive.
Rob Templeman stepped down from his position as Chief Executive on 4 September 2011 and Michael Sharp assumed the leadership of the business thereafter.
Michael Sharp had been Deputy Chief Executive since November 2008 and his appointment as Chief Executive will ensure continuity ofmanagement and strategy of the business.
Rob Templeman remains available to both the board and Michael Sharp on a consultancy basis until September 2012 at the latest.
48 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Overview Strategic review Finance review Sustainability Governance Accounts Audit Committee Dennis Millard Chairman, Audit Committee Directors and meetings Name of director Position Meetings attended Dennis Millard Committee Chairman Senior independent non-executive director 3 3 Adam Crozier Independent non-executive director 3 3 Martina King Independent non-executive director 3 3 Mark Rolfe Independent non-executive director 3 3 Sophie Turner Laing Independent non-executive director 3 3 The Audit Committee is chaired by Dennis Millard.
The other members are Adam Crozier, Martina King, Mark Rolfe and Sophie Turner Laing.
Dennis Millard brings significant recent and relevant financial expertise to the Committee which is enhanced by the other members of the Committee who have appropriate business expertise.
The Audit Committee meetings are also attended by the Chairman, the Finance Director, the Head of Internal Audit and Risk Management, the external auditors  LLP, and the Treasurer for the presentation of his report.
The Company Secretary also attends any meeting in his capacity as Secretary of the Committee.
The Audit Committees primary responsibilities are to monitor the integrity of financial statements including any related information presented with the financial statements and any formal announcements relating to the Companys financial performance, to review any changes in accounting principles and consider the appropriateness of accounting policies adopted by the Company, to review the Groups internal and external audit activity and to review and monitor the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems within the business.
The terms of engagement of the external auditor together with the external auditor independence policy are also approved by the Committee.
The Committee met three times during the year and also met with the Companys external auditor and the Head of Internal Audit and RiskManagement privately without any management being present.
While fulfilling the above responsibilities during the year, the Committee also reviewed the stock management controls within the business, the business continuity plan, the going concern status, the whistleblowing policy and risk appetite.
The Committee also approved the statements included in the annual report concerning internal controls and risk management, considered the external auditors performance, resource, independence and objectivity and recommended to the board the re-election of the auditors for 2011 and the auditors report on the year end audit and managements responses to the issues.
The internal audit programme and the external audit strategy and scope for 2011 were also agreed and approved and the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy was recommended to the board for approval.
After each meeting the Chairman reports to the board on the matters discussed, on recommendations and on actions to be taken.
The Audit Committee reviewed its performance using an external facilitator and the overall conclusion was that the Committee was discharging its duties effectively.
Arising from the review, it was agreed that certain areas for additional focus in the year ahead would be: IT systems risks, governance and controls, with particular reference to multi-channel systems: the internal controls framework at the centralised accounting facility: and data security.
Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 Corporate governance report continued Directors conflicts of interest The Companys policy identifies three categories of accounting The Nomination Committee annually reviews and considers the services.
The first category is audit-related services which the auditors interests and other external appointments held by the members are permitted to provide.
The second category is prohibited services of the board.
All conflicts declared were approved at its meeting in which the auditors are not permitted to provide.
The directors have a continuing duty to inform the board are those which might result in the external auditor auditing its own of any potential conflicts immediately so that such conflicts may be work or making management decisions for the Company and those considered and if authorised included within the register of conflicts.
where some mutuality of interest is created or where the external auditor is put in the role of advocate for the Company.
The third Share capital and control category is potential services which the auditors may, in certain Information which the directors are required to provide pursuant circumstances, provide subject to compliance with the independence toSection 992 of the Companies Act 2006 can be found on page 51 policy.
These services include tax advisory services or services where ofthe Directors report.
the auditors are acting as the Companys reporting accountant.
Auditors independence 0.1 million was paid by the Company to  In order to ensure that an appropriate relationship is maintained for non-audit services in respect of advisory services.
The audit fees with the external auditors, a policy on auditor independence has paid by the pension schemes were 28,000. been established and is regularly reviewed.
This covers matters such as that auditors and their staff have no family, financial, Relations with shareholders employment, investment or business relationship with the Company, The board is responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains a the employment by the Company of former audit employees, the satisfactory dialogue with shareholders.
The Chairman and the senior rotation of audit partners and the provision of non-audit services.
independent director are always available to major shareholders.
The Audit Committee makes recommendations to the full board in Formal trading updates are given to the market on six occasions respect of reappointment annually of the auditors and the board then during the year.
Following each of these announcements, conference ensures that this is included on the Notice for the Annual General calls are held with shareholders and analysts and after the full year Meeting.
Asregards the risk of the external auditors withdrawal from and interim results a presentation is made to the shareholders and the market, the Company considers that there are sufficient other analysts.
Analysts or brokers briefings are circulated to the board.
auditors in the marketplace should this situation ever arise.
A programme of meetings and conference calls is also organised atappropriate times during the year at which the Chief Executive and The objective of the Audit Committees policy in relation to the Finance Director comment on Company performance and respond provision of non-audit services by the auditors is to ensure that toany issues raised by investors.
In addition Debenhams arranges theprovision of such services does not impair the external auditors visits to its stores for analysts and shareholders.
An independent report is produced by the Debenhams central costs team each quarter during the year detailing all non-audit work, its cost, when it was carried out and who instructed it.
This information is reported to the Audit Committee ateach meeting.
50 Debenhams Annual Report and Accounts 2011
