Corporate governance report As Chairman, the leadership and effectiveness of the Board are primarily my responsibility.
We remain committed to high standards of corporate governance, consistent with the needs of the company and the interests of all our stakeholders.
My fellow directors and I recognise the importance of sound governance in the efficient running of the company, and in particular to the effectiveness and independence of the Board and the management of risks faced by the group.
The report below sets out how we do this.
It explains the progress we have made as we seek to bolster the range of experience and diversity on our Board, and improve the way we operate.
I am confident we have an effective Board to address the opportunities and challenges we face.
S J Hannam Chairman 12 March 2012 From 1 January 2011, the company applied the 2010 UK Corporate The Board views the Senior Independent Directors role as Governance Code the Code.
essentially a passive one, but acknowledges that there can be occasions where there may be a need for shareholders to convey 1.
Board composition concerns to the Board other than through the Chairman or the Chief Mr S J Hannam, Chairman, Mr P W B Page, Chief Executive, Executive.
The companys major shareholders are reminded that the Mr P A J Neep, Non-Executive Director, and Mr S R Paterson, Senior Independent Director is willing to meet with them if they wish.
Non-Executive Director, served as directors throughout 2011.
Mr P C Williams, former Finance Director, retired on 6 April 2011 Ms J A Lodge was appointed to the Board on 1 March 2012. and Mr S C Webb joined the Board on 17 January 2011, taking over Until recently, she was a senior audit partner with Deloitte, where as Finance Director upon Mr P C Williams retirement.
Mr P N she spent over twenty five years advising global manufacturing Withers and Ms J A Lodge joined the Board as Non-Executive companies.
She will assume the post of Chair of the Audit Directors on 28 April 2011 and 1 March 2012 respectively.
Committee when Mr S R Paterson steps down from the Board at the forthcoming AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent directors.
This opinion is based primarily on careful consideration All directors other than Mr S R Paterson will stand for election or of their character and judgement and their contribution to the work re-election at the AGM.
As in previous years, brief biographies of all of the Board and its committees.
None holds any external position Board members, giving details of their experience and other main which would impinge upon his or her independence or objectivity, commitments, can be found on page 18, allowing shareholders to nor are there any relationships or circumstances as are envisaged take an informed decision on the question of election or re-election.
All the directors have had their performance reviewed recently, and the Chairman is satisfied that each continues to be effective and to Mr S R Paterson has advised the Board that, after serving as a demonstrate commitment to the role.
Non-Executive Director for six years, he will not be seeking reelection at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, and will step There is a clear division of authority and responsibility through the down at its close.
separation of the roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive.
This demarcation is set out in writing and has been agreed by the Board.
Mr P N Withers performance has been considered since he joined the Board in April 2011.
His background allows him to bring Directors of the company and its subsidiaries have the benefit of a a fresh perspective to the boardroom, along with an independent directors and officers liability insurance policy.
The Board has no hesitation in putting him forward for his first formal election at the forthcoming Annual The directors believe that it is essential that the group should be led General Meeting AGM.
and controlled by an effective board.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it including: Mr P A J Neep has held the position of Senior Independent Director since October 2005.
The Board recognises in terms of the setting of corporate strategy: Provision B.
2.3 of the Code that the independence of any nonapproval of the annual budget: and executive director may be compromised if he has been employed major decisions on capital expenditure.
in that role for a long period of time.
The Board has therefore rigorously evaluated Mr P A J Neeps performance, and the The day to day management of the business is the responsibility of Chairman is satisfied that he continues to be effective and to executive management.
demonstrate commitment to the role.
The Board has therefore decided to recommend the re-election of Mr P A J Neep at the forthcoming AGM.
22 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information businesses, as well as their awareness of industry, risk, legal, Balance and diversity regulatory, financial and other developments to enable them to fulfil The Chairman believes that an efficient Board requires a blend of their role effectively on the Board and committees of the Board.
diverse and relevant skills and backgrounds in order to ensure measured and informed decision making.
In addition, the Board arranges for its non-executive directors to visit the groups principal locations to discuss operations with local In the course of 2011, the Board reviewed the Davies Report, management.
The Board plans to visit at least one of the groups setting out the case for gender diversity on Boards, and principal locations each year, where they receive a presentation and encouraging the setting of targets for female board membership.
During the course of 2011, the Board visited the The Chairman and the Board understand the need to ensure that groups Scottish and US operations.
the balance of the Board is appropriate for the requirements of the business, and the benefits of diversity in its broadest sense are The directors can obtain independent professional advice at the clearly understood.
However, for a small Board, it is difficult to set companys expense in performance of their duties as directors, targets for members of any particular background, and this applies although none has done so in the period under review.
In addition, to the issue of women on the Board.
The Boards policy is therefore all directors have access to the service of the Company Secretary, to actively encourage women to apply to join the Board whenever a who is also responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are vacancy exists, and the report from the Nomination Committee on observed and for advising the Board on Corporate Governance page 25 sets out how this will be done.
must ultimately be made on merit, taking account of the specific needs of the business at the relevant times, for the benefit of the Board and committee proceedings company and its stakeholders.
The Board acknowledges that it is collectively responsible for the success of the company by providing entrepreneurial leadership, Information flow setting the companys strategic aims, ensuring that the necessary On appointment to the Board, directors are provided with an financial and human resources are in place and reviewing induction programme to familiarise themselves with the groups management performance.
businesses and the risks and strategic challenges facing the group, as well as the economic, competition, legal and regulatory The committees carry out detailed independent oversight on behalf environments in which the group operates.
of the Board in relation to the audit of the company, health and safety issues, the remuneration of directors and the risks facing the The directors are supplied with detailed papers covering the groups group.
operating functions in advance of all Board meetings.
Members of the executive management team attend and make presentations as In order to discharge these responsibilities, the Board and its appropriate at meetings of the Board.
committees meet on a regular basis throughout the year.
In 2011, the Board held 8 meetings, including one by telephone.
Full details A programme of strategic and other reviews, together with training of the Board and committee attendance are shown in the table provided during the year, ensures that the directors continually below: update their skills, knowledge and familiarity with the groups S J Hannam P W B Page P A J Neep S R Paterson P C Williams S C Webb P N Withers Board 8 meetings 8 8 8 7 3 8 5 Audit Committee 5 meetings 2 5 4 3 Executive Directors Remuneration Committee 5 meetings 5 5 4 1 Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee 2 meetings 2 1 1 Nomination Committee 3 meetings 3 3 3 Health and Safety Committee 3 meetings 3 3 3 Risk Committee 4 meetings 3 4 23 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Mr S J Hannam resigned from the Audit Committee on 9 June 2011 brokers briefings.
The Chairman is willing to meet with shareholders in order to comply with the Code.
He attended both Audit to discuss matters such as strategy and governance and, as Committee meetings in the year under review up to that date.
mentioned above, the Senior Independent Director is available in the event of shareholder concerns which cannot be addressed through Mr P C Williams retired on 6 April 2011. the usual channels.
Mr P N Withers joined the Board on 28 April 2011 and the Audit Broader shareholder communication takes place through the Committee and the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee companys website, which contains significant company on 9 June 2011.
He attended all Board and Committee meetings announcements and other relevant information, and also through from the respective appointment dates.
the Annual Report and AGM.
All directors attend the AGM, and shareholders have the opportunity to hear presentations on the Mr S C Webb was appointed to the Non-Executive Directors groups financial and business performance as well as to question Remuneration Committee on 29 March 2011 and attended the only any member of the Board on any relevant topic.
meeting of that Committee in the balance of the year.
Votes at the AGM are conducted by way of a poll to ensure that the Board papers are generally circulated one week before the votes of shareholders who are unable to attend may be taken into meetings.
Monthly management accounts in an agreed format are account.
The results are announced to the Stock Exchange.
also sent to directors in a timely manner.
Each substantial issue is proposed as an individual resolution of the The Audit, Remuneration, Nomination, Health and Safety and Risk AGM.
The notice is sent to shareholders at least twenty working Committees, all appropriately resourced, met a total of twenty two days before the meeting.
Directors remuneration The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors met informally Details of the level of remuneration received by the directors in during the year, providing an opportunity to review the business 2011 are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 28 to 34. without the Executive Directors being present.
The Board believes that the current levels of remuneration are sufficient to attract and retain the directors needed to run the Board evaluation company successfully, without being excessive.
Base salaries for A new formal process for evaluating the performance of the Board Executive Directors are reviewed against those paid for similar was introduced during the year under review.
This process is positions in comparable companies.
Professional advice from conducted internally, and is based on a detailed questionnaire which independent advisers is sought each year in this regard by the is distributed to the directors for them to complete.
The returns are Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
collated confidentially by the Company Secretary and used as the basis for individual and collective discussions on the Boards An explanation of the companys incentive schemes, including how performance.
these are linked to the companys strategy, is set out in the Remuneration Report.
The provisions of Schedule A to the Code are The questionnaire examines the balance of the skills of the directors, applied when incentive schemes are discussed.
the operation of the Board in practice, including its corporate governance, and the operation and content of Board meetings.
The Executive Directors service contracts provide for notice periods The feedback received from the questionnaire is then used to of one year.
Due to the technical nature of the business, these identify opportunities to improve the performance of the Board, contracts contain restrictive covenants which will be rigorously its committees and the directors.
applied and, taking this into account, the Board and the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee believe that the notice periods The results of the evaluation for 2011 were discussed by the Board are reasonable and in the best interests of the company, having and, where areas for improvement were identified, actions were regard to prevailing market conditions and current practice among agreed.
The Board review to be carried out in 2012 will be externally Non-Executive Directors remuneration is reviewed from time to time facilitated.
by the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee, taking independent external advice as appropriate.
The Non-Executive Directors, led by the Senior Independent Director, conduct a formal appraisal of the Chairmans performance, Mr P A J Neep chaired the Executive Directors Remuneration taking into account the views of the Executive Directors.
The other members of the Committee were Mr S R Paterson and Mr S J Hannam, for the full year, and Mr 2.
Relationship with shareholders P N Withers from 9 June 2011.
This Committee met five times in The company communicates with institutional investors primarily 2011. though analysts briefings and meetings with major shareholders, as well as timely Stock Exchange announcements.
The Board, The Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee is chaired and in particular the Non-Executive Directors, are kept informed of by Mr P W B Page, with Mr P C Williams until his retirement on 6 investors views in the main through distribution of analysts and April 2011, and Mr S C Webb from 29 March 2011.
This Committee met twice in 2011.
24 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information The Remuneration Report contains a detailed statement of the 5.
Report from the Nomination Committee remuneration of each director for 2011, including details of the The members of the Committee during the year were Mr S J companys pension policy for Executive Directors.
Hannam, Mr P A J Neep and Mr S R Paterson.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The written remit of the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee is available on the companys website.
The Committee has written terms of reference which can be found on the companys website.
These include the regular review of the 4.
Report from the Audit Committee structure, size and composition of the Board.
The Audit Committee has written terms of reference, which are available on the companys website, and include the responsibilities During 2011, the Committee met on three occasions.
set out in Provision C. 3.2 of the Code.
The question of succession planning for senior management below Mr S R Paterson chaired the Committee throughout the year.
The Board level is primarily the responsibility of the Chief Executive.
other members of the committee in 2011 were Mr P A J Neep for the full year, Mr S J Hannam until 9 June 2011 and Mr P N Withers In the course of the year under review, two Board appointments from 9 June 2011.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the were made.
The positions were open to all suitable candidates, Committee.
and the eventual appointees were both identified using independent external recruitment consultants.
Mr S C Webb was selected The Board views Mr S R Paterson as the Committee member with following a search for a replacement Finance Director upon both recent and relevant financial expertise as stipulated in Provision Mr P C Williams retirement.
Mr P N Withers appointment as C. 3.1 of the Code.
Non-Executive Director was made after a lengthy process to identify someone with business to business market development Meetings of the Committee are normally attended by the Finance experience in specific emerging markets.
Candidates from diverse Director, the Chief Executive and the Group Risk and Control geographic backgrounds were actively sought, before Mr Withers manager, as invitees.
Representatives of the auditors also attend as emerged as the best applicant.
Following a review of the Davies Report by the Board in the course The Committee and the external auditors operate procedures to of 2011, the Committee will continue to facilitate the candidature of ensure that the auditors remain objective and independent.
These women for Board appointments, and recruitment consultants will be procedures include the pre-approval of the scope of the audit by the instructed to ensure that a significant proportion of any long list put Committee.
Each year the Committee considers carefully the forward should be women.
Short lists will also be drawn up in a way external auditors independence and objectivity, taking into account which forces diversity amongst the final candidates.
The external auditors also report annually to the Committee on the actions they have taken to comply with In 2012, the Committee commenced a search for a new professional and regulatory requirements, as well as current best Non-Executive Director, with the ability to chair the Audit practice, in order to demonstrate their independence.
Ms J A Lodge was identified after a formal process contractual commitments restricting the Committees choice of using independent consultants.
Her background as a senior audit external auditors, and the Committee will continue to periodically partner with Deloitte, with twenty five years of experience advising review their performance.
global manufacturing companies, made her a strong candidate for the position, with the necessary recent and relevant financial The companys auditors,  LLP, rotate the experience to handle the Audit Committee role.
The current audit partner has been in position since 31 December 2007 and will rotate out of the role in 6.
Report from the Health and Safety Committee 2012.
This Committee was formed in 2009, reflecting the Boards focus on health and safety matters.
As part of the formal annual review of the independence of the auditors, the Committee also looks carefully at the level of non-audit The members of the Committee during the year were Mr S J work conducted by the auditors and the detailed safeguards which Hannam, Mr P W B Page, Mr P A Neep and Dr M H Cooke, the they have in place.
The Committee is satisfied that there is no risk to companys Strategic Development Director.
the objectivity and independence of the external audit arising from the level of non-audit fees.
The fees paid to external auditors in 2011 The Committee has written terms of reference which can be found are set out in note 9 to the financial statements on page 50.
Almost on the companys website.
all of the non-audit fees relate to tax advice.
The Committee believes that there are sound commercial and practical reasons for this work The Committee convened three times in 2011 and on each being conducted by the auditors.
occasion met either by telephone or in person with representatives of the Safety Committee of one of the groups major manufacturing The companys whistleblowing procedures are also reviewed facilities.
annually, with the Committee concluding that the arrangements in place would result in proportionate and independent investigation of such matters.
25 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 Corporate governance report continued Operating controls 7.
Financial reporting Financial and operational policies and procedures are set out in The Board acknowledges its responsibility to present a balanced formal procedures manuals which are held by all Business and understandable assessment of the companys position and Directors and finance staff.
The latter are responsible for ensuring prospects.
Each Annual Report contains a Chairmans Statement that all relevant staff are familiar with their content and and a Business Review.
The Interim Report also contains a application.
All Board members, Business Directors and senior Statement by the Chairman.
The Board believes that this additional finance staff have been issued with Internal Control Guidelines.
narrative sets the accounts in context and promotes a better understanding of the current status of the business and its outlook.
Treasury Formal written treasury procedures are in operation, covering To ensure consistency of reporting, the group has an established banking arrangements, hedging instruments, investment of cash consolidation process as well as formal financial and operational balances and borrowing procedures.
Management monitors the publication of new responsibilities and levels of delegated authority in relation to reporting standards and works closely with the external auditors in treasury matters are defined.
evaluating the impact of these standards.
Internal control and risk The company has an internal audit function, which has a An ongoing process is in place to identify, evaluate and manage the reporting line to the Chairman of the Audit Committee and also significant risks the group faces, which accords with the Turnbull direct access to the Chairman of the Board.
The Group Risk and Guidance.
A Risk Committee was formed in 2010, comprising the Control Manager, who is responsible for internal audit, normally Executive Directors and other members of the Executive Committee, attends Audit Committee meetings and makes a formal report to as listed on pages 18 and 19.
This Committee meets four times a the Committee annually.
year and is charged with reviewing risk throughout the group.
As part of the process, the Group Risk and Control Manager has Capital investment appraisal responsibility for the application of risk assessment procedures, The company has clearly defined guidelines for the approval and including an assessment of non-financial risks across the group.
review of capital expenditure projects, which include annual Each group operating company prepares a risk assessment for its budgets and designated levels of authority.
This involves each company preparing a report identifying the relevant risks to both current operations and future strategy, the Integrity of personnel process for managing and mitigating these risks and the means by The company has a Policy on Business Conduct which sets out which management might be assured that the processes are specific requirements for all staff to meet the companys effective.
A similar exercise is also conducted at group level, taking standards of conduct and integrity in their business dealings.
account of any significant risks identified by each of the individual operating companies.
The risk assessment reports are reviewed and The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of collated by the Risk Committee, and then the Audit Committee, internal control and considers that the group has an established before finally being considered by the Board.
The system is system of internal control which the directors believe to be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to appropriate to the business.
The principal risks and uncertainties identified as part of the group risk assessment process and how 9.
Going concern they are managed or mitigated are summarised on pages 14 and The groups business activities, together with the factors likely to 15. affect its future performance, are set out in the Business Review on pages 5 to 7.
Details of the groups exposure to credit, interest rate The Board of Directors, being ultimately responsible for the groups and liquidity risks are outlined in note 23 to the financial statements.
system of internal control, has established an internal financial control structure which is designed to provide the Board with In their consideration of the companys ability to continue as a going reasonable, but not absolute, assurance that it can rely on the concern, the directors have reviewed the groups future cash flow accuracy and reliability of the financial records.
The structure, which is based on an assessment of material financial The Board considers that the groups net debt of 22.7 million as at risks, can be described under the following headings: 31 December 2011 to be manageable, when compared to its profit before exceptional items of 34.2 million.
Financial reporting There is a budgeting system in place which includes an annual budget approved by the Board.
Monthly actual results are reported against budget.
Revised forecasts for the year are prepared regularly.
The company reports formally to shareholders twice a year, with two additional Interim Management Statements.
26 Business Review Directors Report Financial Statements Shareholder Information Accordingly, after making enquiries and considering the question carefully, the directors have a reasonable expectation that the company and the group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in preparing the financial statements.
Share capital The Takeover Directive disclosures regarding the companys share capital structure are included in the share capital section of the directors report on page 20 of this report.
Statement on compliance This statement, together with the Remuneration Report set out on pages 28 to 34, describes how, in respect of the year ended 31 December 2011, the company has applied the provisions and principles of corporate governance as set out in the Code.
The company has complied with all the Codes provisions throughout the period in question, with two exceptions.
It did not comply with Provision C. 3.1, as the Chairman remained a member of the Audit Committee after the company joined the FTSE 250 index in August 2010 until he withdrew from the Committee on 9 June 2011, when Mr P N Withers replaced him.
It is generally accepted that a company should have a reasonable period of time to bring practice into compliance in such circumstances.
Secondly, the companys Remuneration Committee structure does not fully comply with Provision D. 2.2, as the remuneration of the Chairman is set by the Non-Executive Directors Remuneration Committee comprising the Executive Directors, instead of by a committee of Non-Executive Directors, as proposed by the Code.
The companys two-committee approach, which is more fully described and explained in the Remuneration Report, is designed to ensure that no director is involved in setting his or her own remuneration, thus avoiding any potential conflict of interest, while ensuring that the experience of the Chairman is available to the Executive Directors Remuneration Committee.
The Board believes that this arrangement is an appropriate and effective use of the available resources and is fully aligned with the spirit of the Code.
27 | Devro plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011
