Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 99 Corporate governance report Dear Shareholder On behalf of the board, I am pleased to present the corporate governance report for the year ended 30 June 2011.
Boards of directors are responsible for the governance of their companies, that is to say, the way in which companies are directed and controlled.
The responsibilities of the board include setting the companys strategic aims and its values, providing the leadership to put them into effect, supervising and constructively challenging the management who are responsible for the day to day operational running of the business and reporting to shareholders on their stewardship.
We continue to believe that Diageo has a board with the appropriate balance of diverse skills, experience, independence and knowledge of the company to enable them to discharge these responsibilities effectively.
The description in this report of Diageos corporate governance structures and procedures and of the work of the board and the executive committee is intended to give a sense of how this is approached.
The principal corporate governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 30 June 2011 are contained in The UK Corporate Governance Code as updated and published by the Financial Reporting Council FRC in May 2010 the Code and the UK Financial Services Authority FSA Listing Rules, which require companies listed on the Main Market of the LSE to describe, in their annual report, their corporate governance from two points of view: the first dealing generally with their application of the Codes main principles and the second dealing specifically with non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
The two descriptions together are designed to give shareholders a picture of governance arrangements in relation to the Code as a criterion of good practice.
Diageo has complied with all relevant provisions set out in the Code throughout the year.
The Code is publicly available under the heading Corporate Governance at the website of the FRC, www.
Diageo must also comply with corporate governance rules contained in the FSA Disclosure and Transparency Rules as well as certain related provisions in the Companies Act 2006 the Act.
As well as being subject to UK legislation and practice, as a company listed on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE, Diageo is subject to the listing requirements of the NYSE and the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC.
Compliance with the provisions of the US Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 SOX, as it applies to foreign issuers, is continually monitored.
Whilst the directors believe that the groups corporate governance policies continue to be robust, changes have been and will continue to be made in light of the rules that are in place at any point in time.
Diageo follows UK corporate governance practice: differences from the NYSE corporate governance standards are summarised below within this report and on the companys website at www.
The way in which the Codes principles of good governance and relevant provisions of SOX are applied is described within this corporate governance report.
PD Tunnacliffe Company Secretary Diageo Annual Report 2011 100 Governance The board makes decisions and reviews and approves key Board of directors policies and decisions of the company, in particular in relation to: group strategy and operating plans: corporate governance: Membership of the board and board committees, compliance with laws, regulations and the companys code of other directorships and attendance at meetings business conduct: business development, including major The chairmen, senior non-executive director and other members investments and disposals: financing and treasury: appointment or removal of directors and the company secretary: risk of the board, audit committee, nomination committee and remuneration committee are as set out above in the biographies management: financial reporting and audit: corporate of directors and members of the executive committee.
citizenship, ethics and the environment: and pensions.
Thedirectors biographies also show the significant other The Act sets out directors general duties concerning conflicts of interest and related matters.
The board have agreed commitments of the chairman and other directors and whether there have been any changes to them during the year.
Directors an approach and adopted guidelines for dealing with conflicts Governance attendance during the year at board meetings, meetings of the of interest and have added responsibility for authorising conflicts 81 Board of directors and audit, nomination and remuneration committees and at the of interest to the schedule of matters reserved for the board.
The executive committee board confirmed that it was aware of no situations that may or annual general meeting was as set out in the table at the end 84 of this report.
did give rise to conflicts with the interests of the company other Directors The board considers that it is beneficial for the executive than those that may arise from directors other appointments as remuneration directors to hold an external directorship to broaden their disclosed in their biographies above.
In accordance with the report articles, the board authorised the chairman or the company experience and normally this would be limited to one company.
99 Corporate The chief executive, PS Walsh, holds a UK non-executive secretary, as appropriate, to receive notifications of conflicts of governance report directorship in Unilever PLC and a US non-executive directorship interest on behalf of the board and to make recommendations 108 in FedEx Corporation.
The board considers that, given the as to whether the relevant matters should be authorised by the Directors report board.
The company has complied with these procedures importance of the United States to the companys business, the FedEx directorship is of benefit to Mr Walsh in terms of during the year.
market awareness, US business practices and networking and All directors are equally accountable for the proper that the time commitment is not onerous as the meetings can stewardship of the companys affairs.
The non-executive directors have a particular responsibility be combined with other business trips to the United States.
The chief financial officer, D Mahlan currently holds no for ensuring that the business strategies proposed are fully non-executive directorships.
This enables the directors to There is a clear separation of the roles of the chairman and promote the success of the company for the benefit of its shareholders as a whole, whilst having regard to, among other the chief executive.
The chairman, Dr FB Humer, is responsible for the running of the board and for ensuring all directors are fully matters, the interests of employees, the fostering of business informed of matters sufficient to make informed judgements.
relationships with customers, suppliers and others, and the As chief executive, PS Walsh has responsibility for implementing impact of the companys operations on the communities in which the business operates and the environment.
the strategy agreed by the board and for managing the group.
He is supported in this role by the executive committee.
The non-executive directors also oversee the operational The non-executive directors, all of whom the board has performance of the whole group.
To do this they have full and determined are independent, are experienced and influential timely access to all relevant information, with updates also provided on governance and regulatory matters affecting the individuals from a range of industries and countries.
Their mix of skills and business experience is a major contribution to the company.
In addition, executive committee members and other proper functioning of the board and its committees, ensuring senior executives are invited, as appropriate, to board and strategy that matters are fully debated and that no individual or group meetings to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
The chairman and non-executive directors are also invited to attend dominates the boards decision-making processes.
Through the nomination committee, the board ensures the executive committee members senior leadership meetings that plans are in place for the succession of the executive and to gain further insight into different aspects of the business.
In order to fulfil their duties, procedures are in place for directors to seek both independent advice and the advice and A summary of the terms and conditions of appointment of the non-executive directors is available at www.
com services of the company secretary who is responsible for advising or on request from the company secretary.
the board, through the chairman, on all governance matters.
The non-executive directors meet independently without the chairman present, and also meet with the chairman Activities of the board It is the responsibility of the chairman and the company secretary independently of management, on a regular basis.
to work closely together in planning the annual programme The non-executive directors fulfil a key role in corporate and agendas for meetings.
During the year, six scheduled accountability.
The remits of the audit, the nomination and the remuneration committees of the board are set out below and board meetings were held, five in the United Kingdom and one in the USA, which incorporated a specific North American membership of these committees is as set out above in the business focus and involved visits to distributors and customers.
Board of directors and executive committee section of this In addition, an annual strategy conference with the full executive annual report.
The company secretary acts as secretary to all committee was held offsite at which the groups strategy was of these committees.
The terms of reference of the committees reviewed in depth.
are available on the companys website at www.
com When directors are unable to attend a meeting, they are ourbusiness aboutus corporategovernance.
advised of the matters to be discussed and take advantage of the opportunity to make their views known to the chairman prior to the meeting.
The board manages overall control of the companys affairs with reference to the formal schedule of matters reserved for the board for decision.
The schedule was last revised in June 2009.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 101 Training Audit committee There is a formal induction programme for new directors: they meet with the executive committee members individually and Role of the audit committee receive orientation training from the relevant senior executive in The audit committee is responsible for monitoring and reviewing: relation to the group and its business, for example in relation to its the integrity of the financial statements, including a review assurance processes, environmental and social policies, corporate of the significant financial reporting judgements contained responsibility policies and practices and governance matters.
in them: All directors are provided with the opportunity, and the effectiveness of the groups internal control and risk encouraged to go, for training to ensure they are kept up to date management and of control over financial reporting: on relevant legal developments or changes and best practice and the effectiveness of the global audit and risk function, changing commercial and other risks.
Typical training experience including the programme of work undertaken by that function: for directors includes attendance at seminars, forums, conferences the groups policies and practices concerning business and working groups and during the year also included training on conduct and ethics, including whistleblowing: compliance, risk, legal and tax matters.
Training for directors is kept the groups overall approach to securing compliance with under review during the year and forms part of the chairmans laws, regulations and company policies in areas of risk: and individual meetings held with each director, with feedback sought the companys relationship with the external auditor, from directors on areas and topics that they want to be covered.
including its independence and managements response to any major external audit recommendations.
Performance evaluation During the year, an evaluation of the boards effectiveness, For the purposes of the Code and the relevant rule under the US including the effectiveness of the audit committee, nomination Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Exchange Act, the board has committee and the remuneration committee was undertaken by determined that PG Scott is independent and may be regarded external consultants by way of a written questionnaire followed as an audit committee financial expert.
by individual meetings with all directors.
The consultants had no The chairman, the chief financial officer, the group controller, other connection with the company.
The board questionnaire the head of global audit and risk, the director of technical focused on the performance of the board throughout the past accounting and the external auditor are normally invited to year in the areas of strategy, performance management, attend meetings.
management succession, risk management and boardroom The audit committee met privately with the external auditor dynamics.
The questionnaire for the committees focused on and with the head of global audit and risk as appropriate.
the performance of the respective committees throughout the past year, how the performance could be enhanced and areas Work of the audit committee of focus for the forthcoming year.
A report was prepared for the During the year, the audit committee formally reviewed the board on its and its committees effectiveness.
The report annual reports and associated preliminary year-end results concluded that the board and its committees continued to announcement, focusing on key areas of judgement, operate effectively, meeting the requirements and the spirit of provisioning and complexity, critical accounting policies and any the Code, with a climate within the boardroom that creates the changes required in these areas or policies.
In addition, the audit optimum conditions for good decision making and sound committee also reviewed the interim results announcement and guidance.
There were nevertheless areas identified for the board the companys interim management statements.
The audit and committees to enhance effectiveness.
These will result in a committee also reviewed the work of the filings assurance continuing review of the process for ensuring effective meetings committee described below and was updated on litigation risks and the annual agendas of the board and its committees to by the groups general counsel.
ensure they are updated to reflect the feedback received.
The audit committee received detailed presentations from Given the context of two independent non-executive certain senior executives on the management of key risk and directors retiring at the upcoming annual general meeting, the control issues in their respective business areas, reviewed the importance of ensuring appropriate succession to the board to effectiveness and findings from internal control and risk maintain the boardroom dynamics and the appropriate balance management processes described below and reviewed the work of skills and experience was also recognised.
of the compliance programme and the work of the audit and risk The performance of each director, who met individually committee, described below.
with the chairman, was evaluated by the chairman based on The audit committee had available to it the resources of the self-analysis and input from the other directors.
The chairmans global audit and risk function, the activities of which are performance was evaluated by the directors, using an internally described below.
produced questionnaire which was completed and returned to During the year, the audit committee reviewed the external the senior non-executive director, who discussed the feedback audit strategy and the findings of the external auditor from its in a meeting with the executive and non-executive directors review of the interim announcement and its audit of the annual and then privately with the chairman.
A report on the individual financial statements.
The audit committee also met privately with performance evaluation process was given to the nomination the external auditor.
Following the performance evaluation of individual The audit committee reviews annually the appointment of directors, the chairman has confirmed that the non-executive the auditor and, on the audit committees recommendation, the directors standing for re-election at this years annual general board agreed in August 2011 to recommend to shareholders at meeting continue to perform effectively and demonstrate the annual general meeting in 2011, the re-appointment of the commitment to their roles.
It is the boards intention to continue external auditor for a period of one year.
The current overall to review annually its performance and that of its committees tenure of the external auditor dates from 1997.
Any decision and individual directors.
A decision is taken each year on the to open the external auditor to tender is taken on the performance evaluation process to be used.
In respect of the recommendation of the audit committee, based on the results coming years evaluation process, no decision has yet been made of the effectiveness review described below.
There are no whether to continue with the same method of facilitation or to contractual obligations that restrict the companys current choice revert to internal evaluation.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 102 Governance The audit committee assessed the ongoing effectiveness In respect of the appointment of Lord Davies to the board during of the external auditor and audit process on the basis of meetings the year, the recruitment process included the development of a and a questionnaire-based internal review with finance, global candidate profile and the engagement of a professional search audit and risk staff and other senior executives.
In reviewing the agency specialising in the recruitment of high calibre nonindependence of the external auditor, the audit committee executive directors.
Reports on potential appointees were considered a number of factors.
These include: the standing, provided to the committee, which, after careful consideration, experience and tenure of the external audit director: the nature made a recommendation to the board.
and level of services provided by the external auditor: and Diageo supports diversity within its board of directors, confirmation from the external auditor that it has complied with including gender diversity.
Currently there are four female relevant UK and US independence standards.
directors, out of a total of eleven board members.
We believe that The group has a policy on auditor independence and on the all four bring a wealth of international business experience and use of the external auditor for non-audit services, which is are an asset to the company and the board.
Governance reviewed annually, most recently in June 2011.
Under this policy Without seeking to set a specific goal for female representation 81 Board of directors and the provision of any non-audit service must be approved by the on the board, it remains our aspiration to maintain a high level of executive committee audit committee, unless the proposed service is both expected diversity, including gender diversity, within the boardroom, 84 to cost less than 250,000 and also falls within one of a number of appropriate to and reflecting the global nature of the company Directors service categories which the audit committee has pre-approved.
and the strategic imperatives the board has agreed upon.
remuneration These pre-approved service categories may be summarised For similar reasons, Diageo has set itself a goal to increase the report as follows: number of women in leadership positions in the company and is 99 Corporate accounting advice, employee benefit plan audits, and audit making good progress towards this objective with 27% currently governance report or other attestation services, not otherwise prohibited: filling the leadership positions.
The aim of the board is to continue 108 due diligence and other support in respect of acquisitions, to ensure that the company has the right balance of skills, Directors report disposals, training and other business initiatives: and diversity, in all forms, and experience.
certain specified tax services, including tax compliance, tax This approach has led us to be well represented by women planning and related implementation advice in relation to on the board and having fully considered the succession to the acquisitions, disposals and other reorganisations.
executive committee and to leadership positions over the ensuing years, the board is confident it will continue to be able Fees paid to the auditor for audit related and non-audit related to report progress on the gender diversity agenda.
services are analysed in note 3 c to the financial statements.
The main non-audit related services provided by the auditor during Remuneration committee the year were in respect of due diligence work for potential acquisitions and tax advice.
The auditor was considered to be Role of the remuneration committee best placed to provide these services and was the provider that The role of the remuneration committee and details of how offered the best value.
The nature and level of all services the company applies the principles of the Code in respect provided by the external auditor is a factor taken into account of directors remuneration are set out in the directors by the audit committee when it reviews annually the remuneration report.
independence of the external auditor.
The chairman and the chief executive may, by invitation, attend remuneration committee meetings, except when Nomination committee their own remuneration is discussed.
No director is involved in determining his or her own remuneration.
Role of the nomination committee The nomination committee is responsible for keeping under Executive direction and control review the composition of the board and succession to it, and succession planning for senior management positions.
It makes Executive committee recommendations to the board concerning appointments to the The executive committee, appointed and chaired by the chief board, whether of executive or non-executive directors, having executive, consists of the individuals responsible for the key regard to the balance and structure of the board and the required components of the business: for the year ended 30 June 2011, blend of skills and experience.
North America, Europe, International and Asia Pacific markets, The nomination committee also makes recommendations global supply and global functions.
With effect from 1July 2011, to the board concerning the re-appointment of any nonthe structure has been revised, as set out in the Business executive director at the conclusion of his or her specified term description section of this annual report.
The members of the and the re-election of any director by shareholders under the committee and their biographies are set out above in the Board retirement provisions of the companys articles of association.
of directors and executive committee section of this annual Nodirector is involved in determining his or her own rereport.
It met, fully, four times during the year, and spent most of appointment or re-election.
its time discussing strategy, people, performance including Any new directors are appointed by the board and, in brands and governance.
Meetings were held in the USA, Russia, accordance with the companys articles of association, they must the UK and Hungary.
In addition, scheduled interim update be elected at the next AGM to continue in office.
All existing meetings were held by teleconference throughout the year.
directors retire by rotation every year, as required by the Code.
Responsibility and authority within the financial limits set by the board are delegated by the chief executive to individual Activities of the nomination committee members of the executive committee who are accountable to The principal activities of the nomination committee during the him for the performance of their business units.
year were: the review of individual performance: a review of the executive committee structure, membership and succession planning for it: the consideration of potential non-executive directors: and succession to the role of chief financial officer.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 103 Executive direction and control procedures include approval of Filings assurance committee annual strategic plans submitted by each business unit executive Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief and periodic business reviews.
These reviews are generally executive, this committee is responsible for implementing and attended by the regional president responsible for the market monitoring the processes which are designed to ensure that the and in certain cases additional members of the executive company complies with relevant UK, US and other regulatory committee and are held in the relevant market.
The reviews reporting and filing provisions, including those imposed by SOX focus on business performance management and specific or derived from it.
As at the end of the period covered by this issues around brands, people, key business decisions and report, the filings assurance committee, with the participation risk management.
of the chief executive and chief financial officer, carried out an The chief executive has created several executive working evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of groups to which are delegated particular tasks, generally with disclosure controls and procedures.
These are defined as those specific time spans and success criteria.
He has also created controls and procedures designed to ensure that information committees, intended to have an ongoing remit, including required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Exchange Act the following.
is recorded, processed, summarised and reported within specified time periods.
As of the date of the evaluation, the chief Audit and risk committee executive and the chief financial officer concluded that the Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for: overseeing design and operation of these disclosure controls and the approach to securing effective internal control and risk procedures were effective to ensure that information required management in the group: reviewing the adequacy of the to be disclosed in the reports that the company files or submits groups sources of assurance over the management of key risks: under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to reviewing managements self-assessment process over internal the management, including the companys principal executive controls: reviewing the effectiveness of the groups compliance and principal financial officer, as appropriate, to allow timely programme: and reporting periodically on the above to the audit decisions regarding disclosure.
committee or to the board.
In addition, the audit and risk committee is responsible for promoting the culture and Additional information processes that support effective compliance with the groups codes of conduct, business guidelines and marketing practices Internal control and risk management throughout the business and supports the audit committee, Diageos aim is to manage risk and to control its business and board and executive committee in satisfying its corporate financial activities cost-effectively and in a manner that enables it governance responsibilities relating to internal control and risk to: exploit profitable business opportunities in a disciplined way: management within the group.
avoid or reduce risks that can cause loss, reputational damage or business failure: support operational effectiveness: and enhance Corporate citizenship committee resilience to external events.
To achieve this, an ongoing process Chaired by the chief executive and responsible for making has been established for identifying, evaluating and managing decisions or, where appropriate, recommendations to the board risks faced by the group.
This process, which complies with the or executive committee concerning policies, issues and requirements of the Code, has been in place for the full financial measurement and reporting for the following impacts across year and up to the date the financial statements were approved Diageos value chain: alcohol in society, water, broader and accords with the guidance issued by the Financial Reporting environmental sustainability, community, our people and Council in October 2005, Internal Control: Revised Guidance for governance and ethics.
Progress in these areas is reported Directors on the Combined Code, also known as the Turnbull periodically to the board and publicly through a separate guidance as amended by the Flint review.
Sustainability & Responsibility Report, selected aspects of which The board acknowledges that it is responsible for the are subject to external assurance.
This report and the groups companys systems of internal control and risk management social, ethical and environmental policies are published on the and for reviewing their effectiveness.
The board confirms that, Diageo website.
through the activities of the audit committee described above, Two executive working groups one on alcohol in society, ithas reviewed the effectiveness of the companys systems of chaired by the corporate relations director, and one on internal control and risk management described below.
environmental performance, chaired by the president, global All significant business units and the executive committee supply assist the committee with decisions on specific issues.
are required to maintain a process to ensure key risks are identified, evaluated and managed appropriately.
This process Finance committee is also applied to major business decisions or initiatives, such Chaired by the chief financial officer and including the chief as systems implementations, new product development, executive, this committee is responsible for making business combination activity or significant business strategy recommendations to the board on funding strategy, capital implementation.
Additional risk management activity is structure and management of financial risks and the policies and focused directly towards operational risks within the business, control procedures including financial issues relating to treasury including health and safety, product quality and environmental and taxation required to implement the companys financial risk management.
strategy and financial risk management policies.
In certain Business unit risk assessments, and the activities planned specific circumstances, the board has delegated authority to the to manage those risks, are reviewed by relevant executives, for finance committee to make decisions in these areas.
Treasury example at periodic business reviews.
The oversight of primary activity is managed centrally within tightly defined dealing risks, as detailed in the executive committee risk assessment, is authorities and procedures recommended by the finance allocated as appropriate between the board, board committees committee and approved by the board.
The executive committee risk assessment, and selected key risk assessments, are reviewed by the audit and risk committee and by the audit committee.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 104 Governance In addition, business units are required to self-assess the relation to marketing and promotional activities of its brands effectiveness of the design of their internal control framework.
Relevant executives review the results of these self-assessments In addition, in accordance with the requirements of SOX and summary reporting is provided to the audit and risk and related SEC rules, Diageo has adopted a code of ethics committee and audit committee.
Risk management and internal covering its chief executive, chief financial officer, regional control processes encompass activity to mitigate financial, presidents and other identifiable persons in the group, including operational, compliance and reputational risk.
Specific processes those performing senior accounting and controller functions.
are also in place to ensure management maintain adequate No amendments to, or waivers in respect of, the code of ethics internal control over financial reporting, as separately reported were made during the year.
The full texts of the code of ethics, on below.
code of business conduct, marketing code and other Diageo A network of risk management committees is in place, policies that comprise the compliance programme are available which has overall accountability for supporting the audit and on the companys website at www.
com ourbusiness Governance risk committee in its corporate governance responsibilities by aboutus corporategovernance.
81 Board of directors and working with business units to proactively and effectively Compliance and ethics programme guidelines specify the executive committee manage risk and monitor the effectiveness of internal controls.
manner in which any potential violations of these codes should 84 Processes are in place to ensure appropriate action is taken, be dealt with, including line manager reporting and an Directors where necessary, to remedy any deficiencies identified through independent SpeakUp employee help line.
The latter is operated remuneration the groups internal control and risk management processes.
independently and all reports are sent, in confidence, to the report The global audit and risk function gives the audit global compliance and ethics director and head of corporate 99 Corporate committee, board and executive committee visibility and security for review, and where appropriate, investigation and governance report understanding of the groups key risks and risk management escalation to the audit committee as required.
There is an annual 108 capability and provides assurance over the quality of the groups certification requirement for all management level employees Directors report internal control and management of key risks in line with a plan to confirm compliance with the code of business conduct and agreed by the audit committee.
to identify areas of possible non-compliance to the global The above risk management processes and systems of compliance and ethics director.
With the UK Bribery Act coming internal control, together with the filings assurance processes, into force on 1 July 2011, the compliance and ethics director, are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of together with group legal, reviewed the companys compliance failure to achieve the groups strategic objectives.
It should be and ethics programme and as a result of the review, no material recognised that such systems can only provide reasonable, changes to the compliance and ethics programme or planned not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
During the year, in line with the revised principles of the Both the audit and risk committee and the audit committee Code, the board considered the nature and extent of the risks it review the operation of the compliance programme.
was willing to take to achieve its strategic goals and adopted an internal statement of risk appetite, which describes existing risk Relations with shareholders behaviours and identifies a set of high level risk statements The company values its dialogue with both institutional underpinning them.
The statement of risk appetite serves as a and private investors.
The boards primary contact with complement to Diageos risk policy and was considered and institutional shareholders is through the chief executive and recommended to the board by both the audit and risk chief financial officer.
committee and the audit committee.
The chief executive and chief financial officer are supported The company has in place internal control and risk by the investor relations department, who are in regular contact management systems in relation to the companys financial with institutional shareholders and sell-side analysts.
Coverage reporting process and the groups process for preparation of of the company by sell-side analysts is circulated to the board.
These systems are described above and The board also ensures that all directors develop an under the headings Filings assurance committee, Audit and risk understanding of the views of major institutional shareholders committee and Managements report on internal control over through an independent survey of shareholder opinion.
Diageos filings assurance committee and addition, major shareholders are invited to raise any company audit and risk committee are each responsible for overseeing matters of interest to them at an annual meeting with the elements of these internal control and risk management systems.
chairman and senior non-executive director.
The chief executive Furthermore, a review of the consolidated financial statements is and chief financial officer are normally also present and available completed by management to ensure that the financial position to take questions and the chairman reports on the meeting to and results of the group are appropriately reflected therein.
Investor seminars and analyst presentations, including those Compliance and ethics programme following the announcement of interim results and preliminary Diageo is committed to conducting its business responsibly and year end results, are webcast and other presentations made to in accordance with all laws and regulations to which its business institutional investors are available on the companys website.
The board has a comprehensive training For the year ended 30 June 2011, Diageo produced an and education programme for both employees and the network annual report, which is available to all shareholders on its website, of compliance and ethics ambassadors, whose role it is to be the or in paper form by election or on request.
As an alternative to key point of contact for compliance within each market and receiving a paper notification through the post, shareholders function.
The code of business conduct is also supported by may elect to receive email notification that the documents are a set of global policies.
Work commenced during the year to available to be accessed on the companys website.
Shareholders simplify these policies and to make access and governance can also choose to receive email notification when new company of the policies easier.
information is published on www.
The website also The Diageo marketing code together with Diageos digital provides private shareholders with the facility to check their code of practice remain the principles that Diageo follows in shareholdings online and to send any questions they may have to the company.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 105 Private shareholders are invited to write to the chairman or any The directors confirm that, after making appropriate enquiries, other director and express their views on any issues of concern they have reasonable expectation that the group has adequate at any time and the AGM provides an opportunity for private resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable shareholders to put their questions in person.
Accordingly, they continue to adopt the going concern holds an annual presentation to the UK Shareholders Association.
basis in preparing the financial statements.
The chairmen of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees are normally available at the AGM to take any Managements report on internal control over relevant questions and all other directors attend, unless illness or financial reporting another pressing commitment precludes them from doing so.
Management, under the supervision of the chief executive At general meetings, a schedule of the proxy votes cast and chief financial officer, is responsible for establishing and is made available to all shareholders and is published on maintaining adequate control over the groups financial www.
The company proposes a separate resolution reporting.
Diageos internal control over financial reporting on each substantially separate issue and does not bundle includes policies and procedures that: pertain to the resolutions together inappropriately.
Resolutions on the receipt maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately of the reports and accounts and the approval of the directors and fairly reflect transactions and dispositions of assets: provide remuneration report are put to shareholders at the AGM.
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance Charitable and political donations with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRS as During the year, total charitable donations made by the group endorsed and adopted for use in the European Union EU and were 28 million 2010 24.9 million.
UK group companies IFRS as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board made donations of 10.5 million 2010 12.0 million to IASB : provide reasonable assurance that receipts and charitable organisations including 1.1 million 2010 1.1 million expenditures are made only in accordance with authorisation to the Diageo Foundation and 7.7 million 2010 7.4 million to of management and the directors of the company: and provide the Thalidomide Trust.
In the rest of the world, group companies reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection made charitable donations of 17.5 million 2010 12.9 million of any unauthorised acquisition, use or disposition of assets that including 3.0 million to the Thalidomide Foundation Ltd in could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Management has assessed the effectiveness of Diageos The group has not given any money for political purposes internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules in the United Kingdom and made no donations to EU political 13 a -13 f and 15 d -15 f under the Exchange Act based on the organisations and incurred no EU political expenditure during framework in Internal Control Integrated Framework, issued the year.
The group made contributions to non-EU political by the committee of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway parties totalling 0.6 million during the year 2010 0.5 million.
Based on this assessment, management These were all made, consistent with applicable laws, to federal concluded that, as at 30 June 2011, internal control over financial and state candidates and committees in North America, where it reporting was effective.
is common practice to make political contributions.
No particular Any internal control framework, no matter how well political persuasion was supported and contributions were made designed, has inherent limitations, including the possibility of with the aim of promoting a better understanding of the group human error and the circumvention or overriding of controls and and its views on commercial matters, as well as a generally procedures and may not prevent or detect misstatements.
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate Supplier payment policies and performance because of changes in conditions or because the degree of Given the international nature of the groups operations, there compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
is no group standard in respect of payments to suppliers.
The During the period covered by this report, there were no group has moved to a standard term of 60 days in respect of changes in internal control over financial reporting that have payments to the majority of suppliers.
Where this standard term materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect does not yet apply, operating companies are responsible for the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.
agreeing terms and conditions for their business transactions KPMG Audit Plc, an independent registered public when orders for goods and services are placed, so that suppliers accounting firm, who also audit the groups consolidated financial are aware of the terms of payment and the relevant terms are statements, has audited the effectiveness of the groups internal included in contracts where appropriate.
Creditor days have not control over financial reporting, and has issued an unqualified been calculated, as Diageo plc had no material trade creditors at report thereon, which will be included in the companys 30 June 2011.
The companys invoices for goods and services are Form 20-F filed with the SEC.
settled by subsidiaries acting on behalf of the company.
Going concern The groups business activities together with significant risk factors are set out above in the Business description section of this annual report.
The liquidity position, capital resources and risk management processes covering exposure to currency, interest rate, credit, liquidity and price risk are described above in the Business review section of this annual report.
The group has significant financial resources, strong cash generation from operations and good access to debt markets.
Consequently, the directors believe that the group is well placed to manage its business risks despite the current uncertain economic outlook.
Diageo Annual Report 2011 106 Governance Directors responsibilities in respect of the annual report Responsibility statement and financial statements Each of the directors, whose names are set out above in the The directors are responsible for preparing the annual report, the Board of directors and executive committee section of this information filed with the SEC on Form 20-F and the group and annual report, confirms that to the best of his or her knowledge: parent company financial statements in accordance with the consolidated financial statements contained in the applicable law and regulations.
Annual Report for the year ended 30 June 2011, which have Company law requires the directors to prepare group and been prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by the IASB parent company financial statements for each financial year.
and as endorsed and adopted for use in the EU, give a true Under that law they are required to prepare the group financial and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and statements in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU and profit of the group: and applicable law and have elected to prepare the parent company the management report represented by the directors report financial statements in accordance with UK Accounting contained in the annual report for the year ended 30 June Governance Standards and applicable law UK Generally Accepted 2011 includes a fair review of the development and 81 Board of directors and Accounting Practice.
The directors have taken responsibility to performance of the business and the position of the group, executive committee prepare the group financial statements also in accordance with together with a description of the principal risks and 84 IFRS as issued by the IASB.
The directors have also presented uncertainties that the group faces.
Directors certain additional information required by the SEC for the remuneration purposes of the companys Form 20-F.
The responsibility statement was approved by the board of report The group financial statements are required by law and IFRS directors on 24 August 2011.
99 Corporate to present fairly the financial position and the performance of the governance report group: the Act provides in relation to such financial statements New York Stock Exchange corporate governance rules 108 that references in the relevant part of the Act to financial Under applicable SEC rules and the NYSEs corporate governance Directors report statements giving a true and fair view are references to their rules for listed companies, Diageo must disclose any significant achieving a fair presentation.
ways in which its corporate governance practices differ from The parent company financial statements are required those followed by US companies under NYSE listing standards.
by law to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Diageo believes the following to be the significant areas in parent company.
which there are differences between its corporate governance In preparing each of the group and parent company practices and NYSE corporate governance rules applicable to US financial statements, the directors are required to: companies.
This information is also provided on the companys select suitable accounting policies and then apply them website at www.
consistently: Basis of regulation: UK listed companies are required to make judgements and estimates that are reasonable and include in their annual report a narrative statement of i how prudent: they have applied the principles of the Code and ii whether for the group financial statements, state whether they have or not they have complied with the best practice provisions been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU of the Code.
NYSE listed companies must adopt and disclose and as issued by the IASB: their corporate governance guidelines.
Diageo complied for the parent company financial statements, state whether throughout the year with the best practice provisions of applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, the Code.
subject to any material departures disclosed and explained Director independence: the Code requires at least half the in the parent company financial statements: and board excluding the chairman to be independent nonprepare the financial statements on the going concern basis executive directors, as determined by affirmatively unless it is inappropriate to presume that the group and the concluding that a director is independent of management parent company will continue in business.
and free from any relationship that could materially interfere with the exercise of independent judgement.
NYSE rules The directors are responsible for keeping proper accounting require a majority of independent directors, according to the records that are sufficient to show and explain the parent NYSEs own brightline tests and an affirmative determination companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy by the board that the director has no material relationship at any time the financial position of the parent company and with the listed company.
Diageos board has determined that, enable them to ensure that its financial statements comply with in its judgement and without taking into account the NYSE the Companies Act 2006 and, as regard to group consolidated brightline tests, all of the non-executive directors are accounts, Article 4 of the IAS Regulation.
As such, currently 8 of Diageos 11 directors are responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to independent.
them to safeguard the assets of the group and to prevent and Chairman and chief executive: the Code requires these roles detect fraud and other irregularities.
There is no corresponding requirement for Under applicable UK and US law and regulations, the US companies.
Diageo has a separate chairman and directors are also responsible for preparing a directors report, chief executive.
a directors remuneration report and a corporate governance report that comply with that law and those regulations.
In addition, the directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Performance summary Business description Business review Governance Financial statements Additional information Corporate governance report 107 Non-executive director meetings: NYSE rules require Code of ethics: NYSE rules require a code of business conduct non-management directors to meet regularly without and ethics to be adopted for directors, officers and employees management and independent directors to meet separately and disclosure of any waivers for executive directors or officers.
The Code requires non-executive Diageo has adopted a code of business conduct for all directors, directors to meet without the chairman present at least officers and employees, as well as a code of ethics for senior annually to appraise the chairmans performance.
During officers in accordance with the requirements of SOX.
Currently, the year, Diageos chairman and non-executive directors no waivers have been granted to directors or executive officers.
met six times as a group without executive directors being Compliance certification: NYSE rules require CEOs to certify to present, and the independent directors met once without the NYSE their awareness of any NYSE corporate governance the chairman.
Diageo is exempt from this as a foreign private issuer Board committees: Diageo has a number of board but is required to notify the NYSE if any executive officer committees that are similar in purpose and constitution to becomes aware of any non-compliance with NYSE corporate those required by NYSE rules.
Diageos audit, remuneration governance standards.
No such notification was necessary and nomination committees consist entirely of independent during the period covered by this report.
non-executive directors save that the chairman of the nomination committee, Dr FB Humer, is not independent.
Under NYSE standards, companies are required to have a nominating corporate governance committee, which develops and recommends a set of corporate governance principles and is composed entirely of independent directors.
The terms of reference for Diageos nomination committee, which comply with the Code, do not contain such a requirement.
In accordance with the requirements of the Code, Diageo discloses in its annual report the results and means of evaluation of the board, its committees and the directors, and it provides extensive information regarding directors compensation in the directors remuneration report.
Directors attendance record at the annual general meeting, board meetings and board committee meetings, for the year ended 30June 2011 was as set out in the table below.
For board and board committee meetings, attendance is expressed as the number ofmeetings attended out of the number that each director was eligible to attend.
Attended by invitation, for part only.
Lord Davies was appointed during the year.
He was unable to attend some meetings, as a result of prior commitments which were made before he joined the board.
