Dignity plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 39 | Directors statement on corporate governance Introduction This statement explains how Dignity has incorporated the requirements of the 2010 Code.
The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance in order to achieve its objectives and meet the necessary standards of accountability and integrity.
In accordance with the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority, Dignity plc is required to state whether it has complied with the relevant provisions set out in the 2010 Combined Code the Code and, where the provisions have not been complied with, to provide an explanation.
Dignity plc is also required to explain how it has applied the principles set out in the Code.
This Directors Statement on Corporate Governance and the Report on Directors Remuneration on pages 32 to 34 provide a description of how the main and supporting principles of the Code have been applied within Dignity plc during 2011.
The Group has complied with all provisions of the Code throughout the 2011 accounting period with the exception of: On 29 December 2008 Peter Hindley was appointed Chairman upon relinquishing his responsibilities as Chief Executive and the retirement of the then Chairman.
This is contrary to provision A.
However, as suggested by the Code, this appointment was only made after consultation with major shareholders of the Group.
The Board felt it was important to retain the skills and knowledge of Peter Hindley, given he is both a prominent and influential figure in the funeral industry.
Peter Hindley is not regarded as independent under provision A.
Narrative statement The Code establishes principles of good governance, which are split into four areas as outlined below: 1.
The Board and its Effectiveness The Group is controlled through the Board of Directors that meets regularly throughout the year.
Informal meetings are held between individual Directors as required.
The Board has adopted a formal schedule of matters reserved to it.
The Board is responsible for the long term success of the Group which includes: Overall management of the Group: Setting and reviewing the strategy of the Group: Approval of major capital expenditure and acquisition projects, and consideration of significant financial matters: Monitoring the exposure to key business risks: Setting annual budgets and reviewing progress towards achievement of these budgets: and Proposing and making dividend payments to shareholders.
All Directors are provided with the necessary papers in advance of the meetings to permit them to make informed decisions at those meetings.
The Board also considers employee issues and key appointments, including the role of Company Secretary.
The Board comprises eight Directors and the Non Executive Chairman.
There are the same number of independent NonExecutive Directors and Executive Directors which the Board consider to be an appropriate and effective combination.
The Board also considers that four Executive Directors are sufficient to manage a Company of this size and organisational structure and they have all confirmed that they are able to devote sufficient time to their roles.
There is a clear division of responsibility between the NonExecutive Chairman and the Chief Executive so as to give no individual, unfettered powers of decision making.
The Chairman is responsible for: The leadership of the Board: Ensuring the Board functions in all aspects of its role: Facilitating the effective contribution of the NonExecutive Directors and ensuring constructive relations between Executive and NonExecutive Directors: Ensuring all Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information: Setting the agenda so all relevant issues are discussed, ensuring sufficient time is devoted to discussing issues particularly strategic ones: and Ensuring effective communication with stakeholders and acting as the public face of the Group.
The Chief Executive is responsible for: Operational management and control of the Group on a daytoday basis, local operational decisions are the responsibility of the local managers, who are accountable to the Chief Executive and other Board members: Formulating and proposing strategy to the Board: and Implementing the strategy and policies adopted by the Board.
The four independent NonExecutive Directors who served during the period are Bill Forrester, Ishbel Macpherson, Alan McWalter, and James Newman.
Biographical details, including committee membership, appear on page 28.
Their role is to constructively challenge the management of the Group and help develop proposals on strategy.
