Corporate Governance 36 -- 55 Directors Report Corporate Governance Nominations Committee Report The Nominations Committee keeps itself abreast of best practice Membership and process through a combination of private research and briefing by internal and The Committee comprises John Allan as Chairman, Rita Clifton, external advisors on key developments relevant to the Company.
Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Tim How, Andrew Lynch and Dharmash Mistry, all of whom are non-executive directors.
Dharmash Mistry In considering the appointment of Dharmash Mistry as a was appointed to the Committee on 27 September 2010. non-executive director, the Committee engaged the services ofThe Zygos Partnership, an external agency, to assist with The biographical details of the members of the Committee are thesearch process.
The search process involved meeting with set out on page 36.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary potential candidates, taking up references and assessing their to the Committee.
skills, experience and suitable fit with the Board.
The Committee met on four occasions during the period under The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee were review, and the members attendance record is set out on page updated during the year in line with guidance issued by the Institute 41.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
In doing so, it was deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes resolved that succession planning for senior executives other than of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members Board members continue to be dealt with by the full Board.
The Board and the Nominations Committee are mindful of the Role fact that the Company has a number of long-serving directors The principal duties of the Committee are to: and is looking at succession and refreshment in this context.
keep under review the structure, size and composition of Inline with Lord Davis recent Report on Women on Boards, theBoard and its principal committees and to recommend thediversity of our Board will also be reviewed.
changes deemed necessary: to be responsible for the succession planning for Board In line with best practice, each director will retire this year and members, in particular, the Chairman and Chief Executive: offer themselves for re-election by shareholders at the 2011 AGM.
The Committee considers it appropriate that each of to identify, evaluate and nominate candidates to fill vacancies them be re-elected because of their individual experience on the Board: and andknowledge within the retail sector and wider management to make recommendations to the Board regarding the and industry experience.
After performance evaluation, it was continuation in office of a director upon the expiry of any concluded that each director continues to be effective and specified terms of appointment.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually The executive directors service contracts and non-executive by the Committee.
A copy of the terms of reference is available directors letters of appointment are available for inspection on the Groups corporate website.
by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
They will also be available for Key matters considered inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, details of which During the year, the principal matters considered by the Committee arecontained in the Notice of Meeting.
were as follows: consideration of the succession planning process for the directors: an evaluation of the size, composition and structure of the Board and its Committees: John Allan the appointment of Dharmash Mistry to the Board and its Chairman of the Nominations Committee Committees: and 23 June 2011 a review of the Committees performance and terms of reference.
Dixons Retail plc 45 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
