Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its Introduction decision.
This schedule is reviewed periodically and includes, The Board recognises the importance of good corporate but is not limited to, the following matters: governance and maintains high standards of corporate governance for which the directors are collectively accountable approval of Group strategy and the annual budget: to shareholders.
The Board confirms that during the 52 weeks oversight of the Groups operations and review of ended 30 April 2011, and as at the date of this Annual Report, its performance: the Company has been in compliance with the Code provisions changes relating to the Companys share capital or set out in Section 1 of the UK Financial Reporting Councils 2008 corporate structure: Combined Code on Corporate Governance the Code, which continues to apply for this financial year.
This report together with communications with shareholders including approval of the Statutory Information on pages 38 to 39, the Audit Committee the Interim Statement, Annual Report and Accounts Report on page 44, the Nominations Committee Report on page including the review of critical accounting policies and 45, and the Remuneration Report on pages 46 to 54 provides judgements and assessment of going concern and other details of how the Company has applied the principles and major public announcements: complied with the provisions of the Code.
maintaining and monitoring the Groups system of internal control and risk management: The UK Corporate Governance Code was published on approval of major capital expenditure, material acquisitions 28 May 2010 the New Code.
The New Code applies to the and divestments and material contracts: and Company for the financial year commencing 1 May 2011.
The Board has identified two principles which it has voluntarily the appointment and remuneration of the external auditors chosen to adopt in advance of the requirement to do so.
All on the recommendation of the Audit Committee.
directors stood for re-election at the Companys Annual General Meeting AGM in 2010 and will also all stand for re-election at Helen Grantham, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, the AGM in 2011.
In addition, the Board has decided that the acts as Secretary to the Board and its Committees.
She is also performance evaluation for 2011 12 will be facilitated by an responsible for ensuring that correct Board procedures are followed external service provider.
and advises the Board on legal and corporate governance matters.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the Company The Board Secretary and may also take independent professional advice at the As at 30 April 2011 and the date of this report, the Board of expense of the Company in the furtherance of their duties.
The Directors was made up of eight members, comprising the appointment and removal of the Company Secretary is one of the matters reserved for the Board.
Chairman, two executive directors and five non-executive directors.
All of the non-executive directors are considered by the Board to be independent and each brings their own senior level The Board meets regularly during the year and during the of experience.
The Chairman was deemed to be independent 52 weeks ended 30 April 2011, 13 meetings were held including nine on appointment.
scheduled meetings and four ad-hoc meetings convened to deal with specific matters requiring Board consideration or approval.
Due to the ad-hoc meetings being called at short notice, not all the The division of responsibility between the Chairman and Chief Executive is formally defined, set out in writing and reviewed by directors were available to attend due to other commitments.
The the Board on a regular basis.
The Chairman is responsible for the Board also held a Strategy Day during the period.
overall operation, leadership and governance of the Board.
The Chief Executive is responsible for the executive management of the Groups business and for implementing the Groups strategic and commercial objectives.
Andrew Lynch, as the Senior Independent Director, supports the Chairman and is available for approach or representation from shareholders who feel they are unable to raise issues with the Chairman.
He also discusses, on an individual basis, the performance of the Chairman with each director and provides feedback on these discussions to the Chairman.
Dixons Retail plc 40 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Corporate Governance 36 -- 55 Directors Report Corporate Governance Board and committee attendance The table below shows attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2011, expressed as the number of meetings attended compared to the number entitled to attend.
Audit Nominations Remuneration Board Committee Committee Committee John Allan 9 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 John Browett 9 of 9 Nicholas Cadbury 9 of 9 Rita Clifton 9 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4 Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen 8 of 9 3 of 4 4 of 4 3 of 4 Tim How 8 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4 Andrew Lynch 9 of 9 4 of 4 4 of 4 4 of 4 Dharmash Mistry 5 of 5 2 of 2 1 of 1 3 of 3 appointed on 27 September 2010 The Board holds meetings at a variety of Group business locations Committees of the Board to help all Board members gain a deeper understanding of the The Board has four main Committees: the Executive, Audit, business.
This also provides senior managers from across the Nominations and Remuneration Committees.
Individual reports Group with the opportunity to present to the Board as well as to on the work of the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration meet the directors on more informal occasions.
All directors are Committees and their membership are set out on pages encouraged to attend external seminars relevant to the retail 44 to 54. industry and corporate governance matters in order to refresh and update their knowledge.
The Board also receives bi-monthly Dixons Retail is dependent on its senior management to updates on legal and corporate governance matters.
operate its business and execute its strategies.
Dixons Retail has a decentralised management structure with many New directors appointed to the Board receive a tailored induction high-level management decisions delegated to regional or programme into the Group together with guidance and training country management.
appropriate to their level of previous experience.
Each director is given the opportunity to meet with the Executive Committee, other The Executive Committee is the key management committee and members of senior management and store colleagues, and to visit is chaired by the Chief Executive.
In addition it comprises the the Groups sites both in the UK and overseas in order to familiarise Group Finance Director, the Commercial Director, the Group themselves with the Groups businesses and the markets in which People, Marketing and Property Director, the Group Operations they operate.
New directors are also encouraged to meet with the Director, the Company Secretary and General Counsel, the Groups auditors and other advisors.
Managing Directors of the Nordics and Southern Europe and the President and Vice-President of PIXmania.
Biographical details of the Executive Committee are provided on page 37.
The Committee Board evaluation meets on a four to six weekly basis and is responsible for reviewing During the year the Board undertook a formal evaluation of the performance of the Board, its committees and of individual director and making recommendations to the Board on: performance.
The evaluation was conducted internally by the formulation and implementation of the Groups strategy: Chairman with the assistance of the Company Secretary.
Each director held a one-to-one meeting with the Company Secretary capital expenditure and investment budgets: who summarised the discussions on an anonymous basis for the delivery of financial results and other business performance Chairman who then held a further one-to-one meeting with each objectives: director to review the feedback, individual director performance optimal utilisation of business opportunities: and and any necessary training and development needs.
Key issues and action areas are then reported to and monitored by the Board.
risks arising from competitive and economic changes.
Each Committee also considered a detailed questionnaire relating to the areas of responsibility for that particular Committee and Board information and development feedback provided.
Following the review in 2010 11, the Board The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that all directors are agreed that the balance of skills and experience was felt to be properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings and that they appropriate.
The Board also agreed that the evaluation process have full and timely access to relevant information.
The quality and in 2011 12 would be conducted with the assistance of an external supply of information provided to the Board is reviewed as part of service provider.
The Chairman also holds occasional meetings with the non-executive directors without the executive directors being present to discuss, amongst other matters, corporate strategy and performance and the performance of the executive team.
There is frequent contact between directors outside formal meetings to progress the Groups business and to promote open communication and team working.
Dixons Retail plc 41 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Directors Report Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Report continued local management at each business unit and in those functions Authorisation of conflicts of interest of the Group requiring greater overview has responsibility for The Company has procedures in place to identify, authorise and identification and evaluation of significant risks to their business manage conflicts of interest and these procedures have operated areas together with design of mitigating controls: and effectively during the year.
Authorisation of conflicts is handled by the Board and the Audit Committee reviews them on an annual post completion assessments are carried out following basis.
A register of directors conflicts is maintained.
Internal control The Groups approach to managing risk is reviewed regularly to The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of identify ways in which it can be improved.
internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness, whilst senior management is responsible and accountable for internal control There are clear processes for monitoring the system of internal and effective risk management at an operational level.
control and reporting any significant corrective control weaknesses, together with corrective action.
These include reports to the Audit The Board confirms that the Group has established and Committee from assurance providers, periodic certification from maintained a process for identifying, evaluating and managing the business units, reviews by Group and regional management, significant risks faced by the Group and this has been in place whistleblowing facilities and independent assurance from both throughout the 52 weeks ended 30 April 2011, up to the date of internal and external audit.
Some of these are described in more approval of the financial statements, and accords with the Turnbull detail below.
This process is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Companys Internal audit business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not The Internal Audit department is fully independent of business absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
operations and has a Group-wide mandate.
Its work is driven by a risk-based methodology ensuring that the controls to mitigate Certain of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to the the Groups key risks are audited on a regular basis.
Its plans are Audit Committee, which has reviewed the effectiveness of the approved by the Audit Committee, which also receives regular system of internal control including financial, operational and reports on its findings and progress of related actions.
The compliance controls and risk management.
The Audit Committee department also works with the businesses to promote and has ensured that any required remedial action has or is being further develop effective risk management within their taken.
This has included a review of the proposed actions and operations.
The Group Director for Internal Audit and Risk revised processes to address historical weaknesses in controls Management attends all Audit Committee meetings.
over supplier receivables in PIXmania, which gave rise to a significant write-off during the period.
External auditors The external auditors provide further independent observations The system of internal control and the process for managing risk of certain elements of the internal financial controls as part of include the following elements: their audit of the financial statements.
Their findings are presented to the Audit Committee with updates on progress discussion and approval by the Board of the Groups strategic against the recommendations being made throughout the year.
direction, plans and objectives and the risks to achieving them: the Board and management committees meet regularly to Whistleblowing policy monitor progress against the targets set out in the Groups The Group operates a whistleblowing policy and has a budget and strategic five year plan: confidential helpline operated by a third party.
This can be used to report, anonymously if so wished, on matters of concern to the defined levels of authority established by the Board ensure employees.
This can range from unethical behaviour, such as that significant decisions are taken at an appropriate level: fraud, to practices that might endanger the health of customers each business function has established procedures and and employees.
controls to minimise the risk of fraud and to safeguard the Groups assets: Bribery Act appropriate controls and procedures have been established The Bribery Act is due to come into force on 1 July 2011.
The over the security of data held on, and functionality provided Group has taken steps to enhance policies and procedures that by, the Groups business systems.
These include disaster it deems will be adequate to meet the requirements of the Act recovery arrangements: and will help to prevent individuals associated with the Group the Group appoints individuals who are of a calibre to enable from committing acts of bribery.
them to discharge the duties and responsibilities of the roles assigned to them: the Group has implemented appropriate strategies to deal with each significant risk that has been identified.
These strategies include insurance, treasury statements and common standards of internal control: Dixons Retail plc 42 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11 Corporate Governance 36 -- 55 Directors Report Corporate Governance Relations with shareholders The Company is committed to effective communication with all shareholders, whether institutional investors, private or employee shareholders.
The Company reports formally to shareholders when its full year and half year results are published.
These results are posted on the Companys corporate website www.
Regular trading updates are also posted on the Companys website.
Formal notification of the Companys AGM is sent to shareholders at least 20 working days in advance of the meeting.
The directors, including the respective Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees, are available for questions formally during the AGM and informally afterwards.
Details of the 2011 AGM are set out in the Notice of Meeting accompanying this Annual Report.
Effective two-way communication with institutional investors, brokers and analysts is established through regular presentations and meetings in the UK and overseas, usually by the Chief Executive, Group Finance Director and Group Communications Director.
The Chairman holds occasional meetings with major shareholders to discuss matters of mutual interest including corporate strategy and governance.
Where appropriate, the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee communicates with major shareholders to canvass opinion when deciding remuneration policy.
The Senior Independent Director and other non-executive directors are also available to attend meetings with major shareholders if requested.
Matters arising from these presentations and meetings are communicated to the Board.
The Board receives an Investor Relations report at each of its scheduled meetings.
Dixons Retail plc 43 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
