Directors Report Corporate Governance Audit Committee Report Membership and process Attendance at meetings The Committee comprises Andrew Lynch as Chairman, Rita The Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive, Group Finance Clifton, Prof. Dr. Utho Creusen, Tim How and Dharmash Mistry, Director, Group Financial Controller, Group Chief Accountant, all of whom are independent non-executive directors.
Dharmash Director of Internal Audit and Risk, Deputy Company Secretary Mistry was appointed to the Committee on 27 September 2010. and external auditors were invited by the Chairman of the Committee to attend all meetings of the Committee.
The Group The biographical details of the members of the Committee are Treasurer and Group Tax Director also attended meetings at the set out on page 36.
The Board is satisfied that the Chairman of Committees request.
Each time the Committee convenes, it also the Committee meets the requirement for recent and relevant meets with external auditors without the presence of management.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
In undertaking its duties, the Committee has access to the services of the Group Finance Director and the Company Secretary, as well as access to external professional advice.
The Committee met on four occasions during the period under review, and the members attendance record is set out on page 41.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees Key matters considered deliberations to the following Board meeting and the minutes During the period, the Committee reviewed the following: ofeach meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members significant issues arising from reports of both the internal and of the Board.
external audits: measures adopted to ensure compliance with the Groups Role credit facilities: The Committee assists the Board to fulfil its oversight responsibilities.
Its primary functions are to: systems and controls in place at PIXmania following the identification of historical under-estimated purchase accruals: monitor the integrity of the financial statements and any formal the working capital position of the Group and the announcements relating to the Groups financial performance: management of its cash flow: review critical accounting policies and financial reporting the carrying value of certain assets in the Group: judgements: tax matters: review the integrity of the Groups system of internal control and risk management: recommendations from the Nominations Committee concerning the composition of the Committee: monitor and review the effectiveness of the Groups internal audit function: a review of the Committees performance and terms of reference: review and approve the annual audit plan of both the internal the role and resources of Internal Audit: and external audit functions including principal areas of focus: a review of the Groups Delegation of Authority Policy: review the Groups risk and insurance programmes: developments in corporate governance: and carry out an annual assessment of the external auditors, the annual audit fee, which is set out in note 3 to the Financial review and monitor their independence and objectivity taking Statements, with due regard to the balance between audit into consideration relevant UK professional and regulatory and non-audit fees and the policy for approval of non-audit requirements, assess the effectiveness of the external audit fees paid to the Groups auditors.
process, approve the external auditors remuneration and terms of engagement and make recommendations in respect External auditors of their reappointment or removal: The Committee, having considered the policies and review the directors conflicts of interest register and to agree procedures applied by the Group and the internal policies and any amendments to previously approved conflicts: representations of Deloitte LLP, including the regular rotation review regularly the Groups policy on the supply of non-audit ofaudit partner, remains satisfied with the auditors objectivity services by the external auditors, such that relevant ethical and independence and the effectiveness of the audit process.
Accordingly, the Committee has recommended to the Board that guidance regarding the provision of non-audit services, when aresolution for their reappointment be proposed at the AGM.
taken as a proportion of the audit fee, is considered in addition to the nature of such services in order to preserve the external auditors independence and objectivity: and monitor the results and effectiveness of arrangements under which employees can raise in confidence issues of concern relating to financial matters and internal controls.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually Andrew Lynch by the Committee and then by the Board.
A copy of the terms Chairman of the Audit Committee ofreference is available on the Groups corporate website.
23 June 2011 Dixons Retail plc 44 Annual Report and Accounts 2010 11
