Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 47 The Company fully supports the principles of corporate governance contained in The Uk Corporate Governance Code issued by the CORPORaTE financial Reporting Council in 2010 the Code.
Except as stated in the section on dialogue with shareholders, the GOvERnanCE Company has, throughout the year, been in compliance with the Code provisions and has applied the principles set out in the Code.
FOR THE yEaR EnDED An explanation of how the principles have been applied is set out 31 OCTObER 2011 below and in the Remuneration Report and the Audit Committee section of this report.
Business review The Directors are required to provide a business review.
Theinformation the review is required to contain is set out in thisreport and on pages 10 to 13 and 22 to 25 which are incorporated by reference.
Board of directors The Board comprises the Chairman, four Non-Executive Directors and three Executive Directors.
The roles of Chairman and Group Managing Director are defined and separate.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and Group Managing Director is clearly established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Board has a balance of skills, experience and knowledge of the Company which enables it to effectively discharge its duties.
Each of the Executive Directors has been an employee of the Company for over 20 years and gained experience in a range of different posts during that time.
indePendence of directors All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered to be independent of management and free from any business or other relationship which affects their independent judgement.
Sir Mark Wrightson succeeded MrRuffles as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 15September 2011.
PETER byROm ChAIRMAN The Board believes that, to be judged independent, each director should be impartial and free from any relationship or connection The Company fully supports the principles which could affect their ability to discharge their responsibilities of corporate governance contained in The impartially and objectively.
In addition, each director should in practice have demonstrated a scrupulously independent approach uK Corporate Governance Code issued byconducting himself impartially in all matters relating to the Group, challenging the views of management and other Board members by the Financial Reporting Council in 2010. andby showing a willingness and ability to defend his own views.
On the basis of these criteria, the Board has determined that each of the Non-Executive Directors is independent.
In reaching this conclusion the Board has considered the factors identified in Code provision B.
The only one of these factors relevant in Dominos case is the length ofservice of Mr Ruffles who joined the Board in 2002.
The Board believes that no connection or relationship has arisen from this period of service which impairs Mr Ruffles independence.
he has continued toapproach all his duties as a Non-Executive Director in an entirely objective and impartial manner.
The annual appraisal process has confirmed that Mr Ruffles remains a very effective member of theBoard.
Details of the backgrounds of the Non-Executive Directors are set out on page 41.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 48 CORPORaTE GOvERnanCE FOR THE yEaR EnDED 31 OCTObER 2011 COnTInuED terms of aPPointment and time commitment indePendent legal advice The terms of appointment of the Non-Executive Directors can be There is a procedure in place for directors to take independent viewed on the Companys website or are available from the Company professional advice at the Companys expense if this is necessary in Secretary.
The Non-Executive Directors are expected to spend connection with their duties.
approximately 20 days per year on Domino business.
This comprises approximately 10 days per year attending board and committee directors insurance and indemnity arrangements meetings and the remainder spent in preparation and in providing The Company has purchased and maintained throughout the year advice and assistance.
Directors and Officers liability insurance.
The Directors also have thebenefit of the indemnity provision contained in the Companys activities of the Board and attendance Articles of Association.
The Company has made qualifying third The Board met nine times during the year to consider operational, partyindemnity provisions for the benefit of its directors.
All directors attended each meeting except that Sir Mark Wrightson, Mr Ruffles and Mr havens did not re-election attend one meeting.
There is a formal schedule of matters specifically All directors are subject to election by shareholders at the first reserved for the Boards decision.
The Chairman periodically meets Annual General Meeting after their appointment and all directors with the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive Directors retire at each AGM.
The Non-Executive Directors were appointed for specified terms In broad terms, the Board is responsible for creating and maintaining subject to re-election and to Companies Act provisions relating to the framework within which the Group operates.
It sets the Groups the removal of a director.
strategy, objectives and policies and approves operating and capital expenditure budgets and material initiatives and commitments.
The aPPointment of new directors executive managers are responsible for the decisions necessary to There is a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment implement such strategies, policies and initiatives.
ofnew directors to the Board, which is described in the Nomination Committee section.
Each director regularly receives detailed written reports on the performance of the Group, future plans and any significant issues conflicts of interest facing the business.
Standard formats have been developed for these Directors are required by law to avoid situations which give rise reports to ensure key facts are readily ascertainable.
In addition, toactual or potential conflicts of interest with the Company unless senior management give presentations to the Board on matters such a situation has been authorised by the Board.
The Company requiring Board approval or on topics that the Board selects.
hasadopted and followed a procedure under which Directors must declare actual or potential conflicts as they arise and the Board Careful attention is given to setting the Boards agenda and meetings reviews potential conflicts of interest arising from other posts held are generally scheduled to start at 9.00 AM to ensure adequate time is byDirectors on an annual basis.
available for discussion of all agenda items.
One meeting during the year takes place over two days and focuses on long-term strategic issues.
During the year authorisation has been given for potential conflicts Additional meetings are called if necessary and this year an additional ofinterest arising as a consequence of other positions held by some meeting was arranged to consider the investment in TEN Media.
No actual conflicts of interest arising in respect of specific arrangements or transactions have been declared to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors scrutinise the performance of management in meeting objectives and monitor the reporting of In determining whether to authorise conflicts of interest only those performance.
The format of board reports has been designed to Directors who have no interest in the matter may make the decision clearly show progress in achieving targets.
Senior managers below and they must act in good faith in the manner most likely to promote Board level are regularly required to present to the Board on their the Companys success.
areas of responsibility and to answer any questions on their reports.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 49 Board committees The independence and objectivity of the auditor is regularly The Board has three standing committees: considered by the Committee.
The Committee receives an annual statement from the auditor detailing its independence policies and audit committee safeguards and confirming their independence.
The Committee Members ensures that an audit partner rotation policy is operated and reviews Sir Mark Wrightson Committee Chairman the relationship between auditor and management to see if this has and member with relevant financial experience the potential to affect independence.
Mr p Ruffles Mr C Brinsmead The Committee monitors the fees paid to the auditor in respect Sir David Brown ofnon-audit work.
As a matter of policy, the only non-audit work which the auditor may undertake is tax compliance and acquisition due diligence.
The Committee considers that it is cost effective to usethe auditor for such work and that the amount and nature of such work does not impair the independence and objectivity of the auditor.
Specific Audit Committee approval is required to engage the auditor to provide any other type of non-audit work.
The Committee would only give approval if it was satisfied that it would be beneficial to use SIR maRK WRIGHTSOn the auditor and the nature and extent of the work would not impair auditor independence.
Each year theCommittee makes an assessment of the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence of the Companys auditor.
The Committee reviews the scope and effectiveness of systems to Thisassessment is based upon reports produced by the auditor, the identify and address both financial and non-financial risk.
Detailed Committees own dealings with the auditor and feedback from the presentations on risk control issues are made to the full Board.
Committee is responsible for reviewing whistle-blowing procedures.
prior to the commencement of each audit, the auditor presents a The Committee reviews the internal audit programme with the proposal to the Committee detailing how the audit will be conducted Group financial Controller, who has responsibility for the programme.
The Committee reviews the proposal with The Audit Committee has access to all internal audit reports and the senior representatives of the auditor.
Group financial Controller has a direct reporting line to the Audit Committee Chairman on any issue relating to internal audits.
The Committee meets with the auditor to consider the interim and full year financial statements and to review a report by the auditor on The Committee met twice during the year.
any issues raised by the audit.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 50 CORPORaTE GOvERnanCE FOR THE yEaR EnDED 31 OCTObER 2011 COnTInuED nomination committee The Committee advises the Board on the reappointment of Members Non-Executive Directors and the independence of such directors.
It Mr p Byrom Committee Chairman also reviews the structure, size, composition and performance of the Mr p Ruffles Board and its committees and makes recommendations to the Board MrN Bond regarding such matters.
Sir Mark Wrightson Mr C Brinsmead The Committee met once during the year.
Sir David Brown remuneration committee Details of the Remuneration Committee are given in the separate Board Report on Remuneration set out on pages 52 to 55. committee meeting attendance All committee members attended each committee meeting except that PETER byROm Sir Mark Wrightson did not attend one Remuneration Committee and Mr Ruffles did not attend one Nomination Committee meeting.
The Committee is responsible for identifying and recommending suitable candidates for appointment to the Board and has adopted a committee terms of reference formal and transparent procedure for such appointments.
Under this The terms of reference for the Remuneration, Nomination and procedure, a requirement specification is drawn up and a recruitment AuditCommittees can be viewed on the Companys website or consultancy engaged to identify suitable candidates.
Candidates are copies obtained from the Company Secretary.
assessed against the specification and selected candidates are interviewed by members of the Nomination Committee and other Performance evaluation directors and senior managers.
The final appointment decision is The Nomination Committee appraised the performance of the Board madeby the Board.
This year the Committee used a questionnaire to identify issues for review and is investigating arrangements for an The Committee considers succession planning for appointments to the externally facilitated review to take place next year.
Board and keeps under review the leadership needs of the Company.
All senior posts are graded according to the impact of the postholder The Chairman appraised the performance of the individual Board leaving the Company and, where possible, suitable successors are members in conjunction with the Managing Director where appropriate.
identified together with the training and experience required by the successor to take over the post.
The Committee also reviews graduate The Non-Executive Directors met without the Chairman being recruitment arrangements and development programmes for potential present to appraise the performance of the Chairman.
high flyers to ensure there is a pool of talent available to meet the leadership needs of the Company over the longer term.
executive management committee The Executive Management Committee comprises the Executive The Committee has considered the report by Lord Davies entitled Directors and other senior managers.
It meets monthly to review the Women on Boards which recommends that chairmen of fTSE 350 performance of the Group and to consider major projects, initiatives companies should set out the percentage of women they aim to have and any significant issues facing the Group.
The Company understands the benefit of diversity and is committed to equal opportunities for all.
internal controls The Corporate Social Responsibility Report on pages 34 to 37 The Directors acknowledge their overall responsibility for the system provides information on Dominos policies and practice in this area.
of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
They have Inselecting candidates for board appointments the Committee will established a system that is designed to provide reasonable but not assess the then current make up of the Board and take this into absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss and to account in devising the requirement specification for the recruitment.
manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business Selection for Board appointments will be made on merit against this objectives.
There is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and objective specification and not by reference to a prescribed quota.
managing the key risks faced by the Group that has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of the approval of the The posts of Group Operations Director, Group Technical Director annual report.
The process is regularly reviewed by the Board and and Group human Resources Director are held by women.
These accords with the revised Turnbull guidance.
Steps continue to be are not main board appointments but form part of the next tier taken to embed internal control further into the operations of ofmanagement below the Board.
The holders of these posts sit thebusiness and to deal with any issues that come to the Boards ontheExecutive Management Committee and comprise one third attention.
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness of the ofitsmembership.
Domino Printing Sciences plc | Annual Report and Financial Statements 2011 51 financial control risk management The key internal financial controls that were in operation during the There is a risk management sub-committee chaired by Andrew year were: herbert, the Group finance Director, which has been set up to ensure greater focus on risk management and, in particular, the financial reporting implementation of control measures.
The sub-committee is required All operating units complete formal business plans for the year.
Each to meet at least quarterly.
The role of the sub-committee is to: month, the unit produces written reports in adefined format on its performance against these plans and provides updated business promote effective identification and management of risk forecasts.
The reports and forecasts are reviewed by the Executive throughout the Group: Directors and significant issues are reported to theBoard.
maintain a risk register identifying significant risks, risk control measures and responsibility for control measures: accounting policies and procedures review and confirm that all significant risks have been identified and Detailed accounting policies and procedures are in place.
Written suitable control measures adopted: confirmation of compliance with the policies and procedures is monitor implementation of risk control measures for all significant obtained from local management.
There is a formal internal audit risks: and process to verify the application of Group policies and procedures ensure all subsidiaries operate an effective risk management process.
and to confirm that there is an effective process of management and control within the business.
Internal audits are carried out by suitably A senior manager is given responsibility for devising and implementing qualified and experienced staff who have no current connection with control measures for each significant risk.
The manager is required to the operation being audited.
It is the objective of the internal audit provide a quarterly report to the sub-committee on the status of programme to audit each active Domino company at least once every implementation of control measures to manage that risk and also to two years.
give an annual presentation to the sub-committee.
security of the groups computer systems The sub-committee reports to the Executive Management The operation of the Group relies on financial and management Committee which in turn reports to the Board.
A formal risk information processed by, and stored on, computer systems.
Controls management review of each subsidiary is conducted as part of and procedures have been established to protect the security and theinternal audit programme.
Monthly reports to the Executive integrity of data held on these systems, with standby arrangements Directors submitted by subsidiaries and business units cover risk inthe event of computer failure for the major systems.
control issues relevant to the particular subsidiary or business unit.
treasury Individual risk registers have been developed in each of the key The Treasury function operates under specific guidelines set down functional areas of the Group and in each of the operating businesses.
bythe Board and regular reports are made to the Board.
dialogue with shareholders capital investment The Company actively seeks to enter into dialogue with institutional The Company has defined procedures for the review and control shareholders and holds regular meetings with them.
In order to assist ofcapital expenditure.
Non-Executive Directors to develop an understanding of the views ofmajor shareholders, reports are made of meetings with such oPerational controls shareholders.
The Company also uses the Annual General Meeting All Domino businesses are required to operate in accordance with asan opportunity for communication with private shareholders.
The detailed, documented standards and procedures which cover all Senior Independent Director has not attended meetings with a range material aspects of their operations.
Compliance with these standards of major shareholders as suggested by the Combined Code provision is assessed by internal and external review.
The Board considers that Mr Ruffles and Sir Mark Wrightson, who took over as Senior Independent Director on 15 September 2011, have comPliance a good understanding of the issues and concerns of major shareholders The Company has a Group policy on standards of conduct and and such attendance was unnecessary.
business ethics with which all employees are required to comply.
There is a detailed schedule of delegated authority designed to ensure that all material transactions are considered at the appropriate level within the Group and are subject to review by the head office legal department.
All subsidiaries have access to local lawyers and the head office legal department.
In response to the new Uk Bribery Act, the Company has conducted arisk assessment and adopted a strict anti-bribery policy and a range ofpractical compliance measures.
All employees have been notified of the policy and required to acknowledge they have read and understood its terms.
Training has been provided to senior management.
New anti-bribery provisions have been inserted in standard contracts and inthe supplier standard with which all suppliers are required to comply.
The internal audit process has been extended to cover specific checks on compliance with anti-bribery procedures and compliance is regularly reviewed by the risk management sub-committee.
