w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e Corporate governance Stephen Hemsley Chairman Chairmans Overview How did we comply with the Governance Code?
The principal corporate governance rules applying to UK companies listed on the London Stock Exchange LSE for the year ended 25 Dear Shareholder December 2011 are contained in the new UK Corporate Governance On behalf of the Board, I am pleased to present the corporate Code adopted in June 2010 the Code and the UK Financial governance report for the financial year ended 25 December 2011.
Services Authority FSA Listing Rules, which require companies The purpose of this report is to provide a clear and accessible listed on the Main Market of the LSE to describe in their annual explanation of what governance means to the Group in terms of its report their approach to corporate governance in terms of impact on decision making in the operation of our business.
adherence to the Codes main principles and also non-compliance with any of the Codes provisions.
As a Board, we share the belief that good governance supports the long term success of the Company and that this is best realised On the basis of reporting against these two elements of the Code, through effective leadership and collaboration.
We work hard to shareholders should be able to make a judgment of the Companys ensure that our corporate governance framework translates into corporate governance positioning in relation to the Code which meaningful practice at all levels within the business and assists us represents best practice.
The Code is available under the heading in driving continuous improvement in standards and performance Corporate Governance at www.
The Board considers that the Company has complied in all respects I personally welcome the drive for more transparent reporting with the provisions of the Code for the year ended 25 December which is improving business conduct in these challenging times.
In 2011, except for a short transitional period in the year due to the line with the new UK Corporate Governance Code and following on changes to the Board that have taken place, as follows and from our external Board Evaluation exercise last year, we have spent explained in more detail below: considerable time this year reviewing the make-up of our Board, as we acknowledge the real benefits of greater board diversity.
B1.2 Less than half the Board excluding the Chairman comprising independent Non-Executive Directors part of year There has been substantial debate about diversity more broadly, only : and we feel it is necessary to strike the right balance of independence, relevant knowledge and experience and enthusiasm B2.1 Not a majority of independent Non-Executive Directors for our brand.
This emphasis on a broad spectrum of skills and comprising the Nominations Committee part of year only : attributes has directly led to the changes that I have reported in my C3.1 Less than three independent Non-Executive Directors Chairmans Statement, namely the recent appointment of Syl Saller comprising the Audit Committee part of year only : and and Helen Keays as Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
I believe that these changes, combined with the introduction of our D2.1 Less than three independent Non-Executive Directors new Chief Executive Officer, have re-invigorated the Board for the comprising the Remuneration Committee part of year only.
As a result of these appointments and other Board changes, I am pleased to report that the Company is now in Following the changes to the Board and committees we have now full compliance with the UK Code.
returned to full compliance with the Code.
A more detailed report on our corporate governance arrangements The information required by DTR 7.1 is set out in the Audit Committee is set out on the following pages.
section of this report on page 41 and the information required by Stephen Hemsley DTR 7.2 is set out in this report, other than that required under DTR Chairman 7.2.
6 which is set out in the Directors report on pages 30 to 35.
36 36 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 Overview O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Corporate governance R Re ep po or rt t o on n D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re em mu un ne er ra at ti io on n Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s n o i t a n i m o N A u Corpo D rat ire ec g to or v s e r rna ep n o c re t Leadership The Board and the Committees The purpose of the Board is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within a suitable framework of effective controls, inorder to promote the success of the business for the benefit of its members as a whole.
The Remuneration Committee The Nomination Committee manages determines the terms and conditions of the process to advise and make employment, remuneration and benefits recommendations to the Board on of the Executive Directors, the Chairman matters relating to the Boards and senior executives and advises the membership and Committee Board on the Groups remuneration appointments, including reviewing strategy and framework to recruit, BOARD succession plans.
retain and reward senior executives.
The Audit Committee assists the Board in discharging its and financial risk management and for monitoring the objectivity responsibilities for the integrity of the financial statements, for and effectiveness of the external auditors and to keep under the effectiveness of the systems of internal control and regulatory review the need for an internal audit function.
Membership and attendance for the period ended 25 December 2011 Board Nominations Remuneration Audit Meetings Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings held 9 2 4 3 Executive Directors Chris Moore 9 1 Lance Batchelor 9 1 2 1 Lee Ginsberg 9 Non-Executive Directors Stephen Hemsley Chairman 8 Colin Halpern Vice-Chairman 9 2 John Hodson 8 1 4 2 2 Peter Klauber 6 2 2 Michael Shallow 9 2 4 3 Nigel Wray 7 3 Syl Saller 3 2 4 Helen Keays 2 1 Lance Batchelor became Deputy Chief Executive on 27 June 2011 and resigned from all committees 2 Peter Klauber stepped down as a Non-Executive Director on 30 September 2011 3 Syl Saller was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 20 September 2011 and was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 23 November 2011 4 Helen Keays was appointed as a Non-Executive Director on 20 September 2011 and was appointed to the Audit Committee on 22 November 2011 As required by the Code, there is a clear division of responsibilities At the start of the year under review, the Board comprised two between the Board and the Executive team and between the Executive Directors and seven Non-Executive Directors, four of whom Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairman is were deemed to be independent under the Code.
The following responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness changes took place during the year: and setting its agenda.
Once agreed by the Board as a whole, it is the On 27 June 2011, Lance Batchelor, who until such time had been Chief Executive Officers responsibility to ensure delivery of the an independent Non-Executive Director, was appointed to the role strategic and financial objectives.
Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 37 37 d i t n o i t a r e n u m e R w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e On 20 September 2011, Syl Saller and Helen Keays were each definitions of success, the core strategic principles, and the appointed as independent Non-Executive Directors.
understanding, alignment and mitigation of risk.
On 30 September 2011, Peter Klauber stepped down as an Through the Nomination Committee, the Board deals with leadership independent Non-Executive Director.
needs of the business and ensures that plans are in place for succession at both Board and senior management level.
On 26 December 2011, Chris Moore resigned as Chief Executive Officer and Lance Batchelor was promoted to the role of Chief The core focus during the year under review was the induction of the Executive Officer.
new Deputy Chief Executive Officer and the search for, and induction of our two new Non-Executive Directors.
Following Lance Batchelors At the end of the year under review, the Board has therefore been smooth transition into the role of Deputy Chief Executive, the Board reconstituted with two Executive Directors, and seven Non-Executive confirmed his appointment to the role of Chief Executive from the Directors, four of whom are deemed to be independent under the start of the 2012 financial year, following the retirement of Chris Code.
This reconstitution now means that the Company is fully Moore after 21 years in the business.
The Board decided to implement provision B.
7.1 of the Code with Colin Halpern and Nigel Wray have served on the Board of the immediate effect at the 2011 AGM so each Director retired Company for twelve years.
Due to their respective material voluntarily and submitted themselves for re-election.
All were shareholdings in the Company and, in Colin Halperns case, because successfully re-elected.
of his previous executive role, neither Colin Halpern nor Nigel Wray is considered an independent non-executive director for Code Details of the Executive Directors service contracts are set out on purposes.
However, we strongly believe that both Colin Halpern and page 56.
The Non-Executive Directors have letters of appointment Nigel Wray bring invaluable knowledge, entrepreneurial flair and which are available for inspection at the registered office of the business experience to the Board that is key to the continued Company during normal business hours.
Terms of reference for all Board committees, which are approved The independent Non-Executive Directors through their diversity of by the Board and reviewed annually, are available on the experience, backgrounds and insight from other businesses, play a Companys website.
key governance role in protecting shareholders interests and Senior Independent Director complement the skills and experience of the Executive Directors.
The Michael Shallow is the Senior Independent Director, chairs the Audit Board recognises the diversity challenges set by Lord Davies in his Committee and the Nomination Committee, and is a member of the Women on Boards report, but rather than set any target, the Board Remuneration Committee.
The Senior Independent Director is feels that the challenge has been directly addressed through the new available to shareholders if they have concerns which are not Non-Executive appointments, although the appointments were made resolved through the normal channels of Chairman, Chief Executive totally on merit as opposed to being driven by any wish on the Officer or Chief Financial Officer or for which such contact is Boards part to simply increase female representation on the Board.
All of the independent Non-Executive Directors are tasked with ensuring Board and Company matters are effectively challenged from Board effectiveness evaluation a range of external perspectives.
In 2010, the Board undertook an evaluation of the Board and its Committees, externally facilitated by MBS Limited, a consultancy All of the Non-Executive Directors bring independent judgment to which has expertise in the field of governance and performance the Boards deliberations, have a mindset to do what is right for the evaluation.
A number of recommendations were made and taken business, and fulfil the following key roles: forward, and are reflected in the changes made to the Board during Overview and review of internal control: the year.
Constructive challenge to the Executive Directors, and holding of In 2011, the Board undertook a formal evaluation of its own management to account for performance: performance and that of its committees and individual Directors.
Support of the Executive team in the shaping and delivery of the The evaluation was prepared and carried out by the Chairman and strategic goals of the business: the Company Secretary and built on the key evaluation themes that Ensuring the business fulfils its accountability to shareholders arose from the 2010 evaluation exercise, with questions posed to and other stakeholders as appropriate: assess how the Board was progressing against the areas highlighted Optimisation of shareholder return and protection of shareholder the previous year.
Each Director was provided with a comprehensive assets: and questionnaire for completion and a consolidated report of the output Ensure suitable diversity in light of governance recommendations from the evaluation was prepared for review and consideration by but still maintain an optimum mix of skills, relevant experience the Board.
This exercise concluded that the Board and its and entrepreneurial flair.
Committees continue to provide leadership and operate effectively As stated above, for a brief period in the year under review, the but highlighted a number of areas that required improvement.
Board composition was not in accordance with the Code, but the In addition to the above process, the Senior Independent Director Board is of the view that at all times there has been a suitable meets with the Non-Executive Directors and uses a tailored balance on the Board and the prospective benefit of the changes questionnaire to assess the Chairmans performance and made to the membership of the Board more than outweigh the effectiveness.
This review also takes into account the views of the temporary technical non-compliance.
In 2011, the conclusion of the review was that The structure of the Board and the integrity of the individual the Chairman continues to provide effective leadership of the Board.
Directors ensure that no single individual or group dominates the The Remuneration Committee also reviews Executive Directors decision making process.
There is a common purpose of promoting performance when it reviews remuneration packages each year.
the overall success of the Company with a unified vision of the 38 38 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Corporate governance R Re ep po or rt t o on n D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re em mu un ne er ra at ti io on n Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Corpo D rat ire ec g to or v s e r rna ep n o c re t Governance in action Board responsibilities and processes Board achievements during the year making and reviewing of major business decisions Approval of key decisions monitoring of current trading against previously approved plans Acquisition of the majority interest in the German Dominos exercise of control by annual review of matters reserved for the business Board Interest free loans to franchisees changes to the Companys capital structure Redesign of the five-year strategic plan acquisitions Approval of 2011 budget and operational plan significant contractual commitments Redesign of the Company reward and incentive structure review of corporate governance arrangements Review of development targets review of major risks and mitigation strategies Strengthening Board independence review and control of capital expenditure Understanding and developing the next generation of business leaders Supervising transition into role of new Chief Executive There were nine scheduled Board meetings in the period ended 25 they are provided with all of the papers and information relating to December 2011, together with an off-site strategy and business that meeting and are able to discuss matters arising directly with planning day.
Ad hoc meetings were also convened to deal with the Chairman and or Chief Executive Officer.
corporate and transactional matters between scheduled meetings as All Directors have access to the services of the Company Secretary appropriate.
The executive and non-executive elements of the Board and may take independent professional advice at the Companys maintain a close dialogue as appropriate between meetings.
The Company Secretary reports to the Chairman in respect Chairman meets the Non-Executive Directors without the Executive of his core duties to the Board.
The removal of the Company Directors present at least annually and the Chairman meets the Secretary is a matter specifically reserved for decision by the Board.
Chief Executive Officer at least once a month.
Any questions shareholders may have on corporate governance The independent Non-Executive Directors meet at least twice during matters, policies or procedures should be addressed to the the year, under the leadership of the Senior Independent Director.
Decision making Information and professional development Our governance structure aims to enable appropriate, effective The Chairman, assisted by the Company Secretary, regularly decision making with clear accountabilities and sets out how the discusses any development or training needs with individual business is managed and operated at all levels.
It aims to ensure directors.
As a result, in the year under review, a number of that the risk profile of the business reflects the strategic objectives individual training needs were identified and action was taken to of the business, with the ultimate aim of protecting the business address these needs.
from reputational or operational damage.
Non-Executive Directors are encouraged to attend major In line with the Companies Act 2006 the 2006 Act, the Board franchisee events to gain further insight into the business.
introduced procedures for Directors to formally disclose any actual During 2011, the Non-Executive Directors spent additional time or potential conflicts to the whole Board for authorisation as within the business, especially in the stores and at the Companys necessary.
All new conflicts are required to be disclosed as and head office.
There is an annual review of conflicts disclosed and authorisations given.
The register of Directors conflicts is Newly appointed directors receive a personalised induction maintained by the Company Secretary.
program, tailored to their experience, background and particular areas of focus, which is designed to ensure that they have the Matters requiring Board and Committee approval are generally the necessary knowledge and understanding of the Company and its subject of a proposal by one or more of the Executive Directors or activities.
The program will usually include an overview of the the Company Secretary and are submitted to the Board, together business model and the Board processes, meetings with the with supporting documentation, as part of the Board or Committee Executive Committee, senior managers and major franchisees, store papers.
At each Board meeting, the Board pack includes an update visits and briefings on key governance and compliance issues.
from the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, financial The Board also recognizes the importance of ongoing training and results and functional updates.
There are presentations on the education, particularly regarding new laws and regulations which Companys operations and regular discussions on strategy, are relevant to the Group.
Such training or education is kept under marketing, franchisee profitability and relationships, employee review by the Company Secretary, who is responsible for Director engagement and social and governance matters.
induction and the on-going training of Directors.
At each Board meeting, a senior manager is invited to make a The Company provides insurance cover and indemnities for its presentation to the Board and there are a number of formal and Directors and officers, although no cover exists in the event Directors informal social occasions each year which enable the Board or officers are found to have acted fraudulently or dishonestly.
members to meet senior management.
Where a Director is unable to attend a meeting due to other business commitments or illness, Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 39 39 w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e Board and Executive Committees Nomination Committee Members Michael Shallow Chairman Colin Halpern Lance Batchelor until 27 June 2011 Peter Klauber until 30 September 2011 John Hodson appointed 25 October 2011 Michael Shallow Chairman Chairmans Overview Activities It has been an unusually busy year for the Committee, meeting to The Committee met on two occasions during the year and in discuss the structure, size and composition of the Board and addition to agreeing the process, timetable and recommendations recommending the changes which led to the appointment of two for the appointment of the two new Non-Executive Directors, the new Non-Executive Directors.
We also, as a Committee, helped to Committee considered: oversee the transition of Lance Batchelor from a Non-Executive to the re-appointment of all Directors retiring at the 2011 AGM: an Executive Director.
the findings of the 2010 Board evaluation exercise: We have focused on ensuring we have the optimum mix of Directors to lead and support the business for the future, informed by the Board Committee memberships following the Board changes: governance and diversity challenges raised in the FRCs Board and Effectiveness guidance and Lord Davies report Women on Boards.
the support of Chris Moore and Lance Batchelor through the Spencer Stuart provided considerable assistance in terms of transition of Lance Batchelor becoming Deputy Chief Executive creating the ideal candidate profiles and presenting a number Officer and then Chief Executive Officer in FY2012.
of outstanding candidates, who were then comprehensively interviewed by Committee members and the wider Board.
Remuneration Committee Members John Hodson Chairman Michael Shallow Lance Batchelor until 27 June 2011 Peter Klauber until 30 September 2011 Syl Saller appointed 23 November 2011 John Hodson Chairman Chairmans Overview Activities At all times during the financial year, the Remuneration The Committee met four times this year.
Further details about the Committee comprised only independent Non-Executive Directors.
Remuneration Committee, its activities during the year and an At the invitation of the Remuneration Committee, the Chairman of explanation of how it applies the Directors remuneration the Board normally attends meetings and the Chief Executive principles of the Code are set out in the Report on Directors Officer attends as appropriate.
40 40 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Corporate governance R Re ep po or rt t o on n D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re em mu un ne er ra at ti io on n Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Corpo D rat ire ec g to or v s e r rna ep n o c re t Audit Committee Members Michael Shallow Chairman John Hodson Lance Batchelor until 27 June 2011 Peter Klauber until 30 September 2011 Helen Keays appointed 22 November 2011 In accordance with the Code, Michael Shallow and Peter Klauber, before he stepped down are identified as having recent and Michael Shallow Chairman relevant financial experience.
Chairmans Overview Significant time throughout the year has been spent by the services to the Group such as bookkeeping, internal audit, Committee on internal controls and risk management, which the valuations and financial systems design and implementation.
Committee and Board believe are fundamental for the Company to Details of the audit and non-audit fees for 2011 are given in note achieve its strategic objectives.
As a Committee, we have overseen a detailed review of how Activities strategic and operational risk is identified, assessed and reported, The Committee met three times this year to: which has led to a number of changes being made to the reporting of major risks.
In respect of financial risks, we have also improved Review all results announcements and the 2010 Annual Report the way that internal controls are operated, tested and disclosed.
and Accounts, including half year results and interim management statements: The belief and confidence that the Committee has in the effectiveness of the Companys external auditors, Ernst & Young Receive regular reports from the Chief Financial Officer, the LLP Ernst & Young, is an important aspect of the Committees Financial Controller, the Audit Partner and the Company confidence in the Companys approach to controls and risks and Secretary on risk and compliance matters : the integrity of its financial reporting.
Their independence is Request and oversee the creation of an independently designed evident through their robust challenge to management.
Ernst & internal controls testing framework: Youngs effectiveness enables the Committee to recommend their reappointment for 2012.
The external auditor is also subject to Approve the annual controls testing plan: professional standards which safeguard the integrity of the Assess the need for an internal audit function: auditing role.
Review emerging risks and material risk profile: In terms of assessing the need for an internal function, the Committee after lengthy debate satisfied itself that there was Discuss the Companys tax strategy: sufficient rigour and objectiveness in the internal control review Discuss the Companys approach and implementation plan for and risk assessment processes to obviate the need for an internal the Bribery Act 2010: audit function.
Agree the recommendations of the re-appointment of the There was no non-audit work carried out by the external auditors existing auditor: in the year under review.
Review and monitor the external auditors independence and There is a formal policy governing the conduct of non-audit work objectivity and the effectiveness of the audit process: and by the auditors in line with the Auditing Practice Boards Ethical Standards.
Under this policy, any appointments in respect of Approve the auditors remuneration.
non-audit work require the prior approval of the Audit Committee In terms of other business of the Committee, it also oversees the within an established budget and non-audit work cannot be dedicated whistleblowing facility for all employees, which undertaken where there is an identifiable risk that the work of the allows employees to raise concerns about possible improprieties individual from the external audit firm could conflict or in financial reporting or other matters.
The Committee also compromise the quality or independence of the audit.
This reviewed fees charged by Ernst & Young for the audit and for prohibits the external auditors from providing certain additional non-audit services.
Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 41 41 w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e Executive Committee 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 Members In addition to Lance Batchelor and Lee Ginsberg, the Executive Board comprises: 6 Jane Franks, HR Director 1 Adam Batty, General Counsel and Company Secretary 7 Michael Botha, Group Financial Controller 2 Gareth Franks, Food Services Director 8 Andrew Emmerson, Business Development Director 3 Ian Douglas, Procurement Director 9 Colin Rees, IT Director 4 Simon Wallis, Sales and Marketing Director 10 Patricia Thomas, International Development Director 5 Kerri Hayman, Operations Director Overview Activities The Committee has delegated certain tasks to the following The Executive Committee is responsible for the day-to-day operational sub-committees and receives regular updates from management of the Groups operations within the limits contained them: in the Boards delegation of authority and for delivering the Groups strategy.
In addition, the Committee has a schedule of Store Opening Committee Andrew Emmerson ensures stores matters specifically reserved for its approval.
are identified, acquired and opened in accordance with the Senior managers on the Committee receive an executive licence Companys store opening plan.
setting out their specific limits of authority in terms of entering Health & Safety Committee Adam Batty promotes the well into financial and other business commitments and they in turn being and safety of our employees, franchisee employees and are responsible for ensuring the specified process of delegation is customers and minimizes the risk of prosecution and financial followed in their departments.
penalties Marketing Advisory Committee Simon Wallis comprising ten franchisees that have been elected to stand and represent the interests of franchisees in their area, the Committee is tasked with aligning on marketing strategy, promotional planning and execution as well as deployment of the National Advertising Fund.
42 42 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Corporate governance R Re ep po or rt t o on n D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re em mu un ne er ra at ti io on n Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Corpo D rat ire ec g to or v s e r rna ep n o c re t a system whereby all invoices presented for payment are Assurance reviewed by the Accounts Payable team in Finance to ensure that Focus on risk management and internal controls they have been authorised in accordance with the Authority Accepting that risk is an inherent part of doing business, the Policy.
All on-line banking payments are authorised by two Groups risk management system is designed both to encourage finance managers and the weekly invoice payment run is reviewed entrepreneurial spirit and also to provide assurance that risk is fully and approved by the Chief Financial Officer: understood and managed.
The Board expressly recognizes its overall responsibility for the Groups system of risk management the financial reporting process includes control and reconciliation and internal control and for monitoring its effectiveness within the processes which ensure there is an audit trail between the context of achieving the Groups objectives.
The Directors are aware Groups operations and the consolidated financial statements and that such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the describes the system and controls that are to be applied.
A review risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can only provide of the consolidation and financial statements is completed by reasonable and not absolute assurance against material management to ensure that the financial performance and misstatement or loss.
position of the Group are appropriately recorded, together with The Groups brand and reputation is fundamental to its continued the review of results announcements and annual reports by the growth and success and therefore active management of operational Audit Committee: and other risks is seen as being critical in ensuring that these are annual business reviews with each franchisee to review maintained as valuable assets.
There is an ongoing, embedded operational standards, management and audited accounts, process across the business, which has been in place for the whole cashflow forecasts and general financial health, in addition to year, for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks.
monthly monitoring of franchisee management accounts and Risks are prioritised according to their expected likelihood of regular unannounced operational standards audits: and occurring and financial impact if they were to occur.
Detailed mitigation strategies have been worked up.
The register and the a comprehensive system of health and safety training and updating process for the register is managed by the Company compliance monitoring.
Best practice management tools have been Secretary who oversees the process at an operational level through introduced and a health and safety committee established with the holding of quarterly meetings with the risk owners on the representatives from and meetings at each production facility.
The results are then reviewed by the Audit Committee and at least annually by the Board, in order to assist The Boards review of the system of internal control with their annual assessments of all material internal controls.
Through the monitoring processes described above, during the year the Audit Committee on behalf of the Board reviewed the All key business activities including franchising, marketing, effectiveness and structure of the system of internal controls.
The procurement, production, distribution and information technology Audit Committee satisfied itself that there is an ongoing process are controlled by the Executive Directors, with all activity being for identifying, evaluating and managing the Groups significant organised within a defined structure built around responsibility and risks that has been in place for the period ended 25 December authority levels and a structured reporting framework.
The key 2011 and up to the date of approval of the financial statements, features of the Groups internal controls are as follows: that it is reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee, and that it a comprehensively re-worked, prioritised risk register which is meets the requirements of the Turnbull guidance for directors on regularly reviewed by the Executive Committee, Audit Committee the Code.
This review has not identified any failings or weaknesses and Board: which the Audit Committee has determined to be significant.
an independently designed internal controls testing framework introduced at the start of the year and reported on at each Audit The Group has in place an experienced insurance broker to advise Committee meeting: on and co-ordinate all insurance matters across the Group both defined authorisation levels over all departments as part of a corporate insurance and the franchisee insurance programme.
The comprehensive contracts authorisation and execution policy the Group regularly reviews both the type and amount of external Authority Policy : insurance that it buys, with guidance from its brokers, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood and a monthly reporting pack that is circulated in advance of each magnitude of the risks involved.
Board meeting which includes consolidated management accounts.
Each period annual budgets and forecasts are compared against actual performance: daily statements of system sales and royalty income.
Rolling cashflow forecasts and forecast banking covenant compliance is regularly tested: Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 43 43 w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e Principal risks and uncertainties The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups internal control and risk management.
Risk is an inherent part of doing business and the Board is fully committed to identifying, evaluating and monitoring significant risks facing the business and this is described in more detail in the Corporate Governance section of this Annual Report and Accounts.
It is important that risks are identified, assessed and prioritised in a timely manner and that the controls designed to manage such risks operate effectively and are tested.
The Groups approach to risk management includes developing key business plans and policies relating to areas which are likely to have a severe impact on the Groups business.
Each identified risk has a business owner who manages and reports on that particular risk to the Executive Committee.
The Executive Committee assists the Board in the review of risk management processes and takes responsibility for designing the appropriate departmental specific internal control systems and policies with each business owner.
The Board is therefore able to feed emerging risks into the formulation and management of its strategic objectives.
Last years summary of principal risks and uncertainties relating to the business in the Annual Report contained reference to Key Contracts, Continued Expansion and Termination of the Master Franchise Agreement in relation to the United Kingdom and Ireland, Franchisee Considerations, Corporate Governance, Relationship with DPII the master franchisor for Dominos Pizza and Advertising Restrictions.
The Group recognises that the above mentioned risks are still present and confirms they are managed accordingly alongside other risks not previously listed but in this Annual Report we have made the decision to disclose those risks of most concern to the business at the current time and those which have been the subject of most debate at recent Executive Committee, Audit Committee and Board meetings.
External Risks Detrimental economic environment Consumer spending Risk Description: Changes in the general economic climate, such as Mitigation activities: On a regular basis the Group reviews, in those caused by a UK or Irish recession or the Eurozone crisis, can conjunction with its franchisees, its offering and promotional have a detrimental effect on consumer confidence and expenditure strategy, including competitor activity, to flex the offering so as to and therefore the Groups revenues.
ensure that the Dominos proposition for customers is the most compelling in the home delivery pizza market in terms of quality Impact: Higher levels of unemployment, increased taxes and and value.
general pessimism about the economic outlook for the future could lead to a reduction in consumers willingness to spend disposable The Group believes that a number of prevailing trends actually income on buying home delivery food.
This could adversely affect benefit the Groups business, including a population with the Groups business and results of operations.
increasingly greater disposable incomes who are cash rich and time poor and an increased trend of busier and more hectic If as a result of the Eurozone crisis, a country in which the Group lifestyles leaving less time for home cooking.
In terms of has a key supplier exits the Euro, the price of those goods could marketing power and therefore brand awareness, each store increase materially for the Group or the supplier could go out of contributes a percentage of net sales to a national advertising business.
Correspondingly, if the Republic of Ireland was forced to fund which gives significant marketing spending power over 25 re-introduce its own currency, all of the Groups revenues for that million in 2011. country would be redenominated which could, depending on exchange rates, have a detrimental effect on the Groups revenue The Group ensures it has in place contingency plans with and profitability.
suppliers and has back-up suppliers in place, particularly in relation to suppliers who are based in countries which are flagged as possible leavers from the Eurozone.
Competitor Activity Risk Description: Existing or new competitors growing and Mitigation activities: Considerable time and effort is put into clearly operating their businesses more aggressively so that the Groups differentiating the Dominos brand, i. e. using consumer insight to stores suffer reduced sales and or suffer margin erosion due to the give customers clear reasons to choose Dominos instead of commencement of a price war in the home delivery pizza market.
competitors, whilst continuing to monitor competitor activity and adapting the offering where necessary.
As the largest pizza home Impact: The impact of increased competitor activity could have a delivery business in the UK and Ireland, the Group continuously material adverse effect on the Groups revenues and profitability innovates its routes to market and leads the way in terms of and also the profitability of our franchisees, which could result in a ordering options for customers.
The Group also has unmatched reduced willingness to grow their businesses and which in turn marketing spending power in the pizza home delivery market.
could have an adverse impact on the Groups future growth plans.
44 44 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Corporate governance R Re ep po or rt t o on n D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re em mu un ne er ra at ti io on n Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Corpo D rat ire ec g to or v s e r rna ep n o c re t Failure of a Critical Supplier & Cost of Goods increases Risk Description: The Group is reliant on the continued operation of Mitigation activities: All core suppliers are routinely put through various supply contracts with third party suppliers who provide raw a financial risk assessment to monitor their ongoing financial materials to the Group.
A major supplier could, particularly in the health.
Those suppliers found to be at risk are followed up with current difficult economic environment, cease trading with little or individually and monitored closely.
All have documented no advance warning.
There could be sustained food cost price contingency plans that are reviewed annually.
There is a dual inflation on the Groups key food items.
supply approach for products deemed critical to the Group either two distinct production plants within the same company or Impact: The failure of a key supplier could mean the Group is two distinct companies.
The Group maintains a close relationship unable to supply stores with products or is forced to procure supply with suppliers and works with them to take costs out of their from a more expensive or inferior quality source, which could have supply base.
a material adverse impact on the financial performance of the Group.
If franchisee food costs escalate as a result of cost price inflation on key food or other items which the Group is unable to mitigate, or if the Group felt unable to pass on to the franchisee such cost price inflation, the Groups own growth plans and or profitability from commissary sales could be adversely impacted.
Planning Restrictions Risk Description: New, more onerous, planning restrictions could Mitigation activities: There are legal routes of redress available to be imposed by central or local government relating to the type of the Group should more onerous planning restrictions be enforced.
locations the Group seeks for new stores.
The Group also has the ability to consider purchasing freeholds with existing, suitable planning.
The Groups planning consultants Impact: Should central or local governments put more onerous actively build relationships with and work closely with local planning restrictions in place, opening new stores could become authorities to ensure that there is an understanding of the much more difficult for the Group and could restrict the Groups responsible way in which the Groups stores are operated and the ability to expand in desirable areas and achieve its target openings Groups willingness to accept appropriate planning conditions.
This could have a materially adverse impact on future revenue and profit growth for the Group.
Major food safety scares Risk Description: The Group purchases and supplies to stores a Mitigation activities: All food products purchased by the Group go large range of different food products from countries around the through a vigorous product risk assessment.
Food is under increasing scrutiny from government-led highlights to the Group what makes the product safe and flags if monitoring programmes looking at microbiological or chemical there are any potential hazards with the product.
Any potential standards, as well as from non government organisations and hazards are noted and the appropriate prevention, elimination consumer groups.
It is possible that a food type that is a and monitoring of such hazards takes place.
Ongoing testing and component of our core product, pizza, e. g. dough, tomato sauce or audits are then carried out by the Group or the supplier and this cheese may become subject to a national or international food forms part of the Groups stringent supplier assurance safety scare which could mean that the Group would have to programme.
Suppliers are also required by the Group to have withdraw that food type or product from stores.
Even if the food contingency plans in place should their usual methods of type the Group uses is not itself at the centre of the food scare, by production or raw materials become threatened.
All suppliers are association there may be a consumer boycott of all types of that communicated with regularly to ensure the business is aware of food product.
any emerging food safety scares.
The Group also has an efficient communications network through which it will be able to inform Impact: Consumers may refrain from purchasing the Groups franchisees about food safety so that customers can be reproducts if there is a food safety scare relating to a product assured, as appropriate.
The Group prides itself on maintaining strongly related with pizza, which is based either on scientific good relationships with suppliers and subscribes to multiple findings or media speculation.
If this consumer behaviour was to information sources and organisations that deal with food safety, continue for an extended period of time and no acceptable which allows the Group to see current and potential emerging substitute food products were available for use by the Group, there risks and as a result prepare accordingly.
The Group has in place could be a material adverse impact on the Groups operating results crisis and continuity plans that are tested and refreshed regularly.
Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 45 45 w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. c co o.. u uk k | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. i ie e | | w ww ww w.. dom domi in nos os.. d fide e Operational Risks Consumer relevance Risk Description: Food service businesses are affected by changes Mitigation activities: The Group recognises the link between in consumer tastes, national, regional and local economic a balanced diet, lifestyle and health and therefore provides conditions, local and national competition and demographic trends.
nutritional information on its website to allow customers to Any material change in market perception of the home delivery and make an informed choice.
The Group also offers a reduced fat convenience food industry, or the Dominos brand in particular, mozzarella cheese offering as a pizza topping.
The Group works could adversely affect the business of the Group.
In addition, relentlessly to reflect changes in consumer tastes and improve increasing government and media initiatives to create greater its offering by investing in price, quality and service in order to awareness of healthy eating could impact on the publics deliver the optimum home delivery pizza service to its customers.
perception of the convenience food industry.
The Group continues to look at new product development to ensure the menu has broad appeal and reflects consumer trends Impact: If the Group fails to anticipate and respond to a change in and has committed to the Department of Healths Responsibility consumer demand for home delivery pizza, then this could have a Deal, which includes a pledge to work towards setting our calorie material adverse affect on the Groups future results of operations information at the point of purchase.
The Group is also working to and financial performance.
reduce salt levels in the products.
The Groups products contain no artificial trans fats and are GM free.
The Group also ensures that its menus and product offerings are updated regularly and reflect the trading environment and consumer tastes of the area in which a store is operating.
Reputational damage to the brand Risk Description: The Group relies very heavily on the Dominos is relatively new to the German market and as a result any brand.
Over the last few years Dominos has become a very high significant act, bad publicity or failure of the brand in Germany profile business in the United Kingdom and Republic of Ireland.
could have severe consequences for the future growth of the Therefore, any significant act, omission, harmful allegation even brand in that territory.
if unsubstantiated that is made public in respect of one or more Mitigation activities: The Group requires that franchisees must stores, or the product generally, could lead to significant media adhere to strict quality, safety and image regulations that the interest and bad publicity.
Group enforces through the implementation of training and Impact: A franchisee could fail to operate to the required standard careful monitoring, funded by both the franchisees and the Group and as a result attract adverse local and national publicity which, and through store visits, inspections and frequent appraisals.
if the failings were of a sufficiently material nature, could lead to In addition, the Group takes a very pro-active approach to lasting damage to the brand with customers of the Groups stores monitoring media coverage of the brand and responding suitably choosing not to buy from Dominos again.
A material loss in sales to any customer complaints or material that is potentially caused by brand damage could adversely affect the Groups future damaging to the brand.
results of operation and financial condition.
The Dominos brand Commissary production issues Risk Description: One of the key functions of the Groups business Mitigation activities: The Group works in partnership with its is the manufacture of dough and the distribution of all food and suppliers to manage the risk of any delays or interruptions in the other items used in the stores by the Groups own commissaries supply chain, especially in the production of dough, which may based in Milton Keynes UK, Penrith UK, and Naas Republic of affect franchisees trade.
The Group has the ability to increase Ireland.
It is possible that one or more of the commissaries could production at its other facilities if one of its commissaries has to suffer an interruption to production or distribution caused by reduce or stop production for any reason.
The Groups new Milton factors such as mechanical failure, power failure, staff related Keynes facility is the largest commissary in the Groups system problems, fire, failure of a key supplier, adverse weather preventing and it has sufficient capacity to handle any cessation in production or deliveries, or staff unavailability on a large scale.
production at the other two commissaries.
A comprehensive Site Down Recovery Plan is also in place across each production Impact: There could be a material decrease in the volume of sales facility, which forms part of the Groups Business Continuity Plan.
of the Group if there were repeated failures in the Groups dough production, distribution of food or other store materials which prevented stores from trading for regular or prolonged periods.
46 46 Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 O Ove ver rv vi ie ew w O Op pe er ra at ti in ng a g an nd fi d fin na an nc ci ia al r l re ev vi ie ew w D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re ep po or rt t Corporate governance R Re ep po or rt t o on n D Di ir re ec ct to or rs s r re em mu un ne er ra at ti io on n Fi Fin nan anc ci ia al ls s Corpo D rat ire ec g to or v s e r rna ep n o c re t IT infrastructure Risk Description: The success of the Groups sales through system could lead to an inability to accurately calculate royalty channels of e-commerce is highly dependent on the ability of the payments and for franchisees to place food orders which could, Group to maintain operational and efficient IT systems in order if prolonged or repeated on a regular basis, adversely affect the to facilitate online sales and orders made via smart phones.
financial performance of the Group.
Furthermore, the stores utilise IT systems which allow franchisees Mitigation activities: The Company has invested heavily, during to electronically place delivery orders directly with the Groups the course of the year in an outsourced Wide Area Network and commissary sites.
The Group also uses that same IT system to two externally hosted data centres.
There has also been additional calculate the royalties payable by each of the stores.
investment in a new electronic point of sale system which, when Impact: If the website fails for an extended period of time, there the implementation is complete, will provide higher levels of could be a material loss of resultant orders and this would resilience and better supportability.
The Group has in place an IT adversely affect sales for the day s in question which, if this disaster recovery plan which will enable the Group to continue to occurred on a regular basis may adversely affect the Groups operate the systems identified as being critical in the event of a business and results of operations.
A failure of the Groups IT site failure.
International Germany Risk Description: The Group acquired the master franchise rights Master Franchise Agreement for the UK and Ireland, all potential for Germany on 26 April 2011.
The Groups strategy for Germany breaches of the German MFA are within the Groups direct control.
is to increase its international presence and to build a leadership Impact: The wrong structure could lead to high overheads, failure position in the German fast food takeaway market.
To deliver this to become profitable in Germany, loss of faith in management and it is crucial that the corporate, operational, people and financial the inability to flex the Groups business model to take advantage structure which has been put in place is effective.
of business opportunities or alternatively protect against damage The Group currently holds one key contract in relation to the to the brand.
Poor initial performance and inappropriate structure German arm of the business, the German Master Franchise could lead to failure to attract new franchisees and therefore an Agreement the German MFA.
The term of the German MFA expires inability to grow the brand and potentially lead to a failure to on the earlier of i 10 years with an option to renew for a further meet opening targets and potentially the termination of the two periods of 10 years each, or ii the date on which all subGerman MFA.
franchise agreements entered into pursuant to the German MFA Mitigation activities: The Group has put in place an experienced have expired or been terminated.
The option to renew is at the sole management team to drive the achievement of our growth plans discretion of the Group and business plans currently in place in Germany.
The team is focused on building robust systems and assume the renewal for the full term of 30 years.
The German MFA processes that align with the German strategy.
The Board can be terminated either a without an opportunity to cure the constantly monitors compliance with all of the terms of the default and upon delivery of a notice of termination for a number of German MFA and safeguards are put in place to protect against critical breaches and or b with an opportunity to cure, in certain termination of the German MFA.
A strong working relationship circumstances at the master franchisors discretion.
As with the with the master franchisor is maintained at all times.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to Relations with shareholders shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
All proxy The Board attaches great importance to having a strong relationship votes received in respect of each resolution at the annual general and constructive dialogue with all shareholders.
The Board engages meeting are counted and the balance for and against, and any votes with institutional shareholders to understand their views on withheld are indicated.
The results are announced at the meeting material issues relating to the business.
During the year, the and published on the Companys website after the meeting, which Chairman and John Hodson had a series of meetings with major also contains a host of up to date information on the Company for shareholders principally relating to remuneration and governance shareholders and other interested parties.
issues and the Executive Directors held 85 meetings with current and potential investors, with feedback from such meetings being The Board sees the Annual Report as a key method of provided in summary form to the Board.
communicating with shareholders and allowing them to gain a fuller The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-Executive understanding of the Boards strategic vision for the Company and Directors are available for meetings with shareholders as required.
what underpins delivery against this strategy in terms of financial Feedback from brokers analysts and from shareholder meetings is performance and prospects.
provided regularly to the Board.
By order of the Board The Companys AGM offers the opportunity to all shareholders to Adam Batty communicate directly with the Board.
The whole Board attends the Company Secretary meeting and is available to answer questions from shareholders 15 February 2012 during the meeting and also after the formal proceedings have Domino Domino s Pizza uk s Pizza uk & & irl plc Annual Repor irl plc Annual Report & Accounts 2011 t & Accounts 2011 47 47
