65 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Nominations Committee report The Nominations Committee the Committee consisted of Charles Berry as Chairman, Tim Barker Senior Independent Director, Tim Cobbold, Mike Grasby until 13 April 2011, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Committee.
The principal duties of the Committee are to keep under review the structure, size and composition of the Board including the skills, knowledge and experience required by it, to consider succession planning for the directors and other senior managers, to identify and nominate candidates to fill vacancies among the directors and to review the time required from non-executive directors.
The Companys Articles provide that directors retire by rotation.
However, the UK Corporate Governance Code provides that all directors should be subject to annual re-election.
The Company adopted the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code on the annual re-election of all directors at the beginning of 2011.
The terms of reference for the Committee are reviewed annually by the Committee and then by the Board.
They are available on the Groups website at www.
The Committee met on three occasions in 2011, and the members attendance record is set out on page 56.
The Chairman of the Committee reports the Committees deliberations to the following Board meeting and, subject to redaction in the event that they include personal information, the minutes of each meeting of the Committee are circulated to all members of the Board.
In September 2011, the Committee considered the succession planning process for the directors and senior managers and concluded that it was appropriate for the business.
The outcome of the process which it initiated for the review of the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors is reported in the Corporate governance report on page 55.
During the course of the year, the Committee considered the composition of the Board and concluded that it was an appropriate time to appoint a commercial director.
The succession planning process had already established that Paul Taylor was capable of stepping into an executive director role, when the time was right for the Company.
Paul Taylor was subsequently appointed the Retail and Trading Director on 1 September 2011.
He will retire and offer himself for election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 18 April 2012.
The Board has considered the recommendations of the Report by Lord Davies, Women on Boards, and welcomes initiatives aimed at increasing diversity generally, including gender diversity.
We believe, however, that an over prescriptive approach through setting targets or announcing aspirational goals is not desirable.
It is possible that in setting out attributes for new appointments, without specific consideration of gender diversity, the Board could unintentionally limit the available talent pool.
However, it is equally possible that setting out gender diversity targets may also have a limiting effect.
The Board has established a policy to ensure that the proportion of women on the Board will be one of the considerations for future Board and senior management appointments.
We believe that proper account of the benefits of gender diversity can be taken without establishing specific aims and without giving undue weight to gender diversity.
The Nominations Committee will implement this policy in relation to future appointments to the Board.
Further details of gender diversity in the Group are included in the Corporate and social responsibility section of the Annual report and accounts.
The Committee met on 14 February 2012, following the completion of the Board evaluation process, and determined that all of the directors who are the subject of annual re-election will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The evaluation of the Board described on page 55 concluded that the directors offering themselves for re-election continue to demonstrate commitment to their particular role and perform effectively.
The executive directors service contracts and non-executive directors letters of appointment are available for inspection by prior arrangement during normal business hours at the Companys registered office.
They will also be available for inspection at the venue, prior to the AGM, details of which are contained in the Notice of Meeting.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 20 February 2012.
Charles Berry Chairman of the Nominations Committee Financials Governance Business review
