50 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance What good corporate governance means at Drax Good corporate governance is one of the cornerstones of the success of the organisation and I believe that the systems, procedures, processes and controls that Drax has in place provide assurance to the Board and its stakeholders that the business is well governed.
Charles Berry Chairman Chairmans letter I am pleased to present Draxs Corporate governance report for 2011 on behalf of our Board.
This report is intended to provide you with a clear and meaningful explanation of what governance means to us and how it will guide our decision making in the future.
Good governance at all levels is taken seriously at Drax and it is for the Board to set the tone and take the lead.
Good governance should be second nature to everyone at Drax as they go about their day-to-day business and is not simply a set of policies and processes.
The Board believes that good practice should ow throughout the Group, which in turn should guide the decisions taken on a daily basis.
If we achieve this, then we can be sure that we are taking the right actions for the benefit of all our stakeholders.
It is important that we continue to develop our board structures, processes and procedures to ensure that our governance remains relevant and focused on improving our business and driving our strategic priorities.
During 2011, we continued to strengthen our internal control and risk management processes to ensure that they are embedded in business operations across the Group.
I believe the drive for transparent reporting has continued to improve business conduct in recent years.
Recently the Financial Reporting Council has built into the UK Corporate Governance Code an emphasis for organisations to actively consider the make up and diversity of their boards.
Drax has established a policy to ensure that gender diversity is one of the factors taken into account when considering future appointments to the Board and other senior appointments.
This year we are required to report against the UK Corporate Governance Code, which replaces the Combined Code.
I am pleased to report that the Board has reviewed the new code and we comply with it.
We intend to continue to observe it, to ensure ongoing good governance is maintained.
A more detailed report on our corporate governance arrangements is set out on the following pages.
Charles Berry Chairman Directors report The directors present their report for Drax Group plc, which should be taken to incorporate the Business review section of the annual report, the Corporate governance review and the consolidated financial review for the year ended 31 December 2011.
Corporate governance The Group is committed to high standards of corporate governance, details of which are given in this Corporate governance report and the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committee reports set out on pages 62 to 80.
The various sections of this report contain in summary certain provisions of the Companys current Articles of Association the Articles and applicable English law concerning companies the Companies Act 2006.
This is a summary only and the relevant provisions of the Articles or the Companies Act should be consulted if further information is required.
Compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code It is the Boards view that throughout the period commencing on 1 January 2011, there has been full compliance with the provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
51 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 The Board of directors As at 20 February 2011, the Board consisted of the non-executive Chairman, four independent non-executive directors and four executive directors.
The current directors are Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Tim Cobbold, Peter Emery, David Lindsell, Tony Quinlan, Paul Taylor, Dorothy Thompson and Tony Thorne.
Biographical notes of the directors appear below.
Charles Berry Chairman Appointment to the Board: 15 December 2005 and was appointed Chairman on 17 April 2008.
Committee membership: Nominations Chairman and Remuneration.
External appointments: A non-executive director and Chairman-designate of Senior plc, a non-executive director of Securities Trust of Scotland plc and of Impax Environmental Markets plc.
Previous experience: Charles has extensive experience within the UK power sector.
He joined ScottishPower in 1991 and was appointed to the Board in 1999.
From 2000 to 2005, Charles was Chief Executive of the Companys UK Operations, with responsibility for over 6,200MW of generating capacity as well as the trading business, energy retailing and strategic transactions, such as renewables development.
Charles is also a former non-executive Chairman of Eaga plc and of THUS Group plc.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Electrical Engineering and MSc in Management.
Responsibilities and skills: As Chairman, Charles is responsible for the leadership of an effective Board ensuring cohesion between the executive and non-executive directors.
He liaises closely with the Chief Executive in order to fully understand the business challenges facing the executive directors and the senior management team and in turn he ensures that matters laid before the non-executive directors are challenged and tested in a robust manner.
Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in September 2005.
External appointments: A non-executive director of Johnson Matthey plc.
Previous experience: Dorothy was previously the head of the European business of InterGen NV, the power generation subsidiary of Shell NV and Bechtel Inc. responsible for the management and operation of four gas-red power plants, totalling some 3,160MW of capacity across the UK and the Netherlands.
Prior to joining InterGen NV in 1998, Dorothy was initially in banking and subsequently was assistant group treasurer for Powergen plc.
Qualications: BSc Hons and MSc in Economics.
Responsibilities and skills: As Chief Executive, Dorothy is responsible for all aspects of the stewardship of the Group and its business, including developing an appropriate business strategy for Board approval and securing its timely and effective implementation.
She provides leadership to the executive team and takes responsibility for the important external relationships with customers, suppliers, regulatory agencies and Government bodies.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive is set out in writing, was agreed by the Board on 14 December 2005 and was reviewed and varied by the Board on 23 October 2006.
Tony Quinlan Finance Director Appointment to the Board: 1 September 2008.
External appointments: A non-executive director of the Port of London Authority.
Previous experience: Tony qualied as a Chartered Accountant with Coopers & Lybrand and subsequently joined Marks & Spencer where he went on to hold a number of senior positions within Internal Audit, Corporate Finance, Investor Relations and Financial Control.
From 2005, he was Director of Finance, the deputy to the Group Finance Director.
Qualications: BSc Hons degree in Chemistry with Business Studies and an Associate of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales ACA.
Responsibilities and skills: As Finance Director, Tony is responsible for the financial management of the Group, and for relationships with the Groups bankers.
In addition, he has the Investor Relations, Risk Management, IT, Facilities, and Procurement functions reporting to him.
Tony also has responsibility for the development of the enhanced co-ring facilities at Drax.
Financials Governance Business review 52 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance Peter Emery Production Director Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in June 2004.
External appointments: A director of the Association of Electricity Producers and a member of The Energy Research Partnership.
Previous experience: Peter joined Esso Petroleum upon leaving university and held a number of analyst and managerial roles in the UK before moving to Essos parent, Exxon in the US to co-ordinate its downstream marketing and distribution investments outside North America and Canada.
Peter returned to Essos Fawley Oil Renery in 1992 as plant technical services manager.
In 1997, he became renery maintenance manager and in 2002, he was appointed operations manager with full management and operational responsibility for Fawley Oil Renery, the UKs largest renery.
He was also a member of ExxonMobils European leadership team for rening.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Mining Engineering, FIMMM and completed the Advanced Management Programme at INSEAD in 2007.
Responsibilities and skills: As Production Director, Peter is responsible for the operation of the Groups plant and equipment.
This includes all aspects of safety management, plant integrity, engineering support and design, maintenance and plant design.
Peter also has responsibility for leading the Companys carbon capture and storage activity.
Paul Taylor Retail and Trading Director Appointment to the Board: 1 September 2011, having joined Drax in July 2004.
Paul is also Chairman of the Groups retail subsidiary, Haven Power Limited.
Previous experience: Paul has more than 15 years experience in energy trading previously working for TXU Europe and Powergen E. ON UK.
At TXU Europe Paul led the UK electricity trading function responsible for trading a combined portfolio of over 7GW of power plant and a retail position of more than 50TWh.
Before energy trading Paul worked in operational research.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Business Operation and Control.
Responsibilities and skills: As Retail and Trading Director, Paul has responsibility for the trading of power and other associated commodities.
He is also responsible for the retail division, Haven Power, which sells electricity to customers in the industrial and commercial and small and medium enterprises markets.
Tim Barker Senior independent non-executive director Appointment to the Board: 20 October 2005, having joined Drax in June 2004, and was appointed as the Senior Independent Director on 15 December 2005.
Committee membership: Remuneration Chairman, Audit and Nominations.
External appointments: A non-executive director of several other companies including the European subsidiary of the Investment Bank Jeffries Group Inc. and Chairman of an early stage company developing a new energy storage technology.
Previous experience: From 1993, Tim was Vice Chairman of Kleinwort Benson Group plc and from 1998, until his retirement in 2000, he was Vice Chairman of Dresdner Kleinwort Benson.
Notably, he was involved with a number of clients in the energy sector and was an adviser to the UK Government on the privatisation of the electricity sector.
In the mid-1980s, Tim was Director General of the City Panel on Takeovers and Mergers.
He is a former Chairman of Robert Walters plc and was the senior independent non-executive director of Electrocomponents plc.
Qualications: MA Hons in Economics.
Responsibilities and skills: As the Senior Independent Director, Tims counsel is of great importance to the Board and its Committees.
His knowledge and experience of financial markets provides the Board with added insight.
53 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Tim Cobbold Independent non-executive director Appointment to the Board: 27 September 2010.
Committee membership: Audit, Nominations and Remuneration.
External appointments: Chief Executive and an executive director of fide La Rue Plc.
Previous experience: Tim was previously the Chief Executive officer of Chloride Group plc, the leading international provider of secure power solutions having joined them in 2007 as Chief Operating officer.
Following Emerson Electrics takeover of Chloride he held a senior position in Emerson, responsible for the Chloride Group of companies.
He trained as a Mechanical Engineer and qualied as a Chartered Accountant in 1987 and joined Smiths Group plc formerly TI Group plc in 1989 where he held a number of senior financial and operational management positions over an 18 year period.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Mechanical Engineering and a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Responsibilities and skills: Tims blend of financial and engineering experience means that he is well placed to contribute signicantly to the Board and its Committees.
His role as an active chief executive in a different sector adds a different dimension to his contribution.
David Lindsell Independent non-executive director Appointment to the Board: 1 December 2008.
Committee membership: Audit Chairman, Nominations and Remuneration.
External appointments: A non-executive director of Premier Oil plc, and Deputy Chairman of the Financial Reporting Review Panel.
Previous experience: David was a partner at Ernst & Young for nearly 30 years.
He specialised in audit and assurance services and has extensive experience across a range of industry sectors.
He has served on a number of professional bodies relating to financial reporting, including the Standards Advisory Committee of the International Accounting Standards Board, the Auditing Practices Board, the Turnbull Committee and the European Financial Reporting Advisory Group.
David is a former non-executive director of Gartmore Group Limited.
Qualications: Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales FCA.
Responsibilities and skills: Davids recent and relevant experience in the areas of finance and audit are a significant asset to the Board and his role as Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Tony Thorne Independent non-executive director Appointment to the Board: 29 June 2010.
External appointments: Chairman of the South East Coast Ambulance Service.
Previous experience: Tony was Chief Executive of DS Smith plc, the international packaging and ofce products group, from 2001 until his retirement from the Board in May 2010.
Previously he was President of SCAs corrugated packaging business.
Prior to this he spent 20 years with Shell International, working throughout the world in senior management roles, including strategic planning and President of the Shell companies in Mexico.
Qualications: BSc Hons in Agricultural Economics.
Responsibilities and skills: Tonys geographical experience is of great importance as Drax considers expansions into global markets.
The fact that Tony is also a recently retired chief executive also adds a different dimension to his contribution.
Each of the independent non-executive directors detailed above served the Group throughout the year ended 31 December 2011.
Mike Grasby served the Group as an independent non-executive director for only part of the year.
He retired as a director at the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting AGM on 13 April 2011.
No person, other than those mentioned above, served as a director or as an alternate director at any time during the year.
Financials Governance Business review 54 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance Directors interests, indemnity arrangements and other significant agreements Other than a deed of indemnity between each director, the Company and each of its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and personal liability incurred as a result of the bona fide discharge of the directors responsibilities and a service contract between the executive directors and a Group company, or as noted in the Remuneration Committee report, no director had a material interest at any time during the year in any contract of signicance with the Company or any of its subsidiary undertakings.
There are no agreements between the Group and its directors or employees providing for compensation for loss of ofce or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Board has reviewed the independence of each non-executive director.
None of the non-executive directors who has served during the year had any material business or other relationship with the Group, and there were no other matters that were likely to affect their independence of character and judgement.
The Board therefore considers all of the non-executive directors to be independent.
Selection, appointment, review and re-election The Articles provide that one-third of directors, not including directors appointed by the Board, rounded down to the nearest whole number shall retire by rotation each year but are eligible to submit themselves for re-election by shareholders and that directors shall not serve longer than the third AGM following their election without being re-elected by shareholders.
Notwithstanding the provisions of the Articles, and in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Company will continue to propose all directors for annual re-election.
Accordingly each of Tim Barker, Charles Berry, Tim Cobbold, Peter Emery, David Lindsell, Tony Quinlan, Dorothy Thompson and Tony Thorne will retire at the forthcoming AGM and, being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
The Articles require that, following appointment to the Board, directors submit themselves for election by shareholders at the first AGM following their appointment.
Paul Taylor was appointed to the Board after the last AGM and, therefore, will retire and offer himself for election by shareholders at the AGM to be held on 18 April 2012.
The evaluation of the Board described on page 55 concluded that the directors offering themselves for election or re-election in line with the provisions contained in the Articles continue to demonstrate commitment, management and industry expertise in their particular role and perform effectively.
The election or re-election of each director is recommended by the Board.
Details of the service contracts for the executive directors and letters of appointment for the non-executive directors are set out in a table on page 76.
It is the Boards policy that each non-executive director will be appointed for a term of three years which, subject to the Board being satisfied as to the directors performance and commitment and a resolution to re-elect at the appropriate AGM, may be renewed by mutual agreement.
However, it is the Boards policy not to extend the aggregate period of service of any independent non-executive director beyond nine years and, any proposal made to extend a non-executive directors aggregate period of ofce beyond six years is the subject of a rigorous review.
Such reviews in cases where a director remains in ofce after six years, will be conducted annually, as part of the evaluation of the Board.
The Board is satisfied that all the directors are able to devote sufficient time to their duties as directors.
55 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 How the Board functions The Board has seven scheduled meetings each year, and arranges additional meetings if the need arises.
There are also three scheduled business updates for the Board by telephone conference call.
In addition, the Board meets at least annually to consider strategy.
The Board has adopted a schedule of matters reserved for its decision and formal terms of reference for its committees which are available to view on the Groups website at www.
The Board determines: the Groups strategy: the Groups appetite for risk: the internal control and risk management policies: the Business Plan and principal performance indicators: acquisitions and disposals and other transactions outside delegated limits: material changes to accounting policies or practices: significant financial decisions: capital structure and dividend policy: shareholder communications: prosecution, defence or settlement of material litigation: Group remuneration policy: the terms of reference and membership of Board Committees: and the Board structure, composition and succession.
Matters which are not specifically reserved to the Board and its committees under their terms of reference, or to shareholders in General Meeting, are delegated to the Chief Executive or otherwise delegated in accordance with a schedule of delegated authorities approved by the Board.
The Board receives regular reports on performance against the Business Plan and periodic business reports from senior management.
Directors are briefed on matters to be discussed at meetings by papers distributed in advance of Board and committee meetings.
The Board has adopted a policy whereby directors may, in the furtherance of their duties, seek independent professional advice at the Companys expense.
During 2011, no director sought independent legal advice pursuant to the policy.
The Company Secretary is responsible for advising the Board on all governance matters, ensuring good information flows within the Board, its committees and senior management, and ensuring that Board processes are complied with.
He is also responsible for compliance with the Companies Act, the Listing, Prospectus and Disclosure and Transparency Rules.
In his role as Director of Corporate Affairs, he is also responsible for advising the Board on legal matters and has responsibility for the Company Secretarial, Environmental, External Affairs, Group Legal, Human Resources, and Regulatory and Policy functions, and for the management of the Groups internal control and risk management framework and processes.
The Articles give the directors power to approve conflicts of interest.
The Board has adopted a procedure by which situations giving rise to potential conflicts of interest are identified to the Board, considered for authorisation and recorded.
The Articles also allow the Board to exercise voting rights in group companies without restriction e. g. so as to appoint a director to the board of a group company without this counting as a conflict requiring authorisation.
Each director has the benefit of a deed of indemnity from the Company and its subsidiaries in respect of claims made and liabilities incurred, in either case arising out of the bona fide discharge by the director of his or her duties.
The Company has also arranged appropriate insurance cover in respect of legal action against directors of the Company and its subsidiaries.
Performance reviews and directors development The effectiveness of the Board is vital to the success of the Group.
During 2010, the Company undertook a review to evaluate the performance of the Board, its committees and individual directors.
This was performed by Independent Audit Limited Independent Audit, an independent strategic governance consultancy that has no other connection with the Company.
The 2010 review involved individual interviews with each director, the Company Secretary and members of the senior management group, and concluded that the Board was strong and appeared well equipped to meet the challenges ahead.
In particular, the composition and mix of the Board were considered to be appropriate with a strong cadre of non-executive directors with a broad range of relevant experience.
The report made a number of recommendations to enhance Board effectiveness, all of which the Board acted upon as part of the process of continuing improvement.
During 2011, the Board commissioned Independent Audit to conduct a follow up review, which was carried out through a questionnaire based process.
The findings of the review were presented to the Board.
The review did not disclose any areas of concern and found that good progress had been made on the areas for improvement identified by the 2010 review.
The review suggested that there would be benefit in the Board reviewing certain of its past decisions.
The Board will act on this suggestion and, as an example, will consider whether its decision taken in 2010 to change the manner in which it scrutinises and receives assurance in respect of health and safety management has resulted in a more effective process.
During the year, the Chairman held a meeting with the non-executive directors in the absence of the executive directors, and the Senior Independent Director held meetings with the non-executive directors without the Chairman being present, as required by provision A.
4.2 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Board is committed to the development of all employees and directors and has reviewed and will periodically continue to review each individual directors development requirements and make appropriate arrangements to address them.
All new directors receive an induction, including being provided with information about the Group and their responsibilities, meetings with key managers and visits to the Groups sites.
In addition, each non-executive director visits operational sites and meets with senior management to be briefed on the Groups business at least annually, and specific Board training days are arranged involving presentations on relevant topics.
Financials Governance Business review 56 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance Committees of the Board The Board has established the following standing committees: Committee Membership Audit Committee David Lindsell as Chairman, Tim Barker, Tim Cobbold and Tony Thorne.
1 Nominations Committee Charles Berry as Chairman, Tim Barker, Tim Cobbold, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne.
1 Remuneration Committee Tim Barker as Chairman, Charles Berry, Tim Cobbold, David Lindsell and Tony Thorne.
Notes: 1 Mike Grasby was a member of the Nominations and Remuneration Committees until he retired from the Board at the conclusion of the AGM on 13 April 2011.
Details of the work of each of the Committees are given in the respective reports of those Committees on pages 62 to 80.
The terms of reference for these Committees are reviewed annually by each Committee and then by the Board.
The terms of reference of each Committee are available on the Groups website at www.
There is also an Executive Committee through which the Chief Executive discharges her duties in respect of the day-to-day management of the Group.
The Executive Committee membership currently comprises: Dorothy Thompson Chief Executive, Peter Emery Production Director, Philip Hudson Director of Corporate Affairs and Company Secretary, Tony Quinlan Finance Director and Paul Taylor Retail and Trading Director.
The Deputy Company Secretary acts as Secretary to the Executive Committee.
Board and Board Committee attendance The table below shows the number of meetings, and attendance at them by directors of the Board, Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees of Drax Group plc during 2011.
The number in brackets represents the maximum number of meetings that each individual was entitled to and had the opportunity to attend.
Time on Time 1 the Board with Drax Audit Nominations Remuneration 2 years months years months Board Committee Committee Committee Tim Barker 6 2 7 6 7 7 4 4 3 3 4 4 Charles Berry 6 0 6 0 7 7 3 3 4 4 Tim Cobbold 1 3 1 3 7 7 4 4 3 3 4 4 Peter Emery 6 2 7 6 7 7 3 Mike Grasby 5 6 7 4 3 3 2 2 3 3 David Lindsell 3 0 3 0 7 7 4 4 3 3 4 4 Tony Quinlan 3 4 3 4 7 7 4 Paul Taylor 0 4 7 6 2 2 Dorothy Thompson 6 2 6 3 7 7 Tony Thorne 1 6 1 6 7 7 4 4 3 3 4 4 Notes: 1 This includes both the time spent on the Board of Drax Group plc and also the effective predecessor companies Drax Group Limited and Drax Power Limited, up to 31 December 2011.
2 In addition to the Board meetings identified above, there have also been three teleconference calls to discuss various matters and there was one meeting held to specifically consider strategy.
3 Mike Grasby retired as a director on 13 April 2011.
4 Paul Taylor was appointed as a director on 1 September 2011.
Under the terms of his letter of appointment, the Chairman is expected to commit between 50 and 70 full days a year to fulfil his role.
Under the non-executives letters of appointment, the time commitment each is expected to give in respect of membership of the Board, is 12 to 15 full days a year.
That includes attendance at Board meetings, the AGM, one annual Board strategy day and at least one site visit per year.
In addition, they are expected to devote appropriate preparation time ahead of each meeting.
The time commitment expected in respect of their membership of committees of the Board, notably the Audit, Nominations and Remuneration Committees, is an additional three to four full days a year in each case.
57 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Internal control Details of the Groups system of internal control and risk management are contained in the Principal risks and uncertainties section on pages 32 to 35 together with the Directors responsibilities statement in accordance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Relations with shareholders The Board places considerable importance on communication with shareholders and is proactive in obtaining an understanding of shareholder preferences and evaluating systematically the economic, social, environmental and ethical matters that may influence or affect the interests of shareholders.
A number of formal communication channels are used to account to shareholders for the performance of the Group, which include the Annual report and accounts, AGMs and periodic reports to the London Stock Exchange.
Presentations given at appropriate intervals to representatives of the investor community are available to all shareholders to download from the Groups website www.
Less formal processes include contacts with institutional shareholders by the Chairman and other directors.
The Chairman is keen to ensure that he maintains an open relationship with the Groups major shareholders and communicates directly with them, offering the opportunity to meet in order that he can understand their views on the Group, be it corporate governance issues or any other points they might wish to raise.
The Board also reviews and discusses the investor feedback from post-results investor meetings conducted by the Chief Executive and the Finance Director in the UK, Europe and the USA.
These took place following both the preliminary and half year results announcements in 2011.
The Group has also engaged Makinson Cowell Limited, an independent capital markets consultancy firm, to advise and assist in relation to communications with shareholders.
The Companys private registered shareholders hold, in aggregate, approximately 0.8% of the issued share capital.
The Board is as interested in their concerns as it is in the concerns of institutional and corporate shareholders.
All shareholders are free to put questions to the Board at the AGM.
Questions asked in person at the AGM will receive an oral response whenever possible.
Otherwise a written response will be provided as soon as practicable after the AGM.
Questions asked at other times will normally receive a written response.
Shareholders attending the AGM will have an opportunity to meet informally with the directors immediately after the meeting.
All information reported to the market via a regulatory information service also appears as soon as practicable on the Groups website.
This Annual report and accounts together with other public announcements is designed to present a balanced and understandable view of the Groups activities and prospects.
The Business review, on pages 2 to 49, provides an assessment of the Groups affairs.
This Annual report and accounts is despatched to shareholders at least 20 working days before the AGM and the accompanying Form of Proxy provides for a shareholder to vote in favour or against, or to indicate abstention as an alternative on each separate resolution.
Particulars of aggregate proxies lodged will be announced to the London Stock Exchange via a regulatory information service and placed on the Groups website as soon as practicable after the conclusion of the AGM.
Additional Information Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting AGM of the Company will be held on 18 April 2012, at The Armourers Hall, 81 Coleman Street, London EC2R 5BJ at 11.30am.
A separate document contains the notice convening the AGM and a description of the business to be conducted.
Other significant agreements Under a 310 million revolving credit facility agreement dated 22 July 2011 between, amongst others, Drax Finance Limited, Drax Power Limited and Barclays Bank PLC as facility agent, on a change of control, if any lender requires, it may by giving notice to Drax Finance Limited and the facility agent within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Finance Limited that a change of control has occurred, cancel its commitments and require the repayment of its share of any outstanding amounts within three business days of such cancellation notice being given.
Under a trading agreement dated 5 May 2010, as amended on 22 July 2011 between, amongst others, Drax Power Limited and Barclays Bank PLC, Drax Power Limited may have uncollateralised trading positions up to a threshold of 135 million.
On a change of control, Barclays Bank PLC may, by giving notice to Drax Power Limited within 30 days of receiving notice from Drax Power Limited that a change of control has occurred, withdraw the uncollateralised trading line and require all trading positions to be collateralised.
Under the terms of the two credit facility agreements, a change of control occurs if any person or group of persons acting in concert gains control of Drax Group plc.
There are no other significant agreements to which the Group is a party that take effect, alter or terminate upon a change of control of the Group following a takeover bid.
Financials Governance Business review 58 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance Auditors and the disclosure of information to the auditor So far as each person who is a director at the date of approving this report is aware, there is no relevant audit information, being information needed by the auditor in connection with preparing the report, of which the auditor is unaware.
Having made enquiries of fellow directors, each director has taken all steps that he she ought to have taken as a director to ascertain any relevant audit information and to establish that the auditor is aware of that information.
This information is given and should be interpreted in accordance with the provisions of Section 418 of the Companies Act.
In accordance with Section 489 of the Companies Act, a resolution is to be proposed at the AGM for the reappointment of Deloitte LLP as the auditor of the Company.
A resolution will also be proposed authorising the directors to determine the auditors remuneration.
The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the auditor, the auditors effectiveness and relationship with the Group, including the level of audit and non-audit fees paid to the auditor.
Further details on the work of the auditor and the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit Committee report on pages 62 to 64.
Share capital 16 The Company has only one class of equity shares, which are ordinary shares of 11 29 pence each.
There are no restrictions on the voting rights of the ordinary shares.
At 1 January 2011, 364,859,988 shares were in issue and at 31 December 2011, 364,862,718 shares were in issue.
Issue of shares Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act relating to authority and pre-emption rights and to any resolution of the Company in a General Meeting, all unissued shares of the Company shall be at the disposal of the directors and they may allot with or without conferring a right of renunciation, grant options over or otherwise dispose of them to such persons, at such times and on such terms as they think proper.
On 1 April 2011, a total of 2,456 shares were issued in satisfaction of shares vesting in accordance with the rules of the Groups Bonus Matching Plan to an individual who had retired from the Group.
On 28 September 2011, a total of 274 shares were issued in satisfaction of share options exercised in accordance with the rules of the Groups Savings-Related Share Option Plan to an individual who had their employment with the Group terminated due to redundancy.
The shares issued represented a negligible percentage of the Companys issued ordinary share capital prior to those shares being issued.
No other ordinary shares were issued during the year.
On 10 February 2012, a total of 1,776 shares were issued in satisfaction of share options exercised in accordance with the rules of the Groups Savings-Related Share Option Plan to an individual who had retired from the Group.
Substantial shareholdings As at 20 February 2012, the Company has been notified in accordance with the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules, of the following interests in the voting rights of the Company: Number of voting rights Date last Number of Number of in qualifying Total % of the TR1 Notification voting rights voting rights financial number of issued share made directly held indirectly held instruments shares held capital held Invesco plc 1.3.
2010 14,478,741 14,478,741 3.96% Orbis Holdings Limited 3.02.2012 13,447,250 13,447,250 3.69% Total shares held by substantial shareholders 16,182,791 188,010,858 5,531,879 209,725,528 57.47% 59 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Authority to purchase own shares At the AGM held on 13 April 2011, shareholders resolved to authorise the Company to make market purchases of up to 10% of the issued ordinary share capital.
At the forthcoming AGM, shareholders will be asked to renew this authority.
Details are contained in the notice of the AGM.
The Company did not purchase any of its own shares during 2011 and the Company held no Treasury shares during 2011.
Rights and obligations attaching to shares The rights and obligations attaching to the ordinary shares are set out in the Articles.
The Articles may only be changed by the shareholders by special resolution.
Variation of rights Subject to statute, the Articles specify that rights attached to any class of shares may be varied with the written consent of the holders of not less than three-quarters in nominal value of the issued shares of that class, or with the sanction of an extraordinary resolution passed at a separate General Meeting of the holders of those shares.
At every such separate General Meeting the quorum shall be two persons holding or representing by proxy at least one-third in nominal value of the issued shares of the class calculated excluding any shares held as Treasury shares.
The rights conferred upon the holders of any shares shall not, unless otherwise expressly provided in the rights attaching to those shares, be deemed to be varied by the creation or issue of further shares ranking pari passu with them.
Transfer of shares All transfers of shares which are in certificated form may be effected by transfer in writing in any usual or common form or in any other form acceptable to the directors and may be under hand only.
The instrument of transfer shall be signed by or on behalf of the transferor and except in the case of fully paid shares by or on behalf of the transferee.
The transferor shall remain the holder of the shares concerned until the name of the transferee is entered in the register.
All transfers of shares which are in uncertificated form may be effected by means of the CREST system.
The directors may decline to recognise any instrument of transfer relating to shares in certificated form unless it: a is in respect of only one class of share: and b is lodged at the transfer office duly stamped if required accompanied by the relevant share certificate s and such other evidence as the directors may reasonably require to show the right of the transferor to make the transfer and, if the instrument of transfer is executed by some other person on his her behalf, the authority of that person so to do.
The directors may, in the case of shares in certificated form, in their absolute discretion and without assigning any reason therefore, refuse to register any transfer of shares not being fully paid shares provided that, where any such shares are admitted to the Official List of the London Stock Exchange, such discretion may not be exercised in such a way as to prevent dealings in the shares of that class from taking place on an open and proper basis.
The directors may also refuse to register an allotment or transfer of shares whether fully paid or not in favour of more than four persons jointly.
If the directors refuse to register an allotment or transfer, they shall send within two months after the date on which the letter of allotment or transfer was lodged with the Company, to the allottee or transferee, notice of the refusal.
A shareholder does not need to obtain the approval of the Company, or of other shareholders of shares in the Company, for a transfer of shares to take place.
The Articles provide that directors must give reasons for any refusal to register a transfer of shares in accordance with the Companies Act.
Shares in uncertificated form Directors may determine that any class of shares may be held in uncertificated form and title to such shares may be transferred by means of a relevant system or that shares of any class should cease to be held and transferred.
Subject to the provisions of the Companies Act, the CREST Regulations and every other statute, statutory instrument, regulation or order for the time being in force concerning companies and affecting the Company, the directors may determine that any class of shares held on the branch register of members of the Company resident in South Africa or any other overseas branch register of the members of the Company may be held in uncertificated form in accordance with any system outside the UK which enables title to such shares to be evidenced and transferred without a written instrument and which is a relevant system.
The provisions of the Articles shall not apply to shares of any class which are in uncertificated form to the extent that the Articles are inconsistent with the holding of shares of that class in uncertificated form, the transfer of title to shares of that class by means of a relevant system or any provision of the CREST Regulations.
Financials Governance Business review 60 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Corporate governance Voting Subject to the Articles generally and to any special rights or restrictions as to voting attached by, or in accordance with, the Articles to any class of shares, on a show of hands every member who is present in person at a General Meeting shall have one vote and, on a poll, every member who is present in person or by proxy shall have one vote for every share of which he she is the holder.
It has been the Companys practice since incorporation to hold a poll on every resolution at Annual General Meetings and Extraordinary General Meetings.
Where shares are held by trustees nominees in respect of the Groups employee share plans and the voting rights attached to such shares are not directly exercisable by the employees, it is the Companys practice that such rights are not exercised by the relevant trustee nominee.
Under the Companies Act, members are entitled to appoint a proxy, who need not be a member of the Company, to exercise all or any of their rights to attend and to speak and vote on their behalf at a General Meeting or class meeting.
A member may appoint more than one proxy in relation to a General Meeting or class meeting provided that each proxy is appointed to exercise the rights attached to a different share or shares held by that member.
A member that is a corporation may appoint one or more individuals to act on its behalf at a General Meeting or class meetings as a corporate representative.
Deadlines for exercising voting rights Votes are exercisable at a General Meeting of the Company in respect of which the business being voted upon is being heard.
Votes may be exercised in person, by proxy, or in relation to corporate members, by corporate representative.
The Articles provide a deadline for submission of proxy forms of not than less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting or adjourned meeting.
Restrictions on voting No member shall, unless the directors otherwise determine, be entitled in respect of any share held by him her to vote either personally or by proxy at a shareholders meeting or to exercise any other right conferred by membership in relation to shareholders meetings if any call or other sum presently payable by him her to the Company in respect of that share remains unpaid.
In addition, no member shall be entitled to vote if he she has been served with a notice after failing to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Act.
Philip Hudson Company Secretary 20 February 2012 Registered office: Drax Power Station Selby North Yorkshire YO8 8PH Registered in England and Wales No.
5562053 61 Drax Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Directors responsibilities statement The directors are responsible for preparing the Annual report and the financial statements in accordance with applicable law and regulations.
Company law requires the directors to prepare financial statements for each financial year.
Under that law the directors are required to prepare the Group financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards IFRSs as adopted by the European Union and Article 4 of the IAS Regulation and have elected to prepare the parent Company financial statements in accordance with United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom Accounting Standards and applicable law.
Under company law the directors must not approve the accounts unless they are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Company for that period.
In preparing the parent Company financial statements, the directors are required to: select suitable accounting policies and then apply them consistently: make judgements and accounting estimates that are reasonable and prudent: state whether applicable UK Accounting Standards have been followed, subject to any material departures disclosed and explained in the financial statements: and prepare the financial statements on the going concern basis unless it is inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
In preparing the Group financial statements, International Accounting Standard 1 requires that directors: properly select and apply accounting policies: present information, including accounting policies, in a manner that provides relevant, reliable, comparable and understandable information: provide additional disclosures when compliance with the specific requirements in IFRSs are insufficient to enable users to understand the impact of particular transactions, other events and conditions on the entitys financial position and financial performance: and make an assessment of the Company's ability to continue as a going concern.
The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys transactions and disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2006.
They are also responsible for safeguarding the assets of the Company and hence for taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and other irregularities.
The directors are responsible for the maintenance and integrity of the corporate and financial information included on the Companys website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom governing the preparation and dissemination of financial statements may differ from legislation in other jurisdictions.
Responsibility statement We confirm that to the best of our knowledge: the financial statements, prepared in accordance with the relevant financial reporting framework, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole: and the management report, which is incorporated into the Directors report, includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Company and the undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, together with a description of the principal risks and uncertainties that they face.
Dorothy Thompson Tony Quinlan Chief Executive Finance Director 20 February 2012 20 February 2012 Financials Governance Business review
