com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance The Company is committed to the principle and application of Board and Board Committees sound corporate governance.
This report explains the key features The role of the Board of the Groups governance structure, how it applies the principles The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of set out in the Code of Best Practice set out in Section 1 of the FRC the Company by directing and supervising the Companys affairs.
Combined Code on Corporate Governance issued in June 2008 The Boards role is to provide leadership of the Company within the Combined Code and the extent to which the Company has a framework of prudent and effective controls which enable risk complied with the provisions of the Combined Code.
The UK to be assessed and managed.
Corporate Governance Code was published in May 2010 and The Board sets the Companys strategic aims, ensures that the will apply to the Company for the financial year 2011 12.
The necessary financial and human resources are in place for the Company expects to be broadly in compliance with the Code.
Company to meet its objectives, and reviews management Having considered the recommendations of the UK Corporate performance.
Governance Code, the Board has resolved that the Chairman and non-Executive Directors will retire and stand for re-election at the In addition, the Board sets the Companys values and standards and ensures that its obligations to its shareholders and others are forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 6 September 2011 and currently intends to repeat this process annually thereafter.
The Board has resolved, however, that the Executive Directors who The Board currently comprises the Chairman, two Executive and have already been elected by the Company in general meeting will four non-Executive Directors.
The offices of Chairman and Group continue to retire from office at least once every three years, and Chief Executive are held separately.
During the year, each of the offer themselves for re-election, in accordance with the Companys non-Executive Directors has at all times acted independently of Articles of Association.
This practice will be kept under review.
management and has no relationships which would materially The Board considers that the Chairman and non-Executive interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement and Directors are accountable to shareholders for the performance decision-making.
of the Executive Directors and that it is in the best interests of the It is recognised that Mr Beeston was not considered a fully Company for any change to the Executive Directors to be part of a controlled succession planning process.
independent non-Executive Director after 5 December 2009 because of his length of service.
Mr Beeston retired as a nonThe Company has complied throughout the financial year with Executive Director of the Company on 8 December 2010. all the provisions of the Combined Code, except in respect of The Board meets a minimum of eight times per year.
During the year Mr R G Beestons membership of various Board committees for the period from 1 May 2010 to the end of June 2010, as disclosed under review it met eight times.
All Board members attend all Board and relevant Committee meetings unless exceptional circumstances below.
The Board has an ongoing review of its corporate governance policy.
Further explanation of how the principles and supporting prevent them from attending.
During the year, Mr S W Dryden did not attend the September 2010 Board meeting and the Annual principles have been applied is set out below and in the Directors Remuneration Report.
The Companys Auditors have reviewed the General Meeting due to a bereavement of a close family friend: Mr G Davis did not attend the Board meeting and the Audit and compliance with those provisions of the Combined Code specified for their review.
Nomination Committee meetings held in December 2010 due to Summary of Board changes in the year Month Change May 2010 Mr M W Roberts was appointed to the Board as Group Chief Executive and as a member of the Nomination Committee.
Mr A D Thorne retired as Group Chief Executive and from the Board and Nomination Committee.
June 2010 Mr G Davis was appointed as a non-Executive Director and became a member of the Remuneration, Audit and Nomination Committees.
Mr Davis became Chairman of the Remuneration Committee at the end of June 2010.
Mr J C Nicholls became Chairman of the Audit Committee at the end of June 2010.
Mr R G Beeston stepped down from his membership of the Remuneration, Nomination and Audit Committees.
December 2010 Mr Beeston retired as a non-Executive Director.
BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING 51271 p40-44 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:35 Page 41 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
Mr P J-C Mellier did not attend the December The Executive Directors are open and honest in their dealings with 2010 Board meeting due to ill health or the additional April 2011 the Board and generally respect its views and listen to its concerns.
Remuneration Committee meeting due to previous commitments.
For Non-Executive Directors address the right issues and are both these meetings these Directors gave full consideration to the matters challenging and supportive.
The Group Chief Executive and all being discussed and provided their input to the Chairman.
There non-Executive Directors should ensure they maintain a dialogue were no other absences from any Board or Committee meetings by outside meetings.
In addition to formal Board meetings, the Chairman The responsibilities of the Audit Committee and Board are and Group Chief Executive maintain regular contact with all Directors appropriately drawn.
The Remuneration Committee will focus on and hold informal meetings with non-Executive Directors to discuss ensuring the remuneration policy consistently reflects the business issues affecting the Company.
Individual Directors are encouraged strategy and goals.
The Nomination Committee has handled Board to make site visits during the year.
The Board reviews the performance succession effectively, and should continue its focus on both this of the Group and undertakes a strategic review on an annual basis.
and on the calibre of the management team.
There is a formal schedule of matters reserved for consideration and In addition, the Senior Independent Director conducted a review of approval by the Board.
These include the annual budget, substantial acquisitions and disposals, the approval of the full-year and halfthe performance of the Chairman which concluded that the Chairman had led the Board effectively.
The non-Executive Directors met year results and a review of the overall system of internal control and risk management.
separately with the Chairman in March and all the non-Executive Directors and the Executive Directors met in March to give them The Board and its Committees, as detailed below, receive timely the opportunity to discuss any matters they wished to raise in the information of a quality that enables them to carry out their roles absence of the Chairman.
All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
A procedure is in place for any Director to Following this evaluation the Board recommends the re-election of those Directors who are standing for re-election at the 2011 take independent professional advice in the furtherance of his duties at the Companys expense.
No such advice was sought by any Annual General Meeting.
The Directors are provided with opportunities Board Committees for training to ensure that they are kept up to date on relevant The principal Committees of the Board are the Audit, Remuneration new legislation and regulation changes, corporate governance and Nomination Committees.
All Board Committees have written developments and changing commercial risks.
On appointment, terms of reference agreed by the Board.
These are available on new Directors are given appropriate induction training, tailored to the Companys website at http: www.
com abouttheir specific needs, taking into account their individual qualifications us corporate-governance or are available on request to the Company and experience, which includes individual time with the Chairman, Secretary.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Mr J C Nicholls and Group Chief Executive and Group Finance Director and site visits was previously chaired by Mr C J Bunker.
The Remuneration to major business units.
Committee is chaired by Mr Davis and was previously chaired by The Board carried out a comprehensive appraisal of its performance Mr Beeston.
The Nomination Committee is chaired by Mr P M Johnson.
The membership of each Committee and the experience and that of the Committees and the individual Directors in February 2011 which was led by the Chairman and the Senior Independent of its members can be seen on page 38.
The Audit and Remuneration Committees comprised independent non-Executive Director.
It was decided to conduct the review internally as there had been an independent review in 2009.
The review comprised Directors for the majority of the year.
However, Mr Beeston was not considered an independent non-Executive Director from December feedback from a questionnaire and individual discussions.
All Directors and the Company Secretary participated in the exercise.
2009 by reason of his length of service Combined Code C. 3.1 and B.
The Nomination Committee comprised a majority of The results were discussed by the Board at its meeting in March 2011. independent non-Executive Directors for most of the year.
According The review concluded that the main purpose of the Board over to Combined Code A.
4.1, Mr Beeston was not considered an the next few years is to ensure that the agreed strategy is fully independent non-Executive Director since December 2009 by implemented.
Action points from Board meetings should focus on reason of his length of service.
As mentioned in the Chairmans strategy delivery.
The strategy away day had been a success.
Future Statement on page 15, Mr Beeston retired from the Board on 8 strategy meetings should be around a more granular strategic plan December 2010. with more detail on action and resources.
Audit Committee The Board is well balanced with good diversity of experience and In addition to the Committee members listed on page 38, the perspective.
This must be maintained with future Board appointments.
If Chairman, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director, an appropriate candidate were able to be identified a female director representatives from Internal Audit and the Group Financial Controller would be welcomed, and more overseas experience is essential.
attend parts of these meetings by invitation.
Mr Beeston ceased Non-Executive Directors need more contact with the senior to be a member of the Committee on 30 June 2010.
The Board management team, in a relaxed as well as formal environment.
is satisfied that Mr Nicholls has both current and relevant The Board will ideally hold one meeting each year at a UK site financial experience.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee, which meets at least The Board should address environmental matters as a strategic and three times a year, include all the matters indicated by the Combined not solely a compliance issue.
Code except the oversight of business risks which is the direct 51271 p40-44 vAW.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance continued responsibility of the Board.
The primary objective of the Audit Deloitte LLP, a leading international audit partnership, was first Committee is to assist the Board in fulfilling its responsibilities appointed as Auditor to the Group companies in 2006 and its fees relating to: are regularly compared with peer companies by the Committee.
There are no contractual restrictions on the Group with regard to its the accounting principles, policies and practices adopted in the appointment.
In accordance with professional standards, the partner Groups accounts: responsible for the audit is changed every five years.
external financial reporting and associated announcements: During the year, the Committee met on four occasions.
Mr Davis the appointment, independence, effectiveness and remuneration was unable at attend the meeting December 2010 due to previous of the Groups Auditors: commitments, but otherwise there were no absences.
On each of these occasions the Committee also met privately with the external Auditors.
the resourcing, plans and effectiveness of the Internal Audit The Chairman of the Audit Committee also held separate private performed on behalf of the Company by a major accountancy meetings during the year with the external Auditors, representatives firm, independent from the Groups Auditors: from Internal Audit and the Group Finance Director.
The Committee the adequacy and effectiveness of the financial control received sufficient, reliable and timely information from management environment: and to enable it to fulfil its responsibilities.
The Committee is satisfied that the Groups executive compensation arrangements do not prejudice the Groups compliance with the Combined Code on robust controls and good stewardship.
At its meeting in June 2010, the Committee reviewed the annual The Committee receives and reviews regular reports from the external financial statements of the Company and received reports from Auditors, Internal Audit and the Group Finance Director.
Under its Group Operational Audit on internal control matters and from the terms of reference the Committee is empowered to seek independent external Auditors on the conduct of their audit, their review of external advice but did not do so during the year.
accounting policies, areas of judgement and the financial statements The Committee meets with the external Auditors to determine annually and their comments on statements concerning risk and internal their qualifications, expertise, resources, independence, objectivity, control.
A similar review was undertaken in December 2010 when and effectiveness.
The Audit Committee receives written confirmation the half-year results were considered.
At these meetings and the from the external Auditors as to any relationships that might have a meeting in April 2011, the Committee dealt with the following bearing on their independence, whether they consider themselves particular matters: independent within the meaning of the UK regulatory and professional at the year-end a series of tests were undertaken to determine requirements, their quality control processes and ethical standards.
whether there had been any impairment to the balance sheet In order to ensure the independence and objectivity of the Auditors, carrying values of goodwill and other intangible assets.
The the Committee maintains and regularly reviews the Auditor key assumptions behind these calculations can be found in Independence Policy which covers services which may be provided note 10 to the financial statements: by, and fees paid to, auditors.
Audit fees are negotiated with the at the meeting in June it received a report from Internal Audit Group Finance Director and approved by the Audit Committee.
The policy on the supply of non-audit services by external auditors is as covering, amongst other things, the work undertaken by the follows.
The Group should not employ the Auditors to provide nonInternal Audit function and management responses to proposals audit services where either the nature of the work or the extent of made in the audit reports issued by the function during the year: such services might impair the Auditors independence or objectivity.
it considered the effectiveness of systems for monitoring and The external Auditors are permitted to undertake some non-audit reporting on risks faced by the Group: services, providing they have the skill, competence and integrity to carry out the work in the best interests of the Group, on, for it carried out an appraisal of the effectiveness of the Audit example, advisory services and due diligence activities associated Committee as part of the Board evaluation process referred to with potential acquisitions and disposals and major changes in on page 41, the external Auditors and Group Operational Audit, accounting regulations.
Non-audit services and fees are reported to the results of which were reported to the Board.
The Committee the Audit Committee twice a year.
For guidance, annual non-audit concluded that each area operated satisfactorily during the year: fees payable to the external Auditors should not exceed 75% of at the meeting in December 2010 the Committee was consulted the annual Group audit fee without prior formal approval of the on plans to outsource the Group Operational Audit function: and Committee.
During 2010 11, total non-audit fees were 107% of the annual Group audit fee.
The most significant element related to the it oversaw the continuing development and the operation of the acquisition of Otor: the use of external auditors in relation to the Groups Workplace Malpractice Policy.
acquisition of Otor having been approved by the Audit Committee.
Nomination Committee Approval for permitted non-audit services is sought as required by Mr Roberts became a member of the Committee in May 2010 and this Policy which specifies that individual projects which would cost Mr Davis became a member in June 2010.
Mr Thorne ceased to be over 100,000 must be referred to the Chairman of the Committee a member of the Committee when he resigned from the Board on for prior approval.
The outcome of these reviews was not only that 4 May 2010 and Mr Beeston ceased to be a member on 30 June performance of the relevant non-audit work by the Auditors was the 2010.
The Nomination Committee evaluates the balance of skills, most cost-effective way of conducting business but also that no conflicts of interest existed between such audit and non-audit work.
knowledge and experience including the length of service of each Director of the Board, develops role specifications, considers the In addition 2.4 million was paid to other accounting firms for nonaudit work, including 0.9 million for work relating to Internal Audit.
appointment of Directors, reviews succession planning and diversity BUSINESS NOTICE REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF MEETING 51271 p40-44 vAW.
qxp Layout 1 04 07 2011 22:35 Page 43 DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 www.
com 43 at Board level, identifies the skills required of future directors and Group Finance Director, and Head of Investor Relations ensure the makes recommendations to the Board as a whole.
A rigorous process Board is fully briefed on shareholders views such that any issues or is in place for the appointment of new Directors, involving the use of concerns are fully understood and considered by the Board.
The external recruitment consultants followed by meetings both with the Senior Independent Director is available to discuss with shareholders Committee and then with the Board.
The Committee met four times any major issues that cannot be resolved through normal channels.
during the year and, apart from Mr Davis absence from the The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity to communicate December meeting noted above, there were no absences.
with private shareholders, including a short presentation on the The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the business and current trading position as well as an opportunity Board performance evaluation process described above.
for questions from investors to the Chairman of the Board and the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees.
All Directors Remuneration Committee who attend the Annual General Meeting make themselves available The Chairman and the Group Chief Executive attend these meetings to meet shareholders after the formal business of the meeting.
To by invitation, except when their remuneration is being discussed.
ensure compliance with the Code, separate resolutions are proposed The Remuneration Committee is responsible for determining the on each discrete subject.
The Directors have resolved that the remuneration of the Executive Directors, the Chairman and the Chairman and non-Executive Directors will retire and stand for reCompany Secretary and for advising on the remuneration of senior election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting and currently management.
The Remuneration Report is set out on pages 45 to 53. intend to repeat this process annually thereafter.
The number of During the year, the Committee met five times.
Mr Mellier did not proxy votes for, against and withheld for each resolution are attend the additional meeting in April 2011 due to previous displayed at the Meeting after a vote on a show of hands has commitments, but otherwise there were no absences.
The final results are published through a Regulatory Information Service and on the website following the Meeting.
The performance of the Committee was evaluated as part of the Board performance evaluation process described above.
Regular communication with shareholders also takes place through the full-year and half-year reports and via the Companys website, Other Board Committees The Board has delegated certain powers, mainly of a routine nature, www.
In addition, the Company provides Interim Management Statements and Trading Updates.
to the General Purposes Committee, which comprises the Group Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director under the Internal control chairmanship of the Group Chief Executive.
The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of Conflicts of interest internal control, including financial, operational and compliance The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board of Directors controls, and risk management systems, and for reviewing its to authorise a conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest effectiveness.
Such a system, however, can only be designed to notified by a Director provided that the Board considers this to manage rather than to eliminate risk and therefore can provide be in the best interests of the Company.
only reasonable and not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
In accordance with the Turnbull guidance, the Each of the Directors in office review their individual positions Company has in place the procedures necessary to ensure that there regularly and new Directors review their individual position prior is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the to joining the Board.
Directors are reminded from time to time of significant risks to the Group.
These procedures have been in place their obligations.
The Company has put procedures in place via for the whole of the financial year ended 30 April 2011 and up to the Company Secretary whereby the Directors can notify any future conflicts or potential conflicts of interest that may arise so that the the date of the approval of these financial statements and have been Board can consider whether authorisation is appropriate.
Any reviewed by the Board during the year.
A Group Risk Committee, notifications are considered at the next Board meeting and, if comprising the Group Steering Team the Group Chief Executive, considered appropriate, authorised.
Directors do not participate the Group Finance Director, Company Secretary, Group Human in the discussion, or vote regarding their own conflicts.
If Resources Director, Chief Procurement Officer and Divisional Chief authorised, any conflicts are entered in the Conflicts Register.
The Group Risk Committee discusses the key risks facing the Group and whether there are any material new An annual review of conflicts is carried out and this is incorporated risks, and the adequacy and suitability of the mitigation into the year-end process of verifying Directors interests.
The arrangements in place to manage those risks.
procedures continue to operate effectively.
The Board determines the objectives and broad policies of the Relations with shareholders Group.
It meets regularly and there is a schedule of matters which The Company has a programme of regular meetings which sometimes includes the Chairman and the Senior Independent are required to be brought to it for decision.
The Board has Director, site visits and results briefings with its major institutional delegated to management the responsibility for establishing a system shareholders, which provides opportunities to discuss the progress of internal control appropriate to the business environments in which of the business.
Presentations are conducted in accordance with the the Group operates.
Key elements of this system include: Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules on a clearly defined divisionalised organisation structure for the dissemination of inside information to ensure the protection of monitoring the conduct and operations of individual such information that has not already been made available business units: generally to the Companys shareholders.
The Board also receives feedback from major shareholders in the form of independently clear delegation of authority throughout the Group, starting with the matters reserved for the Board: prepared reports.
Together, the Chairman, Group Chief Executive, 51271 p40-44 vAW.
com DS Smith Plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance continued a formal process for ensuring that key risks affecting all the Flows, the accompanying Notes to the Consolidated Financial Groups operations are identified and assessed on a regular Statements on pages 60 to 110 and in the Financial Review on basis, together with the controls in place to mitigate these risks.
Further information concerning the Groups Risk consideration is embedded in decision-making processes.
objectives, policies and process for managing its capital, its The most significant risks are periodically reported to the Board financial risk management objectives, details of its financial and considered by it: instruments and hedging activities, and its exposure to credit risk and liquidity risk can be found in the section covering risk the preparation and review of comprehensive annual divisional management on pages 27 to 30. and Group budgets and an annual review and approval by the Board of the corporate strategy: Managements review of liquidity and the adherence to banking covenants takes into account the Groups budget and forecasts for the monthly reporting of actual results and their review the next two financial years.
Furthermore, the forecasts have been against budget, forecasts including bank covenant headroom subjected to a number of downside and mitigation scenarios in and the previous year, with explanations obtained for all order to evaluate the impact on liquidity and adherence to banking significant variances: covenants if the Groups plans are not achieved.
A summary of the clearly defined policies for capital expenditure and investment, outcome of this evaluation by management has been provided to, including appropriate authorisation levels, with larger capital and discussed with, the Board.
projects, acquisitions and disposals requiring Board approval: In arriving at their opinion, the Directors have taken into account procedures manuals laying down common control procedures the risks and uncertainties which arise as a result of the current and policies to apply throughout the Group: economic environment.
These risks are described in the section covering risk management pages 27 to 30.
The planning formal monthly meetings between the Group Chief Executive, assumptions and sensitivities of these risks are covered on the Group Finance Director and divisional management to discuss strategic, operational and financial issues: and pages 27 to 30.
The principal risks and uncertainties which would have a direct impact on liquidity and banking covenants Key Corporate Values have been communicated to all employees.
are summarised below: The Groups Internal Audit function undertakes regular reviews of changes in the demand for, or pricing of, the Groups products the individual businesses operations and their systems of internal and services as a result of general economic conditions or control, makes recommendations to improve controls and follows up market-specific factors: to ensure that management implement the recommendations made.
The Internal Audit plan is determined on a risk assessment basis and volatility of pricing and availability of globally-traded is reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee.
Internal Audits raw materials: findings are reported to Group and business area management as volatile energy prices: well as to the Audit Committee.
movements in foreign exchange rates and interest rates: The Board can confirm that it has carried out an annual review of the overall effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control the funding position of the Groups UK defined benefit and risk management procedures, during the year and up to the pension scheme: date of approval of this annual report.
This included a process of the continuing availability of banking facilities, including self-certification by senior divisional management in which they compliance with borrowing covenants: and were asked to confirm that their divisions have complied with Group policies and procedures and to report any significant control customer credit risk.
weaknesses identified during the past year.
In addition, it involved The Directors consider that the Group has the flexibility to react to reviewing the results of the work of the Groups Internal Audit changing market conditions.
function and the risk identification and management processes identified above.
The Board has considered the risks and uncertainties as summarised above and, after making enquiries, including a review of recent Going concern A review of the Groups business activities, together with the factors performance, the Directors have formed a judgement at the time likely to affect its future development, performance and position are of approving the Consolidated Financial Statements, that there is set out on pages 18 and 22 in the Group Chief Executives review of a reasonable expectation that the Group has adequate resources the year.
The financial position of the Group, its cash flows, liquidity to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
For position and borrowing facilities are shown in the Consolidated this reason, they continue to adopt the going concern basis in Statement of Financial Position, Consolidated Statement of Cash preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.
