36 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Nominations Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Nominations Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the committee is to assist the Board by keeping the composition of the Board under review and conducting a rigorous and transparent process when new appointments to the Board are made.
The full terms of reference for the committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
The following Directors served on the committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Marion Sears Chair 18 January 2005 To date Geoff Cooper 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Nick Wharton 16 September 2009 30 November 2010 Will Adderley 17 February 2011 To date Six meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Marion Sears also acts as Secretary to the committee.
Meetings Member attended: Marion Sears Chair 6 Geoff Cooper 6 Simon Emeny 5 Nick Wharton 1 Will Adderley 3 General succession planning The committee keeps under review the balance of skills on the Board as a whole and the knowledge, experience, length of service and performance of the directors.
On at least an annual basis each directors intentions are discussed with regard to serving on the Board and their succession is considered in the context of the shape of the overall Board and the corporate governance guidance on NED tenure.
This transparency amongst a small and collegiate Board allows for an open discussion about succession for each individual, both for short term emergency purposes as well as longer term retirement plans.
While all Board appointment processes and succession discussions are led by the Nominations Committee these are viewed as important whole-Board topics and no appointment will be made to the Board without unanimous agreement of all directors.
Committee activities in FY2010 11 Most of the committees activities during the year have stemmed from the CEO succession during the year as described below: CEO Succession During the year the committee finalised the succession of Will Adderley as CEO by Nick Wharton, who was previously a Non-Executive Director of the Company.
A search process was conducted, with the aid of an external search firm, in early 2010 which included Nick Wharton in its later stages as a candidate.
Nick Wharton did not participate in committee discussions on CEO succession once his candidature was confirmed.
As a result of this process we announced in September that Nick would succeed Will as CEO in February 2011, after a handover period.
NED search Following Nicks appointment as CEO we believe that an appropriate Board structure for the Company is comprised of a Chairman, three Executive and three Non-Executive Directors.
We announced last September that we would seek to appoint a new non-executive director to replace Nick.
A detailed specification was prepared including the expected time commitment and a very large number of candidates were screened.
Following a search during the year we identified two excellent candidates both of whom, ultimately, were unable to accept the position due to existing business commitments.
Accordingly, we have restarted our search.
We are working with the assistance of an external search firm and the search will be conducted, and any appointment will be made, on merit against the criteria specified having regard to the benefits of diversity on the Board, including gender.
We look forward to announcing the appointment of a new Non Executive Director in due course and in the meantime, as a temporary measure, Geoff Cooper acts as Chair of the Audit Committee.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 37 Skills, balance and Directors Performance Evaluation The Nominations Committee reviews Board composition and the balance of skills provided by the Directors in a whole Board session each year.
A detailed review was conducted during 2010 11 in the light of the search process for a new Non-Executive Director.
All the skills that a Company might require were considered and each Director assessed against these.
The process enabled the committee to be specific about the operational expertise that we wish to identify in future senior level recruitment.
In addition, the performance of all of the Directors has been assessed individually.
The Chairman of the Board led a process of collecting feedback on each Directors performance and provided them with a one-to-one evaluation and discussion of training needs.
The Senior Independent Director collected feedback about the Chairman and provided an evaluation of his performance.
Tenure of Non-Executives The Committee is mindful that both Geoff Cooper and Marion Sears have served on the Board for more than six years, and that the Corporate Governance Code and institutional shareholders expect a careful consideration of their continuing contribution, balanced against the value of refreshing Board membership.
The Committee, in consultation with the Board as a whole, considers that each of these individuals continues to offer valuable leadership and challenge to the Board.
In the context of the transition of the Chief Executive role and the ongoing search for an additional Non-Executive Director, the Committee and the Board consider that their continued membership of the Board outweighs any benefit that might be obtained by seeking to replace them.
Diversity In conjunction with whole Board discussions, the committee specifically considered its approach to Board diversity, including gender diversity, following publication of the Davies report in February 2011.
These issues were considered in the following context: The vast majority of Dunelm customers are female The majority of staff members 65% are female, including over 50% of store management 7 of the 24 most senior positions in the business below Board level are held by women There has been a female Board member since 2004.
Whilst confirming that the overriding concern is to ensure that the Board comprises outstanding individuals who can lead the Company, the committee also believes that the Companys best interests are served by ensuring that these individuals represent a range of skills, experiences, backgrounds and perspectives, including gender.
Accordingly, Dunelms policy is that the Board should always be of mixed gender.
That said, we believe that whilst discussion of quotas may be needed to spur action, quotas are not appropriate as a target for female representation on company boards since they are likely to lead to compromised decisions on board membership, quality and size.
In the three most recent Director searches one still in progress, specific and directed effort has been made to ensure female candidates can be considered.
It should be noted that this approach was adopted prior to the prospect of gender quotas.
In order to ensure a strong supply of female candidates for senior positions in the future, all organisations will have to ensure that women are able to develop their careers.
The committee has examined Dunelms approach to the development of talented individuals of either gender throughout the Group and is satisfied that current practices are gender-neutral.
We will continue to ensure that the approach enables talented individuals, both male and female, to enjoy career progression opportunities within Dunelm.
Re-election of Directors During the year the Board discussed the UK Corporate Governance Codes proposal of annual re-election of directors.
Whilst we have reservations as we believe other and better avenues exist to enable shareholders to register any dissatisfaction, we have decided to adopt the guidance.
Accordingly all Directors will seek re-election at the 2011 and future AGMs.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 15 September 2011.
Marion Sears Chair of the Nominations Committee
