30 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Corporate governance report The Board is committed to high standards of corporate governance.
This report explains how the Group has applied the principles of good governance and code of best practice set out in the Corporate Governance Code the Corporate Governance Code published in June 2010.
The Board considers that it has complied with the Corporate Governance Code during the financial year, except in one respect: On 1 December 2010, Nick Wharton, formerly an independent Non-Executive Director of the Company and Chairman of the Audit Committee, was appointed as Chief Executive Designate of the Company, succeeding to the Chief Executive position on 17 February 2011.
Therefore, since 1 December 2010, the Board has comprised the Chairman, three Executive Directors and two independent Non-Executive Directors, which means that the required balance is not in place.
As a consequence Committee membership has also not been in accordance with the Code: the Chairman has been acting Chairman of the Audit Committee, and he has also sat on the Nominations and Remuneration Committee.
As explained in the Chairmans letter above, the Board has been actively seeking an additional Non-Executive Director during the year.
The Board is satisfied that it has continued to operate effectively despite the lack of required balance, as demonstrated by the continuing success of the business.
The Board The Board has overall responsibility for controlling the Group, making decisions relating to the Groups strategic direction and measuring progress towards strategic goals.
The Board held 10 meetings in the course of the year with one meeting extended to include a formal review of strategy.
Attendance at meetings was as follows: Director Meetings attended Geoff Cooper 10 Marion Sears 10 Will Adderley 10 Simon Emeny 8 Nick Wharton 10 David Stead 10 There is a schedule of matters reserved to the Board for decision or approval, which was reviewed in 2011 and is available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
Examples of such matters include Group strategy and budget, Group capital structure, approval of financial results and report and accounts, significant capital or contractual commitments, maintaining internal control and risk management, and approval of Group-wide policies.
At each meeting, the Chief Executive and the Finance Director report on operational performance including health and safety and the Finance Director reports on financial performance and position.
Other matters are discussed by the Board as required, supported by a briefing paper where a decision is to be made by the Board.
Minutes of all Board and Committee meetings are taken by the Company Secretary and committee secretaries respectively and circulated for approval.
Any unresolved concerns raised by a Director are recorded in the minutes.
The Chairman and the other Non-Executive Directors meet from time to time without Executive Directors being present, and regularly have individual meetings with other senior managers in the business.
In addition the Non-Executive Directors have the opportunity to meet at least once a year without the Chairman present as part of the Board effectiveness review process, which includes a formal review of the Chairmans performance.
Directors The Non-Executive Chairman is Geoff Cooper, the Executive Deputy Chairman is Will Adderley, and the Chief Executive is Nick Wharton.
At the beginning of the financial year Will Adderley was the Chief Executive, however it was announced on 16 September 2010 that he would relinquish this role and become Executive Deputy Chairman from 17 February 2011.
Nick Wharton was appointed as Chief Executive Designate on 1 December 2010, and became Chief Executive on 17 February 2011.
The Board has adopted written statements setting out the respective responsibilities of the Chairman, Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive, these are available on the Groups website or from the Company Secretary.
In general terms, the Chairman is responsible for running the Board and the Chief Executive is responsible for running the Groups business, supported by the Executive Deputy Chairman who focuses specifically on strategic activities which protect and enhance shareholder value and embed the Companys culture and values.
The other Non-Executive Directors are Marion Sears and Simon Emeny.
David Stead is an Executive Director and Company Secretary.
David will relinquish his role as Company Secretary in November 2011 when the Companys newly appointed Company Secretary takes up her position.
The Senior Independent Director is Marion Sears.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 31 The Board considers that Geoff Cooper was independent on appointment, and that Marion Sears and Simon Emeny are independent.
Overall the Board considers that there is a good balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with the Corporate Governance Code, all Directors will retire from the Board and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Board committees The Board has appointed three committees, an Audit Committee, a Nominations Committee and a Remuneration Committee.
The terms of reference of each of these committees, which were updated in 2011, can be found on the Groups website at www.
com and are available from the Company Secretary.
Details of the membership of the committees and of their activities during the past financial year, can be found in the reports from the Chair of each of the committees on pages 34 to 46.
Appointment and removal of Directors The Articles of Association of the Company provide that a Director may be appointed by ordinary resolution of the Companys shareholders in general meeting, or by the Board so long as the Director stands down and offers himself for election at the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
The Articles also provide that each Director must stand down and offer him or herself for re-election by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting at least every three years.
The Board has decided to adopt the requirement of the Corporate Governance Code, that all Directors should stand down and offer themselves for re-election at the Annual General Meeting.
Directors may be removed by a special resolution of shareholders, or by an ordinary resolution of which special notice has been given in accordance with the Companies Act 2006.
The Articles also provide that the office of a Director shall be vacated if he is prohibited by law from being a director, or is bankrupt: and that the Board may resolve that his office be vacated if he is of unsound mind or is absent from Board meetings without consent for six months or more.
A Director may also resign from the Board.
The Nominations Committee makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment and removal of Directors.
Powers of Directors In accordance with the Companies Act 2006 and the Articles of Association, the business of the Company is managed by the Board, which may exercise all of the powers of the Company, subject to the requirements of the Companies Acts, the Memorandum and Articles of Association of the Company, and any special resolution of the Company.
As stated above, the Board has adopted internal delegations of authority in accordance with the Code, and these set out matters which are reserved to the Board or committees and the powers and duties of the Chairman, the Executive Deputy Chairman and the Chief Executive respectively.
At the Annual General Meetings of the Company in 2007, 2008, 2009 and 2010 the Board sought and was given authority to issue shares and to buy back and re-issue shares, subject to the limits imposed by law and those set out in the text of the resolution.
Similar resolutions are being tabled at the 2011 Annual General Meeting, together with a waiver of any obligation of Will Adderley under the City Code on Takeovers and Mergers to make an offer for all of the shares of the Company if the authority to buy back shares is used.
For further details see page 29 of the Directors Report and Business Review, and the Notice of Annual General Meeting which accompanies this report.
Advice and insurance All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary.
In addition Directors may seek legal advice at the Groups cost if they consider it necessary in connection with their duties.
The Group purchases Directors and Officers Liability insurance cover for its Directors.
Training Upon joining the Board, any new Director is offered a comprehensive induction programme with visits to key sites and meetings with senior managers and other staff members.
As part of each Directors annual review any additional training or development needs are addressed.
Throughout the year all Directors have maintained a regular series of visits to stores and meetings with members of the senior management team.
The Board has also received presentations from independent advisers on financial policy and on corporate governance trends.
Geoff Cooper and Simon Emeny are considered to have relevant and up-to-date skills and experience for a listed retail business due to their current executive positions in businesses with similar multi-site, consumer-facing business models.
Marion Sears has a different perspective of retail from her other Non-Executive role and also brings City and Shareholder experience due to her former executive position in banking.
Directors also attend seminars and tutorials provided by independent organisations for NEDs which cover the whole range of governance topics.
32 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Corporate governance report continued Evaluation The Chairman appraises the performance of the Chief Executive with regard to personal objectives agreed at the start of each financial year.
The Chief Executive similarly appraises the performance of other Executive Directors.
There is a formal, rigorous and well established process for evaluating the performance of the Chairman, the other Non-Executive Directors, the Board Committees and the Board as a whole.
This takes the form of a Board meeting convened solely for the purpose of such review.
During the course of this meeting there is the opportunity for the Chairman or other individual Directors to be asked to leave the discussion whilst their performance is assessed.
Separately the Senior Independent Director meets with the other Non-Executive Directors to evaluate the Chairmans performance.
Further details are included in the Nominations Committee Report.
Following the review a list of actions is formulated and progress against these is reviewed periodically by the Board.
The Board intends to appoint an external provider to carry out a Board evaluation in 2013.
Conflicts of interest The Companies Act 2006 allows the Board of public companies to authorise conflicts and potential conflicts of interest of individual directors where the Articles of Association contain a provision to that effect.
At the 2008 Annual General Meeting, new Articles of Association were adopted which give the Board this authority subject to the following safeguards: Directors who have an interest in matters under discussion at a Board meeting must declare that interest and abstain from voting.
Only directors who have no interest in the matter being considered are able to approve a conflict of interest, and, in taking that decision the Directors must act in a way they consider, in good faith, would be most likely to promote the success of the Company.
The Directors are able to impose limits or conditions when giving authorisation if they feel this is appropriate.
These provisions are also in the Articles of Association being put forward for approval at the AGM.
Following the adoption of the Articles of Association, all Directors were requested to disclose any actual or potential conflicts to the Board and the following matters were considered and approved: Will Adderley is a major shareholder and connected to other major shareholders.
Authorised on the basis that Mr Adderley continues to abide by the terms of the Relationship Agreement entered into between himself, other major shareholders and the Company on flotation of the Company in 2006.
Geoff Cooper is a director of Travis Perkins plc which potentially competes with the Company for retail property.
Authorised on the basis that Mr Cooper is not involved in day to day decisions in relation to the property portfolio in either company.
Until 30 November 2010, Nick Wharton was a director of Halfords Group PLC which potentially competes with the Company for retail property.
Authorised on the basis that Mr Wharton was not involved in day to day decisions in relation to the property portfolio in either company.
There were no other matters disclosed that were considered by the Board to give rise to a conflict of interest.
Any conflicts considered by the Board and any authorisations given are recorded in the Board minutes and reviewed annually by the Board.
The Board considers that its procedures to approve conflicts of interest and potential conflicts of interest are operating effectively.
Significant shareholders The Groups significant shareholders are listed in the Directors report on page 28 and voting rights are stated on page 26.
Articles of Association The Companys Articles of Association may only be amended by a special resolution of shareholders.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 33 Risk management Throughout the year and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report there has been in place an established, ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group.
The process has been reviewed by the Audit Committee and the Board and is in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control for Directors.
A register of major strategic and operational risks is maintained and reviewed twice per annum by the Board, who also monitor the status of agreed actions to mitigate key risks.
Management review the register once a year in a workshop and quarterly after that.
During the year the register was expanded and each risk analysed in more detail.
In addition, during the year, the Non-Executive Directors reviewed the risk management process overall and considered how other companies monitor risk.
Following this review a series of risk topics were selected for in-depth discussion by the Board through department heads.
This will now be an on-going process in which, for each risk topic, the executive staff member responsible prepares a board briefing, presents it to all of the Directors and answers questions.
Topics covered up to the date of this Annual Report include IT capacity, key suppliers, ethical sourcing and fraud risk.
Internal control The Board is ultimately responsible for the Groups system of internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness.
However such a system is designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material loss and misstatement.
The Group maintains a well established control framework comprising clear structures and accountabilities, well understood policies and procedures and budgeting and review processes.
Each store manager has clear responsibilities and operates within defined policies and procedures covering such areas as financial targets, human resources management, customer service, health and safety.
The Executive Directors monitor compliance with these policies and procedures in the course of regular reviews.
The Audit Committee considers annually whether an internal audit function is required.
It does not currently consider that this is necessary in view of the adequacy of internal and risk management controls and reporting in place, the relatively low level of complexity in the business and the close involvement of the Executive Directors in the operation of the business.
Investor relations and understanding shareholder views There is a formal investor relations programme based around results presentations and trading statements and the Board takes a number of additional steps to ensure that all Directors have a clear understanding of the views of major shareholders about the Company.
Analyst shareholder visits are arranged with the executives and comments are reported back to the Board.
The Non-Executive Directors attend the results presentations and are available to attend meetings at shareholder request.
All Directors will be available at the Annual General Meeting to meet with shareholders and answer their questions.
As a further step to promoting communication and shareholder understanding, we plan to invite corporate governance representatives of our major institutional shareholders to a presentation in January 2012, and from time to time thereafter.
This will be hosted by the Chairman, the Non-Executive Directors and Will Adderley, the Executive Deputy Chairman, representing the majority family shareholding.
The other executives will not be present.
