24 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Directors 1 2 3 4 5 6 1.
David Stead Non-Executive Chairman Finance Director Geoff Cooper, joined the Board in David Stead, joined the Group in November 2004.
Previously he spent 14 years Chairman of the Audit Committee at Boots where he was Finance and a member of the Nominations Director of Boots The Chemists and and Remuneration Committees.
A Finance Director of Boots Healthcare qualified accountant, Geoff is currently International.
Chief Executive of Travis Perkins plc.
He is a former Director of Gateway 5.
Marion Sears now Somerfield plc and was Finance Senior Independent Director and then Deputy Chief Non-Executive Director Executive of Alliance UniChem plc.
Marion Sears, joined the Board in July 2004.
Nick Wharton Remuneration and Nominations Chief Executive Officer Committees and a member of the Nick Wharton, joined the Board in Audit Committee.
She is also a August 2009 as an Independent Non-Executive Director of both Zetar Non-Executive Director.
Nick took over Plc and Octopus AIM VCT PLC.
Bill Adderley from Will Adderley as Chief Executive of the Group In February 2011.
Simon Emeny Founder and Life President to that he was Chairman of the Independent Non-Executive Director Bill Adderley founded Dunelm in 1979.
He led the Audit Committee, and a member of development of the business successfully for many years, Simon Emeny, joined the Board in the Remuneration and Nominations then took a non-executive role before retiring in February June 2007.
Member of the Audit, Committees: Nick was previously 2008.
He and his wife Jean remain passionate Dunelm Remuneration and Nominations Finance Director of Halfords Group PLC.
Simon is Group Managing Director of Fuller Smith 3.
Will Adderley and Turner Plc.
Executive Deputy Chairman Will Adderley, joined the business in 1992.
He has worked in and is familiar with all major areas of the business and took over the day-to-day running of the Group from his father in 1996.
Will remained as Chief Executive Executive through the Groups IPO in 2006 and until February 2011, when he took Non-Executive the new role of Executive Deputy Chairman.
Will is a member of the Nominations Committee.
Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 25 Audit Committee Member Nomination Committee Member Remuneration Committee Member
