34 Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Governance Audit Committee report This report provides details of the role of the Audit Committee and the work it has undertaken during the year.
The purpose of the committee is to oversee the integrity of the Groups financial statements and public announcements relating to financial performance, to oversee the audit process, monitor the effectiveness of financial controls and the process for identifying and managing risk throughout the Group.
The full terms of reference for the committee can be found on the Companys website, www.
The following Directors served on the Committee during the year: Member Period from: To: Geoff Cooper acting Chair 1 December 2010 To date Marion Sears 18 January 2005 To date Simon Emeny 25 June 2007 To date Nick Wharton 16 September 2009 30 November 2010 Nick Wharton was the Chairman of the committee as a Non-Executive Director, prior to assuming his executive role on 1 December 2010.
Since that date I have been acting Chairman, it being the intention of the Board to appoint an additional Non-Executive Director who will assume this position.
Details of this process are in the Nominations Committee report.
The Board considers that I have recent and relevant financial experience by virtue of my professional qualification and my current executive role as Chief Executive of Travis Perkins plc.
Committee activities in 2010 11 Two meetings were held in the year and members attendance was as shown in the table below.
Marion Sears also acts as Secretary to the committee.
Member Meetings attended: Geoff Cooper acting Chair 2 Marion Sears 2 Simon Emeny 1 Nick Wharton 1 The Finance Director usually attends meetings by invitation, along with representatives from the external auditors.
During the year the activities of the Committee included: Approval of the full year results issued in September 2010 and the half year results issued in February 2011: Review of the requirement for an internal audit function we continue to consider that this is not required in view of the adequacy of financial controls in place and the relatively low level of complexity in the business: Review and confirmation of the Groups policy for use of external auditors for non-audit work: the committee has approved a policy that the auditors should only be used for non-audit work if they offer demonstrably better capability than alternative providers and there is no potential conflict with the independence of the audit: Verification of the independence of the external auditors, and approval of the scope of the audit plan and the audit fee.
During the year management completed a review of risks throughout the Group to refresh the Companys risk register prior to presentation to the Board.
Reviews were primarily focused on risk associated with delivery of the Groups growth strategy, key operational risks, governance & legislative risk and financial risk management and control.
A summary of the key risks is presented on pages 20 to 21. Business overview Business review Governance Financial statements Dunelm Group plc Annual report and accounts 2011 35 The Audit Committee also reviewed the Groups Treasury Policy governing cash management and interest rate optimisation as well as foreign exchange rate risk and associated exposures.
The policy was amended to ensure that appropriate consideration was given to exposures under a range of future scenarios and that the effectiveness of treasury instruments was being appropriately considered.
External Auditor The Group re-appointed KPMG LLP as external auditor for the financial year ended 2 July 2011.
The Group paid KPMG 72,000 in relation to the statutory audit of the Group and Company financial statements and the audit of Group subsidiaries pursuant to legislation.
The Group also paid KPMG 43,000 in relation to other non-audit services which mainly consists of tax compliance and tax planning initiatives.
The committee met privately with the auditors in the course of each meeting during the period.
The committee has approved a policy which allows employees to raise legitimate concerns in confidence without fear of discrimination.
This report was reviewed and approved by the Board on 15 September 2011.
Geoff Cooper Acting Chair, Audit Committee
