Corporate Governance Introduction The Board Aggreko is committed to maintaining high standards The Board currently comprises a Chairman, Chief of corporate governance.
Not many public companies Executive, four other Executive Directors and four state that they are committed to maintaining low Non-executive Directors: their details are set out standards of corporate governance, so we think it on pages 54 and 55. might be useful to state, as precisely as we are able, what we mean by this.
Amongst the matters reserved for decision by the Board are: strategy, acquisitions and disposals, capital First, we mean that we take governance at all levels projects over a defined limit, annual budgets, new in the Company seriously, and we think about it.
Group borrowing facilities and significant changes Second, it means that we do not slavishly follow the to employee benefit schemes.
strictures and advice of every governance guru or expert body, but we try to adopt those approaches There is a defined division of responsibilities between that we believe are likely to work in the particular the Non-executive Chairman and the Chief Executive.
context of Aggrekos business and culture, and which The Chairman is primarily responsible for the promote the following: effective working of the Board: the Chief Executive is responsible for the operational management of the Transparency: giving shareholders the information business: for developing strategy and presenting it to they need to judge whether the executive the Board: and for the implementation of the strategy management and the Board are doing a good as agreed by the Board.
job on their behalf: Non-executive Directors Effective decision-making, risk management Non-executive Directors bring a wide range of and control: experience to the Company and David Hamill, Robert MacLeod, Russell King and Ken Hanna are considered A proper balance between Executive and by the Board to be independent as defined in the Code.
Non-executive Directors: David Hamill is the Senior Independent Director Keeping the interests of the owners of the business and is available to meet shareholders if they have aligned with, and at the front of the mind of, the concerns which contact through the normal channels people charged with managing the business: and of Chairman, Chief Executive or Finance Director has failed to resolve or for which such contact is The ability of the Company to hear the voice of inappropriate.
people other than shareholders who are touched by it.
Principally these are regulatory and standards The Code states that at least half of the Board, bodies, employees, customers, suppliers and the excluding the Chairman, should be independent communities in which we operate Non-executive Directors.
However, the Directors believe that, beyond a certain size, Boards risk becoming being mindful of the need to keep the amount of ineffective at control and decision-making: they money and time spent on activities other than those certainly become more expensive as they grow larger.
involving making money for our shareholders to an Ideally, in our view, the Aggreko Board works most appropriate level.
effectively, and represents best value for shareholders, with no more than ten people sitting round the table.
Putting governance into practice Applying the no more than ten round the table rule We support the UK Corporate Governance Code leaves nine places for executive and Non-executive published by the Financial Reporting Council in Directors.
Operationally, Aggreko is organised into June 2010 the Code.
We consider that the Group three regions, and the choice in terms of the number complied with all of the provisions of the Code of Executive Directors sitting on the Board is two, or throughout the year ended 31 December 2011 with the five.
The Board has concluded that the ability to hold exception of the Code provision that at least half of the to account the line managers who run the business on Board, excluding the Chairman, should be independent a daily basis, to get their input into decision-making, Non-executive Directors: the reasons for this are and to get the additional Board-level visibility which explained in detail in the paragraph below entitled comes from having these executives as part of the Non-executive Directors.
Copies of the Code are Board adds real value, and is the appropriate choice.
We have therefore decided not to comply with the Code in this respect only, having four Non-executive Directors, rather than the five we would need to be in line with the Code.
56 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report and analyst feedback, customer satisfaction metrics, Board Committees and the results of employee surveys.
The Board has standing Audit, Ethics, Nomination and Remuneration Committees.
The memberships, The Board generally meets in central London or at roles and activities of these Committees are detailed the Group head office in Glasgow, but at least one in separate reports: Audit Committee on pages 66 meeting each year is held at one of the Groups other and 67, Ethics Committee on page 68, Nomination locations, which gives the Directors the opportunity Committee on pages 69 and 70 and Remuneration to review the operations and meet local management.
In June 2011, the Board visited our business in North America.
As a small, but practical development, Each Committee reports to, and has its terms of we now deliver all our Board papers electronically reference approved by, the Board and the minutes of the through personal or tablet computers.
This has helped Committee meetings are circulated to, and reviewed us provide information in a quicker and more secure by, the Board.
The terms of reference of the standing manner, as well as reduce the amount of paper we use.
Committees of the Board are available on our website at www.
The attendance of Directors at meetings during 2011 is set out in the table at the foot of this page.
Board meetings The Board generally meets at least six times a year.
The Chairman holds meetings with the Non-executive At each meeting, the Board receives certain regular Directors without the Executive Directors present, and reports, for example covering current trading, treasury, at least once a year the Senior Non-executive Director and environment, health and safety.
At particular chairs a meeting of the Non-executive Directors points in the year, the Board reviews budgets, capital without the Chairman present.
expenditure, risks and financial statements.
The Board also has regular updates on strategy and also reviews Induction, development and support other topics, in particular to cover some of the All new Directors receive a full, formal and tailored principal risks and uncertainties facing the business, induction on joining the Board, including meetings as identified on pages 29 to 33, or to address the with senior management and advisers and visits to issues raised in the previous years Board evaluation.
The Board calendar So, for example, during 2011 the Board looked at is planned to ensure that Directors are briefed on a the political and other risks we face in some of the wide range of topics throughout the year and are countries in which we operate, reviewed energy given the opportunity to visit sites and discuss aspects supply and demand within the International Power of the business with employees.
We recognise that Project business and was briefed on the work we are our Directors have a diverse range of experience, and doing to improve the efficiency and environmental so we encourage them to attend external seminars performance of our equipment.
Each year we also and briefings that will assist them individually.
review the senior management succession plan for the Group, with the Group Human Resources Directors have access to independent professional Director providing a briefing on senior management advice at the Companys expense where they judge moves and each executive Director leading a this to be necessary to discharge their responsibilities discussion on the succession plan for his region or as Directors and all Directors have access to the function.
In addition, each Regional Director gives advice and services of the Company Secretary, a detailed annual presentation on the performance who is responsible to the Board for ensuring that of his region.
The Board also receives reports on how Board procedures are complied with.
other people feel about us: it gets copies of investor Attendance at meetings Audit Remuneration Ethics Nomination Board meetings Committee Committee Committee Committee Number of meetings in 2011 6 3 4 3 4 Bill Caplan 6 Angus Cockburn 6 David Hamill 6 3 4 3 4 Ken Hanna 6 3 4 3 4 Russell King 6 3 4 4 Robert MacLeod 6 3 4 4 Kash Pandya 6 Philip Rogerson 6 3 4 Rupert Soames 6 4 George Walker 6 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 57 Corporate Governance continued This year we engaged an independent external Election of Directors consultancy, Lintstock, who have extensive Any Director appointed by the Board is subject experience of conducting external board evaluations, to election by Shareholders at the first opportunity and asked them both to review our questionnaire and after his appointment.
The Companys Articles of to administer the process online.
Lintstock have no Association also state that each Director must retire other relationship with the Company.
As a result, from office at the third Annual General Meeting held we reduced the length of the questionnaire, removing after the Annual General Meeting at which he was many of the questions which had received high last elected.
However, in accordance with the Code, scores consistently in the past and so did not need all members of the Board will be offering themselves more attention, whilst retaining some of the more for re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting.
important ones to provide a continuing comparison It is part of the Chairmans role to discuss the time but introducing some new, more penetrating commitment and contribution of each Non-executive questions, to focus on issues which we thought Director as part of his individual appraisal, and the merited more attention.
We also specifically asked Nomination Committee unanimously recommends Directors for their views on the diversity of the Board.
the reappointment of each of the Directors.
As before, we then produced a report of the results, which was discussed by the Board and by each All of the Directors have service agreements or Committee, and separately between Non-executive letters of appointment and the details of their terms Directors and which also provided a background to are set out in the Remuneration Report on page 85. interviews between the Chairman and individual No other contract with the Company or any subsidiary Directors as part of annual appraisals.
undertaking of the Company in which any Director was materially interested subsisted during or at the Overall, the results of this years evaluation were again end of the financial year.
very positive, but the responses suggested that the main areas of focus should continue to be strategy, succession Board performance evaluation planning and risks in International Power Projects.
In previous years we have conducted our annual evaluation of Board and Committee performance We have reviewed the interests declared by Directors using an assessment questionnaire prepared by the which could conflict with those of the Company, and Company Secretary and the Chairman which all we are satisfied that the Boards powers to authorise Directors completed.
Directors graded areas such potential conflicts is operating effectively.
as the performance of the Board and its Committees, the effectiveness of the Chairman, Executive and Relations with shareholders Non-executive Directors, the monitoring of operational The Board aims to present a balanced and clear view performance and Corporate Governance, as well as of the Group in communications with shareholders Leadership and Culture.
In this way we were able and believes that being transparent in describing how to compare results from year to year.
Following last we see the market and the prospects for the business years evaluation we agreed on a number of topics is extremely important.
which would remain a priority for 2011, including: continuing to ensure that we had a robust succession We communicate with shareholders in a number of planning process: meeting the challenge of developing different ways.
The formal reporting of our full and half environmental and emissions regulation: regular year results and trading updates are a combination of discussion of strategy throughout the year, and presentations, group calls and one to one meetings.
The monitoring of the political and financial risks associated full and half year reporting is then followed by investor with the countries in which we operate.
These items meetings in major cities where we have institutional were included in the Board and Committee calendar shareholders covering the UK, Continental Europe, for 2011, as explained in more detail in the paragraph Scandinavia, North America, Japan and Australia.
headed Board meetings above and in the reports of We also regularly meet with existing and prospective the individual Committees.
shareholders to update them on our latest performance or to introduce them to the Company and periodically arrange visits to the business to give analysts and major shareholders a better understanding of what goes on day-to-day.
All presentations on the business are available on the Companys website.
58 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report The Board receives regular updates on the views Performance reporting and information of shareholders through briefings from the Chairman, The Group has in place a comprehensive financial Chief Executive and Finance Director as well as reports review cycle, which includes a detailed annual from the Companys brokers and the Companys budgeting process where business units prepare budgets investor relations advisers.
In addition, the Senior for approval by the Board.
The Group uses a large Independent Director is available to meet shareholders number of performance indicators to measure both if they wish to raise issues separately from the operational and financial activity in the business.
Depending on the measure these are reported and reviewed on a daily, weekly or monthly basis.
In We enjoy meeting both private and institutional addition management in the business receive a weekly shareholders at the Companys Annual General and monthly pack of indicators which are the basis of Meeting, which this year will be held in Dumbarton on regular operational meetings, where corrective action Wednesday, 25th April.
Further details of the meeting is taken if necessary.
At Group level a well-developed are set out on pages 64 and 65 and in the letter from management accounts pack including income the Chairman and notice of meeting sent with this statements, balance sheets, cash flow statement as report.
Shareholders unable to attend are encouraged well as key ratios related to capital productivity and to vote using the proxy card mailed to them or customer satisfaction scores, is prepared and reviewed electronically as detailed in the Notice of Meeting.
As part of the monthly reporting process a forecast of the current year numbers Internal control is carried out.
To ensure consistency of reporting The Board has applied Principle C. 2 of the Code the Group has a global ERP system and a global by establishing a continuous process for identifying, consolidation system as well as a common accounting evaluating and managing the risks that are considered policies and procedures manual.
Management monitor significant by the Group in accordance with the revised the publication of new reporting standards and work Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control published by closely with their external auditors in evaluating the the Financial Reporting Council.
This process has been impact of these standards.
in place for the period under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
The Review of effectiveness of internal control process is designed to manage rather than eliminate In compliance with Provision C. 2.1 of the Code, the risk, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute Board reviews the effectiveness of the Groups system assurance against material misstatement or loss.
The Boards monitoring framework covers a wide range of controls, including financial, operational and On an annual basis the Audit Committee receives a compliance controls together with risk management.
formal review that is designed to assess the application It is based principally on reviewing reports from of the principal financial and operational controls management and considering whether significant risks operated by the Group.
The review, which is based are identified, evaluated, managed and controlled and on self-assessment by senior operational management, ensuring that any significant weakness thus identified is carried out using a risk review and control is promptly remedied.
The Board continues to enhance questionnaire and is intended to complement and strengthen the procedures for identifying and the internal and external audit procedures.
There monitoring key areas of risk.
is also a comprehensive procedure for monitoring all significant risks and key risks have been identified The Board also considers financing and investment on a risk register.
The Board has considered the decisions concerning the Group and monitors the probability of those risks occurring and their impact, policy and control mechanisms for managing treasury as well as the actions that would be taken in response risk.
The Group insurance programme is reviewed by to them if they did occur.
the Board, which also approves self-insured exposures.
The Board has undertaken a specific assessment of During each financial year the Audit Committee internal control for the purpose of this Annual Report.
reviews the external and internal audit work This assessment considered all significant aspects of programmes and considers reports from internal internal control during the year ended 31 December and external auditors on the system of internal control 2011.
Accordingly, the Board is satisfied that the Group and any material control weaknesses.
It also receives continues to have an effective system of internal control.
responses from management regarding the actions taken on issues identified in audit reports.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 59 Corporate Governance continued Voting Corporate Social Responsibility Subject to any special terms as to voting upon which The Board has set policies for the Group to ensure that any shares may be issued or may for the time being be it operates worldwide in a safe, ethical and responsible held and to any other provisions of the Articles, on a manner, which protects the environment as well as show of hands every member who is present in person safeguarding the health and safety of its employees, its or by proxy or represented by a corporate representative customers and the communities in which it operates.
at a general meeting of the Company has one vote.
These policies are intended to recognise, evaluate and On a poll every member who is present in person or manage responsibly environmental, health and safety by proxy or represented by a corporate representative risks through implementation of a comprehensive has one vote for every share of which he is the holder.
Global Environmental, Health and Safety Management In the case of joint holders of a share the vote of the System that standardises best operating practices, senior who tenders a vote, whether in person or by objectives, data collection, reporting, audits, proxy, is accepted to the exclusion of the votes of the performance indicators and goals.
These policies other joint holders and, for this purpose, seniority is are set out in more detail on pages 47 to 53. determined by the order in which the names stand in the register in respect of the joint holding.
Pensions The assets of the UK defined-benefit pension fund The holders of B shares are not entitled, in their are controlled by the Directors of Aggreko Pension capacity as such, to receive notice of any general Scheme Trustee Limited: they are held separately meeting of the Company nor to attend, speak or vote from the assets of the Company and invested by at any such general meeting unless: a the business of independent fund managers.
These segregated funds the meeting includes the consideration of a resolution cannot be invested directly in the Company.
Four for the winding-up excluding any intra-group trustees have been appointed by the Company and, reorganisation on a solvent basis of the Company, in addition, two member-nominated trustees have in which case the holders of the B shares have the been appointed.
This fund was closed to new right to attend the general meeting and are entitled employees joining the Group after 1 April 2002: to speak and vote only on any such resolution: or new UK employees are now offered membership b at the date of the notice convening the meeting, of a Group Personal Pension Plan.
the B Share Continuing Dividend as defined in the paragraph headed Dividends and other distributions Share capital below has remained unpaid for six months or more On 31 December 2011 the Company had in issue from any B Share Payment Date as defined in such 549 266,719,246 ordinary shares of 13 775p each paragraph below, in which case the holders of the 18 ordinary shares, 6,663,731 B shares of 6 25 pence B shares have the right to attend the general meeting each B shares and 182,700,915 deferred shares and are be entitled to speak and vote on all resolutions.
18 of 6 25 pence each Deferred Shares comprising 74.79%, 0.09% and 25.12% respectively of the The holders of the Deferred Shares are not entitled to Companys issued share capital.
Details of the changes receive notice of any general meeting of the Company in issued share capital during the year are shown in or to attend, speak or vote at any such meeting.
Restrictions on voting Rights and obligations attached to shares No member is, unless the Board otherwise decides, Subject to applicable statutes in this section referred entitled in respect of any share held by him to vote to as the Companies Acts and to any rights conferred either personally or by proxy or by a corporate on the holders of any other shares, any share may be representative at any general meeting of the Company issued with or have attached to it such rights and or at any separate general meeting of the holders of restrictions as the Company may by ordinary resolution any class of shares in the Company if any calls or other decide or, if no such resolution has been passed or so sums presently payable by him in respect of that share far as the resolution does not make specific provision, remain unpaid or if he is a person with a 0.25 per cent as the Board may decide.
interest as defined in the Articles and he has been served with a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after failure to provide the Company with information concerning interests in those shares required to be provided under the Companies Acts.
60 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report The Company is not aware of any agreement between Period, the amount of the B Share Continuing holders of securities that may result in restrictions on Dividend will be calculated by applying the rate voting rights.
applicable on a value of 55 pence per B share and multiplying such product by the number of days from Dividends and other distributions and including 11 July 2011 to, but excluding, the first Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, B Share Payment Date, divided by 365. the Company may by ordinary resolution from time to time declare dividends in accordance with the On a return of capital on winding-up excluding any respective rights of the members, but no dividend intra-group reorganisation on a solvent basis, holders can exceed the amount recommended by the Board.
of B shares are entitled, in priority to any payment to the holders of ordinary shares, to 55 pence per B share Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, the held by them, together with a sum equal to the relevant Board may pay such interim dividends as appear to the proportion of the B Share Continuing Dividend Board to be justified by the financial position of the if any which would have been payable if the windingCompany and may also pay any dividend payable at up had taken effect on the last day of the then current a fixed rate at intervals settled by the Board whenever B Share Calculation Period, the relevant proportion the financial position of the Company, in the opinion being the number of days from and including the of the Board, justifies its payment.
If the Board acts preceding B Share Payment Date or, if the date in good faith, it shall not incur any liability to the of such winding-up is prior to 1 June 2012 from holders of any shares for any loss they may suffer in and including, 11 July 2011 to, but excluding, consequence of the payment of an interim or fixed the date of such winding-up, divided by 365. dividend on any other class of shares ranking pari passu with or after those shares.
The Deferred Shares confer no right to participate in the profits of the Company.
The holders of B shares are entitled, in priority to any payment of dividend or other distribution On a return of capital on a winding-up excluding any to the holders of any ordinary shares and before profits intra-group reorganisation on a solvent basis, holders are carried to reserves, to be paid a non-cumulative of Deferred Shares are entitled to be paid the nominal preferential dividend the B Share Continuing capital paid up or credited as paid up on such Deferred Dividend at such annual rate on a value of 55 pence Shares after: a first, paying to the holders of the per B share as is calculated in accordance with this B shares 55 pence per B share held by them together paragraph below rounded down to the nearest 110 with any outstanding entitlement to the B Share penny exclusive of any associated tax credit relating Continuing Dividend up to the Payment Date last thereto.
The first B Share Continuing Dividend is preceding the return of capital: and b secondly, payable in respect of the period commencing on 11th paying to the holders of the ordinary shares the July 2011, and is to be paid in arrears on 31 May 2012 nominal capital paid up or credited as paid up on the or such later date as the Directors may determine ordinary shares held by them respectively, together and thereafter, such dividend will be paid without with the sum of 100,000,000 on each ordinary share.
having to be declared annually in arrears on 31 May or such later date as the Directors may determine The Board may deduct from any dividend or other in each year or, if any such date would otherwise fall moneys payable to a member by the Company on on a date which is not a Business Day as defined in or in respect of any shares all sums of money if any the Articles it will be postponed to the next day which presently payable by him to the Company on account is a Business Day without any interest or payment in of calls or otherwise in respect of shares of the respect of such delay being charged each, a B Share Company.
The Board may also withhold payment Payment Date.
The period commencing on 11 July of all or any part of any dividends or other moneys 2011 and ending on 31 May 2012 and each twelve payable in respect of the Companys shares from month period thereafter ending on 31 May is called a person with a 0.25 per cent interest as defined in a B Share Calculation Period.
The annual rate the Articles if such a person has been served with applicable to each B Share Calculation Period is 75 a restriction notice as defined in the Articles after per cent of the rate of 12 month LIBOR, expressed as failure to provide the Company with information a percentage, which appears on the display designated concerning interests in those shares required to be as page ISDA on Reuters or such other page or provided under the Companies Acts.
service as may replace it for the purpose of displaying London inter-bank offered rates of leading banks for pounds Sterling deposits as determined by the Company, at or about 11.00 a. m. London time on the first Business Day of such B Share Calculation Period.
In respect of the first B Share Calculation Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 61 Corporate Governance continued Variation of rights on the last day of the then current B Share Calculation Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, Period, the relevant proportion being the number of rights attached to any class of shares may be varied days from and including the last B Share Payment Date either with the consent in writing of the holders of to, but excluding, the Final B Share Payment Date, not less than three-fourths in nominal value of the divided by 365.
The aggregate amount of the B Share issued shares of that class excluding any shares of that Continuing Dividend payable to each holder of B class held as treasury shares or with the sanction of a shares shall be rounded down to the nearest 110 penny.
special resolution passed at a separate general meeting of the holders of those shares.
The necessary quorum Restrictions on transfer of securities applying to any such separate general meeting is in the Company two persons holding or representing by proxy not less There are no restrictions on the transfer of securities than one-third in nominal value of the issued shares in the Company, except that: of the class excluding any shares of that class held as treasury shares, but at any adjourned meeting certain restrictions may from time to time be one holder present in person or by proxy whatever imposed by laws and regulations for example, the number of shares held by him will constitute a insider trading laws : quorum : every holder of shares of the class present in person or by proxy excluding any shares of that class pursuant to the Listing Rules of the Financial held as treasury shares is entitled on a poll to one Services Authority certain employees of the vote for every share of the class held by him subject Company require the approval of the Company to any rights or restrictions attached to any class of to deal in the Companys ordinary shares: and shares and any holder of shares of the class present in person or by proxy may demand a poll.
the Deferred Shares are not transferable except in accordance with the paragraph headed Powers Conversion of B shares into ordinary in relation to the Company issuing or buying back shares at the Companys option its own shares below or with the written consent The Company may subject to the provisions of the of the Directors.
Companies Acts at any time after the Companys AGM to be held in 2012 on the giving of not less than The Company is not aware of any agreements 10 days nor more than 42 days notice in writing to the between holders of securities that may result holders of the B shares, convert all but not some only in restrictions on the transfer of securities.
of the outstanding B shares into ordinary shares on the date specified in the notice the Conversion Date.
Amendment of Articles of Association The conversion will be on the basis of one ordinary Unless expressly specified to the contrary in the share for every M 55 B shares where M represents Articles of the Company, the Articles may be the average of the closing mid-market quotations in amended by a special resolution of the Companys pence of the ordinary shares on the London Stock shareholders.
Exchange, as derived from the Official List for the five Business Days immediately preceding the Conversion Appointment and replacement of Directors Date, fractional entitlements being disregarded and Unless otherwise determined by ordinary resolution of the balance of such shares including any fractions the Company, the number of Directors disregarding being Deferred Shares.
The Company will use its alternate Directors is not less than two nor more reasonable endeavours to list the ordinary shares into than fifteen.
No shareholding qualification for which B shares are converted on the London Stock Directors is required.
The Company or the Board may Exchange if on the Conversion Date the Companys appoint any person to be a Director.
Any Director ordinary shares are also so listed.
Conversion of the B so appointed by the Board shall hold office only until shares may be effected in such manner as the Directors the next general meeting and shall then be eligible for may determine.
If the Company exercises its rights of election.
The Board or any committee authorised by conversion, the period commencing on the B Share the Board may appoint one or more Directors to hold Payment Date preceding the Conversion Date and employment or executive office with the Company ending on such Conversion Date is called the Final B for such period subject to the Companies Acts and Share Calculation Period and the B Share Continuing on such other terms as the Board or committee may Dividend in respect of such period shall be payable in in its discretion decide and may revoke or terminate arrears on the final Business Day of such period the any appointment so made.
In respect of the Final B Share Calculation Period if any, the amount of the B Share Continuing Dividend will be the relevant proportion of the B Share Continuing Dividend which would have been payable if conversion had taken effect 62 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report The Articles state that each Director must retire from Powers in relation to the Company office at the third Annual General Meeting after the issuing or buying back its own shares Annual General Meeting at which he was last elected.
The Directors were granted authority at the last However, it is a requirement of the Code that all Annual General Meeting held in 2011 to allot relevant Directors should be subject to annual election by securities up to a nominal amount of 18,301,246.
In addition to any power of removal authority will apply until the earlier of 30 June 2012 conferred by the Companies Acts, the Company may and the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting by special resolution remove any Director before the for 2012.
At this years Annual General Meeting expiration of his period of office.
The office of a shareholders will be asked to grant an authority to Director must be vacated if: i he resigns his office by allot relevant securities i up to a nominal amount notice in writing delivered to the office or tendered at of 12,206,454 and ii comprising equity securities up a meeting of the Board: or ii by notice in writing he to a nominal amount of 24,412,909 including within offers to resign and the Board resolves to accept such any such limit any shares and rights to subscribe for offer: or iii his resignation is requested by all of the or convert any security into shares allotted under i, other Directors and all of the other Directors are not in connection with an offer by way of a rights issue, less than three in number: or iv a registered medical such authority to apply until the end of next years practitioner who is treating that Director gives a Annual General Meeting or, if earlier, until the written opinion to the Company stating that that close of business on 30 June 2013.
Director has become physically or mentally incapable of acting as a Director and may remain so for more than A special resolution will also be proposed to renew three months: or v by reason of a Directors mental the Directors power to make non-pre-emptive issues health, a court makes an order which wholly or partly for cash in connection with rights issues and otherwise prevents that Director from personally exercising any up to a nominal amount of 1,830,968. powers or rights which that Director would otherwise have: or vi he is absent without the permission of The Company was also authorised at the Annual the Board from meetings of the Board whether or General Meeting held in 2011 to make market not an alternate Director appointed by him attends purchases of up to 27,415,869 ordinary shares.
for six consecutive months and the Board resolves This authorisation will expire on the earlier of that his office is vacated: or vii he becomes bankrupt the conclusion of the Annual General Meeting or compounds with his creditors generally: or viii of the Company for 2012 and 30 June 2012. he is prohibited by law from being a Director: or ix he ceases to be a Director by virtue of the Companies A special resolution will also be proposed at this years Acts or is removed from office pursuant to the Articles.
Annual General Meeting to renew the Directors authority to repurchase the Companys ordinary shares Powers of the Directors in the market.
The authority will be limited to a Subject to the provisions of the Companies Acts, maximum of 26,713,863 ordinary shares and sets the the Companys Articles and to any directions given by minimum and maximum prices which may be paid.
the Company in general meeting by special resolution, A special resolution will also be proposed to authorise the business of the Company is managed by the Board, the Company to purchase further B shares as part of which may exercise all the powers of the Company the return of capital announced in March 2011. whether relating to the management of the business of the Company or not.
In particular, the Board may The Company may at any time, without obtaining exercise all the powers of the Company to borrow the sanction of the holders of the Deferred Shares: money and to mortgage or charge all or any part of the a appoint any person to execute on behalf of any undertaking, property and assets present and future holder of Deferred Shares a transfer of all or any of and uncalled capital of the Company and to issue the Deferred Shares and or an agreement to transfer debentures and other securities, whether outright or as the same to the Company or to such person as the collateral security for any debt, liability or obligation Directors may determine, in any case for not more of the Company or any third party.
than 1 penny for all the Deferred Shares then being purchased from him: and b cancel all or any of the Deferred Shares so purchased by the Company in accordance with the Companies Acts.
Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 63 Corporate Governance continued Securities carrying special rights Indemnity of officers No person holds securities in the Company carrying Under Article 154 of the Articles, the Company may special rights with regard to control of the Company.
indemnify any Director or other officer against any liability, subject to the provisions of the Companies Rights under the employee share scheme Acts, and the Articles grant an indemnity to the Directors against any liability for the costs of legal Appleby Trust Jersey Limited, as Trustee of the proceedings where judgement is given in their favour.
Aggreko Employees Benefit Trust, holds 1.80% of the issued share capital of the Company as at 9 March Under the authority conferred by Article 154, the 2012 on trust for the benefit of the employees and Company has granted indemnities to Directors and former employees of the Group and their dependents.
officers of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The The voting rights in relation to these shares are indemnities do not apply to any claim which arises exercised by the Trustee and there are no restrictions out of fraud, default, negligence or breach of fiduciary on the exercise of the voting of, or the acceptance of duty or trust by the indemnified person.
any offer relating to, the shares.
The Trustee is obliged to waive all dividends on the shares unless requested In addition, the Company may purchase and maintain to do otherwise by the Company in writing.
for any Director or other officer, insurance against any liability.
The Company maintains appropriate Going concern insurance cover against legal action brought against The Directors, having made all the relevant enquiries, its Directors and officers and the Directors and officers consider that the Group and the Company have of its subsidiaries.
adequate resources at their disposal to continue their operations for the foreseeable future, and that Supplier payment policy it is therefore appropriate to prepare the accounts It is the Companys policy to settle the terms and on a going concern basis.
conditions of payment with suppliers when agreeing each transaction, to ensure that suppliers are made Change of control aware of these terms and, in practice, provided The Company has in place a number of agreements the supplier meets its contractual obligations, to with advisers, financial institutions and customers abide by them.
In overall terms, the Company which contain certain termination rights which would had approximately 11 days credit outstanding have effect on a change of control.
The Directors as at the balance sheet date 2010: 15 days.
believe these agreements to be commercially sensitive and that their disclosure would be seriously prejudicial Essential contractual arrangements to the Company: accordingly they do not intend The Company buys the majority of its generator disclosing specific details of these.
In addition, all engines from Cummins Limited, a subsidiary of of the Companys share schemes contain provisions Cummins Inc based in Columbus, Indiana, USA.
which in the event of a change of control, would The Company also relies upon their global service result in outstanding options and awards becoming and support network for the supply of spare parts.
exercisable, subject to the rules of the relevant schemes.
The Companys relationship with Cummins is governed by a supply agreement which is regularly reviewed.
There are no agreements between the Company and its Directors or employees providing for compensation Annual General Meeting for loss of office or employment that occurs because of a takeover bid.
The Companys Annual General Meeting will be held at 10.30 a. m. on Wednesday 25th April 2012 Disclosure of information at Aggreko UK Limited, Manufacturing, Lomondgate, to the Companys Auditor Stirling Road, Dumbarton, G82 3RG.
In accordance with section 418 of the Companies Annual General Meeting Special Business Act 2006 the Directors who held office at the date of approval of this Directors Report confirm that, Special Business comprises resolutions: to increase the so far as they are each aware, there is no relevant maximum aggregate amount of fees for Non-executive audit information as defined by section 418 3 of Directors: to authorise the Directors to allot ordinary the Companies Act 2006 of which the Companys shares up to an aggregate amount representing Auditor is unaware: and each Director has taken all approximately one third of the issued ordinary share the steps that he ought to have taken as a Director to capital of the Company and a further one third in make himself aware of any relevant audit information relation to rights issues, in line with guidance issued and to establish that the Companys Auditor is aware by the Association of the British Insurers: to disapply of that information.
the statutory pre-emption rights of shareholders on allotment of equity securities for cash up to a limit of 64 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Directors Report a total of shares with a nominal value of approximately 5% of the current issued share capital: to renew the authority of the Company to purchase its own ordinary shares: to approve the calling of meetings other than Annual General Meetings on 14 days notice: and to authorise the Company to purchase further B shares as part of the return of capital announced in March 2011.
Auditor A resolution re-appointing  LLP as the Companys and Groups auditor will be proposed at the Annual General Meeting.
Material share interests As at 31 December 2011 the Company had received notifications of the following major shareholdings, representing 3% or more of the voting rights attached to the issued ordinary share capital of the Company: % of total Name of shareholder Number of shares voting rights 2 Prudential plc 15,860,093 5.94 Capital Research & 3 Management Company 15,087, 758 5.50 3 Baillie Gifford & Co 11,804,464 4.31 1 3 A E H Salvesen 10,890,000 3.98 Legal & General 3 Investment Management 10,797, 375 3.96 1 Including immediate family and trustee interests.
2 Including direct and indirect subsidiary company interests.
3 Disclosures of number of shares based on ordinary shares of 20p each, these notifications were received before the share capital consolidation in July 2011.
Between 31 December 2011 and 9 March 2012, the Company received no notifications of acquisitions or disposals of major shareholdings.
The Directors are not aware of any other material interests amounting to 3% or more in the share capital of the Company.
Peter Kennerley Director of Legal Affairs & Company Secretary 9 March 2012 Aggreko plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 65
