46 easyJet plc Annual report Corporate governance and accounts 2011 The Board meets regularly, with 11 scheduled Principles statement meetings having been held during the year ended easyJet is committed to meeting the required 30 September 2011 with a further four ad hoc standards of corporate governance.
All members of the Board are supplied in Statement of compliance advance with appropriate information covering During the year, the Board considers that it and the matters which are to be considered.
The Non Company have complied without exception with the Executive Directors have met without any Executive provisions of the Code.
The Code is issued by the Directors present during the year from time to time, Financial Reporting Council and is available for review usually prior to or immediately after Board meetings.
on the Financial Reporting Councils website The matters reserved for the Board had originally http: www.
been drafted at the time of flotation and was reviewed during the year.
As a result, an updated Leadership terms of reference was approved during the year to As at 30 September 2011, the Board comprised eight bring it into line with current best practice as set out Non Executive Directors including the Chairman and by the Institute of Company Secretaries and two Executive Directors.
It is available on easyJets website.
The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive are Day-to-day management responsibility rests with the separated, clearly defined, and approved by the Executive Management Team EMT, which Board.
comprises ten Executives including the Executive Directors of the main operating company, easyJet Sir David Michels was, until 26 August 2011 the Senior Airline Company Limited.
The first reports of the EMT Independent Non Executive Director and held the then form the Executive Leadership Team.
Both posts are now filled by Charles Gurassa.
Meetings attended during the financial year ended 30 September 2011 plc Board Scheduled Additional meetings Scheduled meetings Additional eligible to meetings eligible to meetings attend attended attend attended Executive Directors Chris Kennedy 11 11 4 4 Carolyn McCall OBE 11 11 4 4 Non Executive Directors Sir Michael Rake 11 11 4 4 Charles Gurassa joined 27 June 2011 3 3 3 2 Sir David Michels left 26 August 2011 10 8 3 2 David Bennett 11 7 4 4 Keith Hamill 11 10 4 4 John Browett 11 9 4 2 Rigas Doganis 11 10 4 4 Sven Boinet left 30 September 2011 11 7 4 1 Adle Anderson joined 1 September 2011 1 1 1 1 Andy Martin joined 1 September 2011 1 0 1 0 Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 47 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 Board Committees Audit Remuneration Nominations Litigation Committee Committee Committee Committee Executive Directors Chris Kennedy 3 2 n a n a Carolyn McCall 3 3 n a n a Non Executive Directors Sir Michael Rake n a 1 n a n a Charles Gurassa joined 27 June 2011 n a n a n a n a Sir David Michels left 26 August 2011 n a n a 1 n a David Bennett 3 2 0 n a Keith Hamill 2 6 n a n a John Browett 2 n a n a n a Rigas Doganis n a 4 1 n a Sven Boinet left 30 September 2011 n a 3 n a n a Adle Anderson joined 1 September 2011 n a n a n a n a Andy Martin joined 1 September 2011 n a n a n a n a By invitation.
Effectiveness Board engagement with investors The Company regards David Bennett, Professor Rigas The Board continues to consider that it is appropriate Doganis, John Browett, Keith Hamill, Charles Gurassa, for the Chairman to be the primary conduit with Adle Anderson and Andy Martin as Independent investors given his experience in liaising with Non Executive Directors and also considered shareholders.
Sven Boinet and Sir David Michels as independent The Chairman has made himself available for investor during their tenure.
meetings and questions, in person, during the year All new Directors are given a tailored induction upon and has updated the whole Board on the results of appointment which provides them with information these meetings and the opinions of investors.
about the Company, the matters reserved for the The Senior Independent Non Executive Director has Board, minutes of Board and Committee meetings also acted as an alternative point of contact and both and share dealing code.
In addition, meetings are incumbents in the role during the year have attended arranged with key executives and managers within meetings in order to help develop a balanced the business.
The Board are also kept up to date with understanding of the issues and concerns of major developments in law, regulation and best practice.
Regular feedback is provided to the Board on the opinions of shareholders and an investor Directors and officers insurance cover has been perception audit is carried out by an independent third established for all Directors to provide cover against party on an annual basis.
their reasonable actions on behalf of the Company.
Board Committees During the year, a performance review of the Board Remuneration Committee was undertaken using an external evaluation tool At 30 September 2011, the Remuneration Committee provided by a corporate advisory company.
This comprised three Independent Non Executive process involved a detailed questionnaire completed Directors, namely Keith Hamill Chairman, by each of the Directors and one-on-one discussions David Bennett and Professor Rigas Doganis.
The performance of the Committee, which meets at least twice per year, has Board including the Chairman, the Boards responsibility for making recommendations to the Committees and also that of the individual Board Board on the compensation of senior executives and Directors was reviewed as part of the same process.
determining, within agreed terms of reference, the The Senior Independent Director led the Non specific remuneration packages for each of the Executive Directors in a review of the Chairmans Executive Directors and the Chairman.
In addition to performance which also involved feedback from the meetings to allot shares under the Companys share Executive Directors.
The Company has now engaged option schemes, the Remuneration Committee has an independent external facilitator to carry out the met two times during the year.
next review of the Boards effectiveness in accordance with the Code provision B 6.2.
The facilitator has no connection with the Company beyond evaluating the Board.
48 easyJet plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued The Board has reviewed the composition of the Review and monitor the effectiveness of the Remuneration Committee during the year and is internal audit function and managements satisfied that the Directors who are currently members responsiveness to any findings and of this Committee are those who are best able to recommendations: and contribute to the Committees objectives.
Assess potential conflicts of interest of Directors Shareholders are generally required to approve all on behalf of the Board new Long Term Incentive Plans and significant The Audit Committee has the responsibility changes to existing plans.
Further details of these for appointing the external auditors.
plans can be found in the Report on Directors  LLP were reappointed remuneration and the full text of the terms of auditors of the Group at the Annual General Meeting reference for the Remuneration Committee is held in February 2011.
In order to preserve auditor available in the governance section of easyJets objectivity and independence, corporate website, http: corporate.
 LLP will not be asked to provide consulting services unless this is in the best Audit Committee interests of the Company.
The Audit Committees The Audit Committee comprises four Non terms of reference set out that they are responsible Executive Directors, all of whom are independent.
for the formal policy on the award of non-audit work At 30 September 2011, the Audit Committee to the auditors.
The Audit Committee has, during the members were David Bennett Chairman, year, updated the policy, which can be found in the John Browett, Keith Hamill and Adle Anderson.
governance section of easyJets corporate website, This Committee meets at least three times per year.
The auditors are asked The primary function of the Audit Committee is to on an annual basis to articulate the steps that they assist the Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities have taken to ensure objectivity and independence.
by reviewing the financial reports and other financial easyJet monitors the auditors performance, behaviour information in advance of publication, reviewing on a and effectiveness during the exercise of their duties, continuing basis the systems of internal controls which informs, on an annual basis, the Audit regarding finance and accounting that management Committees decision to recommend reappointment.
and the Board have established and reviewing This included this year obtaining a report on the generally the auditing, accounting and financial auditors own quality control procedures and a reporting processes.
The ultimate responsibility consideration of their annual quality and transparency for reviewing and approving the annual and other report.
In the financial year, easyJet spent nil million accounts remains with the Board.
The Audit with  LLP 2010: 0.1 million Committee has met three times during the course in respect of non-audit services.
contractual obligations which restrict the choice of external auditors.
The terms of reference of the Audit Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The full Both internal and external auditors are given the text of the terms of reference is available in the opportunity to meet privately with the Audit governance section of easyJets corporate website, Committee without any member of management http: corporate.
The key terms set out present.
It is standard practice for the external auditors that the Audit Committee will: to meet with the Audit Committee without the Executive Directors being present at each Audit Serve as an independent and objective party to Committee meeting.
monitor the quality and timeliness of the financial reporting process and monitor the internal The Board is satisfied that the Directors who are financial control system currently members of this Committee are those who are best able to contribute to the Committees Review and appraise the audit efforts of the objectives.
David Bennett has served as the Chairman external auditors of the Committee during the year.
David has Provide an open avenue of communication previously been an Executive Director of Abbey among the external auditors, financial and senior National plc prior to which he was Chief Executive management and the Board Officer and Finance Director of Alliance and Leicester plc, experience which the Board considers to be Confirm and assure the independence and recent and relevant for the purposes of undertaking objectivity of the external auditors in particular, in the role as Chairman of the Committee.
the context of the provision of additional services to the Company Review and ensure the effectiveness of the risk management processes of the Company Business review Accounts & other information Overview Performance and risk Corporate responsibility Governance 49 easyJet plc Annual report and accounts 2011 During the year the Audit Committees business has Before selecting new appointees, the Nominations included the following items: Committee considers the balance of skills, knowledge and experience on the Board to ensure that a suitable Half Year Results balance is maintained.
All job specifications prepared Annual Results include details of the time commitments expected in the role.
Internal Audit Plan and Reports, including: On joining the Board, new Board members receive a key internal audit reports full and tailored induction.
Shareholders are offered control themes the opportunity to meet new Directors.
follow ups Contracts and letters of appointment with Directors are made available at the Annual General Meeting or programme assurance on request.
fraud prevention Litigation Committee quality assurance As a result of the proceedings brought by easyGroup IP Licensing Limited a company under the ultimate internal controls control of Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou in 2008 in relation Bribery Act compliance to the clarification of the brand licence, the Board formed a separate Litigation Committee to deal with Business continuity and disaster recovery the proceedings and all matters related to them.
Matters reserved for the Board There have been no meetings of the Litigation Committee during the year although it remains Delegated authorities validly constituted.
Audit Committee terms of reference Relations with investors and the Annual Non-audit services policy General Meeting AGM Whistleblower reports The AGM gives all shareholders the opportunity to communicate directly with the Board.
There is also Internal audit effectiveness and independence.
regular communication with institutional investors on The Board as a whole, including the Audit Committee, key business issues.
easyJet has an investor relations debated risks and risk management on which basis we department which runs an active investor relations believe that the Board has fulfilled its obligations under programme to facilitate engagement with investors the Code.
Going forward the Audit Committee will including one on one meetings, visits to easyJets continue to be responsible for reviewing the adequacy operations and presentations.
The investor relations and effectiveness of the Companys risk management website can be accessed at process.
Nominations Committee Internal control The Nominations Committee comprises at least three The overall responsibility for easyJets systems of members.
During the year, the Nominations internal control and for reviewing its effectiveness Committee members were Sir David Michels until his rests with the Directors of the Company.
The resignation from the Board Chairman, David Bennett responsibility for establishing and operating detailed and Professor Rigas Doganis.
Charles Gurassa and control procedures lies with the Chief Executive.
Sir Michael Rake were appointed to the Committee However, the internal control systems are designed to after the departure of Sir David Michels with Charles manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to Gurassa taking the Chair.
achieve business objectives and by their nature can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance This Committee is responsible for nominating against material misstatement or loss.
candidates to fill Board positions and for making recommendations on Board composition and balance.
The Board has conducted an annual review of the In appointing Non Executive Directors, the Boards effectiveness of the system of internal control during practice is to use external recruitment consultants.
the year under the auspices of the Audit Committee.
This included systems and controls in relation to The Nominations Committee has met twice during the financial reporting processes and in preparing the year to deal with the appointments of Andrew Martin accounts.
No material failings or weaknesses were and Adle Anderson.
The searches for the Non identified during the course of this review.
Executive Directors involved the use of independent recruitment consultants.
The terms of reference of the Nominations Committee are documented and agreed by the main Board.
The full text of the terms of reference is available in the governance section of easyJets corporate website, http: corporate.
50 easyJet plc Corporate governance Annual report and accounts 2011 Continued The internal control regime is enhanced by the The Directors review the effectiveness of internal operation of a whistleblower reporting function.
The control, including operating, financial, compliance system is operated by a specialist external third-party and risk management controls, which mitigate the service provider and allows employees to report significant risks identified.
The mechanisms used by concerns in confidence on a no names basis.
the Directors to review the effectiveness of these The Audit Committee has approved the processes controls include: and reporting structure for the function and receives Reports from management.
Reporting is regular reports on the operation of the function.
structured to ensure that key issues are escalated through the management team and ultimately to Risk management the Board as appropriate The Board is responsible for determining the nature and extent of the significant risks it is willing to take in Discussions with senior personnel throughout the achieving its strategic objectives.
During 2011, the risk Company management process was refreshed: increasing the Consideration by the Audit Committee of any level of rigour of risk identification, evaluation and reports from internal and external auditors: and mitigation.
This is combined with enhanced risk reporting to the Executive Management Team and The controls, which mitigate or minimise the highthe Board.
The process is underpinned by rigorous level risks, are reviewed to ensure that they are in annual risk identification workshops completed by operation.
The results of this review are reported both the functional managers and the Executive to the Board which considers whether these highManagement Team.
The process focuses on both level risks are effectively controlled strategic and operational level risks.
This process is coordinated by the Risk Manager who reports to the Internal audit Head of Risk and Assurance.
The Head of Risk and Internal Audits work is designed to provide effective Assurance reports to the Chief Financial Officer and risk based coverage over the internal control the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
This is summarised in an audit plan, which is approved by the Board and Audit Committee To ensure that risk is effectively managed a number of and updated on a rolling quarterly basis.
key activities are undertaken, as defined by the Executive Directors: The Internal Audit department reviews the extent to which systems of internal control: Ongoing assurance and risk management is provided through the various monitoring reviews are effective and reporting mechanisms that are embedded are adequate to manage easyJets risks: and into the business operations.
Key monitoring reviews include those conducted continuously in safeguard the Companys assets weekly meetings.
Operational meetings include Internal Audits key objectives are to provide the Safety Audit Group which meets monthly to independent and objective assurance on risks and discuss safety, security and environmental risks.
controls to the Board and senior management and The Safety Review Board meets monthly, or more to assist the Board with meeting its corporate regularly where events require, to review safety governance and regulatory responsibilities.
In addition, there are regular year the effectiveness of the Internal Audit function Commercial, Financial and IT functional meetings was confirmed through an independent external The Executive Management Team meets regularly quality assessment performed by Mazars LLP.
Individual department The Head of Internal Audit reports to the Head of Risk and overall business performance is reviewed.
The Risk and Assurance function was The reporting of significant risks to the Executive formed in August 2011 which combines the Management Team and the Board has been responsibilities for Internal Audit, risk management enhanced by the refined risk management coordination and fraud investigation into a single processes referred to above function.
Internal Audit considers, reviews and tests internal The Head of Internal Audit was invited to and control and business risk matters as defined by its attended all of the Audit Committee meetings in the risk based audit plan.
Further details of the Internal year and reported regularly on Internal Audit reviews Audit functions operations are set out below at the Executive Management Team meetings during the course of the year.
The role of Internal Audit and the scope of its work continue to evolve to take account of changes within the business and emerging best practice.
A formal audit charter is in place.
