Governance Internal Control and Risk Management The Group has an established and ongoing process of risk Audit Committee report management and internal control which has continued throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, which has been designed and implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group and There follows a report from the Audit Committee detailing the Activities during the year the risks to which it is exposed.
role and responsibilities of the Committee and its activities during the Financial Reporting year.
The Board Report on the systems of Internal Control and their In its financial reporting to shareholders and other key interested In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the effectiveness can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on parties, the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal control, pages 40 to 42.
This report is incorporated by reference into, and forms assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Committee the Audit Committee has regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the part of, the Corporate Governance Report.
reviews and advises the Board on the Groups Annual and Half-Yearly Groups system of internal control and risk management and reported Financial Reports, Interim Management Statements and other periodic the results to the Board.
These reviews covered all material controls, Role statements.
The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in its duties regarding policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas management systems.
Further details of this process are given the integrity of the financial reporting and auditing processes and the of judgement that materially impacted reported results.
In its review in the Audit Committee Report on pages 43 and 44. maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management system.
of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011, The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable but not In doing this, the Committee ensures that an appropriate relationship the Committee also considered analysis to support the going absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
is maintained between Electrocomponents and its external auditors, concern judgement.
reviews the scope and effectiveness of the external audit process Internal Control and Risk Management Relations with Shareholders and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the The Boards responsibilities for Internal Control are set out in the The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish external auditors.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 42. to receive a copy.
It is also available on the Companys website, which Internal Audit function and the Groups system of internal control and additionally contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
The Committee receives regular reports on the performance of and published financial results and presentations.
the system of internal control, and on its effectiveness in managing In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent material risks and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional access to the Internal Audit team and to the external auditors.
The shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct access to The Committee annually reviews the Groups risk management which include meetings following the announcements of the annual the Chairman of the Committee outside formal committee meetings.
process with the outcome of the review reported to the Board.
This, and interim results, the results of which are communicated to, and together with the provision of regular updates to the Board on material The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its discussed by, the Board.
At these meetings the Executive Directors risk issues, allows the Board to make the assessment on the systems authority and responsibilities and these are reviewed periodically meet with major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and of internal control for the purposes of making its public statement.
The Committees current terms of reference governance, and the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are are available for inspection on the Companys website.
Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been available for discussions with shareholders if required.
Upon his identified through the monitoring processes outlined above, plans appointment as Chairman, Peter Johnson wrote to the largest 20 The Board is kept fully apprised of the Committees work and the for strengthening them are put in place and actions plans regularly shareholders offering meetings.
The Group Finance Director regularly minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to Board members.
During the period under review there reports to the Board on Investor Relations and meetings with were no control failings or weaknesses that resulted in unforeseen shareholders, ensuring that the views of the shareholders are Membership material losses.
communicated to the Board through these reports.
The Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Paul Hollingworth.
The Board is satisfied that Paul Further information regarding risks to the business is given on pages The Senior Independent Director attended meetings with major Hollingworth, the Group Chief Financial Officer at Thomas Cook Group 27 to 29 of the Business Review.
shareholders during the financial year ended 31 March 2011. plc, has the current and relevant financial and accounting experience Internal Financial Controls The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for the required by the provisions of the Combined Code.
Internal financial controls are the systems employed by the Group Chairman and other Board members to meet with shareholders The other members of the Committee have a wide range of business to enable the Directors to discharge their responsibilities for financial and investors and give them the opportunity to ask questions.
experience, which is evidenced in their biographies on pages 36 matters.
Those responsibilities are noted on page 52. and 37.
Compliance with the Combined Code The main financial control elements are described below.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Directors consider Meetings and Attendance Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and the Board that the Company complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 The Committee met four times during the year ended 31 March 2011.
Committees, with delegation of operating responsibility through the of the Combined Code with the exception of items noted in These meetings were timed in accordance with the financial and Board Committees to management in all locations.
reporting cycles of the Company.
Members attendance during the controls are detailed in Group Finance and Group Treasury manuals By order of the Board year is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 41. that specify the controls necessary in identified areas of financial risk.
Smaller Group operating companies are supported by Group, regional In addition to the members of the Committee, it was normal for the and Process specialists in key areas.
Chairman of the Company, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Ian Haslegrave Finance Director and Group Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, the Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include weekly, General Counsel and Company Secretary Company Secretary and the Group Audit Engagement Director from monthly and annual reporting cycles.
Monthly management accounts 27 May 2011 KPMG Audit Plc KPMG to receive the Committee papers and attend are prepared by all operating companies and groupwide Processes.
The Group Risk Manager also attends meetings when These contain forecasts of the current financial year which are updated required.
Their attendance was at the invitation of the Committee at least four times per year and are compared against the previous Chairman only and does not restrict the Committees independent forecast, the budget and prior year actual figures.
reviewed by the Group Executive Committee and by the Board.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 43 Audit Committee report continued Specific reporting systems cover treasury operations, major before commissioning non-audit services, the Committee or the investment projects and legal and insurance activities, which Group Finance Director as appropriate must ensure that the external are reviewed by the Board and its Committees on a regular basis.
auditors are satisfied that there is no issue as regards independence and objectivity: Internal Audit The Group has a team of internal auditors which has an annually the Group Finance Director has authority to commission the external agreed audit programme approved by the Committee.
The Committee auditors to undertake non-audit work where there is a specific also reviews the level and skills of resources allocated to the Internal project with a cost that is not expected to exceed 50,000.
This Audit function to conduct this programme of work.
The Committee work has to be reported to the Committee at its next meeting.
If the reviews a summary of the results of each audit and the resolution cost is expected to exceed 50,000, the agreement of the Committee of any control issues identified.
is required before the work is commissioned.
In either case, other potential providers must be adequately considered: and The Head of Internal Audit has regular contact with the Chairman of the Committee.
the Group Finance Director monitors all work done by the external auditors or other providers of accountancy services anywhere in On an annual basis the Committee as a whole discuss with the Head the Group in excess of 10,000. of Internal Audit the control environment of the Group without the presence of executive management.
Professional rules require rotation of the Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG.
This took take place in July 2009 when a new The effectiveness of the Internal Audit function was formally reviewed Director was appointed, replacing the previous Director who had held by the Committee during the year.
A formal statement of independence from the External Auditors external auditors is received each year.
The Group will not engage the The Committee and Board put great emphasis on the objectivity auditors to undertake any work that could threaten their independence.
of the Companys auditors KPMG in their reporting to shareholders.
As part of this years decision to recommend the re-appointment of The Group Audit Engagement Director from KPMG was present at all the auditors, the Committee has taken into account the tenure of the of the Committee meetings to ensure full and open communication.
auditors and the need to consider at least every five years whether there The performance of the auditors is reviewed annually by the should be a full tender process.
There are no contractual obligations Committee, and covers qualification, expertise, resources and rethat act to restrict the Committees choice of external auditors.
appointment as well as reassurance that there are no issues which The annual appointment of auditors by the shareholders at the Annual could adversely affect the auditors independence and objectivity.
General Meeting is a fundamental safeguard, and beyond this, there As part of risk evaluation planning the Committee will also consider are controls in place to ensure that additional work performed by the the need to include the risk of its current auditor withdrawing from auditors is appropriate and subject to proper review.
Fraud Views of management are also taken into account and this is reported The Committee reviews the procedures for prevention and detection to senior members of KPMG.
This forms part of KPMGs own system of fraud in the Group.
Suspected cases of fraud must be reported of quality control.
The Committee also met with KPMG, without to the Company Secretary within 48 hours and investigated by management being present, on the adequacy of controls and on any operational management or Internal Audit, as appropriate.
The significant area where management judgement has been applied.
outcome of any investigation will be reported to the Company The auditors engagement letter and the scope of the years audit is Secretary.
A register of all suspected fraudulent activity and the discussed in advance by the Committee, ensuring that any changes in outcome of any investigation will be kept which will be circulated circumstances arising since last year are taken into account.
Following to the Committee on a regular basis.
discussions between the operating companies and the local KPMG Whistleblowing offices and a review by Group management, audit and non-audit fees In accordance with the provisions of the Combined Code the are reviewed by the Committee and are then recommended to the Committee is responsible for reviewing the arrangements whereby Board for approval.
Details of audit and non-audit fees are given in note staff may, in confidence, raise concerns about possible improprieties 3 on page 66. in matters of financial reporting or other matters and ensuring that any With respect to non-audit assignments undertaken by KPMG the matters are investigated and escalated as appropriate.
This is run by Company has a policy to ensure that the provision of such services an external third party.
Whistleblowing is referred to as Speak Up does not impair KPMGs independence or objectivity.
internally and is now available to all staff groupwide.
The Speak Up policy was revised, updated and communicated in September 2010.
The policy is as follows: The Board receives aggregated reports on matters raised through When considering the use of the external auditors to undertake these services and monitors their use throughout the Group.
non-audit work, the Group Finance Director should at all times give By order of the Board consideration to the provisions of the Smith Report with regard to the preservation of independence and objectivity: the external auditors must certify to the Company that they are Paul Hollingworth acting independently: Chairman of the Audit Committee in providing a non-audit service, the external auditors should not: 27 May 2011 audit their own work: make management decisions for the Company: create a mutuality of interest: find themselves in the role of advocate for the Company: 44 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
