Committee periodically assesses what new skills, knowledge and The Senior Independent Director is responsible for chairing the experience are required on the Board and if appropriate, recommends meeting of Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of evaluating the Corporate Governance report a candidate profile which is then used to brief recruitment consultants Chairmans performance and to provide an alternative communication appointed by the Committee to undertake the selection process.
channel for shareholders if required.
Initial meetings are held generally by the Chairman and the Group Chief Board Training and Induction Executive with prospective candidates and a shortlist of individuals A tailored induction programme is provided for each new Director.
is selected to meet with other Nomination Committee members and During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Company has been subject Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set Overall, the aim of the induction programme is to introduce new the Executive Directors.
The Nomination Committee then meets and to the provisions of the Combined Code on Corporate Governance out on pages 36 and 37, together with details of their membership Directors to the Groups business, its operations and its governance decides which candidate, if any, will be recommended to join the published in July 2003 and last revised in June 2008 the Combined of Board Committees.
Such inductions typically include meetings with senior Board.
This process was used for the recent appointment of Peter Code.
Section 1 of the Combined Code establishes 17 main principles management, the Company Secretary, sales visits to customers and Board Committees Johnson as Chairman of the Board.
Meetings relating to the appointment and 26 supporting principles of good governance in four areas: presentations of key business areas and other relevant documentation.
The Board has a number of standing committees consisting of certain of the new Chairman were chaired by Rupert Soames, as Senior Directors: Relations with Shareholders: Accountability and Audit: and As part of Peter Johnsons induction he also met with the Companys Directors and, in the case of the Group Executive Committee and Independent Director.
The Board has succession plans in place for Remuneration of Directors.
This report explains how these principles Auditors, Corporate Broker and a number of major shareholders.
Treasury Committee, certain senior managers, to which specific both the Board and the Group Executive Committee.
The Company were applied in the first two of these areas.
Detailed reports on responsibilities have been delegated and for which written terms of Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Directors are encouraged to update their skills, knowledge and Directors Remuneration and the Audit Committee can be found on reference have been agreed.
These terms of reference are available familiarity with the Group by attending external seminars and briefings, pages 45 to 51 and pages 43 to 44 respectively.
The Audit Committee Board Attendance for inspection on the Companys website.
Board members receive through participation at meetings and through visits to operating units, Report is incorporated by reference into, and forms part of, this The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board minutes of meetings of all the Boards committees and can request both in the UK and overseas, as well as by receiving presentations Corporate Governance Report.
and of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees during presentations or reports on areas of interest.
The Directors are updated on new the year and individual attendance by the relevant members at legislation and corporate governance issues as they arise.
Directors Directors The Group Executive Committee consists of the Executive Directors these meetings: are given access to independent professional advice at the Groups and certain senior managers with Operating Company and Process The Board expense, if they deem it necessary in order for them to carry out their Audit Remuneration Nomination responsibilities.
It is chaired by the Group Chief Executive.
The As at 31 March 2011 the Board comprised the Chairman, two Board Committee Committee Committee responsibilities.
This is in addition to the access that every Director Committee has met ten times during the financial year ended Executive Directors and three independent Non-Executive Directors.
has to the Company Secretary, who is responsible to the Board for Number of meetings 31 March 2011 and manages the day-to-day activities of the Group.
The Board is collectively responsible for promoting the success of the ensuring that Board procedures are complied with.
held during the year 7 4 4 3 Company.
The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria The Board has delegated the following responsibilities to the a H Mamsch 3 3 3 3 on independence of the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors under Performance Evaluation Group Executive Committee: the development and recommendation b the Combined Code.
In the opinion of the Board, the Chairman and The Board annually evaluates its own performance and that of its P Johnson 3 3 of strategic plans for consideration by the Board: the monitoring all the Non-Executive Directors bring independence of judgement Directors.
Due to the recent appointment of Peter Johnson a decision of the operating and financial results against plans and forecasts: I Mason 7 7 and character to the Board and to the committees on which they sit.
was made to delay the Board and Committee evaluation process and and the development of risk management and control procedures.
S Boddie 7 7 They are sufficiently independent of management and are free from this was completed after the end of the financial year.
The delay has The Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
A Auer 7 7 4 4 4 4 3 3 any business or other relationships which could interfere with the allowed sufficient Board and Committee meetings to have taken place The Audit Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and exercise of their judgement.
For the same reason, a meeting to appraise P Hollingworth 7 7 4 4 4 4 3 3 is chaired by Paul Hollingworth.
Under its terms of reference the the Chairmans performance and meetings involving only the Non R Soames 7 7 4 4 4 4 3 3 The Board has a formal schedule of matters reserved for its approval.
Committee meets at least three times a year.
During the year under Executive Directors were not held during the financial year.
Detailed It is responsible for the overall Group strategy and the approval and The maximum number of meetings held during the year that each Director could attend is shown review the Committee met four times.
It ensures the integrity of questionnaires were sent to Board members covering the Board, and review of major investment proposals.
The Board discusses and in brackets financial reporting and audit processes and the maintenance of a sound its Directors and Committees.
The questionnaire covers issues such as agrees strategic plans, reviews forecasts and evaluates Group and a Helmut Mamsch ceased to be Chairman on 15 July 2010. internal control and risk management system.
The Company Secretary effectiveness of meetings, how well strategy is tested and developed, subsidiary performance.
Other day-to-day operational decisions b Peter Johnson was appointed as Chairman on 1 October 2010. acts as secretary to the Committee.
Further details of the Audit Board composition and succession planning and risk management are delegated by the Board to the Group Executive Committee.
Committee and its activities are set out in the Audit Committee controls.
Since the year end, the Chairman has met individual Board Chairman, Group Chief Executive and Senior Independent Information and agenda items are recommended to the Board by Report on pages 43 to 44. directors to discuss their responses to the questionnaire and has Director the Group Executive Committee and the Company Secretary after provided a report to the Board with recommendations for actions The roles of Chairman and Group Chief Executive are held by The Treasury Committee consists of the Group Chief Executive, the discussion with the Chairman and Group Chief Executive.
A twelve to improve the effectiveness of the Board.
The responses to the different individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Group Finance Director, the Group Treasurer, the Assistant Group month rolling programme of Board items and other key issues are Committee questionnaires have been collated independently by Chairman and Group Chief Executive has been clearly established: Treasurer, the Group Controller, the Company Secretary and the Group discussed and agreed by the Board.
the Company Secretary who has prepared reports for each of the their responsibilities are set out in writing and have been agreed Tax Manager and sets detailed treasury policy for the Group within The Board normally meets seven times per year and supplementary Chairmen of the Committees.
These reports have been discussed by the Board.
guidelines established by the Board.
meetings are held as and when necessary.
Its annual schedule of at the relevant Committee meetings.
The Assistant Group Treasurer acts as secretary to the Committee.
The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board and for meetings normally includes a visit to an operating company, which Re-appointment of Directors organising the business of the Board, ensuring its effectiveness and The Remuneration Committee consists of all the Non-Executive give the Directors the opportunity to review operations and meet Helmut Mamsch retired at the Annual General Meeting in July 2010, setting its agenda.
The Chairman facilitates the effective contribution Directors and is chaired by Rupert Soames.
Under its terms of local management.
Directors receive a pack of relevant and timely having served almost four years on the Board.
of the Non-Executive Directors, and ensures all Directors receive reference the Committee meets at least twice a year.
During the year information on the matters to be discussed at each meeting.
Senior accurate, timely and clear information.
He is also responsible for under review the Committee met four times.
It is responsible for all managers below Board level also attend relevant parts of Board Having considered the recommendations of the UK Corporate effective communication between the Board and shareholders.
aspects of the remuneration of the Executive Directors.
The Company meetings in order to make presentations on their areas of responsibility.
Governance Code, the Board has decided that the Chairman and Secretary acts as secretary to the Committee.
Further details of the Between Board meetings, Directors are provided with information Non-Executive Directors will retire and stand for re-election at the Peter Johnson was appointed Chairman on 1 October 2010.
Helmut Remuneration Committee, remuneration policy and of the remuneration on matters affecting the business as and when relevant.
forthcoming Annual General Meeting on 15 July 2011 and annually Mamsch retired as Chairman at last years Annual General Meeting of each Director are set out in the Remuneration Report on pages 45 thereafter.
The Executive Directors will continue to retire every three with Rupert Soames acting as Chairman in the period up until Peter The Companys Articles of Association give the Board the power to 51. years, and offer themselves for re-election, in accordance with the Johnsons appointment.
to authorise situations which might give rise to Directors conflicts Companys Articles of Association.
This will be kept under review.
The Nomination Committee consists of the Chairman and all the of interest.
The Board has in place a formal conflicts of interest The Group Chief Executive has direct charge of the Company on The Board considers that the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman, Peter Johnson or Helmut management procedure.
The Board is responsible for considering a day-to-day basis and is accountable to the Board for the financial are accountable to shareholders for the performance of the Executive Mamsch in the period until his resignation, chaired the Committee.
whether authorisation is required, and if it can be given, in relation to and operational performance of the Group, and the determination Directors and that it is in the best interests of the Company for any The Committee meets as required and recommends to the Board new situations as they arise.
The Board reviews annually any conflict of the strategy and the achievement of its objectives.
change to the Executive Directors to be part of a controlled succession candidates for appointment as Directors of the Company.
The authorisations it has given and any limitations which have been applied.
40 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Governance Committee periodically assesses what new skills, knowledge and The Senior Independent Director is responsible for chairing the experience are required on the Board and if appropriate, recommends meeting of Non-Executive Directors for the purpose of evaluating the Corporate Governance report a candidate profile which is then used to brief recruitment consultants Chairmans performance and to provide an alternative communication appointed by the Committee to undertake the selection process.
Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011 41 Corporate Governance report continued Internal Control and Risk Management The Group has an established and ongoing process of risk Audit Committee report management and internal control which has continued throughout the year under review and up to the date of approval of the annual report and accounts.
The Board is responsible for the effectiveness of the Groups system of internal control, which has been designed and implemented to meet the particular requirements of the Group and There follows a report from the Audit Committee detailing the Activities during the year the risks to which it is exposed.
role and responsibilities of the Committee and its activities during the Financial Reporting year.
The Board Report on the systems of Internal Control and their In its financial reporting to shareholders and other key interested In accordance with the requirements of the Combined Code and the effectiveness can be found in the Corporate Governance Report on parties, the Board aims to present a balanced and understandable recommendations of the Turnbull Review Group on internal control, pages 40 to 42.
This report is incorporated by reference into, and forms assessment of the Groups position and prospects.
The Committee the Audit Committee has regularly reviewed the effectiveness of the part of, the Corporate Governance Report.
reviews and advises the Board on the Groups Annual and Half-Yearly Groups system of internal control and risk management and reported Financial Reports, Interim Management Statements and other periodic the results to the Board.
These reviews covered all material controls, Role statements.
The Committee focuses in particular on key accounting including financial, operational and compliance controls and risk The role of the Committee is to assist the Board in its duties regarding policies and practices adopted by the Group and any significant areas management systems.
Further details of this process are given the integrity of the financial reporting and auditing processes and the of judgement that materially impacted reported results.
In its review in the Audit Committee Report on pages 43 and 44. maintenance of a sound internal control and risk management system.
of the financial statements for the year ended 31 March 2011, The Groups internal control system can provide reasonable but not In doing this, the Committee ensures that an appropriate relationship the Committee also considered analysis to support the going absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
is maintained between Electrocomponents and its external auditors, concern judgement.
reviews the scope and effectiveness of the external audit process Internal Control and Risk Management Relations with Shareholders and makes recommendations to the Board on the appointment of the The Boards responsibilities for Internal Control are set out in the The Annual Report and Accounts is sent to all shareholders who wish external auditors.
The Committee reviews the effectiveness of the Corporate Governance Report on pages 40 to 42. to receive a copy.
It is also available on the Companys website, which Internal Audit function and the Groups system of internal control and additionally contains up-to-date information on the Groups activities the processes for monitoring and evaluating the risks facing the Group.
The Committee receives regular reports on the performance of and published financial results and presentations.
the system of internal control, and on its effectiveness in managing In the performance of its duties, the Committee has independent material risks and in identifying control failings or weaknesses.
Executive Directors have frequent discussions with institutional access to the Internal Audit team and to the external auditors.
The shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, Head of Internal Audit and the external auditors have direct access to The Committee annually reviews the Groups risk management which include meetings following the announcements of the annual the Chairman of the Committee outside formal committee meetings.
process with the outcome of the review reported to the Board.
This, and interim results, the results of which are communicated to, and together with the provision of regular updates to the Board on material The Committee has written terms of reference that outline its discussed by, the Board.
At these meetings the Executive Directors risk issues, allows the Board to make the assessment on the systems authority and responsibilities and these are reviewed periodically meet with major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and of internal control for the purposes of making its public statement.
The Committees current terms of reference governance, and the Chairman and Non-Executive Directors are are available for inspection on the Companys website.
Where weaknesses in the internal control system have been available for discussions with shareholders if required.
Upon his identified through the monitoring processes outlined above, plans appointment as Chairman, Peter Johnson wrote to the largest 20 The Board is kept fully apprised of the Committees work and the for strengthening them are put in place and actions plans regularly shareholders offering meetings.
The Group Finance Director regularly minutes of each Committee meeting are circulated to Board members.
During the period under review there reports to the Board on Investor Relations and meetings with were no control failings or weaknesses that resulted in unforeseen shareholders, ensuring that the views of the shareholders are Membership material losses.
communicated to the Board through these reports.
The Committee consists of all the Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by Paul Hollingworth.
The Board is satisfied that Paul Further information regarding risks to the business is given on pages The Senior Independent Director attended meetings with major Hollingworth, the Group Chief Financial Officer at Thomas Cook Group 27 to 29 of the Business Review.
shareholders during the financial year ended 31 March 2011. plc, has the current and relevant financial and accounting experience Internal Financial Controls The Annual General Meeting is used as an opportunity for the required by the provisions of the Combined Code.
Internal financial controls are the systems employed by the Group Chairman and other Board members to meet with shareholders The other members of the Committee have a wide range of business to enable the Directors to discharge their responsibilities for financial and investors and give them the opportunity to ask questions.
experience, which is evidenced in their biographies on pages 36 matters.
Those responsibilities are noted on page 52. and 37.
Compliance with the Combined Code The main financial control elements are described below.
During the year ended 31 March 2011, the Directors consider Meetings and Attendance Clear terms of reference set out the duties of the Board and the Board that the Company complied with the provisions set out in Section 1 The Committee met four times during the year ended 31 March 2011.
Committees, with delegation of operating responsibility through the of the Combined Code with the exception of items noted in These meetings were timed in accordance with the financial and Board Committees to management in all locations.
reporting cycles of the Company.
Members attendance during the controls are detailed in Group Finance and Group Treasury manuals By order of the Board year is set out in the Corporate Governance Report on page 41. that specify the controls necessary in identified areas of financial risk.
Smaller Group operating companies are supported by Group, regional In addition to the members of the Committee, it was normal for the and Process specialists in key areas.
Chairman of the Company, the Group Chief Executive, the Group Ian Haslegrave Finance Director and Group Controller, the Head of Internal Audit, the Financial reporting systems are comprehensive and include weekly, General Counsel and Company Secretary Company Secretary and the Group Audit Engagement Director from monthly and annual reporting cycles.
Monthly management accounts 27 May 2011 KPMG Audit Plc KPMG to receive the Committee papers and attend are prepared by all operating companies and groupwide Processes.
The Group Risk Manager also attends meetings when These contain forecasts of the current financial year which are updated required.
Their attendance was at the invitation of the Committee at least four times per year and are compared against the previous Chairman only and does not restrict the Committees independent forecast, the budget and prior year actual figures.
reviewed by the Group Executive Committee and by the Board.
42 Electrocomponents plc | Annual Report and Accounts 2011
