32 corPorate governance rePort Chairmans address executive directors and their management team, the Board is In this introductory section, I report on how your Board has applied ultimately responsible to our shareholders, and in some cases wider the principles in the UK corporate governance code the CG Code stakeholders, for them collectively.
relating to role and effectiveness.
The diagram below illustrates the Elementis governance framework Firstly, your Board considers that it has complied fully with all of the which helps to explain the principal roles and interactions that will provisions of the CG Code and a fuller report on this is set out below.
enable shareholders to assess better how CG Code principles about effectiveness have been applied.
Key to the role and effectiveness Your Board has four principal functions: of the Board is how it has generated and preserved value over the longer term.
In this regard, I am pleased to report that, despite the to determine the strategic direction and priorities of the Company considerable challenges presented by global economies, 2011 has as a whole: been a record year for Elementis.
The Board has set a clear strategy for growth over the longer term and the financial performance in to provide leadership in setting the appropriate culture and 2011 demonstrates that the Company is well positioned to deliver standards in all aspects of our activities: sustainable results that will generate significant shareholder value.
In addition to growth and increasing profitability, the Company to provide guidance to, and exercise oversight in respect of, has taken important steps towards preserving long term value.
The executive management and the management of the businesses: Companys balance sheet has continued to strengthen from positive and cash flow generation and we have a proactive investor relations programme to ensure that the key value drivers of our businesses to report to shareholders on its stewardship of the Company.
Another aspect is a proactive approach to managing legacy issues relating to businesses previously owned by These key functions are carried out by the Board and its Committees the Group.
The refund of 23.4 million from the EU Commission in the and, while some aspects or activities may be delegated to the latter part of 2011 is a good example of this.
elementis governance framework This diagram shows the key constituents within the Elementis governance framework and their key roles and responsibilities.
shareholders Accountability Mandate Reporting Delegated authorities Board of directors nomination committee Accountability Strategic direction remuneration committee Reporting Delegated authorities Succession planning Executive remuneration Business oversight Board and Committee evaluation Annual bonus scheme Board appointments size, Share incentive schemes management team composition and structure: skills, Setting performance targets knowledge and experience: Ensuring remuneration does not Execute strategy Generate and and diversity encourage excessive risk taking preserve value over Manage business the longer term Provide leadership Business leadershiP and internal audit external auditors functional suPPort teams Reliability and integrity of financial Audit and express an opinion on and operating information the financial statements in oPerational, Professional accordance with applicable law Effectiveness and efficiency of and suPPort Personnel and accounting standards operations Safeguarding of assets Compliance with applicable laws audit committee and regulations Integrity of financial statements, accounting policies and financial reporting Effectiveness of internal control, compliance and risk management systems All aspects of the relationship with internal and external auditors ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 33 In each of the areas of focus from execution of strategy to risk and As part of any system, adequate controls are necessary and, within internal control, central to our governance framework is the role of the our governance framework both within the formal channels, such as Board and management team.
Clear governance structures, such as in Board meetings, and outside of these formal structures, the roles a defined programme of Board and Committee meetings, delegation of the Chairman and Senior Independent Director are paramount of authorities, Group policies and open lines of communication, in providing the executive directors with appropriate support and have enabled the Company to operate in an open and transparent counsel, as well as a contact point for shareholders.
The annual environment with certainty, thereby helping to create the conditions Board and committee evaluation on performance and effectiveness for achieving success.
Underpinning the structures are, of course, the is another control mechanism and enables the Board to reflect on individuals on the Board, both executive and non-executive directors.
the leadership, commitment and contribution of individual Board The table below sets out information that shows the diversity of skills, members.
The process allows the Board to take stock and consider background and experience on the Board.
It is this level of diversity what improvements need to be made or areas strengthened.
The that leads your Board to conclude that its size and composition are evaluation extends to the role of the company secretary who has appropriate to guide the Company at this stage of its development.
an important supporting role to play in ensuring the governance system operates smoothly in terms of the information, support The diversity enables the Board to identify and address issues and resources that are made available to non-executive directors.
when and as they arise and, in the case of the non-executives, However, although more formal processes have been put into place, to constructively challenge executive management and exercise for example in respect of the induction of new directors, the Board appropriate oversight on business performance and the levels of generally operates on the basis that individual directors should be risk taking.
proactive in their own development.
Nonetheless, seminars, training and briefings are all part of the resources that are made available to all Board members, including access to external advisers where appropriate, and the Chairman meets with all directors individually, on a periodic basis, as part of their evaluation and development process.
Board diversity Robert Beeston Chairman x 8 8 x x 70 21.09.06 Chief David Dutro x 8 8 x x x x 56 17.01.07 Executive Finance Brian Taylorson x 8 8 x x x x x x x 56 02.04.02 Director Senior Ian Brindle Independent x 8 8 x x x 68 06.06.05 Director Andrew Christie x 8 8 x x x 55 11.08.08 Chris Girling x 8 8 x x x 58 29.04.05 Kevin Matthews x 8 8 x x x 48 16.02.05 ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC name role executive director non-executive director Board attendance in 2011 manufacturing industry exPerience chemical sector exPerience international exPerience Pension trustee exPerience financial accounting exPertise corPorate finance exPerience treasury exPerience sales and marketing exPertise research academia exPerience regulatory exPerience full time emPloyment outside of elementis age date joined the Board shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 34 corPorate governance rePort continued To demonstrate the Boards support of the principle, the Board opted As a result of these plans, the Board has not embraced as a matter of to apply early the provisions in the CG Code concerning the annual priority the proposals of Lord Davies on gender diversity.
The Board re-election of directors when all Board members stood for re-election agrees that women can contribute a great deal in the boardroom, by shareholders at the 2011 Annual General Meeting.
in executive and non-executive roles, and Elementis will seek to include women candidates in its succession planning process.
Each of the sections in the CG Code relating to role and effectiveness However, the Board will appoint candidates on the basis of the best is inter-related with one another and a current development within qualified person, rather than based on setting specific quotas.
Elementis that will influence how our application of the CG Code provisions might change over the medium term concerns the Boards succession plans.
As identified in last years Corporate governance report, the Board, through the work of the Nomination Committee, has started planning Robert Beeston for Board succession, principally in response to the fact that three of Chairman our non-executives, including the Senior Independent Director, will 28 February 2012 cease to be considered independent under CG Code provisions in the first half of 2014.
A succession plan will see additional non-executives being recruited in 2013, 2014 and 2015 in order to spread out these appointments, although in practice the refreshment process will be more flexible and fluid in order to ensure stability and continuity.
Towards the end of the year, the Board invited eight recruitment firms to submit proposals to assist the Board in its succession planning process.
The Chairman and Senior Independent Director met with a number of the firms who will be presenting to the Board and it is expected that an appointment will be made in the second quarter.
The appointed adviser will assist the Board in identifying and prioritising the skills and competencies that will be required beyond 2014, so that role specifications can be prepared and agreed before the end of 2012, and the search and recruitment process started early in 2013.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 35 The Board Board operation Composition The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved to it The composition of the Board and biographical information about its for decision and this forms part of our risk management and internal members are shown on pages 26 and 27 respectively.
These matters reserved include strategic and annual operating plans, the approval of financial statements, acquisitions and Information about the executive directors service contracts with the disposals, risk compliance and management programmes including Company is set out in the Report of the Remuneration Committee on insurance arrangements, major non-recurring projects and major page 42.
Non-executive directors are appointed for an initial term of capital expenditures.
The Board reviews business performance at three years, after which the appointment can be renewed for further each of its meetings and sets values and standards to ensure that its three year periods by mutual agreement between the Board and the obligations to shareholders and wider stakeholders are understood director concerned.
In determining whether or not an appointment and met.
It also delegates specific responsibilities with written terms should be renewed, the Board will take into consideration the of reference to the Board committees detailed overleaf.
wishes, performance and commitment of the director, as well the requirements of the CG Code on directors independence.
All To assist the Board in carrying out its duties, information of an appointments are made subject to annual re-election by shareholders appropriate quality is issued in a timely manner ahead of Board and at the AGM.
A programme exists to ensure new directors receive appropriate induction tailored to their needs.
This includes Robert Beestons appointment as Chairman will expire in September visits to manufacturing facilities and meetings with members of the 2012 and it is anticipated that his appointment will be renewed for management team to assist them in developing an understanding a third three year period.
Further details about the non-executive of how the Group operates and key opportunities and risks.
New directors terms of appointment are set out in the Report of the directors are also advised of their legal and other duties and other Remuneration Committee on page 42. obligations as directors of a listed company.
All directors have access to the advice and services of the company secretary and Following its annual performance evaluation, the Board is satisfied may take independent professional advice, as appropriate, at the that all our directors, both executives and non-executives, contribute expense of the Company.
effectively and demonstrate appropriate commitment to their role.
Accordingly, it is the Boards recommendation to shareholders Each year the Board holds one of its meetings at one of the Groups that all directors, each of whom will be submitting themselves for overseas locations.
During 2011, the Board visited Shanghai, where re-election at the 2012 Annual General Meeting, are re-elected.
it held one of its meetings, and toured our facilities in Songjiang, Changxing and Anji in China.
As part of the trip, the directors met The Boards position on gender diversity in the boardroom is discussed with and received business presentations from the Asia Pacific briefly in the Chairmans address and a further commentary appears in management team, which included a video presentation of the the Report of the Nomination Committee.
In terms of a diversity policy R&D centre in Hsinchu, Taiwan.
The directors also had the more generally, a summary of our employment policies appears on opportunity to meet other members of staff from different page 28 in the Directors report but the principal message is that we departments in a number of informal dinners during their visit.
apply a policy of non-discrimination except as it relates to a persons These activities help the directors develop their understanding of ability or potential in relation to the needs of a job throughout the business and the risks it faces, and gives them an opportunity the Group to recruitment and promotion, layoffs and training to observe directly the more operational side of the business, ask or in grievance procedures.
Out of our total workforce excluding questions of more junior levels of management and assess the contractors or temporary workers, 25 per cent over 300 are female.
quality of the resources within the Group.
One finding from the Of these female employees, 17 per cent or one in every six just under annual Board evaluation programme is that directors used these 50 hold managerial positions and seven per cent or one in every site visits to improve their understanding of operational matters, 14 just over 20 hold an executive management position within the particularly in relation to risk management and health, safety and four tiers below Board level.
Our most senior female executive is our environment matters, as well as the culture that exists and the Global Marketing Director for the Specialty Products business who, enthusiasm and commitment of the wider workforce.
along with other members of the business leadership teams, have exposure to Board members in meetings and presentations at various times in the year.
Board independence The Board considers all the non-executive directors to be independent in character and judgement.
The Board is satisfied that each director exercises independent judgement and believes no individual or group dominates decision making.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 36 corPorate governance rePort continued Board committees dissemination of information via the Groups website at The table below shows the members of each Board committee www.
com: and and their attendance records during 2011.
A report of each committee is set out separately in this Annual Report.
The Report Annual General Meeting AGM.
of the Remuneration Committee constitutes the Directors remuneration report.
Shareholders attending the AGM can ask questions during the meeting and can speak with the directors informally after the meeting.
Training and development Both the chairmen of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are All directors are encouraged to take responsibility for their own available to answer questions from shareholders.
Various in-house and external resources are made available, such as briefings, presentations or Managements meetings with shareholders and analysts are reported more formal seminars and training workshops.
During 2011, our to the Board on a regular basis, which includes feedback from non-executive directors attended various workshops and conferences investors following results roadshows.
All directors receive copies of run by KPMG, PwC, BDO and the Association of British Insurers, which research notes published by analysts by email, as and when these covered a diverse range of topics from executive remuneration to are published, helping non-executive directors to develop a clear Board diversity, from accounting standards to the Bribery Act 2010. understanding of the views of major shareholders.
The Chairman and In addition, a number of technical briefings were given in-house at Senior Independent Director are available for contact by shareholders Audit Committee meetings on accounting for pensions and goodwill, at any time.
which were attended by all directors.
From time to time, where appropriate, the Chairman and, in connection On a periodic basis usually every one or two years, the Chairman with remuneration proposals, the chairman of the Remuneration organises a more formal review meeting with each director and one Committee will organise a programme of meetings with major of the items discussed is whether or not, in the case of non-executive shareholders to update them on any developments in corporate directors, they consider information and resources, including training governance matters or consult them over remuneration proposals.
and development support, is appropriate to their needs.
During the year, the Board reviewed its relationship with RBS Hoare Investor relations programme Govett RBS as the Companys joint corporate broker and decided Being a publicly listed company, a key role of the Board is to ensure towards the end of the year to replace RBS with UBS Investment an effective communication programme is maintained throughout Bank UBS.
It was considered that UBS, working alongside the year with shareholders, analysts and the financial press.
Our N 1 Brewin the other joint corporate broker would be a more programme includes the following: effective combination in assisting the Company in its equity market activities.
preliminary and half year results announcements: Share capital annual report and accounts: The information on the structure of the Companys share capital, including any rights or restrictions of shares, required to be made interim management statements: in this Corporate governance report under the Financial Services Authoritys Disclosure and Transparency Rules can be found in the other regulatory announcements: Directors report under the heading Share capital.
meetings with and presentations to institutional shareholders: By order of the Board attendance at investor conferences: holding of analyst and investor days: Wai Wong Company Secretary 28 February 2012 memBershiP of committees audit committee nomination committee RemuneRation committee Members left to right attendance record Members left to right attendance record Members left to right attendance record Chris Girling Chairman 4 4 Robert Beeston Chairman 4 4 Kevin Matthews Chairman 4 4 Ian Brindle 4 4 Ian Brindle 4 4 Andrew Christie 4 4 Andrew Christie 4 4 Andrew Christie 4 4 Chris Girling 4 4 Kevin Matthews 4 4 Chris Girling 4 4 Kevin Matthews 4 4 ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
