39 rePort of the nomination committee The Committees composition and the attendance records of its boaRd peRfoRmance evaluation members are shown in the table on page 36.
All meetings except The annual evaluation of the Boards performance includes a review one which was attended by non-executive directors only were of its committees and individual directors, as well as the company also attended by both executive directors, to ensure that all Board secretary.
The process involves the use of a questionnaire, which members are kept fully informed on the operation and work of the has been designed internally, and the results are discussed by all the Committee.
directors at one of the Committees meetings held towards the end of the year.
Prior to the process being agreed, the Committee discussed A summary of the Committees role appears in the Elementis two proposals in June for an external evaluation to be conducted, but governance framework on page 32.
A full description and its decided that the priority was to progress the Boards succession plans.
terms of reference are available on the Companys website at: It was agreed that some of the work involved, such as identifying www.
com  certain skills and competencies, could overlap with an external evaluation review and, therefore, it would be more appropriate for the The Committees formal programme of work in 2011 was carried latter to be carried out mid-way through, or towards the end of, the out over four meetings in June, July, October and December.
This programme of work covered the following: Some shareholders have asked for additional information about consideration of Lord Davies recommendations for increasing directors to help them understand the extent to which a directors the number of women on the boards of listed companies: background or experience helps shape or influence the contribution he makes to the operation and effectiveness of the Board.
Although approval of a Board diversity policy to take into consideration the Committee does not consider commenting on individual CG Code requirements on Board diversity see below : performance to be appropriate, the biographical information provided and the information in the table on Board diversity consideration of using external resources to help carry out its should assist shareholders to assess the skills and experience of annual performance evaluation: the Board as a whole, when determining how to vote on certain resolutions at the AGM.
consideration of the non-executive succession planning process: The general outcome of the process in 2011 was that the performance review of results of the annual Board performance evaluation: of the Board as a whole, the operation of its committees and the performance and contributions of individual directors executive and review of submissions from eight recruitment firms who had been non-executive, including the company secretary, were all considered asked to submit proposals for assisting the Board in implementing to be effective.
In terms of Board structures and operation, including its succession plans: and information and resources, leadership, strategic direction and key priorities, these were considered to be appropriate and no particular review of the Chairmans performance.
Key priorities that were discussed included: Board succession planning: proactive investor relations programme: boaRd diveRsity general awareness around macroeconomic risks: maintaining Under the diversity policy agreed by the Board, the best candidate balance sheet strength optimising capital structure: and growing will be the one whose recruitment profile is considered to be the best the Specialty Products business by a combination of organic growth, fit for the vacant role.
In determining best fit, the Board will take into through new products and new markets geographies, and making consideration the following: the skills, knowledge and experience of selective bolt on acquisitions in complementary technologies the candidate measured against the requirements of the role and the or markets.
existing knowledge, skills, experience, aptitudes and personalities represented on the Board, as well as the Groups international profile.
Towards the end of the year, the Senior Independent Director chaired a meeting of the directors to review the performance of The diversity policy also stipulates, in relation to new appointments, the Chairman without him being present.
The conclusion was that that: a only recruitment advisers who are able to demonstrate a the Chairman remains effective in his role in terms of his leadership commitment to gender equality and the ability to identify suitably and commitment, the operation and priorities of the Board, and his qualified female candidates for Board positions will be engaged: support to management.
and b where two candidates are equally matched against a role specification, the Board will give preference to a female candidate.
The Committee also met without the executive directors being present and complimented them for the openness and transparency The Board considers that this policy will help to ensure women are in their dealings with the Board, which were appreciated.
given every opportunity to be considered for appointment and, in the scenario described, will be given preference over a male candidate.
As the Board is currently engaged in a succession planning process that is likely only to be fully completed in 2014 2015, it does not consider that it would be appropriate to set targets for the number Robert Beeston of women on the Elementis Board.
However, a specific requirement Chairman of the appointed recruitment adviser will be to ensure any long list 28 February 2012 and short list of candidates presented to the Board for consideration is in line with the Davies recommendations that is, at least 25 per cent should be women considered to have met the essential criteria for the role in question.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview
