37 rePort of the audit committee The Committees composition and the attendance records of its The Committee approved non-audit services of $0.6 million from members are shown in the table on page 36.
All meetings were KPMG in 2011 2010: $0.4 million, most of which concerned tax also attended by the Chairman of the Company and both executive advisory services in relation to the UK, US, Netherlands, Germany, directors, to ensure that all Board members are kept fully informed China and Taiwan.
KPMGs knowledge of the business meant they on the operation and work of the Committee.
The biographical could provide these services more cost effectively.
Other non-audit information of directors shown on page 26 shows that both Chris services relate to work on Bribery Act compliance.
The Committee Girling and Ian Brindle have the necessary financial experience is satisfied that the provision of these services does not affect the required by the CG Code.
independence of KPMG as external auditor.
A summary of the Committees role appears in the Elementis inteRnal contRol governance framework on page 32.
A full description and its As part of its role, the Committee is responsible for monitoring, and terms of reference are available on the Companys website at: reviewing the effectiveness of, the Groups system of internal controls www.
This system comprises financial, operational and compliance risks and controls.
Although the Committee has The Committees formal programme of work is carried out over four been delegated specific tasks in connection with this role, the Board meetings each year in February, June, July and December.
During is ultimately responsible for the effectiveness of such a system, which 2011, this programme of work covered the following: can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives.
Our risk management and review of annual and interim reports and financial statements, internal control system can therefore only provide reasonable, and and interim management statements: not absolute, assurance against material mis-statement or loss.
consideration of half yearly reports from the internal audit The Board is of the view that an ongoing process for identifying, providers,  PwC, as well as evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Group was representations from management: in place throughout the financial year under review and up to the date that this Annual Report was approved.
This process is regularly review of the effectiveness of PwC and the external auditors reviewed by the Board and accords with the Financial Reporting KPMG : Councils guidance to audit committees.
confirmation of the decision to continue to outsource the internal Set out below is a summary of the key features of the Groups internal audit function to PwC: control system: approval of the scope of work of, and the fees and engagement Control environment letters for, both internal and external auditors: A key factor in the Groups approach to internal control is the recognition of the need for risk awareness and the ownership of risk review of reports from management and advisers on the Groups management by executives at all levels.
anti-bribery and corruption compliance programme, including updating the Groups Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and The Group has policies and procedures that set out the responsibilities Anti-corruption policy, reviewing the effectiveness of the Groups of divisional management, including authority levels, reporting whistleblowing procedures as well as other action taken to ensure disciplines and responsibility for risk management and internal compliance with the Bribery Act 2010: control.
Certain activities, including treasury, taxation, insurance, pension, compliance and legal matters are controlled centrally with review of the objectivity and independence of the external reports reviewed by the Board as appropriate.
Site level policies and auditors and the nature and extent of non-audit services they procedures are set by divisional management as appropriate to the provide see below : needs of each business unit.
confirmation of the appointment of KPMG as external auditors: An internal audit programme is agreed by the Finance Director and and approved by the Committee each year, setting out a programme of audits over the course of the next 12 months.
This focuses mainly on review of reports from management on: litigation matters: tax financial controls but also includes other operational or compliance planning: business continuity plans: accounting policies and new controls e. g. IT security, HSE reporting and compliance with Group accounting standards: and risk management and internal control policies.
systems e. g. IT strategy, treasury risks.
ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011 ELEMENTIS PLC shareholder 92 93 finanCial 50 91 Corporate 26 49 business 02 25 Company ifc 01 information statements governanCe review overview 38 rePort of the audit committee continued Risk identification and review Investment appraisal Key identified risks, both financial and non-financial, are reviewed There are clearly defined investment guidelines for capital expenditure.
by the Board as well as by divisional management on an ongoing All investment expenditure is subject to formal authorisation basis, which is supported by the work of the Audit Committee and procedures, with major proposals being considered by the Board.
A formal annual review of risks and controls is carried out by both the management team and the Board, and Audit Committee includes presentations from senior managers.
The role of the Audit Committee is critical within the Companys system of internal control and risk management.
The management team, which comprises the executive directors, business presidents and functional business leaders, meets on a regular basis to review each divisions and the Groups performance, strategy and risk management.
Their work is supported by the internal audit programme which covers the monitoring of the effectiveness of internal controls and the design of processes to test the effectiveness Chris Girling of controls.
Chairman, Audit Committee 28 February 2012 At an operating level, all divisions are required to have processes to identify risks and, so far as possible, take action to reduce those risks.
In addition annual compliance statements on internal control are certified by each operating division.
A fuller description of the Groups risk management system is set out in the Business review on pages 16 to 18.
Financial reporting There is a comprehensive Groupwide system of financial reporting.
The Board reviews at each of its meetings reports from the Chief Executive and the Finance Director, as well as full management accounts, comprising monthly and year to date profit and loss statements, cash flows and balance sheet, with segmental and individual business performance analyses.
In addition, capital expenditure and relevant performance indicators are reported.
Actual monthly results are monitored against budget, forecasts and the previous years results.
Any significant variances are investigated and acted upon as appropriate.
As well as monthly management accounts, each operating division prepares an annual and a three year operating plan which is approved by the Board.
Thereafter a formal re-forecasting exercise is undertaken three times a year.
The Committee considers that the Groups systems of internal control and risk management including those relating to the financial reporting process are robust and effective.
The Committee is responsible for ensuring the integrity of the Groups financial statements and other communications to the market about trading performance relative to market forecasts.
The Committee approves and keeps under review significant accounting policies, particularly in areas where judgements and estimates are made.
ELEMENTIS PLC ANNUAL REPORT AND ACCOUNTS 2011
