OVERVIEW CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS EnQuests commitment to corporate governance The Board delegates the execution of its strategic objectives EnQuest is committed to achieving compliance with the to the executive committee, which comprises the executive principles and provisions set out in the UK Corporate directors and senior management.
Operational management Governance Code published by the Financial Reporting of the Group on a day-to-day basis is managed by the Council in June 2010 Governance Code which applies to operational committee, which comprises members of listed companies with financial years beginning on or after the executive committee, asset managers and selected 29 June 2010, and ensuring that high standards of corporate senior management.
The Board has full and timely access to all relevant Set out below is a statement of how the Company applied information to enable it to perform its duties.
The company the principles of the Governance Code for the year ended 31 secretary is responsible for advising the Board, through the December 2011.
The Board considers that the Company chairman, on all governance matters.
In addition, each complies and has been in compliance during the preceding director has access to the advice and services of the 12 months, with all provisions of the Governance Code, other company secretary.
There is also a procedure agreed by the than as detailed below.
Board, in furtherance of the duties, to take independent professional advice if necessary, at the Companys expense, The EnQuest Board up to a pre-determined limit.
The Board currently comprises the chairman, the chief executive, two executive directors and four non-executive Board diversity directors.
The directors biographies are set out on pages 36 The Board is aware of the provisions of the Governance and 37.
Robin Pinchbeck served as a non-executive director Code and has due regard for the benefits of diversity, during part of the year, and retired at the AGM held on including gender, on the Board.
The Board appointed a new independent non-executive director, Clare Spottiswoode, with effect Conflicts of interest from 1July 2011.
The Board has in place a procedure for the consideration and authorisation of conflicts or possible conflicts with the No group of individuals dominate the Boards decision Companys interests.
In accordance with the directors making process and none of the directors has any conflict interests provisions in the Companies Act 2006, all the ofinterest between their duties to the Company and their directors are required to submit details to the company private interests.
The division of responsibilities between secretary of any situations which may give rise to a conflict, thechairman and the chief executive has been clearly or potential conflict, of interest.
The Board monitors and established, set out in writing and agreed by the Board.
reviews potential conflicts of interest on a regular basis.
In the opinion of the Board, Jock Lennox, Helmut Langanger Re-election of directors and Clare Spottiswoode are fully independent for the In accordance with the Governance Code, all of the directors purposes of the Governance Code.
However, the remaining will be subject to annual re-election by shareholders at the non-executive director, Alexandre Schneiter, due to his AGM on 30 May 2012, with the exception of Alexandre association with Lundin Petroleum AB being the entity that Schneiter.
the Company partly demerged out of in 2010, is not deemed to be independent for the purposes of the Governance Code.
Senior independent non-executive director Helmut Langanger continues to be the senior independent Notwithstanding the fact that Alexandre Schneiter is not non-executive director.
The main responsibilities for the deemed independent for the purpose of the Governance senior independent non-executive director are as follows: Code, the other directors, having given full consideration to to be available to shareholders in the event that they may this issue, agreed that his knowledge of the Companys feel it inappropriate to relay views through the chairman, business and the experience he brings to his role, outweighed chief executive or the chief financial officer: the resulting non-compliance with the Governance Code.
The to provide a sounding board for the chairman and to Board is also satisfied that it maintained a sufficient degree serve as an intermediary with other directors when ofindependence throughout the year to enable it to necessary: and discharge effectively and properly its obligations under the to meet with the other non-executive directors without Governance Code.
the chairman present at least annually in order to evaluate the performance of the chairman.
In order to achieve full compliance with the Governance Code, it was stated in the Companys listing Prospectus Board meetings dated 18 March 2010 and re-affirmed in last years Corporate During 2011, seven scheduled meetings of the Board were Governance Report, that Alexandre Schneiter will be retiring held, six of which were held at the Companys registered as a non-executive director at the AGM on 30 May 2012 and office in London and one meeting held offsite.
Details of the Board plans to appoint a new independent nonattendance at each of those meetings, and at meetings of executive director as a replacement for Alexandre Schneiter.
the Board committees, are set out in the table on page 44.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically During the year, a number of other meetings took place reserved to it for decision, which was approved by the Board to deal with specific matters that required consideration in 2010.
Its reserved matters include determination of the at short notice, and in each case, notice was duly given overall strategy of the Group, to review business plans, trading to all the directors.
Any director who is unable to attend performance and overhead costs, to approve major capital scheduled or short notice Board meetings in person investment projects, examine acquisition opportunities and is invited to join the meeting by video or telephone divestment possibilities, review significant financial and conferencing facilities, or is given the opportunity to operational issues, and review and approve the Companys be consulted and comment in advance of the meeting financial statements, control and risk management systems.
by telephone or in writing.
EnQuest PLC 43 Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The formal agenda for each scheduled Board meeting is Set out below are reports from the audit committee, drawn up by the company secretary in consultation with the remuneration committee and nomination committee.
chairman and with agreement from the chief executive.
Formal minutes of all Board and committee meetings are Audit committee circulated to all directors prior to the next Board meeting The audit committee currently comprises three nonand are considered for approval at that Board meeting.
In executive directors, all of whom are considered by the Board addition, the chief executive is in frequent contact with the to be independent and have recent and relevant financial non-executive directors between meetings in order to keep experience.
them updated with progress on the Groups business.
The chairman also meets the non-executive directors informally, The members of the audit committee during the year were without any executives present, to discuss matters in respect as follows: of the business.
Jock Lennox Chairman Helmut Langanger Directors attendance at Board and Board committee Dr James Buckee ceased to be a member of the meetings committee on 1 July 2011 The table below sets out the attendance record of each Clare Spottiswoode joined the committee on 1 July 2011 director at scheduled Board and Board committee meetings during 2011: The audit committee met three times in 2011.
At the request of the audit committee, the chief financial officer and a Board Audit Remuneration Nomination senior member of the finance department attended each of meetings committee committee committee these meetings.
The chief executive also attended the Meetings held meetings when invited to do so by the committee.
In in2011 7 3 4 1 addition, all three meetings were attended by the external auditors, who receive copies of all the audit committee papers.
Deloitte, in their role as internal auditors, attend as Executive Directors appropriate.
The chairman of the committee regularly meets Amjad Bseisu 7 n a n a 1 with the external audit partner and the internal audit partner Nigel Hares 6 n a n a n a to discuss matters relevant to the Company.
Jonathan The main responsibilities of the audit committee include: Swinney 7 n a n a n a monitoring the integrity of the financial statements, including annual and interim reports and any other formal Non-Executive Directors announcement relating to the Companys financial Dr James performance: 1 Buckee 7 1 2 1 monitoring and reviewing the process of audit of the Groups Proven and Probable Reserves by a recognised Helmut Competent Person: Langanger 7 3 4 1 monitoring and reviewing the Companys internal control Jock Lennox 7 3 4 1 procedures and risk management systems: monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the external Robin 2 and internal audit activities: Pinchbeck 3 n a n a n a making recommendations to the Board on the Alexandre appointment, review and removal of external auditors: Schneiter 6 n a n a n a establishing the external auditors remuneration: Clare monitoring external auditors independence: 3 Spottiswoode 3 2 2 0 monitoring the policy on external auditors non-audit services: and identifying any matters in respect of which it considers Notes: n a not applicable where a director is not a member of the committee.
that action or improvement is needed and making 1 With effect from 1 July 2011, Dr James Buckee ceased to be a member recommendations to the Board as to the steps to of the audit and remuneration committees, but, on occasion, continued betaken.
to attend meetings by invitation.
These details have not been included in thetable.
2 Robin Pinchbeck retired as a director at the AGM held on 25 May 2011.
In fulfilling its responsibility to monitor the integrity of The number of meetings attended is stated up to and including financial reports to shareholders, the audit committee thatdate.
reviewed the accounting principles, policies and practises 3 With effect from 1 July 2011, Clare Spottiswoode was appointed as a adopted in the presentation of public financial information.
non-executive director and member of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees.
The number of meetings attended is stated with effect from that date, which represents 100% attendance of During the year under review, the Groups half year financial eligiblemeetings.
report and full year Annual Report were reviewed by the audit committee before recommending publication to the Board committees Board.
In carrying out this review the committee discussed The Board has established an audit committee, a with management how they had applied the critical remuneration committee and a nomination committee, each accounting estimates and judgements, including key of which has formal Terms of Reference approved by the assumptions regarding decommissioning, oil price, goodwill Board.
The Terms of Reference for each of these committees impairment testing and taxation.
The committee also satisfy the requirements of the Governance Code and are considered the reports from the external auditors.
The reviewed internally on an ongoing basis by the Board.
committee also reviewed the Groups approach to estimating Copies of the Terms of Reference are available on the and auditing of the oil and gas reserves.
The committee held Companys website.
private meetings with the external auditors without management present.
These meetings provided the The committees are provided with all necessary resources to opportunity for direct feedback and discussion between the enable them to undertake their duties in an effective manner.
committee and the external auditors.
The committee also The company secretary acts as secretary to the committees considered the performance of the external auditor and and minutes of all committee meetings are available to internal audit and the effectiveness of its own performance.
Various improvements were identified and adopted.
EnQuest PLC 44 Annual Report 2011 OVERVIEW BUSINESS REVIEW GOVERNANCE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS In its role of monitoring and approving the level and type of Nomination committee non-audit services to be delivered by the external auditor, The nomination committee currently comprises the the committee had regard to consideration whether through chairman, three independent non-executive directors and, to its knowledge of specific transactions, the external auditor ensure input from the executive, the chief executive.
was best placed to deliver the services to the Group.
Assessment of the continuing independence of the external The members of the nomination committee during the year auditor was also undertaken.
As a result of these were as follows: considerations a number of projects were approved to be Dr James Buckee chairman performed by the external auditors during the year and a Helmut Langanger number were not.
It is the policy that the Group has Jock Lennox relationships with a number of service providers that can Clare Spottiswoode joined the committee on 1 July 2011 provide similar services to the external auditors.
Amjad Bseisu During the year the internal audit approach was reviewed The main responsibilities of the nomination committee and found to be effective.
Accordingly Deloitte developed include: an audit plan for 2011 based on their review of the significant reviewing the size, structure and composition of the risks identified by the Group, discussion with senior Board in order to recommend changes to the Board and management and with the audit committee.
The plan to ensure the orderly succession of directors: centred on the risks around the establishment of the Group formalising succession planning and the process for new as an independent organisation.
The approach to internal director appointments: audit will be considered again in 2012 and its link with other identifying, evaluating and recommending candidates for aspects of risk management assurance that are conducted in appointment or reappointment as directors or company the Group.
secretary, taking into account the balance of knowledge, skills and experience required to serve the Board: and In 2011 the Group updated its Code of Conduct policy which reviewing the outside directorships commitments of all employees and contractors are required to comply with non-executive directors.
and the new Code was rolled out across the organisation.
The Code includes procedures for whistle-blowing whereby The nomination committee met once in 2011, in order to deal concerns can be raised in confidence about possible with the appointment of Clare Spottiswoode as a nonexecutive director of the Company.
The following procedure financial wrong doing or other misconduct.
The committee issatisfied that arrangements are in place for concerns to be was followed in respect of this appointment: raised, how these are investigated, and that the appropriate follow-up action is taken.
The committee evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board with a view to identifying Remuneration committee any gaps in the skill set of the Board and also where gaps would exist following Robin Pinchbeck standing down as The remuneration committee currently comprises three non-executive directors, all of whom are considered by the a director at the 2011 AGM.
The committee then decided to conduct a search for a new non-executive director with Board to be independent.
a commercial and or financial background and with relevant oil and gas sector experience.
The committee The members of the remuneration committee during the year were as follows: instructed Heidrick & Struggles to conduct the search, from which a list of candidates was provided to the Helmut Langanger Chairman Jock Lennox chairman and chief executive.
Following this, a shortlist was prepared and candidates were first interviewed by Dr James Buckee ceased to be a member of the committee on 1 July 2011 the chairman and chief executive, and the preferred candidates were interviewed again by other members Clare Spottiswoode joined the committee on 1 July 2011 ofthe committee and the executive directors.
The remuneration committee met four times in 2011.
The chief executive, at the request of the committee, attended This process identified Clare Spottiswoode as the preferred candidate based on her business and commercial skills and the meetings.
The chairman also attended meetings after he ceased to be a member of the committee, as an observer, at her experience in the oil and gas sector her biographical details are set out on page 37.
The nomination committee the request of the committee.
The chief executive did not participate in any discussions relating to his own then recommended to the Board that Clare Spottiswoode be appointed a non-executive director of the Company remuneration.
and her proposed appointment was unanimously approved by the Board.
Consequently, Clare was appointed with The main responsibilities of the remuneration committee include: effect from 1 July 2011, and at the same time was appointed a member of the Companys audit, nomination and setting the remuneration policy for the chairman, executive directors and senior executives: remuneration committees.
assessing and determining total compensation packages available to the executive and non-executive directors: The Board and nomination committee are satisfied that the individuals currently fulfilling key senior management monitoring the remuneration of senior management other than the executive directors whose remuneration it sets: positions in the Group have the requisite depth and breadth of skills, knowledge and experience to ensure that orderly making recommendations to the Board for its approval, and that of shareholders, on the design of long-term succession to the Board and executive committee can takeplace.
share incentive plans and making recommendations for the grant of awards to executives under such plans: and Induction and training determining policy and scope for pension rights and any compensation payments and ensuring compliance with New directors receive induction on their appointment to the Board covering the activities of the Group and its key the Governance Code in this respect.
business and financial risks, the Terms of Reference of the Board and its committees and the latest financial information Further information on the remuneration committee can be found in the Remuneration Report on pages 47 to 51. about the Group.
EnQuest PLC 45 Annual Report 2011 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CONTINUED The chairman ensures that directors update their skills, Details of principal risk and uncertainties are discussed in the knowledge and familiarity with the Company in order to fulfil Business Review on pages 16 and 17. their roles on the Board and on Board committees.
Ongoing training is provided as necessary and includes updates from Auditor independence the company secretary on changes to the Listing Rules, The audit committee and Board recognise the importance requirements under the Companies Act and other regulatory and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, Ernst & matters.
Directors may consult with the company secretary Young LLP, when performing their role in the Companys at any time on matters related to their role on the Board.
The external auditors are expected to provide the audit committee with information about Board performance evaluation policies and processes for maintaining independence and An evaluation of the performance of the Board, its monitoring compliance with current regulatory requirements, committees, the individual directors and the chairman, was including those regarding the rotation of audit partners conducted in the first quarter of 2012 by the chairman and andstaff.
the results of the review were then fed back to the Board as a whole.
The evaluation focused on the balance of skills, The overall performance, independence and objectivity of experience, independence and knowledge of the members the auditors is reviewed regularly by the audit committee.
of the Board, including its diversity, how the Board functions The audit committee has a policy in respect of the provision and other factors relevant to its effectiveness.
The of non-audit services to the Company by the external auditor.
biographies of each director, together with the skills and Fees payable to Ernst & Young LLP during 2011 amounted to experience that each director brings to their role, including $263,000 2010: $369,000 for audit related services and all other directorship appointments held by such individuals, $991,000 2010: $794,000 for non-audit services including is included on pages 36 to 37.
The Company intends to tax advice on asset and corporate acquisitions.
conduct an externally facilitated Board evaluation process at the end of 2012, at which time the Board will have been Communication with shareholders in operation for three financial years, since its formation Communications with shareholders are given high priority in2010.
In 2011 EnQuest sent its maiden Annual Report and Accounts to all registered shareholders.
In order to Following the evaluation, the directors concluded that the ensure that the Board developed a strong dialogue with Board and its committees operate effectively and also shareholders, during 2011 the executive directors and senior consider that each director is contributing effectively and management met with institutional investors in London and demonstrates commitment to the role.
across the UK as well as other European and North American cities.
These roadshows, combined with the Internal controls attendance of various directors and senior management The Companys system of internal controls is designed to at several oil and gas sector conferences, provided for manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to achieve comprehensive and engaging dialogue with shareholders.
business objectives and can only provide reasonable and not absolute reassurance against misstatement or loss.
The Company issues its results and other news releases promptly and publishes them on the Companys website The Board will continue to review and improve the system of internal controls.
Other corporate information issued during the year is also available on the website.
Shareholders The Board recognises the need for effective internal controls and other interested parties can subscribe to receive news updates by email by registering online on the website.
and for evaluating and managing the risks of the Company.
Such matters are brought to the attention of the Board at At the 2012 AGM, a business presentation will be provided its formal Board meetings or ad hoc discussions.
for the benefit of shareholders.
The chairman will aim to ensure that the respective chairmen of the audit and High level controls in operation include: review of management accounts with comparison of remuneration committees attend the AGM to answer questions and that the other directors also attend.
actual performance against prior periods and budget: approval of orders, authorisation of invoices and the Compliance with the governance statement requirement of two signatures to make a transfer from the principal bank accounts: Throughout 2011, the Company complied with the provisions of the Governance Code, except in the following areas: reconciliation of all control accounts: prior approval by the Board for major investments: and up to 1 July 2011, less than half the Board, excluding the chairman, comprised independent non-executive segregation of duties between relevant functions and departments.
Following the appointment of Clare Spottiswoode with effect from 1 July 2011, as an The Board has ensured that the process for identifying, independent non-executive director, there are an equal number of executive and independent non-executive evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group accords with the Turnbull Guidance, and that the directors: and the chairman was a member of the audit committee up process has been in place for the year under review and up to the date of approval of the Annual Report and Accounts.
to 1 July 2011, when he ceased to be a member, following the appointment on the same date of Clare Spottiswoode, The Board is aware of the need to conduct regular risk as an independent non-executive director.
assessments to identify any deficiencies in the controls currently operating over all aspects of the Company.
On behalf of the Board The financial reporting procedures were reviewed during Dr James Buckee Chairman of the Board the year, following which the Board were able to confirm that the financial reporting procedures established provided 26 March 2012 them with a reasonable basis on which to make proper judgements on the financial position and prospects of the Company on an ongoing basis.
