48 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report The Filtrona Board is accountable to all the Companys stakeholders for the standards of governance which are maintained across Filtronas diverse range of global businesses Filtrona confirms that throughout the year ended 31 December 2011 Companys strategy.
Non-Executive Directors also ensure a sound basis for the Company has complied with the UK Corporate Governance Code good corporate governance for the Company, challenging managements published by the Financial Reporting Council in June 2010 the Code.
performance and, in conjunction with the Executive Directors, ensuring that rigorous financial controls and systems of risk management are A copy of the Code can be viewed on the Financial Reporting Council's maintained as appropriate to the needs of the businesses within Filtrona.
The Board is content that the Non-Executive Directors devote sufficient The Company applies the Codes principles of openness, integrity time to the business of Filtrona.
and accountability through its own behaviour, corporate governance best practice and by adopting, as appropriate and proportionate for The letters of appointment for Non-Executive Directors are available a company of the size and nature of Filtrona, recommendations of for review at the Companys registered office and prior to the Annual relevant professional bodies.
The Companys governance structure, based on the leadership principles The Companys Articles of Association require that all new Directors of the Code, were reviewed and clarified during the year.
The Board is seek re-election to the Board at the following AGM.
In addition, collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Company and the Board has agreed that, in compliance with the Code, all Directors its role is to provide entrepreneurial leadership of the Company within will be putting themselves forward for re-election on an annual basis.
a framework of prudent and effective controls which enables risk to be Following the Board performance evaluation undertaken during the assessed and managed in the pursuit of the Companys strategic objectives.
financial year, the Board is satisfied that each of the Directors being put forward for re-election, continues to be effective and that their Board composition and independence ongoing commitment to the role is undiminished.
During 2011, the Filtrona Board continued to comprise a Non-Executive The responsibilities of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Chairman, two Executive Directors and three Non-Executive Directors.
Committees are defined within the Committees Terms of Reference, The Board is of the view that it has a highly competent Chairman and that copies of which are available at www.
the members of the Board in conjunction with the senior executive teams are well equipped to drive, and are capable of delivering, the Companys The conduct of Board matters Vision 2015 strategy.
The Chairman and each of the other Non-Executive Directors have considerable international experience at a senior level in the In managing the affairs of the Company, the Board has adopted management of activities broadly similar to those carried out by Filtrona a schedule of reserved matters which are required to be reviewed and the material issues likely to arise for the Company.
by it including: Biographical details of all the current Directors are set out on page 44 to 45.
Strategy and resources Annual plan The roles of the Chairman and the Chief Executive are separately held and Treasury policies are so defined as to ensure a clear separation of responsibilities.
Details are Major capital and operating expenditure proposals available on the Company website www.
The Chairman leads Acquisitions and disposals the Board and ensures its effectiveness.
The Chief Executive is responsible Debt facilities for the executive management and performance of Filtronas operations.
Key Group policies Appointments to the Board The Senior Independent Non-Executive Director can be contacted Systems of internal control via the Companys registered office.
In that role he is available to Dividend payments shareholders to discuss and develop an understanding of their issues Categories of public announcements and any concerns which cannot be resolved by discussions with the Chairman, the Chief Executive or the Group Finance Director or where The detailed implementation of all these matters and general operational such contact is inappropriate.
matters are the responsibility of executive senior management and regular formal management reports, including the detailed monitoring In the opinion of the Board, Paul Drechsler, LarsEmilson and Terry Twigger of performance, are provided to the Board.
are each considered to be independent of management as detailed in the Code, and there are no relationships or circumstances which would During 2011, the Board was closely engaged in the detailed monitoring materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
of performance and the actions necessary to maintain the profitability of the Company.
It also remained focused on the longer-term strategic The Board considers that the Non-Executive Directors provide an objectives which it has defined and the appropriate management of independent view in Board discussions and in the development of the particular risks impacting the Group.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report 49 Governance framework THE BOARD THE AUDIT COMMITTEE The Filtrona Board is accountable to all the Companys stakeholders Supports the Board in establishing formal and transparent for the standards of governance which are maintained across arrangements for considering how it should apply the Filtronas diverse range of global businesses.
required financial reporting, internal control principles and risk management processes and the audit of the In fulfilling its role the Board: financial statements of the Company.
Sets the Companys strategic aims THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE Determines the nature and extent of acceptable risks in achieving its strategic objectives Oversees the establishment of formal and transparent Responsible for selecting and recommending candidates arrangements for the application of corporate reporting, risk for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors management and internal control requirements and principles of the Company, taking into account the balance, structure Ensures the necessary financial and human resources are and composition of the Board and the future challenges in place for the Company to meet its objectives and opportunities facing the Company.
Sets the Companys values and standards Reviews the performance of the Companys THE REMUNERATION COMMITTEE executive management Presents a balanced and understandable assessment of the Companys position and prospects to its shareholders Responsible for making recommendations to the Board on remuneration policy and aligning senior executives remuneration with the interests of the shareholders and other stakeholders, particularly in the design of the performance-related elements of remuneration packages.
THE GROUP MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE The Group Management Committee provides general executive management of the Company within agreed delegated authority limits determined by the Board.
Develops and implements strategy, financial and operational plans and targets and allocates resources Monitors and delivers financial and operating performance Maintains an effective internal control framework and is responsible for compliance Implements an effective management structure and develops effective succession plans Is responsible for effective internal and external reporting and communication THE GROUP LEADERSHIP TEAM Comprises the most senior managers from across the Group who are collectively charged with driving the achievement of Filtronas Vision 2015 strategy.
It has a key role in reinforcing the behaviours that contribute to a robust governance culture across the Group.
50 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued Board and Committees During the year the structure of the executive management framework was reviewed and the Board approved the replacement of the Executive Members Board Committee and the Group Operating Committee with the Group 2 Management Committee the GMC.
The roles and responsibilities Jeff Harris 8 8 of the Executive Committee and the Group Operating Committee have 1 Colin Day 6 6 been combined and expanded with the endorsement of theBoard.
Steve Crummett 8 8 2 Paul Drechsler 8 8 The Board believes that this revised management structure will ensure 2 Lars Emilson 8 8 a strong link between Filtronas overall corporate strategy and its 2 Terry Twigger 8 8 implementation within an effective internal control environment.
3 Mark Harper 2 2 Engagement with management Figures in brackets denote the maximum number of meetings that could have been attended The Board receives detailed reports at each scheduled Board meeting 1 Appointed to the Board on 1 April 2011 on the operational and financial performance of the businesses from 2 Non-Executive Director the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director, together with 3 Resigned from the Board on 14 April 2011 regular updates on any material issues which may impact on the Group.
During the year there were eight scheduled Board meetings, one of The Board receives detailed presentations from each of the Managing which was held at the Coated & Security Products facility in Nottingham, Directors or Presidents of the divisions during the course of the year UK.
In addition to the scheduled formal meetings, the Board met on a in addition to reviewing their respective strategic plans and budgets.
number of other occasions as required and in particular, reviewed in detail, The Board also considers reports from senior management about matters the further development and delivery of the Group strategy in conjunction of material importance to the Company which arise from time to time.
The Chairman and Chief Executive maintain regular contact with the Directors, and the Chairman also holds periodic informal There is a programme of meetings, both formal and informal, with discussions with the Non-Executive Directors, without any of the Executive members of the senior executive management and the Board has the Directors being present, to review performance, discuss succession issues, opportunity to engage with local management during site visits.
The and to monitor corporate control mechanisms.
Plans to hold a Board Board derives a better understanding of the Companys operations meeting overseas were revised due to the changing components of the and business model as a result of such contact.
Board agenda at that time.
Plans are in place for a Board meeting to be held overseas during2012.
Applying Filtronas Corporate Responsibility principles The Chairman, in conjunction with the Company Secretary & General The Chief Executive is the Director with primary responsibility for the Counsel, sets the programme for the Board during the year.
The Board implementation and integration of Filtronas Corporate Responsibility considers reports from the Chief Executive and the Group Finance Director principles across the Company.
The Group Human Resources Director, covering operational, financial performance and other significant business supported by the Company Secretary & General Counsel, is responsible issues.
Board meetings are structured to allow open discussion, and all for co-ordinating the operation of the detailed policies on human Directors participate in determining the Groups strategy and regularly resources, health and safety, ethics and the environment which support reviewing the trading and financial performance of the Company.
Filtronas commitment to its Corporate Responsibility principles.
Further details of those policies can be viewed via the Corporate Responsibility The internal procedures implemented by the Company to ensure page on the Companys website at www.
the Board maintains overall control for all material strategic, financial, operational and compliance matters affecting the Company are included Internal controls within the internal control section of this Report.
In accordance with the Code, the Board acknowledges its responsibility The Board establishes the standards and values that govern the Group to ensure that an adequate system of internal controls is in place which and agrees the structure of the Groups internal controls.
The Board is essential for reliable financial reporting and also for the effective looks to the Audit Committee to undertake the majority of the work management of the Group.
involved in monitoring and seeking assurance as to compliance with the controls within this framework.
However, the Board as a whole During the year the Audit Committee completed a review of the maintains oversight of such important matters and after each committee effectiveness of the Groups system of risk management and internal meeting the Chairman of the Audit Committee reports on the matters control processes in conjunction with external advisors.
Following which have been reviewed.
that review a number of improvements are being implemented.
Other specific responsibilities are delegated to the Nomination and The Audit Committee assesses the quality of the control environment when Remuneration Committees.
These Committees report as appropriate monitoring and reviewing the integrity of the Groups financial statements to the Board.
and any significant judgements that were made in their preparation.
Operational matters and the responsibility for the day-to-day management Filtronas internal controls are designed to safeguard the Companys of the businesses are delegated to the Chief Executive, supported by assets and to ensure the integrity and reliability of information used both members of senior executive management and the respective divisional within the businesses and for public announcements.
The Board has Managing Directors or Presidents as appropriate, within delegated authority overall responsibility for the Companys system of internal control and limits and in accordance with clearly defined systems of internal control.
risk management and for reviewing the effectiveness of this system.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report 51 Such a system can only be designed to manage, rather than eliminate, The Board is of the view that a rigorous ongoing process for identifying, the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and can therefore evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the Company was only provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material in place throughout 2011 and up to the date of approval of the Annual misstatement or loss.
The following procedures are in place which enable the Board Details of the processes the Company has put in place to manage risk to review the effectiveness of the system of internal control: can be found on page 34 of this Report.
The Audit Committee meets regularly and reviews the effectiveness Conflict of interests of the internal control environment of the Group The Audit Committee is supported by the Internal Audit function The Companys Articles of Association permit the Board to consider and, which was relaunched as the new Group Assurance function in if it sees fit, to authorise situations where a Director has an interest that January2012 conflicts, or may possibly conflict, with the interests of the Company.
Risk management reports are presented which detail an analysis of the In addition, the Company has a conflict of interests policy governing key risks at a Group level, summarise developments potentially impacting the responsibilities of Directors in such situations.
The decision to authorise the Group from a risk, governance or compliance perspective and a conflict of interest can only be made by non-conflicted Directors those propose actions for the Company in response to such developments who have no interest in the matter being considered and in making such The Board has the opportunity to review the internal control a decision the Directors must act honestly and in good faith when giving environment at local sites when Board meetings are held away authorisation where they think this is appropriate, and will be most likely from the Companys head office to promote the Companys success.
The Company Secretary & General Every month each division submits detailed operating and financial Counsel maintains a register of Directors interests so that any potential reports covering all aspects of performance.
These are reviewed concerns are addressed before any material concerns may arise.
During within the Groups central finance function and summary reports the course of the year, there were no material conflicts of interest are communicated to the GMC and the Board impacting on the conduct of the Boards activities.
Certificates are required from the businesses to confirm compliance with the Groups policies and procedures Information and professional development Self-certification is required from all businesses and divisions at both the half year and year end to confirm compliance with Group The Chairman, supported by the Company Secretary & General Counsel, financial policies and procedures takes responsibility for ensuring that the Directors receive accurate, timely and clear information.
The external auditor is engaged to express an opinion on the financial statements.
The audit includes the review and test of the system of internal On appointment an induction programme tailored to their individual financial control and the data contained in the financial statements to the needs is available to Directors and designed to assist them in their extent necessary for expressing an audit opinion on the truth and fairness understanding of Filtrona and its operations.
Throughout a Directors of the financial statements.
tenure they are encouraged to develop their knowledge of the Group through meetings with senior management and site visits.
Directors are Policies and procedures, which are subject to ongoing review and updated also provided with updates, as appropriate, on matters such as fiduciary as required in response to strategic, operational, business, legal or regulatory duties, Companies Act requirements, share dealing restrictions and developments, with the approval of the Board or its respective Committees corporate governance matters.
as appropriate, are communicated across the Group.
Filtrona's internal controls are designed to ensure significant risks, investment decisions and All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company management issues are identified, considered and escalated as necessary Secretary & General Counsel who is responsible to the Chairman for at the earliest opportunity.
Divisional Managing Directors and Presidents ensuring that Board procedures are complied with and that applicable are responsible for ensuring the communication of and compliance with rules and regulations are followed.
During the year under review the Filtronas internal controls across their respective divisions.
Company Secretary & General Counsels advice was sought in relation to share dealings.
In furtherance of their duties, there are agreed procedures The Board considers that there is considerable comfort in the fact that for the Directors to take independent professional advice, if necessary, the Groups cash flow from operating activities represented in excess of at the Companys expense.
No Director took independent professional 100% of adjusted operating profit in 2011, reflecting what it believes advice during the year.
to be a robust control environment.
Performance evaluation Control of significant risks An internal Board review was held during 2011.
The review consisted of The Board has two main responsibilities in relation to risk.
One is to the Directors responding to questionnaires relating to the performance determine the risk appetite and communicate to the organisation what of the Board as a whole and its various Committees.
The positive feedback constitutes acceptable risk-taking.
The second responsibility which is from the questionnaires was the subject of detailed discussion both delegated to the Audit Committee is to oversee the management process within the formality of the Boardroom and in separate informal meetings.
for the identification, assessment and mitigation of risk across the Group.
An external review will be conducted during 2012 as the Company seeks to further enhance the effectiveness of the Filtrona Board performance.
A Group Risk policy, which was reviewed during the year to take into consideration the changes to the Group operational structure The performance of individual Directors was also the subject of discussion and the revised Group strategy, supports the Board in fulfilling those led by the Chairman.
responsibilities and serves to reinforce the risk review processes embedded within thebusinesses.
52 Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance Report continued THE AUDIT COMMITTEE Shareholder communications Committee Chairman: Terry Twigger Filtrona seeks to maintain open and transparent relationships with its shareholders and other stakeholders, including providers of finance, customers and suppliers.
This is achieved by regular updates through press Membership and attendance announcements, the corporate website and other published material.
Paul Drechsler 4 4 Lars Emilson 4 4 The Company also communicates regularly with its major institutional Terry Twigger 4 4 shareholders and ensures that all the Directors, including the Non-Executive Directors, have an understanding of the views and concerns of major shareholders and are able to explain business developments and financial The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the results as appropriate.
The Chief Executive, the Group Finance Director AuditCommittee.
and the Corporate Affairs Director have primary responsibility for investor relations.
Presentations for analysts and institutional shareholders were Other attendees held during the year and meetings were also held with key institutional The external auditor, Chairman of the Company, Chief Executive, investors to discuss strategy, financial performance and investment Group Finance Director and Group Head of Audit attended meetings.
Slide presentations are made immediately available after the During the year, the Audit Committee met the external auditor full year and half year results and are also available on the Companys and the Group Head of Audit without the Company management website to view and download.
All shareholders have the opportunity to meet any of the Directors Experience of the Company should they so wish.
Feedback from meetings with All the Committees members are independent Non-Executive shareholders is provided to the Board so they are aware of any issues Directors with financial and or related business experience gained or concerns.
Additionally, the Board uses the AGM as an occasion to in senior positions in other large diverse organisations.
communicate with all shareholders, including private investors, who are provided with the opportunity to question the Directors.
Terry Twigger has been the Chairman of the Audit Committee since 2009 and the Board is satisfied that Terry has recent and relevant At the AGM the level of proxy votes lodged on each resolution will be financial experience, further details of which can be found on page 45. made available, both at the meeting and subsequently on the Companys website.
Each substantially separate issue is presented as a separate 2011 key activities resolution and the Chairmen of the Audit, Nomination and Remuneration Examined the full year financial statements and half year results, Committees are available to answer questions from shareholders.
reviewing, challenging and approving the going concern basis of preparation, the accounting policies, the financial reporting issues The Notice of the AGM and related papers will be posted to shareholders and the judgement of the finance management more than 20 working days before the AGM.
Received a report from the external auditor on their independence and objectivity including quality control procedures Financial reporting Carried out a full review of internal management on the perceived effectiveness of the external auditor The Directors have acknowledged, in the Statement of Directors Reviewed and considered reports from the Group Head of Audit Responsibilities set out on page 67, their responsibility for preparing including any issues relating to internal controls and the status the financial statements of the Company and the Group.
The external of actions taken in response to any identified concerns auditor has included, in the Independent Auditors Report set out on Reviewed the output from the Group processes used to identify, page 111, a statement about its reporting responsibilities.
evaluate and mitigate risk and considered the key risks arising from the Companys activities and the response of senior management The Directors are also responsible for the publication of unaudited to those challenges quarterly Interim Management Statements and half year results as Assessed the qualifications, expertise, resources and independence required by the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of the Financial of the external auditor and remains satisfied that the auditor provides Services Authority providing an explanation of material events and effective independent challenge to management transactions that have taken place during the relevant period and Reviewed and approved proposals for the engagement of the their impact on the financial position of the Company and the Group, external auditor for non-audit services and a general description of the financial position and performance Completed a formal review of the Companys internal audit and of the Company and the Group during the relevant period.
risk management systems and implementation of a new Controls and Assurance framework Directors and Officers insurance Reviewed the Company's international corporate tax strategy Reviewed the investment strategy for the Group pension schemes In accordance with the Companys Articles of Association, and to the Oversaw compliance activities extent permitted by the laws of England and Wales, the Directors are Approved the recruitment of the new Head of Group Assurance granted an indemnity from the Company in respect of those liabilities incurred as a result of their office.
In respect of those matters for which the Directors may not be indemnified, the Company maintained a Directors and Officers liability insurance policy throughout the year.
It is anticipated this policy will be renewed.
Neither the Companys indemnity nor the insurance provides cover to the extent that a Director is proven to have acted dishonestly or fraudulently.
Directors Report The Invisible Enablers | Filtrona plc Annual Report 2011 Corporate Governance | Corporate Governance Report 53 THE NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Audit Committee supports the Board in establishing formal and transparent arrangements for considering how it should apply the required Committee Chairman: Jeff Harris financial reporting, internal control principles and risk management processes and the audit of the financial statements of the Company.
Membership and attendance The Audit Committee reports to the full Board on a regular basis but Jeff Harris 3 3 no less frequently than at every Board meeting following a Committee Paul Drechsler 3 3 meeting.
There is an annual cycle of items that are to be considered by the Lars Emilson 3 3 Audit Committee.
The timetable of these items is scheduled in accordance Terry Twigger 3 3 with the requirements of the annual audit cycle.
The responsibilities of the Audit Committee are defined in its terms of reference, which are reviewed annually, copies of which are available at www.
The Company Secretary & General Counsel acts as Secretary to the Nomination Committee.
Engagement of the external auditor The Audit Committee considers annually the engagement of the external Other attendees auditor to supply non-audit services.
The importance of maintaining the The Chief Executive and Group Human Resources Director attend objectivity and independence of the external auditor, by minimising its by invitation as appropriate.
involvement in projects of a non-audit nature, is of concern to the Audit Committee.
It is, however, also acknowledged that, due to its detailed 2011 key activities understanding of the Companys business, it may sometimes be necessary Reviewed the succession planning for the Board and senior executives to involve the external auditor in non-audit related work, principally Reviewed in detail the key issues arising out of the Lord Davies Report comprising further assurance services relating to due diligence and other having regard in particular to the composition of the Companys Board duties carried out in respect of acquisitions, disposals and tax services.
and the benefits of diversity Reviewed the Group Conflict of Interests policy and register and was The Audit Committee reviews the performance of the external auditor satisfied that there were no material issues of conflict on an annual basis.
There are no contractual obligations restricting the Companys choice of auditor and no auditor liability agreement has been The Nomination Committee is responsible for selecting and recommending entered into by the Company.
The external auditor is required to rotate the candidates for appointment as Executive and Non-Executive Directors audit partner responsible for the Group audit every five years.
The current of the Company.
In furtherance of these duties and when considering lead audit partner has been in place for one year.
succession planning, the Nomination Committee looks at the balance, structure and composition of the Board and takes into account the future In addition to the annual review of the service provided by the external challenges and opportunities facing the Company.
auditor, the Company considers formally at least every three years whether the audit might be provided more efficiently or effectively While the Nomination Committee and the Board as a whole supports by an alternative audit firm.
However, the Company may put the the spirit of the recommendations set out in the Lord Davies' Report audit out to tender at any time.
Women on Boards in securing the right combination of skills, experience and expertise on the Board to effectively lead the sustainable growth and success of the Company for the benefit of all stakeholders, the fundamental objective must be to ensure that the best people are appointed to do the best job for Filtrona.
Appointing people on merit without any form of discrimination is a key component of Filtrona policies across all its international operations at all levels.
In recognising the benefits of diversity in conjunction with the development of any robust succession planning the Nomination Committee has concluded that any future engagement of executive search agents in relation to potential appointments to the Board should include a specific instruction to ensure that the widest possible field of female candidates is identified for consideration.
A copy of the Companys statement on Diversity is available on the website www.
