ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 Our Governance Structure continued Corporate Governance Report comprehensive review of its bribery risk.
Board evaluation and corporate The Boards role is to lead These issues are dealt with in more detail governance review in this report.
the Company by ensuring Towards the end of 2010 the Company invited ICSA Board Evaluation to carry out good management from Board composition an independent evaluation of the Board.
At the start of 2011 the Board comprised 14 This process was comprehensive and the top downwards and Directors.
In addition to the Chairman, who exacting and the results were discussed there is a formal schedule was not considered independent, there were by the Board and Nomination Committee 10 non-executive Directors, seven of whom during the spring and summer of 2011. of matters reserved for were regarded as independent by the Board.
The evaluation addressed Board balance, how members of the Board interacted and the Board.
At the start of the year, Mr Felix Vulis decided the perceived challenges of operating an to step down from the Board for personal international, emerging markets Company These include: reasons.
He agreed to remain as Director with a London listing.
The key conclusion and Chief Executive Officer CEO until a of the evaluation was that the Board needed Setting values and standards that shall successor could be found.
The Nomination to review its composition to ensure that it be used to guide the affairs of the Committee retained an external consultant continued to be effective.
Company: to search for a replacement.
Setting the long-term objectives and The Board then initiated a full corporate commercial strategy of the Company: Immediately before the AGM on 8 June 2011, governance review the Review to help two non-independent Directors, Messrs address the issues raised through the A greeing policies and processes to guide Abdraman Yedilbayev and Eduard Utepov, evaluation process.
The Chairman asked the affairs of the Company: stood down.
Further to the vote at the AGM ICSA Board Evaluation, who had had no R esponsibility for the overall management two independent non-executive Directors, other relationship with the Group when of the Group: Mr Kenneth Olisa and Sir Richard Sykes, it was appointed to assist with the Board ceased to be Directors.
evaluation, to help with the initial stages A greeing any changes to the Companys of the Review.
structure and capital: Following the corporate governance review, R esponsibility for financial reporting and which is detailed below, a further The Review was led by the Chairman controls: and independent Director, Mr Terence Wilkinson, and the results discussed by the was appointed on 28 September 2011.
Also Nomination Committee which then made A pproving major capital projects.
on 28 September 2011, Mr Vulis withdrew recommendations to the Board.
The his resignation and remains as a Director Chairman held discussions with each The ENRC Board takes its responsibility and CEO and Mr Mehmet Dalman was Director, with major shareholders and under the UK Corporate Governance Code appointed as SID.
with the Founder Shareholders to gather the Code very seriously and considers their views on Board representation.
that, during the 2011 financial year, it At the year end, the Board comprised complied with the Code in all respects 11 Directors, of whom six were considered The Nomination Committee reviewed the with the exception, albeit temporarily, of by the Board to be independent.
output of the Chairmans various discussions Code Provision A.
4.1 regarding the and recommended to the Board that its appointment of a Senior Independent On 3 February 2012, Dr Johannes Sittard optimum size was 11 Directors, six of whom Director SID.
See further information on tendered his resignation as non-executive should be independent non-executive the role of the SID on page 53.
Director and Chairman of the Board.
It also identified the need to Nomination Committee recommended the enhance the mining experience on the During 2011 ENRC addressed various appointment of Mr Dalman as Chairman to Board, particularly in the context of the governance challenges including revising the the Board and he assumed that role with Groups move into Africa.
An external composition of the Board, strengthening its effect from 3 February 2012, at the same consultant was therefore instructed to search compliance function and investigating certain time relinquishing his role as SID.
for appropriate candidates to join the Board of its operations.
It set up an Anti-bribery and to address the need for operational and Corruption Steering Committee to coordinate The changes made to the Board during the African mining expertise.
the Groups activities to combat bribery, year are summarised in the table below.
fraud and other corruption and initiated a Board changes during 2011 12 Date Director Event 8 June 2011 Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev Resigned 8 June 2011 Mr Eduard Utepov Resigned 8 June 2011 Sir Richard Sykes Not re-elected at AGM 8 June 2011 Mr Kenneth Olisa Not re-elected at AGM 28 September 2011 Mr Terence Wilkinson Appointed as non-executive Director 28 September 2011 Mr Mehmet Dalman Appointed Senior Independent Director 3 February 2012 Dr Johannes Sittard Resigned 3 February 2012 Mr Mehmet Dalman Appointed Chairman 52 Unlocking Value Corporate Governance Report continued Following the search by an external Under a relationship agreement with the Board processes consultant, the Nomination Committee Company, each of the Founder Shareholders Twenty-two Board meetings and three Board recommended the appointment of of the Company has a right to appoint one sub-committee meetings were held during Mr Wilkinson to the Board.
He has Director to the Board, subject to them using the year.
Eight of the Board meetings were operational mining experience and prior reasonable endeavours to ensure that there regular scheduled meetings, and 14 were involvement in listed companies.
The is a majority of independent non-executive called to deal with specific issues.
Nomination Committee also recommended Directors on the Board, provided his the appointment of Mr Dalman as SID.
shareholder group controls at least 10% The ad hoc meetings were held to discuss When Mr Vulis offered to withdraw his or more of the voting rights exercisable the following: earlier resignation as CEO, the Nomination at general meetings of the Company.
Committee recommended to the Board Mr Ibragimov exercised this right and his Board composition: that the withdrawal of the resignation representative, Mr Yedilbayev, served on be approved.
Following the Financing: Board changes on 8 June 2011, none of the Approval of the shareholder circular The Nomination Committee was Founder Shareholders has a representative for Shubarkol: and strengthened with the addition of the SID on the Board.
and it was renamed the Nomination and Adjournment of the General Meeting to Corporate Governance Committee to reflect The table below shows the composition of approve the exercise of the Shubarkol the extension of its remit to include oversight the Board, and the Board balance at various option.
of corporate governance arrangements and times during the year.
Where a Director was unable to attend Board balance a meeting, he was still supplied with the Board independence and balance papers before the meeting and was able 100% to discuss the business with the Chairman Throughout the year, the Board has or CEO.
maintained a balance of independent and non-independent Directors such that at least 50% The schedule below shows the Directors half the Board has comprised independent attendance at scheduled Board and Directors.
0% Mr Beketayev is not considered by the Board Jan Jun Sep Feb The Company recognises that supplying to be independent as he is a representative 2011 2011 2011 2012 the Board with good information is essential of The State Property and Privatisation to good corporate governance.
Board Non-independent non-executive Directors Committee of the Ministry of Finance of the Executive Directors members are sent hard copy Board packs Republic of Kazakhstan.
Mr Utepov, who Chairman at the very latest by the weekend before each served on the Board until 8 June 2011, was Independent non-executive Directors scheduled Board meeting.
In addition, they also a representative of The State Property each have access to the packs electronically.
and Privatisation Committee of the Ministry For ad hoc meetings, the practice differs of Finance of the Republic of Kazakhstan depending on the nature of the business and consequently not independent.
to be discussed and the urgency of the meeting.
The Company Secretary is Directors attendance at scheduled Board and Committee meetings during 2011 Nomination and Corporate Audit Remuneration Governance HSEC Investment 6 Independent Board Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Prof Dr Dieter Ameling Yes 8 8 4 4 5 5 Mr Gerhard Ammann Yes 8 8 5 5 4 4 Mr Marat Beketayev No 7 8 2 4 2 4 2 5 Mr Jim Cochrane No 8 8 1 Mr Mehmet Dalman Yes 8 8 4 4 1 1 5 5 2 Sir Paul Judge Yes 8 8 5 5 4 4 2 2 Mr Kenneth Olisa Yes 4 4 2 3 3 3 Dr Johannes Sittard No 8 8 4 4 4 4 Sir Richard Sykes Yes 4 4 3 3 2 2 2 2 3 Mr Roderick Thomson Yes 8 8 5 5 1 1 4 4 Mr Eduard Utepov No 3 4 2 2 Mr Felix Vulis No 8 8 4 4 4 Mr Terence Wilkinson Yes 2 2 Mr Abdraman Yedilbayev No 4 4 2 2 5 Dr Zaure Zaurbekova No 8 8 1 1 1 Mr Mehmet Dalman was appointed to the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee on 28 September 2011.
2 Sir Paul Judge was appointed to the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee on 21 June 2011.
3 Mr Roderick Thomson was appointed to the Remuneration Committee on 11 August 2011.
4 Mr Terence Wilkinson was appointed to the Board on 28 September 2011 and to the Audit and Remuneration Committees on 9 December 2011.
5 Dr Zaure Zaurbekova was appointed to the Investment Committee on 9 December 2011.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53 www.
com responsible for ensuring good information optimising the use of the Groups resources, Training and development flows between the Board and its Committees managing the Groups risk profile and In conjunction with the Chairman, the and between senior management and the appointing senior management.
Company Secretary is responsible for non-executive Directors.
ensuring that the Board and Committee The CEO has established an Executive members receive appropriate training and The Board frequently receives presentations Committee the ExCom to assist him in development.
During 2011 this included: and updates from senior managers below discharging his responsibilities for running Board level: not only does this give the the Groups businesses.
This committee Providing a Board induction for Directors the opportunity to question has no decision-making powers but reviews Mr Wilkinson: employees about the running of the Group performance and capital projects.
business, it also gives senior managers Its members are identified on page 50.
Detailed presentations to all the Directors the chance to meet the Directors and gain on the UK Bribery Act 2010: and a better understanding of their concerns.
Senior Independent Director Providing various updates on corporate In 2011, these presentations included: Sir Richard Sykes was the SID and governance, data security and risk.
non-executive Deputy Chairman until leaving Regular updates from the Head of Investor the Board on 8 June 2011.
As SID, Sir Board committees Relations and the Global HR Director: Richard was responsible for addressing any The Board has established five principal Regular updates on business and project shareholder concerns that could not or Board Committees: Audit Committee, development from the Head of Mergers should not be channelled through the Remuneration Committee, Nomination and and Acquisitions: Chairman or the Executive Directors.
He was Corporate Governance Committee formerly also responsible for ensuring that the A detailed presentation on the the Nomination Committee, Investment Chairmans performance evaluation was developments at SSGPO by the General Committee formerly the Mergers and carried out.
Director and Finance Director of that Acquisitions Committee and the Health, business: and Safety, Environment and Community Mr Dalman was appointed SID on Committee the HSEC Committee, formerly An update on the development of 28 September 2011.
During the period the Health, Safety, Environment and operations at Brazil from the CEO of Brazil.
between the AGM and the completion of the Sustainability Committee.
The Company Board Review on 28 September 2011, there Secretary is secretary to each of these Situational conflicts was no SID.
The Board recognised that this Committees.
The terms of reference of each was non-compliant with the Code and it All situational conflicts are reviewed annually of these Committees are available on the discussed the merits of the appointment by the Nomination and Corporate Companys website.
of a SID soon after the AGM to ensure Governance Committee which then makes compliance or waiting until the Review was a recommendation to the Board on whether The composition of the Board Committees completed.
It agreed that, on balance, the such situational conflicts should continue is as shown on page 54. appointment should wait until the completion to be approved.
Where a Director has a of the Review so that any new independent situational conflict he is not entitled to vote on Nomination and Corporate Governance Director could be considered for the post.
the issue in question, although he is entitled Committee the NaCG Committee During this period, the remaining to engage in any debate on the issue.
independent Directors liaised as required Under its terms of reference, the NaCG with institutional shareholders.
Committee is required to meet at least twice Chairman and CEO a year to consider, among other issues: Mr Dalman relinquished the position of The roles of the Chairman and CEO are separate and their responsibilities are clearly SID on his appointment as Chairman The size, structure and composition of of the Board.
The Board is currently not defined in writing.
The Chairman is the Board, taking into account the skills, responsible for leading the Board and compliant with the Code and it will make knowledge and experience of the a further announcement on this position ensuring that it functions effectively.
This Directors and to recommend to the Board includes setting the agenda for Board in due course.
any new candidates: meetings, ensuring that the Board receives Whether non-executive Directors have accurate, timely and clear information, and Company Secretary sufficient time to devote to the proper facilitating communication with shareholders.
The appointment and removal of the performance of their duties: Company Secretary is a matter reserved Dr Sittard was Chairman throughout the Making recommendations in relation to for the Board.
Ms Victoria Penrice, who year under review.
Following his resignation the retirement and re-election of Directors is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered for personal reasons on 3 February 2012, at the Companys AGM: Secretaries and Administrators, was Mr Dalman was appointed Chairman of the appointed Company Secretary in June 2011.
Mr Dalman was considered by the Board to be independent on appointment.
Any departures from the Code, ensuring Advice to the Board explanations are given to shareholders In April 2011, the non-executive Directors All members of the Board are entitled to as to how actual practices are consistent met without management present and the take legal advice at the Companys expense.
SID led the evaluation of the performance All the Directors have access to the of the Chairman.
Company Secretary for support and advice.
Dr Sittard chaired the NaCG Committee She is responsible for advising the Board during 2011.
The other Committee members The CEO is responsible for the operational on all corporate governance issues and for were Mr Gerhard Ammann, Mr Marat management of the Group and the execution ensuring that all applicable legislation and Beketayev, Sir Richard Sykes until 8 June of the Groups strategy.
He is responsible for Board procedures are followed.
Sir Paul 54 Unlocking Value Corporate Governance Report continued Judge was appointed to the Committee Terms of reference each of whom has extensive business on 21 June 2011 and on 28 September 2011 The Committee reviewed its terms of experience.
Mr Mehmet Dalman, in his capacity as SID, reference to bring them into line with best was appointed to the Committee.
The practice and to reflect the extension of the The Company complied throughout the year Company has complied with the Code Committees remit to include oversight with the Code recommendations regarding recommendations regarding membership of corporate governance and compliance membership of the Audit Committee.
of the NaCG Committee throughout the with the Code and recommended the year.
The Committee held four scheduled changes to the Board.
Under its terms of reference, the Committee meetings and four ad hoc meetings in 2011. is required to meet at least four times a year Annual re-election of Directors to consider, among other issues: The main focus of the NaCG Committee The NaCG Committee discussed the during the year has been Board annual re-election of Directors and The integrity of the Companys financial restructuring, reviewing the size of the Board recommended to the Board that this be reporting: along with the output of the Board evaluation adopted from the 2011 AGM onwards.
The internal controls and risk management process carried out by ICSA Board systems: Evaluation.
The results of the corporate Diversity governance review are discussed above.
The NaCG Committee discussed Board The effectiveness of the internal audit diversity in light of the recommendations function: and The NaCG Committee also reviewed the of Lord Davies of Abersoch and The relationship with the external auditors.
composition of the Board Committees recommended that diversity be included and recommended during the year the as an element of the Review.
The Audit Committee meetings are appointments shown in the table below, aligned with the corporate reporting cycle all of which were approved by the Board.
The NaCG Committee makes to enable the Committee to discharge its recommendations to the Board on the duties effectively.
In particular the Audit Subsequent to the year end, on 3 February continuation in office of each Director every Committee schedules its meetings to 2012, Dr Sittard tendered his resignation year, taking into consideration the Directors enable it to review and comment on key from the Board for personal reasons.
effectiveness and commitment to the role.
financial announcements before making The NaCG Committee reviewed the position recommendations to the Board for of Chairman and agreed to recommend Audit Committee their release.
to the Board the appointment of Mr Dalman Mr Gerhard Ammann chairs the Audit in this role.
Dr Sittard did not participate in The Chairman of the Audit Committee Committee.
Mr Ammann has had over this discussion.
reports verbally to the Board on the actions 30 years experience as an auditor including of the Committee and updates the Board on being Chairman of Deloitte in Switzerland Other areas addressed by the NaCG any issues which require further investigation, until 2007.
The Board therefore considers Committee during the year included: action or improvement.
that he has had recent and relevant financial experience.
The Audit Committee members Situational conflicts Whilst only members of the Committee are during the year were Sir Paul Judge, The Committee reviewed all existing entitled to attend meetings, the Chairman Mr Kenneth Olisa until 8 June 2011, conflicting situations and recommended invites the CFO, the CEO, the General Mr Roderick Thomson and Mr Terence that the Board reconfirmed its approval Counsel, and the Chairman of the Board Wilkinson from 9 December 2011, all of of these.
It also reviewed all new conflicting to attend.
In addition, he invites the Head whom were regarded by the Board as situations and recommended their of Internal Audit to every meeting and he independent non-executive Directors and approval to the Board.
also invites the Group Head of Risk and the Committee appointments Date of appointment Director Committee 21 June 2011 Sir Paul Judge NaCG Committee 11 August 2011 Sir Paul Judge Chairman of Remuneration Committee 11 August 2011 Mr Roderick Thomson Remuneration Committee 28 September 2011 Mr Mehmet Dalman NaCG Committee 9 December 2011 Mr Terence Wilkinson Audit Committee 9 December 2011 Mr Terence Wilkinson Remuneration Committee 9 December 2011 Dr Zaure Zaurbekova Investment Committee Committee composition as at 31 December 2011 Nomination and Corporate Audit Governance Remuneration HSEC Investment Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee Chairman Mr Gerhard Ammann Mr Mehmet Dalman Sir Paul Judge Mr Felix Vulis Mr Mehmet Dalman Sir Paul Judge Mr Gerhard Ammann Mr Mehmet Dalman Professor Dr Dieter Professor Dr Dieter Ameling Ameling Mr Roderick Thomson Mr Marat Beketayev Mr Roderick Thomson Mr Marat Beketayev Mr Marat Beketayev Mr Terence Wilkinson Sir Paul Judge Mr Terence Wilkinson Mr Victor Hanna Dr Zaure Zaurbekova Mr Roderick Thomson Mr Patrice LHuillier ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 55 www.
com Group Global Head of Compliance to attend before it was listed on the London Stock Also during 2011 Internal Audit started where necessary to update the Committee.
Following two dedicated assurance programmes The external auditors are also invited to each a transparent and competitive tender, specifically addressing major risks faced meeting of the Audit Committee and they including presentations from all candidate by the Group: meet separately with the Committee firms and discussions with management, members, without management being the Audit Committee recommend to the Capital Expenditure Assurance present, at least once a year.
Board of Directors that PwC be reappointed Programme, which is being developed as auditors.
with assistance from KPMG: and The Audit Committee held five scheduled Health and Safety Audit Programme, meetings and four ad hoc meetings in 2011.
However, as the external auditors are which is being developed with assistance required to rotate the Group audit partner from DuPont.
During the year the following items were every five years, the current lead partner reviewed: will stand down during 2012.
The Audit Whistleblowing Committee is satisfied that this is sufficient Accounting policies, estimates and to preserve PwCs independence.
The Audit Committee reviews the judgements including methodology and arrangements by which employees can results of the Groups annual impairment The Audit Committee also reviews the level raise any concerns they may have about review: and nature of any non-audit work to be workplace fraud or mismanagement with performed during the year and considers local management on a confidential basis.
Confirmation of the ability of the Group whether it is appropriate for this work to to continue as a going concern: be carried out by the external auditors.
Whistleblowing incidents are taken very The Preliminary and Half Year Results The Audit Committee maintains a policy seriously by the Audit Committee.
announcements, financial statements regarding acceptable non-audit work, which Complaints are investigated in the first and Annual Report and Accounts: incorporates authority levels for approving instance and a decision taken about further such work.
The auditors are precluded from steps.
Feedback is provided to the person All internal audit reports and investigations: engaging in non-audit services that would making the complaint.
In 2011, the Investigations into whistleblowing compromise their independence and whistleblowing procedure was upgraded with allegations, including presentations from objectivity or violate any laws or regulations the introduction of an external whistleblowing external forensic investigators: affecting their appointment as auditors.
hotline, available in five languages.
Note 33 to the financial statements shows Internal controls and risk management: the value of the non-audit work carried out Towards the end of 2011 the new Compliance: and by PwC during the year.
Whistleblowing and Investigation Policy the Policy made Internal Audit responsible for All external audit reports.
Internal audit running an Internal Investigation function.
The Committee also received regular A new structure staffed with skilled The Head of Internal Audit is invited to attend updates on the progress of Project Arrow, professionals is in the process of being each Audit Committee meeting where he an ongoing programme to improve the established worldwide, which should ensure provides assurance, independent of the efficiency of the reporting systems.
sufficient capacity to respond quickly and assurance provided by the CFO, that internal effectively to any allegation of wrongdoing control activities, which have been subject The Audit Committee also received reported according to the Policy.
to audit by his team, are operating effectively.
presentations from the Group Head of Risk on the Groups approach to risk Remuneration Committee The Group has an Internal Audit Charter management.
It also received a which states that the Head of Internal Audit Sir Paul Judge was appointed Chairman of presentation from Deloitte on the progress is accountable to the Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee on 11 August made in ensuring preparedness for the is to provide ENRC Group management with 2011, replacing Sir Richard Sykes who implementation of the UK Bribery Act 2010. the following: chaired the Remuneration Committee until he left the Board on 8 June 2011.
The other External audit An independent, objective, positive members during the year were Mr Dalman, The Audit Committee reviews the overall assurance on effectiveness of internal Mr Olisa until 8 June 2011, Mr Thompson performance of the auditors annually and controls: and from 11 August 2011 and Mr Wilkinson is responsible for making formal from 9 December 2011.
Throughout the A value-adding consulting service recommendations each year to the Board year, all members of the Committee were designed to improve the effectiveness and on the continuation of the external auditors independent non-executive Directors.
efficiency of the Groups operations and to in office.
The Audit Committee is responsible The Company has complied with the Code safeguard both the assets and the integrity to the Board for ensuring that the external recommendations regarding membership of the Group.
auditors remain independent of the of the Remuneration Committee throughout Company in all material respects and that the year.
Whilst only the members of the During 2011, the Internal Audit function they have adequate resources available to Committee are entitled to attend its carried out a programme of planned reviews them to enable the delivery of an objective meetings, the CEO is also invited by the covering, among other items, procurement, audit to the shareholders.
Committee Chairman to attend its meetings, capital project management, disposal of but he does not attend on matters relating assets, inventory management and In order to ensure good corporate to his own remuneration.
post-acquisition reviews, and integrated governance, the Audit Committee reviews of certain business units.
In addition, recommended that the provision of external Under its terms of reference the Committee ad hoc reviews included related party audit services be put out to tender towards is required to meet at least twice a year and, contracts, readiness for the UK Bribery Act the end of 2011.
This was driven by the fact among other issues, it determines and 2010, and a significant loan review.
that  LLP PwC recommends to the Board the broad policy had been the Companys auditors since for the remuneration of Executive Directors 56 Unlocking Value Corporate Governance Report continued and members of the senior management Further details on HSEC are set out in the Enterprise-wide risk management team.
Sustainable Development Review on pages The ExCom considers the careful and 39 to 42 and in the Sustainable Development appropriate management of risk as an The remuneration of the non-executive Report to be published separately.
Managing Directors is a matter reserved for the Board.
business risk to deliver opportunities is a key The non-executive Directors do not review Investment Committee formerly the element of all the Groups business activities.
Mergers and Acquisitions Committee The significant business risks are understood Mr Mehmet Dalman chairs the Investment During 2011 the Remuneration Committee and documented.
The other members during met six times, four meetings were scheduled determines in each situation the level of the year were Professor Dr Ameling, meetings and two were ad hoc meetings.
Mr Beketayev, Sir Richard Sykes until 8 June 2011 and Dr Zaure Zaurbekova Further details are included in the Directors The main features of the Groups system from 9 December 2011.
Remuneration Report, which is set out on of risk management include: pages 59 to 64.
Under the Investment Committees terms Group statements on strategic direction: of reference, the Committee is required to A resolution to approve the Directors Clear business objectives and business meet at least twice a year and, among other Remuneration Report will be proposed things, it: principles: at the forthcoming AGM.
A clear risk strategy: Reviews and discusses with management Health, Safety, Environment and A clear risk policy: the necessary due diligence required on Community Committee the HSEC prospective mergers and acquisitions Committee A Company risk management manual: projects: Mr Vulis chairs the HSEC Committee.
Annual review of key business risks: Receives detailed analyses of prospective The other members during the year were mergers and acquisitions projects: and A continuing process for identification Professor Dr Ameling, Mr Beketayev, and evaluation of principal risks to the Mr Victor Hanna, Mr Patrice LHuillier, Oversees the structuring and achievement of business objectives: Dr Sittard, Mr Utepov until 8 June 2011 implementation of mergers and An annual review of internal control: and Mr Yedilbayev until 8 June 2011. acquisitions projects.
Dr Sittard stood down from the Committee Management processes to mitigate The Investment Committee met five times on his resignation from the Board on on an ad hoc basis during 2011 and significant risks to an acceptable level: 3 February 2012. recommended to the Board the extension On-going monitoring of significant risks of the option to acquire a 75% interest in Under its terms of reference, the Committee and internal and external environmental Shubarkol Komir JSC, the exercise of that factors that may change the Groups risk is required to meet at least twice a year and, option and subsequently approval of the among other things, it considers: profile: and shareholder circular, and the acquisition of a 100% interest in Rubio Holdings Ltd, A review by the Group of both the type Health, safety, environment and and amount of external insurance that the which owns manganese assets and community risks: licences in South Africa.
The Committee met Group buys, bearing in mind the availability of such cover, its cost and the likelihood The Groups compliance with applicable in 2012 to discuss and recommend to the legal and regulatory requirements Board the acquisition of certain assets in and magnitude of the risks involved.
associated with health, safety, environment the DRC from FQM and the settlement In addition to the annual review of principal and community matters: and of related legal matters.
risks, there is a process of regular reporting The Groups performance in relation to to the Board through the Audit Committee Risk management and internal control health, safety, environment and on the status of the risk management community impact and monitoring Risk management process.
The Board is ultimately responsible for maintaining a sound risk management and Risk management system evolution In addition it is responsible for the inclusion The Group continues to develop its risk internal control system to ensure compliance of a report by the HSEC Committee in the with the requirements of the Code and the management and internal control systems Annual Report and Accounts and has and this includes: Turnbull Guidance on internal control and overseen the development of a standalone risk management.
A clear strategy to further enhance the In accordance with the Turnbull Guidance Groups approach to risk management, The HSEC Committee met four times internal control and insurance: a review of the effectiveness of the risk in 2011. management system and internal control is The recruitment of additional high calibre undertaken annually by the Audit Committee risk and internal control specialists at a During the year the Committee discussed on behalf of the Board.
the implementation of second-party health Group and regional level: and safety audits, energy efficiency and Executive Committee An established Group risk framework: the impact of Kazakhstans climate The ExCom has specific responsibility as A significantly improved scope and change legislation.
the risk management committee for the robustness of the annual review of internal Groups system of risk management.
It control process: The HSEC Committee recommended to reviews the Groups significant risks and the Board that a non-executive Director be Further evolution of our insurance strategy: subsequently reports to the Audit Committee responsible for championing HSEC issues on material changes and the associated and the Board agreed that Professor Continued development of in-country risk mitigating actions.
and internal control capabilities: and Dr Ameling take on this role.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 57 www.
com Further refinements to the ExCom Group monitors tax risks and implements strategies If significant internal control failings are risk review process.
and procedures to control these risks.
identified, the Board confirms that necessary actions will be taken to address them and An enhanced top-down risk management Assurance on compliance with systems of these will include: approach is in place focusing on the key internal control and on their effectiveness is risks to the execution of the Groups obtained through: Reports to the Audit Committee and the business strategy, which complements our Board: and regional and entity level risk reviews.
This Regular management reviews: complemented the current bottom-up If necessary, further investigations aggregation methodology.
To further Annual testing of key internal controls: implemented by the Audit Committee.
enhance the Groups approach to risk Internal audit reviews: and management at a business unit level, the Remedial action plans will be monitored by principles of the international standard for Testing of certain aspects of the internal the Audit Committee, with regular updates risk management ISO 31000 are being financial control systems by the external on progress to the Board.
auditors during the course of their statutory examinations with regular reports to the Compliance Internal control Audit Committee by the external auditors.
The Global Compliance Department is The Turnbull Guidance sets out best practice The Audit Committee considers the results creating a framework to ensure responsibility on internal control for UK-listed companies of the reviews to confirm that controls are within the Group for: to assist them in assessing the application functioning.
Any material breakdowns and of the Code principles and compliance with remedial actions are reported to the Board.
The prevention of bribery and corruption: the underlying provisions with regard to internal control.
The prevention of financial crime including Risk management and internal control money laundering and fraud: systems in relation to financial reporting The Groups systems of internal control are The main features of the Groups systems of The prevention of anti-competitive designed and operated to support the risk management and internal control in behaviour: identification, evaluation and management relation to financial reporting, other than the of risks affecting the Group, including in Engagement with Sales and Marketing general principles referred to above, are: relation to the financial reporting process and Procurement departments to ensure and the preparation of consolidated accounts, compliance with national and international Control environment communication and the business environment in which the regulations: of key principles and policies, and reports Group operates.
The systems of internal on compliance: Monitoring of payments for corporate control are subject to continuous review as social responsibility purposes: and circumstances change and new risks emerge.
Risk management identification of key financial risks and appropriate responses: Monitoring of government and international Features of the systems of internal control sanctions regimes.
Control activities management utilises include: a range of preventative and detective The UK Bribery Act 2010 came into force controls to minimise errors: and The risk management system described on 1 July 2011.
This is a substantive piece in the preceding section: Monitoring ongoing monitoring of the of legislation which has impacted a wide above.
range of businesses and industries, including Documented policies and procedures the extractive industry as a whole.
All of the within the Groups businesses: The systems of risk management and Groups core compliance policies have been internal control are designed to manage, An annual review of key internal controls: reviewed to ensure consistency with the rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to and anti-corruption regimes under which the achieve business objectives and can provide Group operates and the Global Compliance Minimising operating risk by using reasonable, but not absolute, assurance Department has been actively involved in appropriate infrastructure, controls, against material misstatement or loss.
In delivering anti-bribery training to Board systems and people throughout the reviewing these, the Board has taken into and senior management, which included businesses.
account the results of all the work carried a workshop presented by Hogan Lovell out by internal and external auditors.
The key policies employed in managing and attended by the Board and senior operating risk involve the segregation of management and face-to-face training Annual review of internal control duties, transaction authorisation, monitoring, in Kazakhstan.
The Group continues to improve its process financial, managerial and comprehensive for reviewing the systems of internal control.
reporting and analysis against approved During 2011, ENRC conducted a For this years annual review of internal standards and budgets.
comprehensive bribery risk review of the control, the Group significantly increased global business in conjunction with external the scope and robustness of the review Group Treasury operations manage legal and other advisors.
That review is and testing process.
exposure to counterparty risk, liquidity risk ongoing, but the Group has already begun and currency transaction risks and Group the process of ensuring that its compliance Review of effectiveness Treasury coordinates the activities of Group policies are targeted at minimising the key The Board and the Audit Committee have companies in this area.
The treasury policies, risk areas that have been identified.
In reviewed the effectiveness of the risk risk limits and monitoring procedures are addition, the Global Compliance Department management and internal control system, reviewed regularly by the Audit Committee has continued to coordinate with worldwide including financial, operational and on behalf of the Board.
business units to help ensure they are compliance controls and risk management, operating pursuant to ENRCs clearly in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance Group Tax manages risks associated with established procedures.
to the date of approval of this Annual Report tax compliance, reporting, planning and and Accounts.
The Group Tax function 58 Unlocking Value Corporate Governance Report continued As part of this effort, the Global Compliance As with other companies in this sector, frequently meets with sell-side analysts to Department has recently revised the ENRC regularly liaises with authorities, raise the Groups profile and to build the Groups Code of Conduct to make it more including the SFO.
The revised version, together with a set of explanatory notes, is now The SFO has been very clear that its doors Information on IR activity and analysts and available on the ENRC website and is being are always open to companies that want brokers reports are regularly circulated to translated into the main languages used to discuss issues relating to anti-corruption the Board.
The Chairman, along with other within the Group.
These translations will also and compliance.
ENRC has engaged with non-executive Directors if appropriate, be made available on the ENRC website the SFO to brief them about the Companys annually conducts a number of investor once they have been finalised.
anti-corruption, corporate governance meetings focused on corporate governance.
and compliance efforts, and to provide This was particularly relevant during 2011 The Global Compliance Department also information about the internal Audit as the Group completed its corporate introduced online ethics training in 2011.
On an annual basis the covers the Groups Code of Conduct and Group undertakes meetings on sustainable global anti-corruption measures.
The online The Board of ENRC takes corporate development and corporate social training has been deployed to a substantial governance and compliance very seriously responsibility with relevant executives and number of current senior employees who are and is committed to ensuring that ENRC interested parties.
employed in an at risk position, for example complies with laws relevant to its business those working in finance, procurement wherever it operates.
The fifth AGM is due to be held on Tuesday, and sales and marketing.
Undertaking this 12 June 2012 and the Board welcomes the training is also now a requirement for all new Interaction with shareholders opportunity to answer questions put to it by starters in relevant positions.
The Global shareholders of the Company.
During 2011 the Group met with a large Compliance Department also provided number of shareholders and prospective face-to-face training on competition law Share capital investors, mainly based in the United issues to the majority of employees in the Kingdom, continental Europe and the United The Companys share capital is described Sales and Marketing function during the year.
States of America, as part of a regular on page 66. schedule of meetings and roadshows.
The The website was updated during the year Group has an active and extensive Investor Going concern to set out the Groups resolute opposition Relations programme the IR programme to bribery and corruption and its policy on The Groups business activities, together although its free float is currently only around combatting this, along with its commitment with those factors likely to affect future 18%.
Management also met with the to complying with all laws and regulations performance, are set out in the Business Founder Shareholders and Kazakhmys PLC, in the countries where it operates.
The Review on pages 4 to 47. who together hold around 70% of the Group regards this as an important step Companys shares.
The Government of the in ensuring that all employees and all third In assessing the Groups going concern Republic of Kazakhstan, which has Board parties with which it deals are aware of status the Directors have taken into account representation, is frequently and closely the Groups zero-tolerance approach to the factors set out in the Business Review, involved with the Groups deliberations bribery and corruption.
including the financial position of the Group and the executive management.
and in particular its significant balances Anti-Bribery and Corruption Steering of cash, cash equivalents and liquid As part of its IR programme, the Group aims Committee the ABC Committee investments, the borrowing facilities in place to provide a high level of transparency and and their terms, medium-term cash flow and The Group established the ABC Committee communication to investors and analysts liquidity projections, the current commodity during 2011, which meets on a monthly basis on a timely basis, through announcements, prices and market expectations in the and is chaired by the Group General meetings and seminars.
The Group seeks to medium term, the Groups expected Counsel.
In addition to the Group General develop a regular dialogue with investors and operating cost profile and its capital Counsel, the CFO, Group Head of Risk, analysts and to respond to their challenges expenditure and financing plans.
Group Global Head of Compliance, Head and understand their sentiments and of Internal Audit and the Head of Strategic concerns.
The Group has a comprehensive After making enquiries, the Directors have Planning and Investment Analysis are also IR section on its website, which has reasonable expectations that the Group members.
The Committee invites other up-to-date information available to all has adequate resources to continue in parties to report and participate in the shareholders and investors.
Shareholders operational existence for the foreseeable meetings on a regular basis, including other have the opportunity to attend and raise future.
For this reason, they continue to employees whose work touches anti-bribery questions at the Companys AGM.
adopt the going concern basis in preparing and corruption issues and external advisors the financial statements.
who are able to provide valuable input.
The The Group aspires to have an IR programme ABC Committee coordinates the Groups that is ranked highly amongst its peers for its approaches to bribery and corruption issues accessibility, responsiveness and disclosure.
across core departments to ensure that The CEO, CFO and CCO between them aim the work carried out to prevent and detect to meet all major shareholders at least twice corruption is consistent and effective.
a year and, along with other senior management, to meet with a wide range Meetings with the Serious Fraud Office of shareholders and prospective investors the SFO during the year.
In 2011 these discussions focused on the financial and operational During 2011, ENRC was the subject of results and development of the Groups various press stories including the purchase businesses and also sought to understand of certain DRC assets and the subsequent any concerns held by investors.
The Group civil dispute, which has now been settled.
