48 Unlocking Value Our Governance Structure Board of Directors Mr Mehmet Dalman Professor Dr Dieter Ameling Mr Gerhard Ammann Chairman and non-executive Director Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 6 December 2007.
Became Appointed to the Board on 26 January 2010.
Last Appointed to the Board on 8 November 2007.
Last Chairman on 3 February 2012 following the resignation re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2011. re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2011. of Dr Johannes Sittard.
He was ENRCs Senior Independent Director between September 2011 and Independent Independent February 2012.
Last re-elected by shareholders at the Yes.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Independent From 2000 to 2008 Professor Dr Ameling was the Prior to joining the ENRC Board Mr Ammann was Yes, on appointment as Chairman.
Chairman of the Steel Institute VDEh and President Chairman and CEO of Deloitte in Switzerland until May of the German Steel Federation.
2007 and has over 30 years experience as an auditor Skills and experience of international companies, primarily in banking, Mr Dalman held seats on the Supervisory Boards of Committee membership finance and international trade.
Deutsche Brse and EUREX Zurich AG.
He was also Member of the Health, Safety, Environment and a member of the Board of Directors at Commerzbank Committee membership Community and Investment Committees.
AG, where he founded and led Commerzbank Chairman of the Audit Committee since 6 December Securities, the investment arm of the Group.
External appointments 2007 and member of the Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee.
Senior Counsellor of ThyssenKrupp Steel Europe Committee membership AG since 2008.
Associate professor at the Technical Chairman of the Investment and Nomination and External appointments University Clausthal.
Corporate Governance Committees since President of Bank Von Roll, a private bank in 30 September 2009 and 15 March 2012 respectively, Switzerland.
and member of the Remuneration Committee.
External appointments Vice-chairman of Winnington, a private equity firm investing in China.
Member of the Board of Cardiff City Football Club.
Chairman of WMG Group, a financial services company he founded in 2004.
Mr Marat Beketayev Mr James Cochrane Non-executive Director Chief Commercial Officer CCO Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 20 February 2008.
Last Appointed to the Board on 13 August 2010.
Elected by re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2011. shareholders at the AGM in 2011.
Independent Independent No, representative of the Government of Kazakhstan.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Beketayev was previously an Advisor to the Prime Prior to his joining the ENRC Board, Mr Cochrane had Minister of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
He graduated been CEO of ENRC Marketing AG, responsible for in 1998 from the Kazakh State Law Institute.
In 2000 developing and implementing the sales and marketing he completed an LLM in International Business Law at strategy of the Group.
Before joining the Group in 2001, the London School of Economics.
Mr Cochrane gained extensive experience in the steel and mining industry, having spent 12 years with BHP Committee membership Billiton and before that with Samancor Chrome, Impala Platinum and Schlumberger.
Member of the Health, Safety, Environment and Community, Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee membership and Investment Committees.
Member of the Executive Committee.
External appointments External appointments Vice-minister of Justice of the Republic of Kazakhstan.
Non-executive Director of Jindal Steel Ltd and Northam Platinum Ltd. President of the International Chromium Development Association since 2006.
ENRC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 49 www.
com Our Governance Structure Sir Paul Judge Mr Roderick Thomson Mr Felix Vulis Non-executive Director Non-executive Director Chief Executive Officer CEO Appointment Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 6 December 2007.
Last Appointed to the Board on 6 December 2007.
Last Appointed to the Board on 20 August 2009.
Last re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2011. re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2011. re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2011.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Skills and experience Mr Thomson is an international financier, venture Mr Vulis has been Chief Executive Officer since August Sir Paul spent 13 years with Cadbury Schweppes plc, capitalist and philanthropist with over 40 years of 2009.
Prior to this he was Chief Operating Officer of where he led the buyout of its food companies to form international business experience.
He has provided ENRC from December 2006.
Between 2002 and Premier Brands Ltd.
Following that he served as capital from his own private investment portfolios to 2006, Mr Vulis was First Vice President of Eurasia Chairman of Foods from Britain and was a Ministerial numerous companies in the information technology, Industrial Association.
Before joining the Group in 2001, Advisor at the UK Cabinet Office and subsequently a biotechnology, oil and gas, real estate and Mr Vulis was President of UNICHEM K, LLC.
From Director of WPP Group plc, President of the Chartered telecommunications sectors.
1990 until 1995 he was President and CEO of AGC Management Institute and Chairman of the Royal Group, Inc. Society of Arts and of Teachers TV.
Committee membership Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Audit, Remuneration and Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees.
Chairman of the Health, Safety, Environment and Chairman of the Remuneration Committee since Community and Executive Committees.
11 August 2011 and member of the Audit and External appointments Nomination and Corporate Governance Committees.
External appointments Non-executive Director of Net Element, Inc. Chairman of Schroder Income Growth Fund plc.
Director of the United Kingdom Accreditation Service, Standard Bank Group Ltd of Johannesburg, TempurPedic International Inc. of Kentucky and Abraaj Capital of Dubai.
Mr Terence Wilkinson Dr Zaure Zaurbekova Non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer CFO Appointment Appointment Appointed to the Board on 28 September 2011.
He will Appointed to the Board on 1 October 2009.
Last put himself forward for election by shareholders at the re-elected by shareholders at the AGM in 2011.
2012 AGM, his first after his appointment.
Skills and experience Skills and experience Dr Zaurbekova became Chief Financial Officer in Mr Wilkinson was Chief Executive and Chairman September 2009, having been Chief Financial Officer of Lonrho South Africa Ltd from 1985 to 1996, then of ENRC Kazakhstan since 2001.
Prior to that, she an Executive Director of Lonrho plc.
He was Chief was Finance Director and later first Vice President Operating Officer of Lonmin plc between 1997 of Kazchrome.
Before joining ENRC, Dr Zaurbekova and 2000.
In 2000 he joined Ridge Mining plc as worked in the Ministry of Industry and Trade of the an Executive Director, serving as Chief Executive Republic of Kazakhstan and she began her career from 2003 to 2009. in the Kazakh Research Institute of Automation of Planning.
Committee membership Committee membership Member of the Remuneration and Audit Committees.
Member of the Investment and Executive Committees.
External appointments External appointments Non-executive Chairman and member of the Audit and Compensation Committees of Century Aluminum Co. None.
50 Unlocking Value Our Governance Structure continued Senior Management Mr Arif Shadiev Ms Mounissa Chodieva Mr Tony McCarthy Head of Investor and Public Relations Global HR Director General Director of ENRC Logistics Mr Shadiev held the position of Deputy General Director Ms Chodieva has been Head of Investor and Public Mr McCarthy has been the Companys Global HR Relations since 2006, having previously held the position Director since July 2011.
He was previously Group at LLP Transsystema from 1999 to 2006.
He was appointed as General Director of ENRC Logistics in 2007. of Vice President of Corporate Finance.
Director, People and Organisational Development for British Airways.
Prior to this, Mr McCarthy spent five years on the Board of Royal Mail Group.
Mr Viktor Til She is a member of ENRCs Executive Committee.
General Director of JSC Kazchrome He is a member of ENRCs Executive Committee.
Mr Til started his career at the Kazchrome mine Mr Beat Ehrensberger General Counsel Molodejnaya in 1977 and worked in various positions Mr Ehrensberger has been the Companys General Mr Almaz Ibragimov within Kazchrome.
In 2004 he was appointed as the Counsel since June 2011.
He originally joined ENRC President of JSC Aluminium of Kazakhstan General Director of JSC Kazchrome.
as General Counsel in 2003 and was responsible for Mr Ibragimov has been the President of JSC Aluminium the Groups legal affairs until mid-2008, when he of Kazakhstan since 2001.
From 1994 until 2001 he Mr Mukhamejan Turdakhunov was appointed Head of Mergers and Acquisitions held various positions at the JSC Pavlodar Alumina Plant.
Prior to that he was Chief Engineer at the collective farm Mr Turdakhunov has held the position of President of Pervoye Maya in Kyrgyzstan.
He began his career in the metals He is a member of ENRCs Executive Committee.
and mining industry in 1995 as the Director of the Aksu Mr Abduazim Rustambayev ferroalloys plant in the Pavlodar Region in Kazakhstan.
Mr Victor Hanna President of JSC Eurasian Energy Corporation Mr Turdakhunov then spent two years as the General Head of Strategy and CEO Africa Mr Rustambayev has been the President of JSC Director of the public corporation Khimfarm in Shymkent Mr Hannas role is to lead the Business Development Eurasian Energy Corporation since 1999.
Prior to that City, Kazakhstan.
He joined SSGPO as its First Vice and Mergers and Acquisitions programmes.
He is also Mr Rustambayev held the position of General Director of President in 1997.
Chief Executive Officer of the African operations.
the Yermakovskaya GRESS State district power plant in Kazakhstan for three years.
Mr Rustambayev previously He is a member of the Health, Safety, Environment and worked at The Regional Consumer Cooperation Society Community Committee.
He is also a member of ENRCs of Frunze, Kyrgyzstan, as the Deputy Chief Manager for Executive Committee.
Governance Structure Shareholders Board of Directors Independent non-executive Directors 4 Audit Committee Executive Committee Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer N on-executive Chairman Independent non-executive Director Health, Safety, Environment independent on appointment Non-independent non-executive Director Chief Financial Officer and Community Committee CEO Africa Chief Executive Officer Chief Commercial Officer Vice President Operations Kazakhstan Chief Financial Officer General Counsel Chief Commercial Officer Head of Investor and Public Relations Non-executive Chairman Independent non-executive Independent non-executive Director H ead of Strategy and CEO Africa Investment Committee Directors 5 Non-independent non-executive Director Global HR Director Chief Financial Officer Non-independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Chairman Nomination and Corporate Independent non-executive Directors 2 Divisional Directors Governance Committee Non-independent non-executive Director Independent non-executive Directors 3 Line Managers Remuneration Committee Independent non-executive Chairman Employees Society
