Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Corporate Governance The Financial Reporting Councils UK Corporate Governance Code the Committees Code is part of the Listing Rules the Rules of the Financial Services Authority.
The paragraphs below and in the Directors Remuneration Executive committee Report on pages 38 to 52 set out how the company has applied the The executive committee is the management forum that meets each month principles laid down by the Code.
to discuss strategy, trading outlook, results, risks, possible acquisitions and divestitures, costs, forecasts, staff numbers, recruitment and training and The company continues substantially to comply with the Code, save other management issues.
It also discusses charitable matters.
It is chaired for the exceptions disclosed in the Directors Compliance Statement on by the group chairman and comprises all executive directors plus other senior page 31. managers.
It is not empowered to make decisions except those that can be made by the members in their individual capacities as executives with powers approved by the board of the company.
The discussions of the committee Directors are summarised by the group chairman and reported to each board meeting, The board and its role together with recommendations on matters reserved for board decisions.
Details of directors who served during the year are set out on page 46.
During the year the board comprised the chairman, managing director, eight other Nominations committee executive directors and six non-executive directors.
Two of the six non-executive The nominations committee is responsible for proposing candidates for directors are independent, one is the founder and ex-chairman of the company, appointment to the board having regard to the balance of skills and structure two are directors of DMGT, an intermediate parent company, and one has of the board and ensuring the appointees have sufficient time available to served on the board for more than the recommended term of nine years under devote to the role.
This committee meets when required and comprises PM the Code.
On November 15 2010, SM Brady resigned as an executive director.
Fallon chairman of the committee, PR Ensor and four non-executive directors being, Sir Patrick Sergeant, The Viscount Rothermere, MWH Morgan and JC There are clear divisions of responsibility within the board such that no Botts.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys one individual has unfettered powers of decision.
The board, although website www.
large, does not consider itself to be unwieldy and believes it is beneficial to have representatives from all key areas of the business at board meetings.
This committee met three times during the year: to recommend to the board There is a procedure for all directors in the furtherance of their duties to the appointment of SW Daintith as alternate non-executive director to The take independent professional advice, at the companys expense.
They Viscount Rothermere, the appointment of A Perry as alternate director to also have access to the advice and services of the company secretary.
MWH Morgan, the appointment of SW Daintith to the audit committee and In accordance with best corporate governance practice under the 2010 DP Pritchard to the remuneration committee: to recommend to the board UK Corporate Governance Code all directors will submit themselves for the re-election of directors retiring by rotation: and to discuss succession annual re-election.
Newly appointed directors are submitted for election planning.
The committee also met several times informally during the year.
at the first available opportunity after their appointment.
Remuneration committee The board meets every two months and there is frequent contact The remuneration committee meets twice a year and additionally as between meetings.
Board meetings take place in London, New York, required.
It is responsible for determining the contract terms, remuneration Montreal and Hong Kong, and occasionally in other locations where the and other benefits for executive directors, including performance related group has operations.
The board has delegated specific aspects of the profit share schemes.
This committee also recommends and monitors the groups affairs to standing committees, each of which operates within level of remuneration for senior management and overall, the group, defined terms of reference.
Details of these are set out below.
However, including group-wide share-option schemes.
The composition of the to ensure its overall control of the groups affairs, the board has reserved committee, details of directors remuneration and interests in sharecertain matters to itself for decision.
Board meetings are held to set options and information on directors service contracts are set out in and monitor strategy, identify, evaluate and manage material risks, to the Directors Remuneration Report on pages 38 to 52.
The committees review trading performance, ensure adequate funding, examine major terms of reference are available on the companys website http: www.
acquisition possibilities and approve reports to shareholders.
are established to ensure that appropriate information is communicated to the board in a timely manner to enable it to fulfil its duties.
26 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com JC Botts has been on the board for more than the recommended term of Audit committee nine years under the Code and the board believes that his length of service Details of the members and role of the audit committee are set out on page enhances his role as a non-executive director.
However, due to his length 30.
The committees terms of reference are available on the companys of service, JC Botts does not meet the Codes definition of independence.
Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board in various roles since founding the company in 1969 and has been a non-executive director since 1992 Tax and treasury committee and hence, under the Code, is not considered independent.
Details of the members and role of the tax and treasury committee are set out in the Directors Report on page 15.
The Viscount Rothermere has a significant shareholding in the company through his beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this he is not Non-executive directors considered independent.
The non-executive directors bring both independent views and the views of the companys major shareholder to the board.
The non-executive The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan are also executive directors directors who served during the year, whose biographies can be found of DMGT, an intermediate parent company.
However, the company is on page 25 of the accounts, were The Viscount Rothermere, Sir Patrick run as a separate, distinct and decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and Sergeant, JC Botts, JC Gonzalez independent, MWH Morgan and DP these directors have no involvement in the day-to-day management of Pritchard independent.
They bring valuable experience and advice to the company but the board does not believe these non-executive directors are able At least once a year the companys chairman meets the non-executive to exert undue influence on decisions taken by the board, nor does it directors without the executive directors being present.
The non-executive consider their independence to be impaired by their positions with DMGT.
directors meet without the companys chairman present at least annually However, their relationship with DMGT means they do not meet the to appraise the chairmans performance and on other occasions as Codes definition of independence.
The board considers JC Gonzalez and DP Pritchard to be independent non-executive directors.
27 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Corporate Governance Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Corporate Governance continued Board and committee meetings Board and committee meetings are arranged well in advance of the meeting date and papers covering the points to be discussed are distributed to its members in advance of the meetings.
The following table sets out the number of board and committee meetings attended by the directors during the year to September 30 2011: Executive Remuneration Nominations Audit Tax & treasury Board committee committee committee committee committee Number of meetings held during year 5 10 3 3 3 3 Executive directors PM Fallon chairman 5 9 3 0 PR Ensor managing director 5 8 3 3 NF Osborn 5 9 DC Cohen 5 8 CR Jones finance director 5 9 3 SM Brady resigned November 15 2010 0 1 fide Alfano 4 8 CHC Fordham 5 9 JL Wilkinson 4 8 B AL-Rehany 5 9 Non-executive directors The Viscount Rothermere 5 1 3 Sir Patrick Sergeant 4 3 JC Botts 4 3 3 3 JC Gonzalez 4 2 MWH Morgan 4 3 3 DP Pritchard 5 1 3 3 JP Williams, finance director of DMGT, attended one meeting as an alternate.
Board and committee effectiveness Communication with shareholders During the year the board, through its chairman, assessed its performance The companys chairman, together with the board, encourages regular and that of its committees.
The chairman surveyed each board member dialogue with shareholders.
Meetings with shareholders are held, both and evaluated the strengths and weaknesses of the board and its in the UK and US, to discuss annual and interim results and highlight members.
In addition, each of the main committees completed a detailed significant acquisitions or disposals, or at the request of institutional questionnaire encompassing key areas within their mandates.
Private shareholders are encouraged to participate in the of the assessment were presented and discussed at a board meeting and Annual General Meeting.
In line with best practice all shareholders have it was concluded that the board and its committees had been effective at least 20 working days notice of the Annual General Meeting at which throughout the year.
the executive directors, non-executive directors and committee chairs are available for questioning.
As part of the performance evaluation the board are asked to assess the chairmans performance.
The results of the assessment are provided to the The companys chairman and finance director report to fellow board non-executive directors for review in the absence of the group having a members matters raised by shareholders and distribute analyst notes senior independent director.
It was concluded that the chairman had been on the company to ensure members of the board, and in particular the effective throughout the year.
non-executive directors, develop an understanding of the investors and potential investors view of the company.
28 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com In addition the board established a risk committee whose members are Internal control and risk management responsible for managing and addressing risk matters as they arise.
The The board is responsible for the groups system of internal control and for committee comprises the companys chairman, managing director and reviewing its effectiveness.
Such a system is designed to manage rather finance director.
than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives, and can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material During the year and up to the approval of this annual report and accounts misstatement or loss.
the board has not identified nor been advised of any failings or weaknesses in the groups system of internal control which it has determined to be In accordance with principle C. 2 and C. 2.1 of the Code, the board significant.
Therefore a confirmation of necessary actions has not been has implemented a continuing process for identifying, evaluating and considered appropriate.
managing the material risks faced by the group.
Investment appraisal The board has reviewed the effectiveness of the groups system of internal The managing director, finance director and business group managers control and has taken account of material developments which have taken consider proposals for acquisitions and new business investments.
It has considered the major business and Proposals beyond specified limits are put to the board for approval financial risks, the control environment and the results of internal audit.
Steps and are subject to due diligence by the groups finance team and, if have been taken to embed internal control and risk management further necessary, independent advisors.
Capital expenditure is regulated by strict into the operations of the group and to deal with areas of improvement authorisation controls.
For capital expenditure above specified levels, which have come to managements and the boards attention.
detailed written proposals must be submitted to the board and reviews are carried out to monitor progress against business plan.
Key procedures which the directors have established with a view to providing effective internal control, and which have been in place Accounting and computer systems controls and throughout the year and up to the date of this report, are as follows: procedures Accounting controls and procedures are regularly reviewed and The board of directors communicated throughout the group.
Particular attention is paid to the board normally meets six times a year to consider group strategy, authorisation levels and segregation of duties.
The groups tax, financing risk management, financial performance, acquisitions, business and foreign exchange positions are overseen by the tax and treasury development and management issues: committee, which meets at least twice a year.
Controls and procedures the board has overall responsibility for the group and there is a formal over the security of data and disaster recovery are periodically reviewed schedule of matters specifically reserved for decision by the board: and are subject to internal audit.
each executive director has been given responsibility for specific aspects of the groups affairs: Internal audit the board divides the groups key risks into six broad categories and The groups internal audit function is managed by DMGTs internal audit reviews and assesses each of these at least annually: department, working closely with the companys finance director.
Internal the board seeks assurance that effective control is being maintained audit draws on the services of the groups central finance teams to assist through regular reports from business group management, the audit in completing the audit assignments.
Internal audit aims to provide an committee and various independent monitoring functions: and independent assessment as to whether effective systems and controls are the board approves the annual forecast after performing a review in place and being operated to manage significant operating and financial of key risk factors.
Performance is monitored regularly by way of risks.
It also aims to support management by providing cost effective variances and key performance indicators to enable relevant action recommendations to mitigate risk and control weaknesses identified during to be taken and forecasts are updated each quarter.
The board the audit process, as well as provide insight into where cost efficiencies considers longer-term financial projections as part of its regular and monetary gains might be made by improving the operations of the discussions on the groups strategy and funding requirements.
Businesses and central departments are selected for an internal audit visit on a risk-focused basis, taking account of the risks identified as part of the risk management process: the risk and materiality of each of the groups businesses: the scope and findings of external audit work: and the 29 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Corporate Governance Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Corporate Governance continued departments and businesses reviewed previously and the findings from these review of the effectiveness of the external audit is supplemented by a periodic reviews.
This approach ensures that the internal audit focus is placed on the comprehensive reassessment by the committee.
The last such reassessment higher risk areas of the group, while ensuring an appropriate breadth of was performed in financial year 2009, when having received assurances coverage.
DMGTs internal audit reports its findings to management and to on the continued quality of the audit, the committee determined to the audit committee.
recommend the reappointment of the incumbent firm.
As the appointment of the auditors is for one year only, being subject to annual approval at the companys AGM, there is no contractual commitment to the current audit Accountability and audit firm and, as such, the committee may undertake an audit tender at any Audit Committee time at its discretion.
In performing its review, the committee evaluated the The audit committee comprises DP Pritchard chairman, independent, JC adequacy of the audit firms key processes and controls in certain key areas Botts, JC Gonzalez independent, until April 14 2011 JP Williams, who retired including, but not limited to: arrangements for ensuring independence and following his retirement from his role as finance director of DMGT, and, objectivity: including the rotation of key audit partners: appropriateness of with effect from May 18 2011, SW Daintith, the finance director of DMGT.
the planned audit scope and its execution: the robustness and perceptiveness Three of the four members are non-executive directors.
All members of the of the auditors in their handling of the key accounting and audit judgments: committee have a high level of financial literacy, JP Williams and SW Daintith and the quality of their reporting.
The committee concluded that it was in the are chartered accountants and members of the ICAEW, and DP Pritchard has groups and shareholders interests not to tender the external audit in 2011 considerable audit committee experience.
and recommends the reappointment of Deloitte as the groups auditors.
The committee meets at least three times each financial year and is The audit committee is also responsible for monitoring and assessing the responsible for reviewing the interim report, the annual report and effectiveness of internal audit, and reviews the internal audit programme accounts and other related formal statements before their submission to and receives periodic reports on its findings.
It reviews the whistle blowing the board, and reviewing and overseeing controls necessary to ensure the arrangements available to staff.
integrity of the financial information reported to the shareholders.
The audit committees terms of reference are available on the companys The audit committee advises the board on the appointment or reappointment website: www.
of external auditors and on their remuneration, both for audit and nonaudit work.
It has set and applied a formal policy, which focuses on the Statement by the directors on compliance effectiveness, independence and objectivity of the external audit and includes with the Code a policy on employment of former audit staff, an annual assessment of the qualifications, expertise and resources of the external auditor, the type of nonThe UK Listing Rules require the board to report on compliance throughout audit work permissible and a diminimus level of fees acceptable.
Any nonthe accounting year with the applicable principles and provisions of the audit work performed outside this remit is assessed and where appropriate 2010 UK Corporate Governance Code issued by the Financial Reporting approved by the committee.
Fees paid to Deloitte for audit services, audit Council.
Save for the exceptions outlined below, the group has complied related services and other non-audit services are set out in note 4.
During throughout the financial year ended September 30 2011 with the 2011 Deloitte did not provide significant non-audit services.
The groups nonprovisions set out in Section 1 of the Code.
audit fee policy is available on the companys website www.
The committee considers the required audit Provision B.
1.2 states that half the board, excluding the chairman, should partner rotation plans.
It also discusses the nature, scope and findings of the be comprised of non-executive directors determined by the board to be audit with the external auditor and considers and determines relevant action independent.
However, during the year the board comprised 16 directors in respect of any control issues raised by the external auditor.
of whom six are non-executive directors.
There are clear division of responsibility within the board such that no one individual has unfettered The appointment of Deloitte as the groups external auditors incumbents since powers of decision.
The board, although large, does not consider itself to the last audit tender in 1998 is kept under annual review, and, if satisfactory, be unwieldy and believes it is beneficial to have representatives from all key the committee will recommend the reappointment of the audit firm.
The areas of the business at board meetings.
appointment of Deloitte followed a formal tender process undertaken in 1998 and, rather than adopting a policy on tendering frequency, the annual 30 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Euromoney Institutional Investor PLC Annual Report and Accounts 2011 www.
com Two of the non-executive directors are considered to be independent Provision B.
3.2 states that the terms and conditions of appointment of under the Code.
non-executive directors should be available for inspection.
As explained in the Directors Remuneration Report, the non-executive directors do not JC Botts has been on the board for more than the recommended term of have service contracts.
nine years under the Code and the board believes that his length of service enhances his role as a non-executive director.
However, due to his length Provisions C. 3.1 and D. 2.1 require the remuneration and audit committees of service, JC Botts does not meet the Codes definition of independence.
to comprise entirely of independent non-executive directors.
The remuneration committee is comprised of three non-executive directors, Sir Patrick Sergeant has served on the board in various roles since founding one of whom, from May 18 2011, can be considered independent under the company in 1969 and has been a non-executive director since 1992 the Code.
During the year, the audit committee comprised four members, and hence, under the Code, is not considered independent.
only three of which were non-executive directors of the company only two of whom can be considered independent under the Code.
The Viscount Rothermere has a significant shareholding in the company through his beneficial holding in DMGT and because of this he is not On behalf of the board considered independent.
The Viscount Rothermere and MWH Morgan are also executive directors of DMGT, an intermediate parent company.
However, the company is run as a separate, distinct and decentralised subsidiary of DMGT and Padraic Fallon Chairman these directors have no involvement in the day-to-day management of November 9 2011 the company.
They bring valuable experience and advice to the company but the board does not believe these non-executive directors are able to exert undue influence on decisions taken by the board, nor does it consider their independence to be impaired by their positions with DMGT.
However, their relationship with DMGT means they do not meet the Codes definition of independence.
4.1, the board has not identified a senior independent non-executive director as the directors are of the opinion that all matters relating to the effective governance of the group must be dealt with by the board as a whole.
2.1 requires that the majority of the nominations committee should be comprised of independent non-executive directors.
Although the committee consists of four non-executive and two executive directors, none of these non-executive directors can be considered independent under the Code.
31 20899-04 12 12 2011 Proof 8 Corporate Governance Company Accounts Group Accounts Our Governance Our Performance
