Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Su Sus st ta aiin na abilit bility y Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 61 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report Introduction EVRAZ plc is a public company limited by shares incorporated in the United Kingdom.
In 2011 pursuant to a share exchange offer with EVRAZ Group S. A. EVRAZ plc became the new ultimate holding company of the Group, and Evraz Group S. A. became a subsidiary of the Company.
The Companys shares were admitted to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market for listed securities on 7 November 2011, becoming eligible for entry into the FTSE 100 Index and affirming the Companys commitment to high standards of corporate governance and control.
As part of the listing process, the Company made a number of amendments to its governance documents and Board Committee charters in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code and best practice.
Additionally the Company established a Nominations Committee prior to the Companys admission to trading.
Further information on the Companys Corporate Governance policies and principles are available on our website: www.
The UK Corporate Governance Code is available at www.
Compliance with Corporate Governance Standards Since its admission to listing on the London Stock Exchanges main market, EVRAZs approach to corporate governance is primarily based on the UK Corporate Governance Code and the Listing Rules of the UK Listing Authority.
The Company follows the comply or explain approach and complies with the UK Corporate Governance Code or, if it does not comply, explains the reasons for non-compliance.
As of 31 December 2011 we comply with all the principles and best practice provisions of the UK Corporate Governance Code with the following exceptions: r Contrary to provisions A.
3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, the Chairman does not meet the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
However, the other Directors consider that Alexander Abramovs long-term relationship with the Group and his importance to it mean his presence as Chairman is in the best interests of Shareholders.
The presence of independent non-executive directors on the Board also helps to ensure that there are appropriate checks and balances in place.
r Contrary to provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, only two of the three members of the Audit Committee were independent non-executive directors during 2011.
Olga Pokrovskaya is a member of the Audit Committee, but does not meet the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Since more than 50% of EVRAZ activities and operations are based in the Russian Federation, Olga Pokrovskayas technical and regional experience and qualifications, as a past senior audit manager at Arthur Anderson and as Head of Corporate Finance at Sibneft, is of particular value to the Committee and her experience would be extremely difficult to replicate, particularly as EVRAZ is seeking to strengthen diversity on its Board.
The Company considers that, in light of her involvement with the Group over a number of years and her experience in this area, her membership of the Audit Committee is to the benefit of the Group.
Furthermore, on 28 February 2012 Sir Michael Peat, an independent non-executive director, was appointed to the Audit Committee, and the Company has therefore been compliant with provision C. 3.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code since that date.
r Contrary to provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code, only two of the five members of the Remuneration Committee were independent non-executive directors during 2011.
Mr. Abramov and Mr. Tenenbaum are members of the Remuneration Committee, but do not meet the independence criteria set out in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
However, independent non-executive directors comprise the majority these are Mr. Baxter Chairman of the Remuneration Committee, Mr. Gruber and Mr. Izosimov and, when matters affecting their membership of the Board and Mr. Abramovs chairmanship of the company are discussed, Mr. Abramov and or Mr. Tenenbaum as applicable will not be present, as required.
Board of Directors The Board of EVRAZ plc was formed upon its incorporation on 14 October 2011.
Prior to this date, the Group was controlled by Evraz Group S. A. which was responsible for governance and management of the Group.
In 2011, EVRAZ plc held four Board meetings between its incorporation and 31 December 2011.
Evraz Group S. A. held 11 meetings during the year prior to the listing of EVRAZ and a further three meetings between that date and 31 December 2011.
The members of the Board of EVRAZ plc as at 31 December 2011 were: Alexander Abramov Chairman, Alexander Frolov CEO, Olga Pokrovskaya, Eugene Shvidler, Eugene Tenenbaum, Duncan Baxter, Karl Gruber, Terry Robinson and Sir Michael Peat.
The following tables set out the attendance of each Director at Evraz Group S. A. and EVRAZ plc Board and committee meetings.
62 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report Continued Evraz Group S. A.
Board Meetings and Committees Attendance During 2011 Board members Board meetings Remuneration HSE Audit Alexander Abramov 13 of 14 2 of 2 1 of 1 Otari Arshba 12 of 14 1 Duncan Baxter elected in May 2011 10 of 10 2 of 2 Alexander Frolov 14 of 14 1 of 1 Karl Gruber 13 of 14 2 of 2 Olga Pokrovskaya 14 of 14 5 of 5 Terry Robinson 14 of 14 5 of 5 Eugene Shvidler 12 of 14 Eugene Tenenbaum 11 of 14 2 of 2 2 Gordon Toll resigned in May 2011 4 of 4 1 of 1 1 Mr. Baxter was elected as a director of Evraz Group S. A. in May 2011.
Between the date of his appointment and 31 December 2011, ten board meetings were held, all of which Mr. Baxter attended.
2 Mr. Toll resigned as a director of Evraz Group S. A. in May 2011.
Between 1 January 2011 and the date of his resignation, four board meetings were held, all of which Mr. Toll attended.
1 EVRAZ plc Board Meetings Attendance and Committees Attendance During 2011 2 3 Board members Board meetings Remuneration HSE Audit Alexander Abramov 3 of 4 n a Duncan Baxter 3 of 4 n a 1 of 1 Alexander Frolov 4 of 4 1 of 1 Karl Gruber 3 of 4 n a 1 of 1 Sir Michael Peat 2 of 4 n a Olga Pokrovskaya 3 of 4 1 of 1 Terry Robinson 4 of 4 1 of 1 1 of 1 Eugene Shvidler 3 of 4 Eugene Tenenbaum 3 of 4 n a 1 There were no meetings of the Nominations Committee in 2011.
The Nominations Committee was established on 14 October 2011 prior to the Companys admission to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
For more information about the Nominations Committee please refer to the Nominations Committee section of this report on page 67.
2 The Remuneration Committee of EVRAZ plc was established on 14 October 2011 prior to the Companys admission to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
For more information about the Remuneration Committee please refer to the Remuneration Committee section of this report on pages 6667 There were no meetings of the Remuneration Committee in 2011.
3 The Audit Committee met three times between 1 January 2012 and 20 April 2012.
All members attended all three meetings with the exception of Sir Michael Peat who attended one out of the three meetings.
The Audit Committee meeting held on 20 April 2012 was attended via a conference call by all members of the Committee.
Board Balance and Independence As at 31 December 2011, the Board of EVRAZ plc consisted of nine members, comprising eight non-executive directors and one executive director.
In addition, on 28 February 2012, Alexander Izosimov was appointed to the Board as an additional non-executive director.
During 2011, there were four members of the Board those other than Alexander Frolov, Alexander Abramov, Olga Pokrovskaya, Eugene Shvidler and Eugene Tenenbaum that were deemed to be independent in character and judgement pursuant to the UK Corporate Governance Code and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement.
In reaching its determination of independence, the Board concluded that each one provided an objective challenge to management and was willing to stand up to defend their own beliefs and viewpoints in order to support the ultimate good of the Company and there were no relationships or circumstances likely to affect, or which could have appeared to affect, the judgement of any of its independent non-executive directors.
For completeness, the Board did consider an arms length business arrangement between one of the non-independent directors and the son of Sir Michael Peat, the senior independent director of the Company, and satisfied itself that this arrangement has no impact on Sir Michael Peats independence.
Since the appointment of Alexander Izosimov in February 2012, at least half of the members of the Board are independent non-executive directors in compliance with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The Company regards this as an appropriate board structure.
The Company notes the Financial Reporting Councils recent announcement to amend the UK Corporate Governance Code to strengthen the principle of boardroom diversity.
Role of the Board The Board and management of EVRAZ aim to pursue objectives in the best interests of EVRAZ, its shareholders and other stakeholders, and particularly to create long-term value for shareholders.
The EVRAZ Board is responsible for the following key aspects of governance and performance: r Financial and operational performance r Strategic direction r Major acquisitions and disposals Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Su Sus st ta aiin na abilit bility y Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 63 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 r Overall risk management r Capex and operational budgeting r Business planning The Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically reserved for its decision.
These include the following: r Responsibility for the Groups long-term objectives and commercial strategy.
r Responsibility for the overall management of the Group.
r Review of performance in the light of the Groups strategy, objectives, business plans and budgets and ensuring that any necessary action is taken to deliver the required performance.
r Changes relating to the Groups management and control structure, capital structure and major changes to corporate structure.
r Approval of Group policies and all circulars, prospectuses and listing particulars.
r Approval of the Annual Report and accounts, results announcements and interim management statements.
r Approval of the dividend policy and any significant changes in accounting policies or practices.
r Approval of resolutions and corresponding documentation to be put forward to shareholders at a general meeting.
r Ensuring maintenance of a sound system of internal control and risk management.
r Changes and appointments to and removals from the Board and Board committees.
r Appointment, re-appointment or removal of the external auditor.
r Determining the remuneration policy for the directors, Company Secretary and key senior management and remuneration policy of the non-executives subject to the articles of association and shareholder approval as appropriate.
r Undertaking a formal and rigorous review annually of its own performance, that of its Committees and individual directors.
Chairman and Chief Executive The Board determines the division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer.
The Chairmans principal responsibility is the effective running of the Board, ensuring that the Board as a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and determination of the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives.
The Chief Executive Officer is responsible for leading the Groups operating performance and day-to-day management.
The main roles and responsibilities are outlined below: Role of the Chairman The Chairmans key responsibilities include: r Presiding at all meetings of the shareholders and the Board and being the guardian of the Boards decision-making processes.
r Running the Board, including ensuring delegation of authority to executive directors and management and setting its agenda.
r Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information on the Groups performance and the issues, challenges and opportunities facing the Group so that the Board takes sound decisions and promotes the success of the Group.
r Ensuring that Board agendas take full account of the important, complex and contentious issues facing the Group and the concerns of all Board members and encouraging active engagement by all members of the Board.
r Proposing to the Board, in consultation with the Chief Executive Officer, Company Secretary and Committee Chairmen: A Schedule of Reserved Matters for the Board for its decision: Terms of Reference for each Board Committee: and Other Board policies and procedures.
r Initiating succession planning in board appointments to retain and build an effective and complementary Board, and to facilitate the appointment of effective and suitable members and Chairmen of board committees.
r Ensuring that there is effective communication by the Group with its shareholders and ensuring that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the major investors in the Group.
r Ensuring there is a properly constructed induction programme for new directors.
r Ensuring that the performance of the Board as a whole, its Committees, and individual directors is formally and rigorously evaluated at least once a year.
r Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance throughout the Group and particularly at Board level.
Role of the Chief Executive Officer The Chief Executive Officers principal responsibility is running the business of the Company and its subsidiaries.
The key responsibilities of the CEO include: r Proposing and developing the Groups strategy and overall commercial objectives, which he does in close consultation with the Chairman and the Board.
r Implementing, with the executive team, the decisions of the Board and its Committees including those regarding an annual budget and financial plans, and identification and execution of new business opportunities.
r Ensuring that he she maintains a dialogue with the Chairman on the important and strategic issues facing the Group, and proposing Board agendas to the Chairman which reflect these.
r Providing input to the Chairman and Company Secretary on appropriate changes to the Schedule of Reserved Matters for the Board and Terms of Reference for each Board Committee.
r Providing information and advice on succession planning to the Chairman, the Nominations Committee and other members of the Board, particularly in respect of executive directors.
r Progressing, in conjunction with the Chief Financial Officer and, where relevant, the Chairman, the communication programme with shareholders.
r Commenting on induction programmes for new directors and ensuring that appropriate management time is made available for the process.
r Ensuring that the development needs of the executive directors and other senior management reporting to him her are identified and met.
r Ensuring that performance reviews are carried out at least once a year for each of the executive directors and providing input to the wider Board evaluation process.
r Promoting, and conducting the affairs of the Group with the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate governance.
64 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report Continued Board Expertise The Board has the appropriate skills and experience necessary to discharge its functions.
Executive and non-executive directors have the experience required to contribute meaningfully to the Boards deliberations and resolutions.
Full details of expertise and sector experience are detailed in the Board of Directors section above.
Induction and Professional Development The Chairman is responsible for ensuring that there is a properly constructed and timely induction programme for new directors upon joining the Board.
They have full access to a regular supply of financial, operational, strategic and regulatory information to help them discharge their responsibilities.
The Chairmans duties also include ensuring that the directors continually update their skills and their knowledge of and familiarity with the Company and the regular review and discussion with each director of their training and development needs.
Performance Evaluation Since EVRAZ plc was incorporated in October 2011 and only four Board meetings took place between that date and 31 December 2011, no formal performance evaluation was undertaken during 2011.
The Company intends to conduct regular performance evaluation of the Board going forward in line with the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Board Committees The four principal committees of the Board are the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee, the Nominations Committee and the Health, Safety and Environment Committee.
Prior to the incorporation of the Company in the UK in October 2011, the Audit Committee, the Remuneration Committee and the Health, Safety and Environment Committee operated as committees of Evraz Group S. A. for the first ten months of 2011.
The terms of reference for all Committees of EVRAZ plc are available on the Companys website: www.
Decisions on changes to the structure, size and composition of the Board including appointment of committee members and Chairmen are made by the Board following recommendations from the Nominations Committee.
Alexander Izosimov was appointed as a member of the Remuneration Committee and the Nominations Committee of EVRAZ Board on 28 February 2012.
Sir Michael Peat is no longer a member of the Remuneration Committee and has joined the Audit Committee.
Eugene Shvidler has been appointed to the Nominations Committee.
The Company has also established a Risk Committee which is an Executive Committee accountable to the Group CEO.
Further information on the activities of the Risk Committee can be found in the Risk Management section of the Corporate Governance report.
Audit Committee The Audit Committee of EVRAZ plc was established on 14 October 2011 as a committee of the Company, as part of the listing process.
Prior to this the Audit Committee was a committee of Evraz Group S. A.
On 14 October 2011 the Board approved new Terms of Reference for the committee which are aligned with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Members: Terry Robinson Chairman, Duncan Baxter, Olga Pokrovskaya and Sir Michael Peat appointed 28 February 2012.
Role of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee has responsibility for reviewing EVRAZs financial statements and oversees EVRAZs relationship with external auditors.
The responsibilities of the Committee include: r Monitoring the integrity of the Companys financial statements and annual and interim reports, preliminary statements, interim management statements and other formal announcements relating to its financial performance.
r Monitoring and reviewing the Groups financial and accounting policies and practices including the effectiveness of management processes and internal controls over financial reporting and operations.
r Reviewing and keeping under review the effectiveness of the Internal Controls and Business Risk Management Systems.
r Advising the Board on the Companys risk exposure, risk appetite, tolerance and strategy with consideration as to the financial and economic environment, and with these issues in mind, reviewing the companys risk management process.
r Reviewing the Companys Group-wide whistle blowing facilities and the effectiveness of appropriate follow-up processes, and the Companys systems and controls for the prevention, detection, reporting and investigation of any incidents of bribery or fraud.
r Monitoring and reviewing the effectiveness of the Companys Internal Audit function, particularly in the context of the Companys Business Risk Management Systems.
r Reviewing promptly all internal audit reports and management remediation action and timeframes.
r Considering and making recommendations to the Board as to shareholders resolutions at the Companys Annual General Meeting for the appointment, re-appointment or removal of the Companys external auditor.
r Overseeing the selection process for a new external auditor for the Company.
r Overseeing the companys relationship with the external auditor including: Making recommendations to the Board as to the external auditors remuneration: Reviewing and approving non-audit fees: and Assessing annually the external auditors independence, expertise, effectiveness and objectivity taken as a whole.
r Developing and implementing a policy for the supply of non-audit services.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Su Sus st ta aiin na abilit bility y Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 65 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Meetings The Audit Committee met five times as a committee of EVRAZ Group S. A. between 1 January 2011 and 14 October 2011 and once as a committee of EVRAZ plc between 14 October 2011 and 31 December 2011.
In addition, the Audit Committee met three times between 1 January 2012 and 20 April 2012.
All members attended all three meetings in 2012 with the exception of Sir Michael Peat, who attended one out of the three meetings.
The Audit Committee meeting held on 20 April 2012 was attended via conference call by all members of the Committee.
Only members of the Committee have the right to attend Committee meetings.
However, other individuals such as the Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary, the head and members of the Internal Audit Department and members of the finance function may be invited to attend all or part of any meeting as and when appropriate.
Activities in 2011 The Committees principal activities during 2011 including the activities of both Evraz Group S. A.
Audit Committee and EVRAZ plc Audit Committee were: Financial Reporting r Considering the issues and financial reporting timelines and processes relating to the Group and reporting obligations following the primary listing of EVRAZ plc.
r Considering matters relating to the Committees recommendation to the Board relating to annual Financial Statements for the year ended December 2010 and the audited half year statements as of June 2011, including consideration and testing: The Going Concern review: The Impairment review of operating assets and goodwill: and Other significant accounting judgements and management estimates.
r Receiving reports from the external auditors on matters relating to the annual financial statements, including the letter of representation which were carefully reviewed and discussed with the external auditors.
r Post the finalisation of the Financial Statements for the year to December 2010, reviewing and discussing with management and the external auditors the Management Letter.
r Reviewing Evraz Group S. A. s MD&A, Preliminary and Results Press statements and the full year, December 2010 and half year, June 2011 and the Investor presentations at each reporting date.
r Similarly considering matters relating to the Committees review and recommendation to the Board with regard to EVRAZ plcs unaudited Financial Statements and, the inclusion thereof, in the unaudited Preliminary Results Statement for the year to December 2011, together with reviewing the draft 2011 Analysts presentation.
In addition to considering and testing the Impairment review and the significant accounting judgements and management estimates, the Audit Committee, as a result of the uncertainty and instability of the current economic climate considered various sensitized group cash flow models, together with a detailed review of the Groups borrowing covenants.
As a consequence, the Audit Committee reported to the Companys directors that after their due and careful consideration and approval, it was appropriate that there was a reasonable expectation that the Group had adequate liquidity and resources to support the going concern Basis of Preparation of the Financial Statements.
Since 31 December 2011, the Audit Committees activities were: r Reviewing the Companys 2011 Annual Report, its Financial Statements, operating and financial review, Directors Report and other reports for consistency with the Financial Statements and regulatory requirements, and recommending the Annual Report for the approval of the Companys directors.
Risk Management r Reviewing the Groups key risks as detailed and evaluated in the Groups risk register together with the appropriateness of the scope and nature of the managements agreed risk mitigating actions.
External Auditors r Reviewing the external auditors terms, independence and scope of engagement and the external audit fee.
Internal Audit r Reviewing and approving the restated Group Internal Audit Charter.
r Reviewing the key issues of internal audit and agreeing on the implementation of a system of self-assurance.
r Considering the half yearly detailed internal audit reports, including whistle blowing activity.
r Considering the half yearly fraud and security reports.
r Considering an Internal audit report of the Russian Federation supply chain controls and appropriate remediation action.
Additional issues r Reviewing the listing documents for EVRAZ plc.
r Reviewing all related party transactions for the 2010 year end and for 2011 half year.
r Reviewing the Long Form Report, the Working Capital Report and the report on financial reporting procedures, prepared by the external auditor as a consequence of the additional financial due diligence for the Companys primary listing on the London Stock Exchange.
r Making recommendations for the Companys management to consider: The appointment of an in-house Competent Person to keep under review and report on the Companys significant mining reserves and resources: To set in hand processes to keep under review the parameters for stress testing the Companys liquidity model.
The Committee met separately with the external auditors, EVRAZ management and internal audit on a regular basis for individual discussion.
In addition, the Committee has invited to meetings the Groups Head of Accounting and Controlling Directorate and members of the financial accounting team, the Group CEO, the Senior Vice President and CFO of the International Division, Vice President for IT as well as members of the internal audit team.
The Committee Chairman has held individual discussions with a significant investing institution concerning corporate governance in general, risk management and the operation of the Audit Committee.
66 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report Continued Non-Audit Services As reported in previous years, the Group engages accountancy firms for due diligence work in connection with acquisitions and capital market transactions and for tax advice.
Where such services are provided by the external auditors, at the discretion of management, the Committee has agreed fee limits for the engagement of non-audit services.
The limit for such management discretion is for non-audit fees of US$25,000 or less than US$100,000 in aggregate during the financial year.
In instances where these limits would be exceeded, on the request of management, prior approval to such engagements is required together with the detail and scope of such engagement mandates and corresponding fees.
Such approval is given after proper enquiry in the first instance by the Audit Committee Chairman and then by subsequent Audit Committee approval.
Generally non-audit engagements are subject to a tender process.
The Committee has recorded with management that it is uncomfortable with the current level of non-audit fees, particularly in comparison with the audit fee.
The 2011 audit fee has been increased on a one-off basis by the interim audit connected with the Companys primary listing.
Similarly the 2011 non-audit fee has been bolstered by significant capital market engagements relating to the Groups primary listing on the London Stock Exchange, such fees being the normal responsibility of a Companys external auditor.
While the Audit Committee does not believe the independence of the external audit is compromised, if engagement of the external auditors for consultative work continues at the 2011 level, there is a danger that the question of independence of the external advisors will increase, in perception if not in reality.
The cause of the increase is that as part of the Groups Project Lean, the external auditor is engaged on a number of separate productivity initiatives and the key issue driving the level of non-audit fees is the scarcity within the CIS of alternative economic and qualified consultants.
The Audit Committee has requested management to investigate alternative consultative processes.
Breakdown of Audit and Non-Audit Fees 2011 2010 2010 US$ million US$ million US$ million Assurance services Audit of the parent Company of the Group 4 2 2 Audit of the subsidiaries 7 6 5 Total assurance services 11 8 7 Other services Services in connection with capital market transactions 3 1 Other non-audit services not covered above 2 1 Total other services 5 2 Grand total 16 10 7 Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee of EVRAZ plc was established on 14 October 2011 as a committee of the Company, as part of the listing process.
Prior to this the Remuneration Committee was a committee of Evraz Group S. A.
On 14 October 2011 the Board approved new Terms of Reference for the committee, which are aligned with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
Members: Duncan Baxter Chairman, Alexander Abramov Chairman of the Board, Karl Gruber, Sir Michael Peat and Eugene Tenenbaum.
On 28 February 2012 the following changes occurred in the composition of the Remuneration Committee: a Sir Michael Peat left the Remuneration Committee and was appointed to the Audit Committee of the Group: and b Alexander Izosimov was appointed as a member.
Role of the Remuneration Committee The Remuneration Committee makes recommendations to the Board on management compensation, as well as on the remuneration packages of the Chairman and the Executive Director.
No directors are involved in deciding their own remuneration.
The Committee may invite other individuals to attend such as the Chief Executive Officer and the Head of Human Resources and external advisers for all or part of any Committee meeting as and when appropriate and necessary.
Responsibilities of the Remuneration Committee are: r Determining and agreeing with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the Chairman of the Board, the Companys Chief Executive Officer, the Company Secretary and key senior management and recommend non-executive directors remuneration.
r Taking into account all factors which it deems necessary to determine such framework or policy including all relevant legal and regulatory requirements, the provisions and recommendations of the UK Corporate Governance Code and associated guidance.
r Reviewing and taking into account the remuneration trends across the Group when setting remuneration policy for directors.
r Regularly reviewing the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy.
r Determining the total individual remuneration package of the Chairman of the Board, the Company Secretary and key senior management, including pension rights, bonuses, benefits in kind, incentive payments and share options or other share awards within the terms of the agreed policy and in consultation with the Chairman and or Chief Executive Officer.
r Approving awards for participants where existing share incentive plans are in place.
r Reviewing and approving any compensation payable to executive directors and senior executives.
r Overseeing any major changes in employee benefit structures throughout the Group.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Su Sus st ta aiin na abilit bility y Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 67 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Activities in 2011 During 2011, the Remuneration Committee of Evraz Group S. A. met twice.
The purpose of the meetings was to consider and to make recommendations to the Board on management compensation, as well as the remuneration packages of the Chairman and the Executive Director.
For the Remuneration Report please refer to page 70.
Nominations Committee The Nominations Committee was established on 14 October 2011 prior to the Companys admission to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market.
Members: Sir Michael Peat Chairman, Alexander Abramov, Terry Robinson, Alexander Izosimov appointed 28 February 2012, and Eugene Shvidler appointed 28 February 2012.
Role of the Nominations Committee The role of the Nominations Committee is to advise the Board on its composition, making recommendations with respect to addition to or replacement of Directors when appropriate.
Responsibilities of the Nominations Committee are as follows: r Reviewing regularly the structure, size and composition of the Board and making recommendations to the Board on any appropriate changes.
r Identifying and nominating, for the Boards approval, suitable candidates to fill any vacancies for non-executive and, with the assistance of the Chief Executive, executive directors.
r Planning for the orderly succession of directors to the Board.
r Recommending to the Board the membership and chairmanship of the Audit, Remuneration, and Health, Safety and Environmental committees.
r Overseeing senior management development and succession plans to ensure that there is continuity of appropriate executive resource immediately below Board level.
Meetings There were no appointments to the Board between the admission of EVRAZ plc to the Main Market of the London Stock Exchange and 31 December 2011, and accordingly the Nominations Committee did not meet during 2011.
The Nominations Committees objectives for 2012 are to: r review the plan for the retirement by rotation and re-election of directors of EVRAZ and the framework for Board succession planning for 2012 to 2013: and r enhance the knowledge and skills of the Board through the addition of new, suitably diverse directors.
Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Health, Safety and Environmental Committee of EVRAZ plc was established on 14 October 2011 as a committee of the Company, as part of the listing process.
Prior to this the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee was a committee of Evraz Group S. A.
The Evraz Board on 14 October 2011 approved new Terms of Reference for the committee, which are aligned with the principles of the UK Corporate Governance Code and Karl Gruber was elected Chairman of the Committee.
The previous Chairman was Gordon Toll who resigned from the Board of Directors of Evraz Group S. A. in May 2011.
Members: Karl Gruber Chairman, Alexander Frolov and Terry Robinson.
Role of the Health, Safety and Environmental Committee The Health, Safety and Environment Committee leads the Boards thinking on health and safety issues, as well as maintaining responsibility for environmental, security and local community matters.
Responsibilities of the Health, Safety and Environment Committee are: r Assessing the performance of the Group with regard to the impact of health, safety, environmental and community relations decisions and actions upon employees, communities and other third parties and on the reputation of the Group.
r On behalf of the Board, receiving reports from management concerning all fatalities and serious accidents within the Group and actions taken by management as a result of such fatalities or serious accidents.
r Reviewing the results of any independent audits of the Groups performance in regard to environmental, health, safety and community relations matters, review any strategies and action plans developed by management in response to issues raised and, where appropriate make recommendations to the Board concerning the same.
r Making whatever recommendations to the Board it deems appropriate on any area within its remit where action or improvement is needed.
r Producing a report on its activities to be included in the Companys Annual Report.
Meetings During 2011, the Committee met twice.
Activities in 2011 r The Committee approved the HSE Policy and Key Safety Requirement for the Group which was approved by the Board in March 2011. r The Committee reviewed the performance indicators and activities of the Company with regard to Health, Safety and Environment.
r The Committee reviewed the Groups key HSE risks as detailed and evaluated in the Groups risk register together with the appropriateness of the scope and nature of the managements agreed risk mitigating actions.
r The Committee determined the strategic initiatives for 2012. r The Committee approved the approach with regard to selection of a corporate consultant and auditor for continued implementation of the safety systems ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001. r Presentation of HSE Group statistics and highlights for the year.
r The Committee approached the HSE strategic metrics on 30 November 2011. r HSE Targets for 2012 were approved on 30 November 2011 in the following areas: Health and safety: Environment: and Ongoing safety projects.
68 EVRAZ plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 Corporate Governance Report Continued Risk Management and Internal Control Risk Management The Groups business and operations are exposed to various business risks.
While a number of these risks are operational or procedural in nature, several of these risks are inherent in the character and jurisdiction of the Groups international business activities, while others relate to changes in the global economy and are largely outside managements control.
As a structured and coordinated Group-wide governance approach, the Groups executives have created an enterprise risk management process ERM designed to identify, quantify, respond to and monitor the consequences of an executive agreed risk schedule that encompasses both internal and external critical risks.
This process is consistent with the listing rules published by the UK Financial Services Authority and is based on the Turnbull Guidance on Internal Control.
The ERM process is fully supported by the Board, the Audit Committee and executive management.
Senior management, tasked with the development of the ERM process, identified key risk elements and, in order to further risk management accountability, assigned ownership of the relevant risk areas to senior managers according to their designated functions.
As a result of the ERM process, a Risk Committee, under the chairmanship of the Audit Committee Chairman and including within its membership the Group CEO and vice presidents, is established and mandated to have oversight of the Groups risk profile and supervise the entire risk management process including response procedures.
The Groups executive management is responsible for embedding the agreed Risk Management related internal controls and mitigating actions throughout the entirety of the Groups business and operations and through all levels of management and supervisory personnel.
Such practices serve to encourage a risk conscious business culture.
We apply the following core principles to the identification, monitoring and management of risk throughout the organisation: r Risks are identified, documented, assessed, monitored, tested and the risk profile communicated to the relevant risk management team on a regular basis.
r Business management and the risk management team are primarily responsible for ERM and accountable for all risks assumed in their operations.
r The Board is responsible for assessing the optimum balance of risk through the alignment of business strategy and risk tolerance on an enterprise-wide basis.
r All acquired businesses are brought within the Groups system of internal control as soon as practicable.
OAO Raspadskaya, in which the Group indirectly holds a 40% interest, is not within the Groups system of internal control.
Risk Committee The Risk Committee was established on 14 October 2011 prior to the Companys admission to trading on the London Stock Exchanges main market and the terms of reference were approved by the Risk Committee on 30 November 2011.
The Chairman of the Audit Committee, Terry Robinson, a non-executive director, also chairs the Risk Committee.
Further members of the Risk Committee include the relevant senior and executive management of EVRAZ plc with accountability for delivering appropriate business and operation risk management mitigation actions as part of their functional responsibility.
Furthermore, the Committee invites Head of Group Internal Audit, members of senior management and Audit Committee members to attend all its meetings.
The Committee meets at least twice a year at appropriate times and at other times as required.
The Committees role is one of oversight and supervision of the Groups risk profile and risk framework.
It is tasked with reviewing the overall risk profile and resulting Risk Register of the Group for completeness and monitoring the related risk management actions and risk event management ownership within the divisions, functions and at corporate level.
Responsibilities of the Risk Committee include: r Reviewing annually the Groups internal control and assurance framework to satisfy itself on the design and completeness of the framework relative to the Groups activities and risk profile: r Considering and recommending to the Board for approval via the Group Chief Executive and or the Committee chairman parameters for the Groups risk appetite: r Reviewing and monitoring the Groups risk profile and the appropriateness of the Groups risk measurement systems: r Reviewing the completeness of the Groups Principal Risk Categories and appropriateness of the supporting documentation and approving the creation of new Key Risk Categories in the Risk Register: and r Receiving and reviewing reports that assess the nature and extent of risks facing the Group.
During 2011, the Risk Committee reviewed and updated the Groups risk matrix together with related risk mitigating actions and delivered its proposals to the Board for consideration and adoption.
The Committee also recommended the development of a risk appetite profile based on the Groups Impact and Probability risk matrix.
Both the risk appetite and the Probability risk matrix with mitigating actions were adopted.
Additionally, regional executive risk committees were established in North America and South Africa to enhance the risk identification process using a bottom up approach to complement the top down approach which was used for initial risk identification and assessment and preparation of the Group risk register in 2011.
The Committee also reviewed plans to extend the risk management process to the entity-level during 2012.
Controls EVRAZs internal control systems have been designed to manage rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve business objectives and provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Consistent with its governance policies, the Group continues to improve the process through which the effectiveness of its internal control system can be regularly reviewed as required by provision C. 2.1 of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
The process enables the Board and the Audit Committee to review the effectiveness of the system of internal controls in place within the Group to manage significant business, operational and financial risks including, environmental, safety and ethical risks throughout the year.
Business Overview Strategy Operating Review Su Sus st ta aiin na abilit bility y Financial Review Governance Financial Statements EVRAZ plc 69 Annual Report and Accounts 2011 The processes of preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements are designed to prevent any material misstatements and present such Financial Statements fairly in accordance with the Groups accounting policies.
The use of our standard accounting manual and reporting pack by our finance teams throughout the group ensures that transactions are recognised and measured in accordance with prescribed accounting policies and that information is gathered and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of the Consolidated Financial Statements.
The Audit Committee considers all significant judgements and estimates made in the preparation of the Financial Statements for the period and reviews and analyses the Annual Report and Accounts.
Each Financial Statements are required to be approved by the Audit Committee and the Companys Board.
The Audit Committee has the primary oversight role of the Groups internal control regime and has direction as to the internal audit function resources and annual audit programmes thereby ensuring that the Groups ongoing internal control process is adequate and effective.
Internal Audit Internal audit is an independent appraisal function established by the Board to evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of controls, systems and procedures, within EVRAZ plc, in order to reduce business risks to an acceptable level in a cost effective manner.
The latest version of the Internal Audit Charter of EVRAZ plc was approved by the Board on 13 December 2011.
The role of internal audit in the Group is to provide an independent, objective, innovative, responsive and effective value-added internal audit service through a systematic and disciplined approach by assisting management in controlling risks, monitoring compliance, improving the efficiency and effectiveness of internal control systems and governance processes.
In 2011, EVRAZs Head of Internal Audit attended all the meetings of the Audit Committee and addressed any reported deficiencies in internal control as required by the Audit Committee.
The Audit Committee continued to engage with executive management during the year to monitor the effectiveness of internal control and accordingly considered certain deficiencies that had been identified in internal control together with managements response to such deficiencies.
The Audit Committee also agreed timelines for effecting the proposed corrective actions in respect of the aforementioned deficiencies.
The annual internal audit programme is predominantly risk-based and in 2011 incorporated particular assignments and priorities agreed by the Audit Committee.
Further, the scope of the 2011 annual internal audit plan included a review of the internal control systems of newly acquired trading subsidiaries as considered appropriate for effective risk management.
The Companys internal audit is structured on a regional basis, reflecting the developing geographic diversity of the Groups operations.
In the light of this the head office internal audit function has furthered implementation of common internal audit practices throughout the Group.
During 2011 the internal audit function worked in cooperation with Ernst & Young, EVRAZs external auditor, in conducting their respective responsibilities for the Group.
In 2011 KPMG conducted a quality assessment review of EVRAZs internal audit function in Russian Federation and Ukraine, and the Institute of Internal Auditors the IIA in US and Canada, to attest the conformity of EVRAZs internal audit activity with the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal auditing developed by the Institute of Internal Auditors as well as best practice in internal auditing.
Based on this review KPMG and the IIA issued reports with the assessment of the respective EVRAZs Internal audit activities.
Recommendations of these reports contributed to further refinement of the function.
Further information regarding the Companys internal control processes can be found on the Companys website.
Conicts of Interest Alexander Abramov is the Chairman of the Company and Alexander Frolov is the CEO.
Olga Pokrovskaya, Eugene Shvidler, Alexander Abramov and Alexander Frolov have been appointed to the Board of Directors of the Company by the major shareholder pursuant to the terms of the relationship agreement.
The indirect and direct shareholdings of these Directors in the share capital of the Company are set out in the Directors Report.
No other conflicts of interests exist between the private interests of the Directors or Members of Senior Management and their duties to the Company.
Relations with Shareholders An ongoing dialogue with stakeholders is an essential aspect of corporate activity.
We use various communication channels including, in terms of financial calendar reporting and disclosure, announcements made via the London Stock Exchange the LSE, the Annual Report and Accounts, the Annual General Meeting the AGM and the Companys website www.
The Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive, senior management and the investor relations team regularly engage with institutional investors to discuss the Companys operations and a wide range of issues including governance.
Approximately 210 individual group meetings, conferences and other public events involving the investment community took place during 2011.
The senior independent director is available to shareholders if they have concerns that have not been resolved by contact through the normal channels of chairman, chief executive or finance director or for which such contact is inappropriate.
Constructive use of Annual General Meeting The AGM is an opportunity for shareholders to communicate with the Board and the Board welcomes their participation.
The Chairman and the respective Chairmen of the respective Committees will be present at the AGM to answer shareholders questions.
The next AGM will be held on 18 June 2012.
Details of the resolutions to be proposed at the next AGM can be found in the Notice of AGM.
The Board has determined that voting on all resolutions at the AGM will be by way of a poll.
Each member present in person or by proxy has one vote for each fully paid ordinary share of which she he is a holder.
Information Pursuant to the Takeovers Directive The Company has provided the additional information required by DTR 7.2.
7 directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of directors: powers of the directors: restrictions on voting rights and rights regarding control of the Company in the Directors Report.
