Directors' report Significant Agreements Change of Control There are no circumstances connected with The principal consequences of a change of control significant agreements to which we are a party on these agreements will be that 1 substantially all that would take effect, alter or terminate upon a of the restrictions in the relationship Agreement change of control following a takeover bid with the will lapse: and 2 the loan facility will be repayable exception of the relationship Agreement referred upon request by the lender.
to above and a loan facility for US$100 million.
Key Relationships We enjoy stable relationships with the suppliers of essential services.
The agreements that are critical to our business are: yenisey llc for oil processing AK Transneft JSC for oil storage and transport services licences are also critical to our operations, and therefore our relationships with the russian government departments responsible for issuing licences are important.
Statement on Disclosure of Information to Auditors Each of the Directors at the date of the approval of this report confirms that: 1. so far as the Director is aware, there is no relevant audit information of which our auditors are unaware: and 2. the Director has taken all the steps that ought to have been taken as a Director to make the Director aware of any relevant audit information and to establish that our auditors are aware of the information.
Going Concern our business activities, together with the financing and exposure to contingent liabilities.
factors likely to affect our future development, The Directors believe that our forecasts and performance and position including financial risk projections, taking account of reasonably possible factors are set out on pages 18 to 19. in carrying changes in trading performance, show that we out their assessment, the Directors have considered are adequately financed and for this reason they our business, budget, cash flow forecast, trading continue to adopt the going concern basis in estimates, contractual arrangements, committed preparing the Financial Statements.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2012.
