Exillon Energy corporate governance report CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction The Board is committed to good corporate Financial reporting councils website governance practices.
governance procedures and processes following our listing in December 2009.
We are subject to This report describes how we have applied, or how the UK corporate governance code governance we intend to apply, the principles set out in the Code.
The Governance Code is available from the governance code.
Statement of Compliance it is the Boards intention to comply with the relevant provisions of the governance code in all material respects.
The Board considers that it complied with all the relevant provisions set out in the governance code throughout 2011, with the exception that no formal evaluation of the Board was undertaken, as explained below.
Directors Board of Directors The Board comprises non-Executive chairman All Directors have access to the advice and David Herbert, Chief Executive Officer Mark Martin services of the company Secretary, who is and three independent non-Executive Directors.
responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are l. Stuard Detmer has been appointed the Senior followed and that applicable rules and regulations independent Director.
The other two non-Executive are complied with.
Directors are Ezio Bracco and Anne Belvze.
Thomas Johnson is the Company Secretary of Biographical details of all the Directors at the date Exillon Energy plc.
in respect of the statutory of this report are set out on pages 12 to 13.
The aspects of the role under isle of Man law, he is Board is responsible for setting our objectives and supported by cains Fiduciaries limited, a corporate policies, and providing effective leadership and the entity based in the isle of Man.
The Board and controls required for a publicly listed company.
The its committees are, therefore, serviced by the Board has a formal schedule of matters specifically company Secretary or his designated nominee.
reserved to it for decision which sets out those The Board will monitor the provision of company matters which require Board approval and include secretarial duties and take any action as appropriate our strategy, business plan and annual budget, to ensure its requirements are met.
in accordance major capital expenditure, project approvals with the Articles, the removal of the company and contract awards, as well as key policies and Secretary is a matter for the Board as a whole.
Matters not reserved to the Board are generally delegated to management.
All Directors may take independent professional advice at the companys expense in the furtherance Directors receive a suite of briefing notes and of their duties.
reports for their consideration in advance of each Board meeting, including reports on our Directors have the right to request that any operations, to ensure that they remain briefed on concerns they have are recorded in the appropriate the latest developments and are able to make fully Board or committee minutes.
The Board met eight times Directors and Officers Liability Insurance and during 2011, five of which were by telephone indemnity cover, the level of which is reviewed conferencing.
29 corporate governance report Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, and Senior Independent Director The roles of the chairman and chief Executive managing our business, proposing and developing Officer are held by different individuals and there our strategy and overall commercial objectives in is a clear separation of roles.
The chairmans consultation with the Board and, as leader of the key responsibilities are the effective running of executive team, implementing the decisions of the the Board, ensuring that the Board plays a full Board and its committees.
and constructive part in the development and determination of our strategy, and overseeing the Stuard Detmer is the Senior independent Director.
The chairmans Mr. Detmer is available to shareholders who other current responsibilities are set out in the have concerns that cannot be resolved through biographical notes on pages 12 to 13.
The key discussion with the Chief Executive Officer or responsibilities of the Chief Executive Officer are chairman.
Board Balance and Independence The Board believes that its current membership of The Board has also established a Conflicts a non-Executive chairman, one Executive Director committee of independent Directors to consider and three non-executive Directors is appropriate and, if appropriate, approve related party given our size and structure.
transactions whether in relation to Mr. Arip or any other Director.
A description of the Conflicts Maksat Arip resigned from the Board and as committee can be found below.
it therefore chairman on 27 April 2011 in order to concentrate considers that no single Director can dominate on the day-to-day management of our operations, decision-making.
as well as the development and implementation of our strategy.
The relationship Agreement which we The Board has considered the guidance criteria have had with Mr. Arip since the time of the ipo on independence of non-Executive Directors remains in effect.
it ensures that we are capable of under provision B.
carrying on our businesses independently, and that in the opinion of the Board all the non-Executive transactions between the parties are dealt with on Directors are independent.
an arms length basis and on normal commercial terms and that there shall at all times be a majority of Directors independent of Mr. Arip.
Appointments to the Board and Re-Election in 2011, in anticipation of amendments to the Directors are referred to more fully on page 15 of governance code, all directors agreed to submit the Directors' report.
The letters of appointment themselves to annual election in 2012.
While they of each non-Executive Director are available for are not required to do so under the laws of the isle inspection at the registered office.
Biographies of of Man, this is required by the UK governance all the Board members appear on pages 12 to 13. code.
The terms for the re-appointment of Information and Professional Development As part of the listing process in 2009 all Directors in addition to the formal meetings of the Board, then serving received a briefing of their duties, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer responsibilities and liabilities as a director of maintain frequent contact with the other Directors a public listed company.
going forward, the to discuss any issues of concern they may have practice will resume when other directors are relating to our business or as regards their area of appointed.
Directors are encouraged to keep responsibility and to keep them fully briefed on abreast of developments and attend training ongoing matters relating to our operations.
courses to assist them with their duties.
30 Exillon Energy corporate governance report Board Performance no annual performance evaluation was undertaken Martin became the Chief Executive Officer on 8 July of the Board, its committees, individual Directors 2011.
However, all members have confirmed their and the chairman during 2011.
The members general satisfaction with the Boards performance considered that it was premature to undertake such and plan to undertake an annual performance an evaluation bearing in mind that Mr. Herbert evaluation later in 2012. was elected as chairman on 27 April 2011 and Mr. Board Committees The following table sets out the number of meetings of the Board and its committees following its listing and individual attendance by the relevant members at these meetings.
committee Meetings Board Meetings Audit remuneration nomination Maksat Arip 4 8 n a n a 1 until 27 April 2011 Alessandro Manghi 4 8 n a n a n a until 8 July 2011 l. Stuard Detmer 8 8 4 4 3 Ezio Bracco 8 8 4 4 n a Anne Belvze 7 8 4 4 3 David Herbert 4 8 n a n a from 27 April 2011 Mark Martin 3 8 n a n a n a from 8 July 2011 no meetings held after 27 April 2011.
Audit Committee The members of the Audit committee are Anne arrangements, internal accounting standards and Belvze Chairman, Ezio Bracco and Stuard practice, theindependence of the external auditor, Detmer.
chairman Anne Belvze is considered to the integrity of our external financial reports and have recent and relevant experience.
Meetings are the effectiveness of our risk management and held at least four times a year.
The primary duty of internal control system.
The terms of reference of the Audit committee is to oversee our accounting the Audit committee are included on our website, and financial reporting process, external audit www.
Remuneration Committee The members of the remuneration committee are such other members of the executive management Stuard Detmer Chairman, Ezio Bracco and Anne as it is designated to consider.
Meetings are held at least twice a year.
of non-Executive Directors is a matter for the The primary duty of the remuneration committee chairman and the executive members of the is to determine and agree with the Board the Board.
no Director may be involved in any framework or broad policy for the remuneration decisions as to their own remuneration.
The terms of our Chief Executive Officer, Chairman, the of reference of the remuneration committee are Executive Directors, the company Secretary and included on ourwebsite, www.
com 31 corporate governance report Nomination Committee The members of the nomination committee are During 2011, Mr. Herbert was recruited to replace Stuard Detmer who replaced Maksat Arip as chairMr.
Arip as chairman, and Mr. Martin was reman on 26 April 2011, Anne Belvze, and David cruited to replace Mr. Manghi as chief ExecuHerbert from 26 April 2011.
Meetings are held tive Officer.
The Nomination Committee did not at least twice a year.
The nomination committees consider it necessary or appropriate to use an terms of reference, which are included on our webexternal search agency or open advertising as part site, www.
com, are to review reguof the recruitment process, given our longstandlarly the structure, size and composition including ing relationships with Mr. Herbert and Mr. Martin, the skills, knowledge and experience required of and their close familiarity with our business.
The the Board compared to its current position and nominations committee will review the use of make recommendations to the Board with regard external search agencies for future appointments to any changes.
it is the intention to review succeswhen considering new appointments.
sion plans for key management roles, including the Executive Director, on an ongoing basis.
"Corporate Social Responsibility Committee The Board has constituted a corporate Social cSr committee are independent non-Executive Responsibility ""CSR"" Committee to develop Director Ezio Bracco, the chief Executive and approve our corporate social responsibility Officer and the Chief Operating Officer."
The CSR policies including a new employee induction committee meets at least twice a year and its terms process policy, policy on the reporting and of reference are included on our website, investigating accidents, a code of business practice www.
The members of the The Conflicts Committee The Board has also constituted a Conflicts the relationship Agreement.
The members of committee to consider and make the Conflicts Committee are Stuard Detmer recommendations to the Board with respect to Chairman, Ezio Bracco and Anne Belvze.
The conflicts of interest authorisations for members Conflicts Committee meets immediately before of the Board, the approval of related party and or after each Board meeting, provided it has transactions and transactions governed by business to consider.
Remuneration Full details of the role and composition of the with the combined code provisions relating to remuneration committee, the remuneration remuneration are set out in the remuneration policy of the company and its compliance report on pages 21 to 28.
32 Exillon Energy corporate governance report Accountability and Audit Audit Committee Report The members of the Audit committee are Anne are regularly invited to attend meetings.
going Belvze Chairman, Ezio Bracco and Stuard forward, the Audit committee intends to meet our Detmer.
other Board members may also be external auditors without management present at invited to attend committee meetings.
Meetings least once per year.
The Audit committee met four are held at least four times a year.
The chief times in 2011 and reviewed the following items of Financial Officer is invited to attend meetings business: where appropriate and the groups Auditors consideration of matters relating to the appointment of our Auditors: the independence, objectivity and effectiveness of our Auditors: the integrity of our annual preliminary results announcements and any other formal announcement relating to our financial performance: accounting principles and practices adopted in the preparation of the financial statements and the basis for significant estimates and judgments: the effectiveness of our system of internal control and compliance procedures: our arrangements for employees to raise concerns, in confidence, about possible wrongdoing in financial reporting or other matters.
The Audit committees recommendations on early in 2012, a decision was made not to accounting treatment of major transactions will be employ an internal auditor at this time, due to submitted to the Board for approval.
budget reasons as well as the companys limited size.
Moreover, the Directors believed that There was no internal audit function in place in management has sufficient visibility to be able to 2011. in view of the complexity of our business, perform this function without having a dedicated the Audit committee decided in March 2011 that internal auditor.
it was appropriate for us to establish an internal audit function.
The first candidate for this position The terms of reference of the Audit committee are was not retained at the end of his probation included on our website, period.
Internal Control The Board has overall responsibility for our The Board regularly deals with the identification, system of internal control which includes risk evaluation and management of the significant management.
The Board has delegated the risks which we face.
it reviews with management responsibility for reviewing the effectiveness of its all material controls financial, operational and internal control systems to the Audit committee.
compliance and risk management systems.
The Audit committee will review these systems, During 2011, this led the Board to approve including reviewing risks, policies and processes the introduction of company credit cards to for tendering, authorisation of expenditure, fraud ensure the maintenance of proper accounting and the resourcing of internal audit activity, on records of business expenses, the adoption of a regular basis.
The day-to-day responsibility a new procedure for identifying, controlling or for managing risk and the maintenance of our eliminating payments to related parties, and system of internal control has been delegated to adoption of a procedure for monitoring and management.
controlling payment to or reimbursement of expenses to all directors and employees.
Due The system of internal control is designed to consideration of internal controls will be recorded manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure to in the minutes of the Board and the Audit achieve business objectives and can only provide committee.
We aim to follow current guidance on reasonable and not absolute assurance against internal control issued by the Financial reporting material misstatement or loss.
"Council the ""Turnbull Guidance""."
The Audit 33 corporate governance report committee assists the Board in discharging its and results are reflected, through compliance with review responsibilities.
A summary of the key risks approved accounting policies and the appropriate which we face and mitigating actions are described accounting for non-routine transactions.
The Audit on pages 18 to 19. committee reviews and discusses half-year and annual financial statements with management responsibility for maintaining an effective and the external auditors focusing on, without control environment for financial reporting has limitation, the quality and acceptability of been delegated to the Chief Financial Officer.
accounting policies and practices, the clarity of Managers at various levels also have operational the disclosures and compliance with financial responsibility within their respective areas.
internal reporting standards and relevant financial and control over financial reporting is designed to governance reporting requirement.
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of our and fair presentation of published financial system of internal controls taking account of the statements.
Consolidated financial statements are matters summarised above.
on the basis of this prepared on a semi-annual basis in accordance review, and in view of a number of related party with international Financial reporting Standards transactions with the chairman which were set IFRSs issued by the International Accounting out in the 2010 financial statements, additional Standards Board IASB and the Listing Rules of training of employees was undertaken to ensure the United Kingdoms Financial Services Authority that our listing obligations were fully understood FSA.
Data consolidated into our financial and complied with.
The Board is committed to statements is reconciled to the underlying financial ensuring that we introduce appropriate levels systems and management accounts.
A review of of risk management and internal control for the consolidated data is undertaken by the chief companies listed on the london Stock Exchange.
Financial Officer to ensure that our true position Auditor Independence The Audit committee also reviewed the The Audit committee monitors the types of nonindependence and effectiveness of the external audit work that is undertaken by the external auditors, accepting that their independence had auditors to ensure that their objectivity and been maintained throughout the audit process for independence is not compromised.
work performed during the year principally referred to services in relation to tax, as well The Audit committee has established a policy on as with respect to the share placement in April the provision of non-audit services by the external 2011.
The external auditor maintains safeguards auditor.
in compiling that policy, which sets to ensure the objectivity and independence of its out the external auditors acceptable and nonservice teams.
These safeguards include the use of acceptable non-audit services and a fee threshold separate teams where appropriate and the review requiring prior approval by the Audit committee of prospective assignments to ensure compliance for any new engagement, reference was made to with regulations.
"the ""Guidance for Audit Committees Reviewing Auditor Independence"", published by the Institute of chartered Accountants of England and Wales."
Appointment of Auditors We have taken a decision to put the external auditor role to tender in order to test the market and to receive new competitive bids.
Going Concern A statement on the Directors position regarding our business as going concern is contained in the Directors report on page 20.
34 Exillon Energy corporate governance report Share Capital Structure Our share capital structure is detailed in the Directors report on page 15.
Shareholder Relations Throughout 2011, members of our management including a 2012 roadshow, a capital Markets team, principally the Chief Executive Officer, met Day held in March and face-to-face meetings, has with investors in london, Edinburgh, Toronto, new been put in place to ensure regular interaction with york, San Francisco, Boston, Stockholm, paris, shareholders and analysts.
We conducted a number of meetings in March in connection with notice of the Annual general Meeting will be sent the share offering and in August following the to shareholders at least 20 working days before the announcement of our interim results.
The voting results will be made available our team participated in bank-sponsored annual on our website following the meeting.
investor seminars in london, Moscow and Warsaw.
corporate information including the Annual The Chief Executive Officer is responsible Report and other financial information and for ensuring the effective communication of announcements will be made available on our shareholders views to the Board as a whole and website at www.
Subject to updates the Board accordingly.
Board members shareholder approval, it is our intention to amend seek to keep in touch with shareholder opinion our Articles of Association to enable us not to and to discuss strategy and governance issues with print the Annual report in future and instead to them.
in addition an investor relations programme, distribute it via electronic means.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2012.
