62 Experian Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement This years evaluation, facilitated by the demonstrations.
In January 2011 and March Lygon Group, was intended to gain rigorous, 2011, sessions were presented to the Board honest feedback from Board members about on the Marketing Services business and how the Board is operating and to look for information security respectively.
areas where there is scope for improvement.
In addition, as part of the review, Board Remuneration engagement in May John Peace, members were asked to comment on each 2010, the Chairman of the Remuneration Chairman others' contribution to Board and committee Committee wrote to the Companys top meetings.
The review also included an shareholders and others with details of Chairmans introduction and highlights assessment of actions taken since the changes to be made to remuneration Experian is committed to good governance last external facilitation, for which there arrangements in 2010 as reported in we see it as crucial in ensuring that we were no adverse findings.
Further details, the report on directors remuneration.
conduct ourselves honestly, transparently including some of the recommendations A positive result followed at the annual and responsibly, and that we are and proposed actions from the 2010 review, general meeting in favour of the 2010 report appropriately accountable to stakeholders.
We see it not as a box-ticking exercise, but as a way of explaining to stakeholders Governance review in January and Refinancing the Board oversaw how the Company and the Board take March 2011, the Board and the Nomination programmes to ensure that maturing decisions to support the continued growth and Corporate Governance Committee financing facilities were managed on a of our business.
The Board has a central conducted a thorough review of governance.
timely basis and the necessary financial role to play in this regard in promoting This included consideration of the output resources were in place for the business.
We the long term success of the Company, by of the external board evaluation conducted saw US$1,700m successfully raised through implementing a framework of authority, in 2010, Board and committee composition the bank markets and the issue of 400m of accountability and risk identification taking into account the appointment of Sir 2018 Euronotes.
mitigation, which at the same time Alan Rudge as Deputy Chairman and the empowers people to make decisions that non-executive appointments made in June Risk reporting recognising the importance will ensure the continued success of the 2010, and an evaluation of how the Board of identifying risk, the Audit Committee business.
should best spend its time, in terms of site asked management to continue refining visits, to ensure the appropriate focus on the our reporting, for example, by implementing It is fair to say that our view of governance business.
a new reporting template in response reflects the trends in the regulatory to requests for broader commentary on environment.
The new UK Corporate Induction and training, new non-executive information security activities.
The new Governance Code, in particular, places the directors since their appointment in June reporting provides a greater focus on emphasis on applying the principles, rather 2010, Judith Sprieser and Paul Walker quantitative analysis, and provides a wider than the letter of, the Code.
Issued in June have participated in a comprehensive spectrum to include areas of success as 2010, the Code does not apply for Experian programme that included: Experians well as opportunities for improvement.
until next year, but Experian has chosen history: strategy: Credit Services, Decision voluntarily to report under the new Code this Analytics and Interactive businesses: New UK Corporate Governance Code the year.
As Chairman, I am therefore pleased corporate development: finance, audit, Board and the Nomination and Corporate to accept the UK Financial Reporting legal, risk, regulatory, human resources, Governance Committee have received Councils invitation to provide, through this investor relations and governance: product updates throughout the year on progress governance statement, an insight into how demonstrations: and specific geographic to ensure compliance with the new UK the principles relating to the role and the briefings on North America, Latin America, Corporate Governance Code.
Specific effectiveness of the Experian Board have UK and Ireland, EMEA, Asia Pacific and actions taken in readiness for the new Code been applied.
include: updating the terms of reference of the Board committees: updating my letter Some specific examples this year of the Induction and training, full Board in July of appointment to clarify that, as already application of these principles are as 2010, the full Board received presentations happens, a culture of openness and debate follows: from senior management from the UK is promoted in the boardroom: ensuring that and Ireland business, including details the risk management framework has a more External evaluation in line with the new of strategic initiatives and presentations formal link between key business objectives Code, Experian intends that the evaluation on strategic clients.
In September 2010, it and associated risks: plan agreed in early of the Board will continue to be facilitated was the turn of the North America senior 2011 to address individual training and externally at least every three years.
Prior management to present to the Board, development needs identified by directors: to the external facilitation that took place in and they provided a market overview and all directors standing for re-election at 2010, the last such evaluation was in 2007. and update, as well as several product the 2011 annual general meeting.
Governance Corporate governance statement 63 Shareholder feedback is always welcome and human resources are in place to achieve As reported in the Nomination and and if you have any particular comments the goals.
The Board reviews management Corporate Governance Committee report, or observations about this corporate and financial performance against those 67 the Committee keeps the Board structure, governance statement, please email goals.
It is accountable to shareholders for size, composition and succession needs governance@experian.
delivering financial performance and long under review and in 2010, in anticipation of term shareholder value.
To achieve this, the its future needs, the Board appointed two Board directs and monitors the Groups new non-executive directors and a Deputy affairs within a framework of controls which Chairman.
In the light of David Tylers Compliance statement enable risk to be appraised and managed intended retirement from the Board, it is It is the Boards view that the Company effectively through clear and robust planned that the Committee will undertake has been compliant with the provisions procedures and delegated authorities.
a further analysis of the future needs of set down in Section 1 of the Combined the Company, taking account of the current Code on Corporate Governance published Composition composition of the Board and its principal by the UK Financial Reporting Council committees, to ensure that the Board and The Board currently comprises the in 2008 throughout the year ended its principal committees have the required Chairman, three executive directors and 31 March 2011.
This statement, together skills, experience and diversity going seven independent non-executive directors with the diagram on the following page, forward and to provide, as far as possible, including a Deputy Chairman.
The Board explains how the Company has applied succession coverage for the various roles considers that its composition is appropriate the principles and complied with the on the Board including for the role of to oversee the Groups businesses and is provisions of the Combined Code during Chairman.
suitably diverse in background to address the year.
Additionally, the Company has the challenges of the areas in which chosen to comply voluntarily with the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Experian operates.
Biographical details of new UK Corporate Governance Code the directors, including details of any other There is a clear separation of the roles of the published by the UK Financial Reporting major directorships, are set out elsewhere in Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer Council in June 2010.
which is set down in writing.
Illustrated below is an extract from the written statement evidencing this separation.
In accordance with the provisions of the UK Board and committee structure Corporate Governance Code, the Board has decided that, in future, all directors The Chairmans expected maximum To support the principles of good should be subject to annual re-election commitment to Experian is an average of governance, the Board and its committees by shareholders.
David Tyler has notified one to two days per week.
the Board of his intention not to stand for re-election to the Board at the 2012 annual Role of the Board general meeting, following completion of The Board sets Experians strategic goals two three-year terms as a non-executive and ensures that the necessary financial director of the Company.
Responsibilities Chairman Chief Executive Officer CEO The effective running of the Board, and ensuring that the Board as The running of the Groups business, and developing the a whole plays a full and constructive part in the development and Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives.
determination of the Companys strategy and overall commercial objectives.
Promoting the highest standards of integrity, probity and corporate With the executive team, implementing the decisions of governance throughout the Company and particularly at Board level.
the Board, its committees and the principal subsidiaries.
Ensuring that the Board receives accurate, timely and clear information Ensuring that a dialogue is maintained with the Chairman on the Companys performance and issues, challenges and opportunities on the important and strategic issues facing the Company facing the Company.
and that the Chairman is alerted to forthcoming complex, contentious or sensitive issues.
Ensuring effective communication with the Companys shareholders, Leading the communication programme with including by the CEO, Chief Financial Officer CFO and other executive shareholders.
management, and ensuring that members of the Board develop an understanding of the views of the major investors in the Company.
64 Experian Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Non-executive directors character and judgement and also that there Board monitors the exercise of delegations are no relationships or circumstances which to the Groups principal subsidiaries which Appointment are likely to affect or could appear to affect are reported to it at each Board meeting.
Non-executive directors are initially each directors judgement.
appointed for a term of three years which There is an agreed annual calendar of the may, subject to satisfactory performance Election and re-election main business to be considered at each and election re-election by the shareholders, Board meeting.
For example, as well as the It is proposed that, in 2011, all directors of be extended by mutual agreement.
The other proposals that may be considered at the Company will be subject to re-election non-executive directors may normally serve each meeting, the focus is on strategy in in accordance with the new UK Corporate a maximum of three, three-year, terms i. e. January, budgets in March and results in Governance Code.
All directors have been nine years.
At each Board meeting, subject to a performance evaluation during the CEO, the Chief Operating Officer the year, and a peer review was done as part Meetings of non-executive directors 'COO' and the CFO provide operational of the annual Board evaluation.
Depending on the In addition to their attendance at Board and nature of the proposal to be considered, committee meetings, the non-executive Operation of the Board senior executives are often invited to make directors normally meet as a group without Governance framework presentations or participate in Board the executive directors present at the end discussions to ensure that Board decisions of each scheduled Board meeting.
At these The Groups key internal governance are supported by a full analysis of each meetings, the non-executive directors document is its Global Delegated proposal.
examine and review the performance of Authorities Matrix, which draws together executive management.
The non-executive the schedule of matters reserved to the Key activities of the Board include: directors also meet at least once a year Board, the terms of reference of the Board without the Chairman present.
committees as well as the authority levels Strategy and management for the Groups principal subsidiaries, Approval and oversight of Experians longSenior Independent Director directors and senior executives.
For matters term objectives and commercial strategy, not reserved to the Board, the matrix The Senior Independent Director is the ensuring that the necessary financial and prescribes the cascade of authorities Deputy Chairman, Sir Alan Rudge.
In human resources are in place to meet the delegated throughout the Group by this role, Sir Alan is available to meet objectives.
respective Group companies, together with shareholders who have concerns that the monetary limits of such delegations.
Management oversight cannot be resolved through discussion with Included among the matters that the Board Review of operating, financial and risk the Chairman, the CEO or the CFO, or where has delegated to the Groups principal performance.
subsidiaries are the approval of smaller Regulatory statutory activity acquisitions and disposals and the approval Independence Including approval of the Groups results, of capital and revenue expenditure all key documents and the announcement of The Board considers each of the current within defined monetary limits.
non-executive directors to be independent in is reviewed and refreshed regularly and the Experians governance framework Advice, review, recommendation, Delegated authority flow Board committees monitoring, executive forum Group Operating Committee Board Audit Committee Strategic project committees Principal subsidiaries Remuneration Committee global and regional Risk management committees Executive management team Nomination and Corporate global and regional Governance Committee Internal Audit Operating businesses Governance Corporate governance statement 65 Attendance by individual directors at meetings of the Board and its principal committees Nomination and Corporate Governance Remuneration Board Committee Committee Audit Committee John Peace 6 6 3 3 n a n a Don Robert 6 6 3 3 n a n a Paul Brooks 6 6 n a n a n a Chris Callero 6 6 n a n a n a Fabiola Arredondo 6 6 3 3 4 4 4 4 Roger Davis 5 6 3 3 4 4 3 4 Alan Jebson 6 6 2 3 3 4 4 4 Sir Alan Rudge 5 6 3 3 4 4 3 4 Judith Sprieser 5 5 2 2 3 3 n a David Tyler 6 6 3 3 4 4 4 4 Paul Walker 5 5 2 2 3 3 3 3 Judith Sprieser and Paul Walker were appointed as directors on 1 June 2010 Includes partial attendance at one meeting Finance Treasury growth, people and culture and operational committees.
At least one overseas Board Approval of the framework for the Groups efficiency.
A further focus of this group, meeting is held each year, which provides finance, banking and capital structure which comprises the most senior executives management across the Group with the arrangements.
from the Group, is to ensure that there is opportunity to present to the Board and strong communication and cooperative meet the directors informally.
During the Appointments working relationships amongst the top team.
year under review, overseas Board meetings Approval, upon the recommendation The quarterly meetings tend to be issueswere held in Paris and New York.
The New of the Nomination and Corporate oriented and focus on selected important York meeting provided the Board with a Governance Committee, of the Group issues worthy of debate.
chance to receive product demonstrations, appointment of new directors.
meet, and receive business presentations Approval of Group policies Board meetings from, North America management and Approval of, for example, a health and appraise the Groups businesses in that The Board meets regularly during the year safety policy, a global environmental region.
and on an ad-hoc basis as required.
For policy, an anti-corruption policy and a each scheduled meeting, the directors global code of conduct.
The Board and committee meeting normally meet over a two or three day attendance record of each director is shown period and Board committee meetings There is also a Group Operating Committee in the table above.
During the year, the are also held during the time the directors in place the remit of this executive group Board met formally on six occasions and, in are together.
Structuring the Board and includes identifying, debating and achieving addition, received strategy presentations committee meetings in this way enhances consensus on issues involving strategy, from senior management.
the effectiveness of the Board and its Board time usage Length of tenure of directors Balance of executive and at 31 March 2011 non-executive directors at 31 March 2011 Operational 0 - 4 years Chairman and financial 4 - 5 years Executive performance Non-executive Strategy M&A Governance Investor relations Other Includes annual Board Strategy day Company listed in October 2006 66 Experian Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Board evaluation The performance and effectiveness of the Board, each of its The review concluded that the Board was currently functioning principal committees and the directors is evaluated annually.
This very well, in particular: years external evaluation was facilitated by the Lygon Group Appropriate Board processes, papers and agendas who have also provided recruitment services for non-executive directors and market research in terms of succession planning.
It Board agendas address a good balance of governance, longer took place in September October 2010, with face-to-face meetings term strategic goals and immediate issues held with most Board members and telephone meetings with Strong and independent-minded non-executive directors some Board members.
The Company Secretary and certain other regular Board or committee attendees were also interviewed.
Effective committee structure As well as looking at overall Board functions, processes and Continued improvement in interaction between management performance, Board members were asked to comment on each and the Board others contribution to meetings.
This information was used by the Chairman as part of his evaluation of the directors and in In seeking to match the Boards continuing desire to improve its discussing their personal development in early 2011. functioning, the report did make recommendations on certain issues.
Some examples were as follows: Board composition Recommendations Actions Review current succession plans, continue to provide The Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee opportunities for the non-executive directors to meet the reviewed succession plans in March 2011: meetings with high next generation of management, continue to keep Board and potential employees will continue as part of Board business committee composition under review.
visits and Board presentations and as other opportunities present themselves: and Board and committee composition was reviewed by the Board and Nomination and Corporate Governance Committee in January and March 2011.
Ongoing induction Recommendations Actions Regular Board meeting induction sessions to continue: more Focused sessions in January and March 2011, and planned time on the Marketing Services business line: continue to for July and September 2011 to meet the recommendation, develop understanding of regulatory issues in line with current together with senior executives presenting to the Board as part plans: continue to spend time with senior executives below of the normal Board cycle.
Risk management Recommendations Actions Risk reporting has improved significantly, but consider how Considered by the Audit Committee at its March 2011 meeting best to continue to develop the presentation of risk.
where, in particular, linkage between key risks and strategic objectives was embedded in the risk reporting.
Board agenda, provision of papers and information Recommendations Actions Consider electronic distribution of Board papers, provided no The option of receiving Board papers electronically will be security issues, and whether or not a portal for Board members offered from mid 2011, with portal functionality a feature of the would be useful.
software to be used to enable electronic distribution of Board papers.
Governance Corporate governance statement 67 Board support Conflicts of interest The Group Corporate Secretariat, under The articles of association of the Company Sir Alan Rudge, the leadership of the Company Secretary, allow the Board to authorise conflicts, Chairman of is responsible for providing administrative or potential conflicts, of interest.
The Nomination and logistical support to the Board.
The authorisation procedure involves the issue and Corporate Company Secretary also provides advice of guidance and a questionnaire by the Governance and support on governance and certain Company Secretary asking directors to Committee compliance and regulatory matters.
All identify any conflicts or potential conflicts, Nomination and Corporate Governance directors are provided with a regular supply which are considered by the Board at its Committee report of financial and operational information next meeting.
Directors are also required to to assist them with the discharge of their advise the Company Secretary of any actual Members duties.
This information is provided on or potential conflicts as soon as they arise, Sir Alan Rudge Chairman a monthly basis and Board papers are so that they can be considered by the Board John Peace circulated in time to allow directors to be at the next available opportunity.
It is the Don Robert properly briefed in advance of meetings.
Boards view that the procedure operated Fabiola Arredondo During the year, the Group Corporate effectively during the year under review.
Roger Davis Secretariat began work on a solution for Alan Jebson circulating papers digitally.
Board committees Judith Sprieser David Tyler The principal Board committees are the Directors have access to independent Paul Walker Nomination and Corporate Governance professional advice at the Companys Committee, the Remuneration Committee expense, if considered appropriate.
No Primary roles and the Audit Committee.
The committees director obtained any such independent operate within defined terms of reference To ensure that appropriate procedures professional advice during the year ended which cover the authority delegated to them are in place for the nomination, selection, 31 March 2011. by the Board.
The terms of reference are training and evaluation of directors.
available on the Experian website at To ensure that adequate succession plans Induction and training www.
com or from the Company are in place.
The Company Following appointment, directors receive an Secretary is secretary to all three principal induction programme.
Specific highlights To review the Board structure, size, committees.
from this years induction process appear composition and succession needs, at in the Chairmans introduction to this all times keeping under consideration statement.
Throughout the year, the committee the balance of membership and the chairmen provided the Board with a report required balance of skills, knowledge and of the issues considered at the meetings of experience of the Board.
the committees and the minutes of Audit To identify and nominate, for the Boards Committee meetings were circulated to the approval, suitable candidates to fill Board.
Reports of the activities of each of vacancies for non-executive and, with the principal Board committees follow.
the assistance of the CEO, executive directors, such appointments to be made on merit and against objective criteria to ensure that the Board maintains its balance of skills, knowledge and experience.
To review legislative, regulatory and corporate governance developments and make appropriate recommendations to the Board.
To ensure that the standards and disclosures required by the Combined Code and the UK Corporate Governance Code are observed.
68 Experian Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Governance suitable, recommended to the Board, which deciding his or her own remuneration.
In accordance with regular attendees include the Group Human The Committee was in place throughout the articles of association of the Company, Resources Director and members of the the year ended 31 March 2011 and met directors are subject to election at the first Global Reward team.
The Committee meets three times.
Seven members of the annual general meeting following their regularly with its independent advisers.
Committee are considered by the Board to appointment, and thereafter they must seek All members of the Committee were be independent non-executive directors in regular re-election.
provided with an induction in the role of the accordance with provision B.
2.1 of the UK Committee and the operation of its terms of Corporate Governance Code.
The Group reference on first appointment.
Human Resources Director and the Global Talent Director attend certain meetings by Activities invitation.
At its meetings during the year, the Activities Committee concluded a shareholder Roger Davis, Chairman of consultation exercise in respect of the At its meetings during the year, the Remuneration proposed performance measures, targets Committee agreed to recommend to Committee and operation of the Companys long term the Board the appointment of Sir Alan incentive plans, initiated the invitation Remuneration Committee report Rudge as Deputy Chairman including as to employees to participate in the 2010 Chairman of the Committee, considered Members Sharesave scheme, discussed the 2010 the process regarding the annual Board bonus outcome and the preliminary 2011 Roger Davis Chairman evaluation, received updates and agreed bonus targets and those for long term Fabiola Arredondo actions in respect of the new UK Corporate incentive awards, received updates in Alan Jebson Governance Code to ensure the Companys respect of the long term incentive plans of Sir Alan Rudge compliance, and recommended the directors the Company and agreed to make share plan Judith Sprieser to retire at the 2011 annual general meeting.
The Committee also considered David Tyler the remuneration of the global head of the Paul Walker The Committee also considered the overall Decision Analytics business line, reviewed structure, size and composition of the the fee of the Chairman and the salaries of Primary roles Board and its committees and the proposed the CEO, the CFO, the COO and a number To recommend to the Board senior actions arising from the Board and of senior executives, taking account of management remuneration policy and the committee evaluation as earlier described, remuneration arrangements throughout remuneration of the Chairman.
reviewed the time commitment required Experian, and reviewed its own performance from non-executive directors and reviewed To determine individual remuneration and terms of reference.
its own performance and terms of reference.
packages for executive directors and certain senior executives.
The report on directors remuneration sets In addition, the Committee also discussed out the way in which the Company has To communicate with shareholders on and reviewed the succession plans for the 74 applied corporate governance principles to remuneration policy.
Chairman, CEO and senior management, directors remuneration.
kept resources under review, and evaluated To review and recommend to the Board succession plans for all senior positions.
the design of the Groups short and long This planning ensures that appropriate term incentive plans.
leadership resources are in place to achieve To oversee the Groups executive pension Experians strategic objectives and includes arrangements.
strong development programmes and crossregional development role changes.
Governance The Remuneration Committee was in place There is an established process used to throughout the year ended 31 March 2011 appoint new non-executive directors which and met four times.
All of its members are begins with the Nomination and Corporate considered by the Board to be independent Governance Committee agreeing the scope non-executive directors in accordance of the role and engaging a specialist search with provision D. 2.1 of the UK Corporate company to identify potential directors.
The Chairman and CEO Committee reviews the short list submitted attend meetings by invitation.
They do not by the search company and interviews attend when their individual remuneration prospective candidates who are, if thought is discussed and no director is involved in Governance Corporate governance statement 69 and Regulatory Risk and the Head of Agreed that each meeting should receive Global Internal Audit.
The lead audit an update in respect of UK Bribery Act partner from  2010 actions.
Specific actions during LLP also attends all meetings.
Other the year included the establishment of a  staff attend multi-functional team, led by the Senior Alan Jebson, meetings where their particular expertise Vice President, Global Enterprise Risk Chairman of can be utilised.
At each meeting, the Management, and the development of Audit Committee Committee meets with the external auditors appropriate policies, to ensure that the and the Head of Global Internal Audit compliance programme in respect of the Audit Committee report without management present.
Act would be robust and fully embedded Members in the organisation.
Alan Jebson Chairman David Tyler, a Committee member, provides In September 2010, reviewed the inFabiola Arredondo recent and relevant financial experience depth evaluation by KPMG of Experians Roger Davis and also provides an in-depth knowledge of Internal Audit function, which focused on Sir Alan Rudge Experians business.
The Board is confident the positioning, people and processes of David Tyler that the collective international business the function.
The report concluded that Paul Walker experience of the Committee members a good service was provided, and some enables them to act as an effective recommendations for improvement were Primary roles committee.
The Committee has access to also made.
In November 2010, the Head the financial expertise within the Group and To monitor the integrity of the financial of Global Internal Audit reported to the the auditors and the Chairman of the Audit statements.
Committee on actions within the function Committee is in regular contact with key to address the recommendations.
To review the effectiveness of the system members of senior management.
of internal control including the risk Reviewed and considered management systems.
 Audit Strategy Activities Memorandum which included details of To review the effectiveness of the audit The activities of the Audit Committee the basis and scope of the annual audit, process and the independence and during the year ended 31 March 2011 the timeline, materiality thresholds objectivity of the external auditors.
included the following: and a risk assessment in respect of the To monitor and review the effectiveness 2011 audit, noting factors which would Reviewed the 2010 preliminary and halfof the internal audit function.
influence the assessment, including year results announcements and the 2010 the global economic environment.
The annual report and accounts, reviewed To develop and monitor policy on nonperformance of  impairment review papers as required audit services to be provided by the was also considered the outcome was by IAS 36 and papers supporting the external auditors.
positive and it was agreed that continued preparation of relevant accounts on a To approve the remuneration and terms improvement had been demonstrated.
of engagement of the external auditors The Committee noted that there would be Received an overview of Project and make recommendations in relation to a new lead engagement partner in place Gemstone, a project which had their re-appointment.
commenced previously with the overall Governance 72 Reviewed a variety of reports on risk, as aim of delivering a global accounting more fully described in the internal control The Audit Committee was in place and HR system and integrated global and risk management section of this throughout the year ended 31 March 2011, reporting, planning and forecasting.
The statement, and received an internal audit and met four times with meetings held to Committee noted the benefits which update at every meeting, and a fraud and coincide with key dates in the financial included improved global reporting, an whistleblowing update.
All members of enhanced control environment, a strong the Committee are considered by the Board platform for future growth and faster Reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups to be independent non-executive directors integration of acquisitions, improved system of internal control, including in compliance with provision C. 3.1 of the UK procurement and cash management.
financial, operational, compliance and risk Corporate Governance Code.
management on an ongoing basis.
Made a recommendation to the Board for The Chairman and the executive shareholder approval in relation to the redirectors attend meetings by invitation.
appointment of the external auditors and Other regular attendees include the considered their engagement terms.
Global Executive Vice President Legal 70 Experian Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Policy on the provision of non-audit services Provided that the provision of such services does not conflict with the external auditors statutory responsibilities and ethical guidance, the following types of services may be assigned to the external auditors: Further assurance services: where the external auditors deep knowledge of the Groups affairs means that they may be best placed to carry out such work.
This may include, but is not restricted to, shareholder and other circulars, regulatory reports and work in connection with acquisitions and divestments.
Taxation services: where the external auditors knowledge of the Groups affairs may provide significant advantages which other parties would not have.
Where this is not the case, the work is put out to tender.
General: in other circumstances, the external auditors may provide services provided that proposed assignments are put out to tender and decisions to award work are taken on the basis of demonstrable competence and cost effectiveness.
However, the external auditors are specifically prohibited from performing work related to accounting records and financial statements that will ultimately be subject to external audit: management of or significant involvement in internal audit services: any work that could compromise the independence of the external auditors: and any other work that is prohibited by UK ethical guidance.
Reviewed other services provided by auditors is capped at 100% of fees for compliance controls and risk management the external auditors, evaluated their audit and assurance services, except in systems.
A system of internal control is performance and monitored their exceptional circumstances, and an analysis designed to manage rather than eliminate independence, concluding that they of fees paid to the external auditors for the the risk of failure to achieve business had maintained their independence 114 year ended 31 March 2011 is set out in note 11 objectives and can provide reasonable, but throughout the year ended 31 March 2011. to the Group financial statements.
not absolute, assurance against material financial misstatement or loss.
Evaluated its own performance and In addition to the policy summarised above, concluded that its terms of reference the external auditors maintain safeguards to The Board has overall responsibility remained appropriate.
ensure the objectivity and independence of for maintaining the system of internal External auditors their service teams.
The safeguards include control for the Group and monitoring its the rotation of the lead audit engagement effectiveness, and confirms that there is an  LLP have been partner and the use of separate teams, ongoing process for identifying, assessing the Companys auditors since demerger where appropriate.
and mitigating the significant risks faced by in October 2006.
The Audit Committee the Group, including those risks relating to considers that the relationship with the Internal control social, ethical and environmental matters.
auditors is working well and remains 38 Further details on this process can be found satisfied with their effectiveness.
Maintaining an effective system of internal in the risks and uncertainties section of Accordingly, to date the Committee has control is central to identifying and the business review section.
The process not considered it necessary to require the managing risks that may impact on the was in place throughout the year under auditors to tender for the audit work.
There achievement of the Companys strategy.
review and up to the date of approval of the are no contractual obligations restricting the Having such a system supports effective annual report and meets the requirements Companys choice of external auditor.
and efficient operations, the development of the UK Corporate Governance Code.
For of robust and reliable internal and external certain joint arrangements, the Board places reporting and compliance with laws and  provide a range reliance upon the systems of internal control regulations.
of other services to Experian and, to ensure operating within the partners infrastructure auditor objectivity and independence, a and the obligations upon partners boards policy has been adopted by the Company in The Board is required to maintain a relating to the effectiveness of their own relation to the provision of such services.
sound system of internal control, to systems.
In the Boards view, the information The policy includes financial limits above safeguard shareholders investment and it received was sufficient to enable it to which the Chairman of the Audit Committee the Companys assets.
In addition, as part review the effectiveness of the Groups must pre-approve any proposed non-audit of their responsibilities, the directors are system of internal control in accordance services.
The Audit Committee receives required, at least annually, to conduct a with the Turnbull Guidance Internal Control half-yearly reports containing details of review of the effectiveness of the Groups Revised Guidance for Directors contained assignments carried out by the external system of internal control and should in the UK Corporate Governance Code.
auditors in addition to their normal work, report to shareholders that they have done At its meeting in May each year, the Audit together with details of related fees.
The review must cover all material Committee, under delegated authority from payment of non-audit fees to the Companys controls, including financial, operational and Governance Corporate governance statement 71 the Board, reviews the effectiveness of the The primary responsibility of the executive Information and communication Groups system of internal control.
risk management committee, which is The Board, as part of the comprehensive comprised of senior Group executives, system of budgetary control in the Group, is to oversee the management of global The principal features of Experians system receives a monthly finance report, which risks.
The regional, global operations and of internal control and methods by which the includes a Group financial summary, Group executive risk committees operate to a Board is confident that this system operates results, forecasts and sales trends and synchronised quarterly cycle as part of an effectively are set out below.
The report enterprise risk management process this also includes detailed business trading ensures relevant risk information flows Risk assessment summaries and provides the Board with from the regional and global operations information required for decision-making There is an ongoing process in place for risk committees to the executive risk and management review purposes.
More anticipating, identifying, assessing and management committee and from the detailed monthly performance reviews take mitigating the significant risks faced by executive risk management committee place at a regional level.
The process has operated to the Board and or Audit Committee, as throughout the year under review and up to appropriate.
the date of approval of the annual report.
The Audit Committee receives global risk management reports during the year which Control environment are generated through the facilitated, The Groups risk management and The Group has an established framework, quarterly contribution of managers governance framework is designed to which includes the following key features: in each area of Experians business: support the anticipation, identification, including facilitated contributions from key assessment and mitigation of risks that Terms of reference for the Board and each governance functions such as Information are significant to the achievement of the of its committees.
Security, Business Continuity, Legal, Groups business objectives.
There is a A clear organisational structure, with well Government Affairs, Compliance, Finance, global risk management policy in place documented delegation of authority from Group Corporate Secretariat, Internal which governs the management and control the Board to principal subsidiaries and Audit and Technology Services.
All risk of both financial and non-financial risks.
The regular reporting to the Board in respect assessment information is consistently policy describes the global risk framework of the exercise of the delegations.
captured and centrally held in a series of and defines risk management principles and risk registers.
Any risks inherent in material expectations regarding management of risk Principles, policies and standards to litigation cases are also specifically drawn across the Group: this enables a consistent be adhered to throughout the business.
to the Audit Committees attention to enable approach to the management of risk at These include risk management policy, a more detailed consideration.
During the regional and business unit level.
accounting policies, treasury policy, year, the Audit Committee received training information security policy and policy on on information security.
Management monitors the Groups risk fraud and whistleblowing.
profile on an ongoing basis.
Regional risk Defined review and approval procedures On a monthly basis, the achievement of committees oversee the management of for major transactions, capital expenditure business objectives, both financial and regional risks consistent with Experians and revenue expenditure.
non-financial, is assessed using a range of risk appetite, strategies and objectives.
These indicators Global operational related risks, including Regional and global strategic project are regularly reviewed to ensure they remain technology and project risks, are monitored committees comprised of senior relevant and reliable.
In addition, the global by a global operations risk management executives responsible for reviewing risk management policy provides for the committee.
This committee oversees and evaluating all significant business ongoing identification and escalation of new the management of operational related investments, developments and and emerging risks to management and the risks associated with the Groups shared divestments, prior to submission of Board as appropriate.
service and data centres as well as global relevant cases for the approval of the product development and delivery activities.
Board or relevant principal operating The regional and global operations There are fraud and whistleblowing subsidiary depending on the size of risk committees review summary risk procedures in place in the Group the investment risk assessment is an assessments and internal audit results, for employees to report suspected integral component of the evaluation evaluate significant exposures, make improprieties and the Audit Committee process.
mitigation decisions and enforce mitigation receives regular reports on this area from Appropriate strategies to deal with each progress, monitor changes in the regional the Head of Global Internal Audit.
significant risk that has been identified, operational risk profile and escalate including internal controls, insurance and significant risks and issues to an executive specialised treasury instruments.
72 Experian Annual Report 2011 Corporate governance statement continued Monitoring assessment parameters established by expressed by the investment community, the global risk management function, and media reports, share price performance The Group has a well-developed system of makes use of risk assessment information and analysis.
The views of shareholders planning, incorporating Board approval of at a business level in planning and are also assessed in detail via an investor Group strategy and budgets.
survey, which is normally conducted every against the agreed plan is subsequently second year using a third party supplier.
monitored and reported at each Board Internal control over financial reporting The Investor Audit surveys twenty leading meeting.
global investors including both holders and Detailed policies and procedures are in non-holders of Experian shares.
The most place to ensure the accuracy and reliability The Audit Committee has delegated recent survey was presented to the Board of financial reporting and the preparation responsibility from the Board for the annual in September 2010.
In addition, the Board of consolidated financial statements.
review of the effectiveness of the Groups consults with shareholders in connection A comprehensive Group Accounting system of internal control and receives an with specific issues where it considers Manual GAM including details of the annual report on the controls over relevant appropriate.
In 2010, the Chairman of the International Financial Reporting Standards risks including risks arising from social, Remuneration Committee again consulted IFRS requirements is in place.
The ethical and environmental matters.
The with major institutional shareholders and document is owned by the Groups finance Committee also reviews a variety of reports others regarding the proposed performance team and has been rolled out across the on risk, including material risk reports, measures, targets and operation of the Group.
All Experian companies are obliged material litigation reports, information Companys executive long term incentive to follow the requirements of the GAM.
The security reports and regulatory and arrangements.
aims of the GAM are to provide guidance on compliance reports.
accounting issues: allow for consistent and There is also an ongoing programme of well defined information for IFRS reporting Each business unit is responsible for dialogue and meetings between the CEO, requirements: provide uniform measures the day-to-day management of risk and the CFO and institutional investors and for quantitative and qualitative measures for ensuring that risk exposure remains analysts.
At these meetings a wide range of Group performance: and to increase the within established limits.
The global risk of relevant issues including strategy, efficiency of the Groups reporting process.
management policy outlines, for business performance, management and governance units, the expectations in relation to are discussed within the constraints of Engagement with shareholders and escalation of identified risks, control information already made public.
The others weaknesses or gaps.
In addition, certificates announcement of the annual and half-year are provided annually by each business unit The Company places considerable results and interim management statements and key function to confirm compliance importance on communication and provide opportunities for the Company to with the Groups system of internal control, maintaining good relationships with answer questions from analysts covering Group policies, and corporate governance shareholders and makes every effort to a wide range of topics.
During the year, and corporate responsibility processes.
ensure that shareholders are kept informed investor seminars were held in London and of significant Group developments.
The agenda for both seminars The Groups internal audit function provides included a strategic overview from the To assist members of the Board to gain an independent testing and verification of CEO, and presentations on Global Credit understanding of the views of institutional risk management policies, processes and Services and Decision Analytics, Consumer shareholders, at each of its meetings the practices across the Group and reports to Direct strategy, Business Information Board receives an investor relations and the Audit Committee on the effectiveness in North America, growth initiatives for media report, which covers a wide range of the system of internal control.
The small business in Brazil and the building of of matters including a commentary on internal audit programme and methodology Experians business in India.
the perception of the Company and views is aligned to the risk categories and risk Experian website Additional information relevant to corporate governance at Experian can be found on the Experian website at www.
There you will find: Terms of reference of the principal Board committees The schedule of matters reserved to the Board The memorandum and articles of association of the Company Details of annual general meeting proxy voting by shareholders, including votes withheld Contact details for any questions Governance Corporate governance statement 73 The Companys website www.
com is Experians 2011 annual general meeting a very important method of communication will take place on Wednesday 20 July 2011 with shareholders and all material and shareholders are encouraged to attend information reported to the regulatory news the meeting and use the opportunity to ask services, together with copies of annual and questions.
However, given the size and half-year results and interim management geographical diversity of the Companys statements, is published on the Companys shareholder base, attendance may not website so that all shareholders can always be practical and shareholders are have full access promptly to Company encouraged to use proxy voting on the announcements.
Every vote cast, whether in person or by proxy, is counted, because votes on all matters except The Board is also committed to procedural issues are taken by a poll.
ensuring that any concerns of private shareholders are dealt with and, on its behalf, the Company Secretary oversees In accordance with the UK Corporate communication with these shareholders.
Governance Code, details of proxy voting A 'Shareholder Questions' card is issued by shareholders, including votes withheld, with the shareholder documentation are made available on request and placed for the annual general meeting and the on the Companys website following the Company receives numerous questions meeting.
In 2010, voting levels at the annual from private shareholders using the card.
general meeting showed an increase to 66% The Company Secretary ensures that the of the issued share capital of the Company, Company responds to shareholders directly, compared with 63% in 2009. as appropriate, at or following the annual general meeting.
The annual general meeting is an important event in Experians corporate calendar and provides a valuable opportunity for the Board to communicate with shareholders and meet with them on an informal basis before the main business of the meeting.
All directors attend the annual general meeting.
