Directors Report Corporate Governance WHAT GOOD GOVERNANCE MEANS TO FENNER Senior Independent Director GOOD GOVERNANCE HELPS ENGENDER EFFECTIVE, David Buttfield ENTREPRENEURIAL AND PRUDENT MANAGEMENT including the very untimely death of David non-executive director and Vanda Murray will Introduction from the Senior Campbell, a much valued colleague and nonbecome the Senior Independent Director.
During the year, Colin In addition to routine Board matters, during Successful boards embrace the highest Cooke stepped down as Chairman after the year, the Board also: standards of governance and believe, as having served since 1993 and after having overseen the transformation of the Group into stated in the UK Corporate Governance Code oversaw and approved four acquisitions: the strong global presence it is today.
I the Code, that they help engender approved a US$200m private placement: reiterate here our thanks to Colin for his effective, entrepreneurial and prudent management and contribute towards the leadership and commitment to the Group introduced new policies and procedures in during his years as Chairman.
long-term success of the company.
As the response to the UK Bribery Act 2010: Senior Independent Director, I can confirm Mark Abrahams became non-executive re-enforced our whistleblowing that we are committed to the principles of Chairman on 1 March 2011 and Nicholas procedures: and good and strong governance.
We believe that Hobson was promoted to Chief Executive in order to operate effectively and make developed a new Code of Business Officer.
This transition was seen as essential decisions for the good of the Company and Conduct.
to preserve the unique, well established and shareholders, the Board has to uphold high highly prized culture within Fenner which is A more detailed review of governance is set governance standards and ensure that these embedded throughout the organisation.
The out on pages 22 to 28. standards are understood and echoed by the culture is one of autonomy and management teams throughout the Group.
entrepreneurship and is a philosophy that is shared across the Group and underpins every We adopted the principles of the Code in the transaction.
Preserving this culture required year under review and explain over the the understanding and knowledge possessed following pages how the main and supporting David Buttfield by Mark and Nicholas and which they bring to Principles of the Code have been applied, and Senior Independent Director their respective new roles.
David Campbell where we have diverged from them, the managed the consultation with shareholders reasons why.
In future the Chairman will ahead of these Board changes and I, as introduce this section but, given the changes Senior Independent Director, attended to the Board that have taken place during the shareholder meetings both with Colin Cooke year, it was felt more appropriate for me to do and more latterly with Mark Abrahams so on this occasion.
I will be stepping down as As usual, the Board and its Committees have Senior Independent Director at the conclusion had a busy year: the Board has overseen of the AGM in January 2012 as I will have been significant changes to its membership, on the Board for nine years.
I will remain as Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 21 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration expertise to ensure the long-term success of directors also ensures that no one individual Compliance with the the Company.
The culture of the Company, of has unfettered powers in terms of decision provisions of the code entrepreneurial leadership with autonomy and making or Board direction.
The Board reviewed the requirements of the accountability, is one that is maintained by the Role of the Chairman Code and has complied with the provisions Board and cascaded down to all Group The Chairman sets the tone from the top: he and spirit of the Code except in the following operations to ensure that they share the same promotes strong leadership and an effective areas where it is working towards full vision, values and standards.
The Board, fosters the vision, values, governance performance of the operations and the compliance: standards and ethical behaviour of the management teams is reviewed by the Board.
annual re-election of directors Code Company, encourages an atmosphere of The requirements of shareholders are also openness and invites robust and constructive provision B.
7 : and managed by the Board and it acts as a conduit debate around the Board table.
The Chairman between shareholders and the operations to drawing up a written description of sets the Board agenda, chairs the meetings ensure that the interests are aligned.
specific responsibilities for the Chairman and ensures that directors receive timely and and Chief Executive Officer Code Specific matters are reserved for the Boards clear information.
2.1. consideration under a formal schedule which The role of the non-executive directors is reviewed on an annual basis.
Under that The members of the Board will be submitting The non-executive directors bring schedule and in addition to fulfilling the role themselves for re-election on an annual basis independence of mind and experience to the set out above, the Board reviews trading with effect from the AGM in January 2012 and Board, they engender constructive debate and performance, considers senior management a recommendation will be made to challenge during Board discussions and help appointments, formulates policy on key issues shareholders to approve the adoption of new develop strategy.
They meet the requirements such as developing and approving policies and Articles which provide for annual re-election.
of the Code and scrutinise the performance of adequate procedures required to ensure A written description of the specific management, satisfy themselves on the compliance with the UK Bribery Act, reviews responsibilities of the Chairman and Chief integrity of the financial systems, controls and and approves significant capital expenditure, Executive Officer will be drawn up in the first risk management and determine the levels of approves acquisitions and disposals and half of the financial year ending 31 August remuneration for the executive directors.
The manages relations and communication with 2012.
There was a divergence from Senior Independent Director is available to shareholders.
Day to day management and recommended best practice in the year with shareholders should they wish to meet with operational matters are delegated to a duly the former Chief Executive Officer becoming him.
authorised Executive Committee comprised of the non-executive Chairman on 1 March 2011, senior executives whilst other specific Board There are currently three independent nonthe reasons for which are given on page 21 in level matters are delegated to sub-committees executive directors on the Board.
David the introduction from David Buttfield.
Details of the composition and Buttfield is currently the Senior Independent Board consulted extensively with major purpose of these delegated committees are Director: he stepped down as Chairman of the shareholders and gained support for the outlined later in this report.
Audit Committee at the conclusion of the AGM appointment before making the final decision.
John Sheldrick took over Division of responsibilities This Corporate Governance report should be as the Chairman of the Audit Committee.
Alan The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive read in conjunction with the Business Review Wood is the Chairman of the Remuneration Officer are separate and distinct and will be on pages 5 to 19, the Other Statutory Committee, taking over from David Campbell in codified into a written description of specific Information report on pages 29 to 32 and the December 2010.
David Buttfield had been due responsibilities during the first half of the Board Remuneration Report on pages 33 to to retire at the conclusion of the AGM on 12 financial year ending 31 August 2012.
The information required under Rule 7.2.
6 January 2011 but, in the light of the news about of the Disclosure and Transparency Rules of The Chairman David Campbell, he agreed to stay on the Board the Financial Services Authority FSA is The Principle of the Code of the Chairman for a further three year term.
The non-executive included on pages 29 to 32. being responsible for leadership of the Board directors have a vast breadth of experience, and ensuring effectiveness on all aspects of knowledge and skills and are independent in Leadership its role is being met.
Mark Abrahams ensures character and judgement.
There are no known The role of the Board that he fulfils the role of a non-executive relationships or circumstances which are likely The Boards role is to provide leadership and Chairman professionally and properly with all to affect, or could appear to affect, their manage the long-term objectives and strategy due consideration being given to strong and judgement.
The Senior Independent Director of the Group by ensuring that there are highly effective governance whilst simultaneously serves as an intermediary for other directors competent management teams in place with preserving the culture of the Company.
The when necessary and provides a sounding board robust controls and financial and commercial presence of three independent non-executive for the Chairman.
Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 22 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Effectiveness Meetings of the Board Composition of the Board The attendance of each director at Board, Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and The Board currently comprises a non-executive Nomination Committee meetings is set out below.
Chairman, three independent non-executive directors, Chief Executive Officer, Group Non-executive Audit Remuneration Nomination director Finance Director and is supported by the Group Board Committee Committee Committee meetings Company Secretary.
Although the Board is of adequate size and has the appropriate balance Number of meetings during the year 63 5 3 2 of skills, experience, independence and knowledge necessary for the operation of an Chairman effective and robust Board, to maintain the M S Abrahams from 1 March 2011 4 2 3 21 correct balance of independence, a new nonC I Cooke to 28 February 2011 2 1 21 1 executive director will be joining the Board in January 2012.
The non-executive directors Executive directors have extensive experience at executive and N M Hobson from 1 March 2011 4 2 3 2 - non-executive Board level of running M S Abrahams to 28 February 2011 2 1 2- - international industrial engineering companies R J Perry 6 3 1 3 - and bring these skills to bear at Board meetings.
Biographical details of the current Non-executive directors Board are set out in The Board on page 20.
D F Buttfield 63 5 3 2 Appointments to the Board A J Wood 63 5 3 2 When making an appointment to the Board, a J N Sheldrick 63 5 3 2 candidate specification, which sets out the D A Campbell to 29 November 2010 11 2 1 1 type of skills, experience, qualifications and By invitation knowledge a preferred candidate should ideally have, is agreed and discussed with includes meetings with the Chief Executive a timely manner so that all documents, recruitment consultants.
The Board considers Officer, Group Finance Director and the Group papers, briefing notes, proposals and diversity, including gender, when recruiting Company Secretary individually as well as financial information can be reviewed ahead new candidates and has recently announced with key members of the management team of meetings to enable the Board to discharge the forthcoming appointment of Vanda from health, safety and environment, finance, its duties proficiently.
She will join the Board in January tax and treasury, risk management and Secretary is available to all Board members.
2012 and complements the Board skills sets business development.
The induction takes She is responsible for ensuring that the Board and experience.
All candidates are chosen on new Board members through the Board follows procedures, providing information, merit, against the objective criteria set in the practices, policies and procedures and gives guidance and advice as well as ensuring that candidate specification, regardless of race, them an overview of the Groups operations, the Board members are kept up to date on gender or religious beliefs.
The governance, regulations, development and Commitment Groups health and safety Framework is best practice.
All Board members are able to devote communicated as part of the induction with The Board has access to independent sufficient time to the Company to discharge all appointees being given a copy of the professional advice at the Companys expense their responsibilities effectively.
Board Framework DVD and policy.
All new Board should they require it to discharge their duties.
members are expected to attend all main members are encouraged to visit Group Board and Committee meetings and have operations whenever the opportunity presents Evaluation sufficient time available to prepare for such itself where they meet with local management The incoming Chairman conducted a rigorous meetings.
Executive directors cannot hold and are briefed on the operations business at evaluation of the Board.
The Chairman more than one non-executive directorship in a the site.
The Board holds at least one Board individually met with each Board member, FTSE 100 company although currently neither meeting a year at a Group operation, including including the Group Company Secretary, and of the executive directors hold such a FTSE overseas operations.
reviewed the Board, its processes, 100 role.
composition, effectiveness, adequacy and Information and support Development The Chairman, via the Group Company timeliness of information, quality of Board New Board appointments receive a full Secretary, ensures that information is papers, balance of skills, understanding of induction when joining the Company which submitted to the Board and its Committees in strategy, communications with and Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 23 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration understanding of shareholder issues, review the terms of reference for the Audit Committee, effectiveness of the Committees and the Audit Committee on an annual basis: and accountability and auditors performance of the Chairman.
The Senior review the Groups treasury policy.
Independent Director met with the nonAudit Committee members executive directors to evaluate the John Sheldrick Chairman Risk management and internal control performance of the Chairman.
Following the David Buttfield The Board understands that the effective interviews, the Chairman collated the results Alan Wood management of risks is essential to the and reported back to the Board whereupon a delivery of the Groups performance.
There is a Responsibilities list of actions were agreed and acted upon.
continuous process for identifying, evaluating The Audit Committee fulfils the requirements Overall, it was agreed that the Board and managing risk with the process itself being of the Code and its work covers the following: continued to be an effective and experienced subject to regular review and refinement.
This Board, with commitment from all members.
It has been in place for the whole year under monitor the integrity of the Annual had managed the transition to the new review and up to the date of the Annual Report.
Report, the Half Yearly Financial Report Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Preliminary Results: The Audit Committee reviews the effectiveness smoothly and those members of the Board of the Groups system of internal control.
The were discharging their responsibilities in their review of internal financial controls and internal control review covers operational, new roles very professionally and effectively.
the internal control management financial and compliance controls.
The systems: It has been agreed that the Board evaluation Committee receives a financial internal control would be facilitated by an external monitor the effectiveness of the internal report at least twice a year from the Senior organisation for the 2011 12 financial year.
audit function including the approval of Internal Auditor.
A separate risk management the internal control programme and report is written and presented by the Group Re-election review visits and meet with the Senior Business Risk Manager.
The Code provisions recommend that Internal Auditor at least once a year: directors of FTSE 350 companies should be Based upon the internal control and risk subject to annual re-election by shareholders.
review the risk management systems and reports, the Board determines the nature and Historically, the Company directors have been reports which are outlined in more detail in extent of the significant risks it is willing to subject to re-election at intervals of no more the Business Review on pages 12 and 13: take in achieving strategic objectives and the than three years following their initial election Board believes it does maintain sound risk review procedures for detecting fraud: the by shareholders at the first available AGM.
In management and internal control systems.
introduction of an independent third party light of the recommendations of the Code, the whistleblowing helpline is part of the In accordance with the requirements of the Board has decided to adopt the Code provision available procedure enabling employees Code and the recommendations of the Turnbull and a recommendation will be put to to raise concerns: Guidance on internal control, the directors can shareholders at the AGM in January 2012 to confirm that, after having reviewed the approve the adoption of new Articles which review the summary of Group insurance effectiveness of the control systems and provide for annual re-election.
policies and levels of deductibles: arrangements, no significant changes to material risks, control failings or weaknesses make recommendations to the Board in have been identified that resulted in relation to the appointment or reunforeseen material losses.
Whilst the appointment and remuneration of the Independence of the Board directors are responsible for the Groups external auditors and their terms of system of internal control, like any system of engagement, including approval of the internal control, it can only provide reasonable audit plan: and not absolute assurance against material ensure that the external auditors are misstatement or loss.
40% independent, objective and effective: Key procedures within the internal control annually review the policy on non-audit structure are: 60% work carried out by the external auditor: the identification of major business and this policy takes into account external insurance risks faced by the Groups guidance relating to the provision of nonoperations, by both the Board and senior audit services: management, and the determination of Non executive directors review the financial statements of the UK the most appropriate course of action to Executive directors Fenner Pension Scheme: deal with these risks: Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 24 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued central review and approval procedures in comprehensive budgeting systems with can be found in the Business Review on pages respect of major areas of risk such as an annual budget approved by the Board: 12 and 13. acquisitions and disposals, litigation, monthly results are reported against Audit Committee governance treasury management, taxation and budget and revised forecasts for the year The Audit Committee operates under formal environmental issues: are prepared regularly: written terms of reference which govern the role a clear management structure with well an internal programme of monitoring and responsibilities of the Audit Committee.
defined lines of responsibility and the visits by the internal audit team, as The Committee is comprised of the three nonappropriate levels of delegation: agreed with the Audit Committee, reviews executive directors and is chaired by John the compliance of each operating unit regular review of the Groups operating Sheldrick, having previously been chaired by with the Group's standard internal units by operational and executive David Buttfield up to the conclusion of the financial control procedures: management and monthly reports from AGM on 12 January 2011.
Both David Buttfield the senior managing directors: competition compliance programmes are and John Sheldrick were independent on in place in several jurisdictions, the appointment as Chairman of the Committee.
a structured process for appraising and Group-wide Whistleblowing Policy David Campbell had been a member of the authorising capital projects which continues to be applied and the Board Committee until November 2010.
Neither includes clearly defined authorisation approved a Code of Business Conduct as Mark Abrahams, as Board Chairman, nor the levels: projects are subject to postwell as a policy on bribery in response to executive directors are members of the investment appraisals: the UK Bribery Act which came into force Committee although they can attend by in 2011: and well established consolidation and reporting invitation.
John Sheldrick, on taking on the systems for both the statutory and monthly role of Chairman of the Committee, met the a programme of business risk reviews requirement of having had recent and relevant management accounts: monthly, half with operational management focusing on yearly and annual financial results are financial experience, having held an executive non-financial controls and risk prepared by the consolidation team and director finance position at Johnson Matthey management.
reviewed by management, with financial plc prior to his retirement in 2009.
The Group reports distributed to all Board members: Further details of the Groups risk management Company Secretary acts as secretary to the Policy on non-audit services by the external auditors Permitted non-audit services, subject to Prohibited non-audit services Permitted audit-related services approval by the Committee Audit their own work Provide technical assistance and advisory Taxation services services on matters such as accounting Make management decisions for the Specific projects on internal audit where principles, financial statement disclosure, Company the scope and management is determined appropriateness of controls and methods by the Committee used in determining assets and liabilities Act as advocate for the Company Staff secondments where management is Helping to resolve account reconciliation Authorise, execute or consummate a clearly directing and controlling the problems transaction on behalf of the Company secondee and on the basis that the Advising on regulatory reporting secondee cannot make management Determine which recommendation of the decisions audit firm should be implemented by the Assistance and advice on local statutory Company accounts preparation Litigation support services providing it does not include significant advocacy from the Internal audit services, other than specific audit partner projects determined by the Committee Corporate financial services involving Provision of IT consultancy advisory, acquisitions and disposals and Legal services due diligence HR and recruitment consultancy Underwriting services Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 25 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration Committee which also has access to the immediately drawn to the Committees the power to request the attendance at services of the Group Finance Director, Senior attention if and when they arise.
meetings of any director or Group employee Internal Auditor, Group Business Risk as considered appropriate.
The Committee received and reviewed written Manager and external professional advisors.
confirmation from the external auditors on all The Remuneration Committee received advice The Committee can request the attendance at relationships that, in their judgement, may during the year from Hewitt New Bridge meetings of any director, external auditor or bear on their independence.
The external Street Consultants LLP and Deloitte LLP in Group employee as considered appropriate.
auditors have also confirmed that they relation to director and senior executive The Committee meets with the external consider themselves independent within the remuneration and the PSP.
Neither firm has auditors without the presence of management meaning of UK regulatory and professional any other connection with the Company.
to discuss the outcome of the year end audit requirements.
Relations with shareholders Activities Remuneration Dialogue with shareholders During the year, the Committee fulfilled the Remuneration Committee members The Company encourages regular dialogue obligations set out above and also reviewed Alan Wood Chairman with its major shareholders, private client the proposals for the introduction of an David Buttfield brokers and also with private investors at the independent third party global whistleblowing John Sheldrick AGM.
There are regular face to face meetings helpline to support the Whistleblowing Policy.
throughout the year with major shareholders The Board Remuneration Report on pages 33 The Committee will receive a report on a six along with briefings with brokers and to 39 sets out the remuneration policy of the monthly basis highlighting any material analysts.
Whilst most meetings are conducted whistleblowing incidents.
by the Chief Executive Officer and Group looked at the proposals for handling the Finance Director, meetings are also held from Responsibilities requirements under the UK Bribery Act 2010 time to time with the Chairman and Senior The Remuneration Committee is responsible and reviewed the subsequent policies and Independent Director.
All Board members to the Board for determining the remuneration procedures which include a Group Code of understand that they have responsibility for packages of the executive directors and other Business Conduct, an anti-bribery and engendering and maintaining good relations senior executives and advises on executive corruption policy, the Whistleblowing Policy and communications with shareholders.
Nonremuneration policy issues, as well as and recommendations on gifts and hospitality executive directors can request to be present reviewing the appropriateness of the policies and registers.
The Committee made at meetings with major shareholders and will remuneration policy.
The Committee recommendations during the year about the be available to attend meetings as requested administers the long-term Performance Share introduction of a formal internal audit charter by major shareholders.
It also approves the granting to and a process for feedback from the certain employees of an executive cash longShareholder views and comments are operations following an internal audit.
term incentive plan with performance communicated to the Board.
The Board also Auditors measures aligned with growth in the receives copies of all analyst and broker The Committee evaluated the performance of underlying earnings per share of the Company reports.
Major shareholders were consulted in over a three year measurement period.
the external auditors during the year and the early part of the year under review concluded that this was satisfactory.
The regarding the proposed changes to the Remuneration Committee governance performance of  LLP Chairman and Chief Executive Officer positions.
The Remuneration Committee comprises the PwC will continue to be reviewed The Board was apprised of the responses and three non-executive directors and is chaired periodically.
The Committee monitored the opinions of the shareholders which it duly took by Alan Wood, having taken over as Chairman external auditors compliance with applicable into consideration when making the final from David Campbell in November 2010.
Colin ethical guidance and, in addition, considered decision regarding those roles.
Cooke had been a member of the Committee the independence and the objectivity of the until his retirement on 28 February 2011. external auditors taking due account of all The Groups website provides comprehensive Mark Abrahams, in his former role as Chief appropriate guidelines.
The risk of PwC investor relations information for Executive Officer, had also been a member of leaving the market is considered remote since shareholders to view.
The website includes the Committee.
Neither Mark Abrahams as they are one of the top four global accounting analyst presentations, the current share price, Board Chairman nor Nicholas Hobson as firms.
regulatory announcements, financial Chief Executive Officer are members of the performance information, shareholder No non-routine matters of concern were Committee although they can be invited to information and an investor relations contact drawn to the Committees attention by either attend.
Nicholas Hobson, if invited to attend, address.
the external or internal auditors during the does not participate in any decision in relation year.
Matters of material concern are to his own remuneration.
The Committee has Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 26 Directors Report Corporate Governance continued Constructive use of the AGM Executive Committee Before the formal commencement of the AGM, there is a presentation to the attending The Executive Committee is chaired by the executives from the operations.
The Executive shareholders by the Chief Executive Officer Chief Executive Officer and consists of the two Committee meets at least six times a year and and Group Finance Director, following which executive directors, the Group Company deals with the daily management of the Group shareholders are invited to ask questions.
At Secretary and seven members of the Groups through powers delegated to it by the Board.
the conclusion of the formal business of the senior management including senior AGM, all members of the Board make themselves available to answer questions.
In relation to the AGM: separate resolutions are proposed for each substantially separate issue including the receipt of the Annual Report: proxy forms allow shareholders to direct their proxy vote either for or against the resolution or to withhold their vote: the proxy count is available at the AGM in respect of each resolution after it has been dealt with on a show of hands: the Notice of Meeting, the Annual Report and any other related papers are made available to shareholders more than one month before the meeting: and responsibility for the identification and Colin Cooke nor Mark Abrahams participated shareholders are invited to ask questions nomination of candidates to fill Board in Nomination Committee meetings where during the AGM as well as having an vacancies and considering succession the Chairmans succession was discussed.
opportunity to meet the Board before and planning for all Board positions and senior after the formal meeting.
Towards the end of the year, the Committee executives.
commissioned a search for a new nonConflicts Nomination Committee governance executive director, with an emphasis on The statutory duties for directors relating to The Nomination Committee comprises the recruiting a candidate with complementary conflicts of interest are set out in the Chairman, the non-executive directors and skills, experience and knowledge.
No conflicts arose the Chief Executive Officer.
It is chaired by candidates were assessed on their individual during the year and the Board continues to Mark Abrahams, having taken over as merit regardless of gender, race, religious monitor events with a view to ensuring any Chairman from Colin Cooke on 1 March 2011. beliefs, disabilities or sexual orientation.
The conflicts are handled appropriately.
Nicholas Hobson joined the Committee on Committee engaged Heidrick & Struggles appointment as Chief Executive Officer on 1 International Inc. to help with the Other Committees of the March 2011.
The Committee generally meets recruitment.
Board at least twice a year and has the power to request the attendance at meetings of any Nomination Committee members Terms of reference of director or Group employee as considered Mark Abrahams Chairman Committees appropriate.
David Buttfield The terms of reference of the Audit, Alan Wood Activities Remuneration and Nomination Committees John Sheldrick During the earlier part of the year, David are reviewed at least annually and are Nicholas Hobson Campbell temporarily took over as Chairman available to view on the Groups website at Responsibilities of the Committee when discussions involved www.
com or upon request to the Group Terms of reference set out the Nomination the succession of the retiring Chairman and Company Secretary.
These include the recommendation to appoint Mark reviewing the composition of the Board, having Abrahams as the new Chairman.
Neither Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 27 Overview Directors Report Directors Report Directors Report Corporate Responsibility Financial Statements Business Review Governance Remuneration the Board Remuneration Report comply with Statement of directors the Companies Act 2006 and, as regards the responsibilities Group financial statements, Article 4 of the The directors are responsible for preparing IAS Regulation.
They are also responsible for the Annual Report, the Board Remuneration safeguarding the assets of the Company and Report and the financial statements in the Group and hence for taking reasonable accordance with applicable law and steps for the prevention and detection of fraud regulations.
Company law requires the directors to The Board believes it meets the Code prepare financial statements for each provision of presenting a balanced and financial year.
Under that law the directors understandable assessment of the Companys have prepared the Group financial statements position and prospects via its Annual Report, in accordance with International Financial Half Yearly Financial Report, Interim Reporting Standards IFRS as adopted by Management Statements and through its the European Union and the parent company periodic analyst and shareholder financial statements in accordance with presentations.
United Kingdom Generally Accepted Accounting Practice United Kingdom The directors are responsible for the Accounting Standards and applicable law.
maintenance and integrity of the Companys Under company law the directors must not website.
Legislation in the United Kingdom approve the financial statements unless they governing the preparation and dissemination are satisfied that they give a true and fair view of financial statements may differ from of the state of affairs of the Group and the legislation in other jurisdictions.
Each of the Company and of the profit or loss of the Group directors, whose names and functions are for that period.
In preparing these financial listed in The Board on page 20 and remain in statements, the directors are required to: office, confirm that, to the best of their select suitable accounting policies and knowledge: then apply them consistently: the Group financial statements, which make judgements and accounting have been prepared in accordance estimates that are reasonable and with IFRS as adopted by the European prudent: Union, give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and state whether IFRS as adopted by the profit of the Group: and European Union and applicable United Kingdom Accounting Standards have been the Business Review contained on pages followed, subject to any material 5 to 19 includes a fair review of the departures disclosed and explained in the development and performance of the Group and parent company financial business and the position of the Group, statements respectively: and together with a description of the prepare the financial statements on the principal risks and uncertainties that it going concern basis unless it is faces.
inappropriate to presume that the Company will continue in business.
S The directors are responsible for keeping adequate accounting records that are sufficient to show and explain the Companys David Buttfield transactions and disclose with reasonable Senior Independent Director, accuracy at any time the financial position of on behalf of the Board 9 November 2011 the Company and the Group and enable them to ensure that the financial statements and Fenner PLC Annual Report 2011 28
