Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 50 Corporate Governance Report Introduction The structure and business of the Board are designed to ensure that The Ferrexpo Board remains committed to good corporate the Board focuses its attention on strategy, management, governance governance practices, in its management of the affairs of the Group and control issues.
The Board has a formal schedule of matters which and in its accountability to shareholders, and keeps under review sets out those matters requiring Board approval and specifically the Groups own policies and procedures in these areas.
As detailed reserved to it for decision such as approving the Group strategy and in this report, the Directors Report and the reports of the Audit, budget, annual and long-term capital expenditure plans, and Nominations and Remuneration Committees, the Group has contracts for more than a certain monetary amount.
The Board is implemented an effective corporate governance framework and responsible for setting the Groups objectives and policies, providing has established Board committees, internal procedures and Group effective leadership and control required for a public company and for policies which are considered vital for the proper management approving the Group strategy, budgets, business plans and major of the Group and good governance of Ferrexpo as an international capital expenditure.
It also monitors financial performance and critical business.
The Board and management of the Group have a policy of business issues.
Major project approvals, contract awards and key conducting all business affairs in a fair and transparent manner and in policies and procedures also require the approval of the Board.
maintaining high ethical standards in dealings with all relevant parties.
As an English incorporated company with a primary listing on the Certain aspects of the Boards responsibilities have been delegated to London Stock Exchange, the Company is in respect of the 2011 appropriate committees to ensure compliance with the Companies Act financial year subject for the first time to the 2010 UK Corporate 2006, FSA Listing Rules and the 2010 Code.
It is the responsibility of the Governance Code the 2010 Code.
The 2010 Code is available CEO and the Executive Committee to manage the day-to-day running from the Financial Reporting Councils website, www.
The Board is supported by the Executive Committee which meets approximately monthly.
All of the information that is Information pursuant to the EU Takeover Directive submitted to the Board by management is reviewed and approved by The Company has provided the additional information required by the Executive Committee.
the Disclosure and Transparency Rule 7.2.
7 of the UK Listing Authority Directors interests in shares: appointment and replacement of All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Directors: powers of the Directors: restrictions on voting rights and Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that Board procedures are rights regarding control of the company in the Directors Report followed and that applicable rules and regulations are complied with.
The Company Secretary is also responsible for advising the Board on governance issues.
Statement of compliance in accordance with Listing Rule 9.8.
6R Directors have the right to request that any concerns they have are During the year to 31 December 2011 the Company complied with recorded in the appropriate committee or Board minutes.
all relevant provisions of the 2010 Code.
The Board met five times during the reporting period.
Attendance by The 2010 Code establishes principles of good governance in five Directors at Board meetings and Board committee meetings is shown areas: Leadership, Effectiveness, Accountability, Remuneration, and on page 52.
All Board meetings are held in Switzerland.
This report explains how these principles were applied, with the exception of those relating to Directors Chairman, CEO and Senior Independent Director remuneration which are included in the Remuneration Report on The roles of the Chairman and CEO are held by different individuals.
The division of responsibilities between the Chairman and CEO has been clearly established in writing and agreed by the Board.
The Groups auditor has reviewed those parts of this statement which it is required to review under the Listing Rules of the Financial Services The Chairman is responsible for leadership of the Board, ensuring Authority.
its effectiveness, setting its agenda and ensuring effective communication with shareholders.
The Chairman also ensures that Leadership and effectiveness there is a constructive relationship between the Executive and The Board Non-executive Directors.
From time to time the Chairman holds The Board is composed of a Non-executive Chairman: Michael meetings with the Non-executive Directors without the Executive Abrahams: two Executive Directors: Kostyantin Zhevago, CEO, Directors present.
and Christopher Mawe, Chief Financial Officer CFO : and five Non-executive Directors.
Oliver Baring is the Senior Independent The Chairmans other current responsibilities are set out in the Director.
The other Non-executive Directors are Lucio Genovese, biographical notes on pages 48 and 49.
There has been no increase Wolfram Kuoni, Ihor Mitiukov and Mike Salamon.
in those commitments during the reporting period.
Biographical details of the Directors at the date of this report are set The role of the CEO is to provide leadership of the executive team, out on pages 48 and 49, and details of their membership of Board to develop proposals for the Board to consider, and to oversee committees are set out on pages 52 and 53.
A summary of the roles and implement Board-approved actions.
Details of Mr Zhevagos of the Chairman, the CEO and the Senior Independent Director is set other appointments are set out in the biographical notes on out below.
The Senior Independent Director, Oliver Baring, in conjunction with the other independent Non-executive Directors, assists in overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 51 communications with shareholders concerning corporate governance reviewed on a regular basis by the Executive Committee, the matters if that is required.
He also chairs the Nominations Committee Executive Related Party Matters Committee ERPMC which is and the Committee of Independent Directors.
At least once a year, the composed of certain members of the Executive Committee and other Senior Independent Director meets the Non-executive Directors, members of senior management and the Committee of Independent without the Chairman present, to evaluate the Chairmans Directors CID.
Any changes to the schedules are noted at the performance.
beginning of the next Board meeting.
The CID has delegated authority to carefully consider and if deemed appropriate in the circumstances Board balance and independence approve conflicts of interest on behalf of the Board.
This procedure The Board considers that its membership of two Executive Directors, operates effectively, and the Group undertakes to follow emerging a Non-executive Chairman and five Non-executive Directors, four of best practice in this area.
whom are deemed by the Board to be independent, is of an appropriate size and structure to manage the Group in an effective The Board has established the CID to consider and, if appropriate, and successful manner.
It also considers that no single Director can approve related party transactions and conflicts of interests to the dominate or unduly influence decision making.
The Relationship extent foreseen within Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules whether in Agreement with Kostyantin Zhevago specifically deals with decision relation to Mr Zhevago or any other Director, and to consider any making.
More details are given below.
matters referred to it concerning the operation of the Relationship Agreement and ensure that decisions are taken objectively in the The Board has carefully considered the guidance criteria on Companys interest.
This Committee also oversees anti-bribery independence of Non-executive Directors under the 2010 Code.
In compliance matters on behalf of the Board.
the opinion of the Board, all the Non-executive Directors bring independence of judgement and character to the Board and to the Appointments to the Board and re-election Board committees on which they sit.
The Board considers that, with Under its terms of reference the Nominations Committee is the exception of Mike Salamon who represents a significant responsible for leading the process for appointments to the Board.
shareholder, all of the Non-executive Directors as at the date of this The process for election and re-election of Directors is set out in the report are independent of the Group within the terms of provision Directors Report on page 63.
Information and professional development In 2009, as part of the annual process of performance evaluation see Directors receive briefing notes and reports for their consideration in below, the Board reviewed the amount of time needed by the advance of each Board meeting, including reports on the Groups Non-executive Directors to perform their duties, and recognised that operations to ensure that they are up to date on the latest Lucio Genovese and Wolfram Kuoni were required to devote more developments and are able to make fully informed decisions.
These time to their duties as Non-executive Directors of Ferrexpo AG than notes and reports take into account the factors set out in section 172 had been expected at the time of their appointment.
The Board of the Companies Act 2006 Directors duty to promote the success therefore increased their remuneration with effect from 1 January of the Company, which are considered by the Executive Committee 2009 as set out in the Remuneration Report on page 60.
In reaching when making any proposals and recommendations to the Board.
this decision the Board also concluded, in the light of the supervisory Decisions made by the Board are set within the framework of the and non-executive nature of their duties as directors of Ferrexpo AG, Directors statutory duty to promote the success of the Company for that both Mr Genovese and Mr Kuoni remained independent in the benefit of its members as a whole.
character and judgement, as defined by provision B.
The Board believes this still to be the case.
Professional development and training are provided in a number of ways, including updates given to the Board on changes and proposed Mr Zhevago is a beneficiary of The Minco Trust which owns 100% changes in laws and regulations affecting the Group.
Site visits to of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. the major shareholder in the Group.
ensure Directors are familiar with the Groups operations are held at Consequently he and Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. have entered into a least annually, and Directors may visit the operations of the Group Relationship Agreement with the Company to ensure that the Group is independently to the extent that they feel this is necessary.
During capable of carrying on its business independently, that transactions the year, as in previous years, the Board spent two days visiting the and relationships between the Group, Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. and site in Ukraine.
MrZhevago are at arms length and on normal commercial terms, and that there shall be at all times a majority of Directors independent of Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. and Mr Zhevago on the Board the Relationship Agreement.
Conflicts of interest A procedure is in place to deal with Directors conflicts of interest and the recording, reporting and, where appropriate, approval of related party transactions and review of relevant disclosures.
This procedure is in line with published guidance, the Companys Articles of Association and the provisions in section 175 of the Companies Act 2006 on conflicts of interest.
Schedules of a Directors actual or potential conflicts and related party transactions have been compiled based on disclosures made by the Director.
These are updated and Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 52 Corporate Governance Report continued All Directors may take independent professional advice at the expense Audit Committee of the Group in the furtherance of their duties.
On appointment, all Four Audit Committee meetings were held during the year.
Directors are advised of their duties, responsibilities and liabilities as Attendance a Director of a public listed company.
In addition an appropriate Committee members record induction programme is provided to a Director on appointment Wolfram Kuoni Chairman 4 4 taking into consideration the individual qualifications and experience Lucio Genovese 4 4 of the Director.
Ihor Mitiukov 4 4 Performance evaluation Under its terms of reference the Audit Committee is required to meet A process of evaluation of the Board and its Audit and Remuneration at least three times a year at the most appropriate times in the Committees has been conducted in 2011 by the Chairmen of these reporting and audit process.
The Committee monitors the integrity of bodies.
This is done by the Chairman of the relevant body interviewing the financial statements of the Group, including its annual and interim his colleagues whilst referring to a questionnaire covering matters reports, interim management statements, preliminary results including the balance and diversity of the bodys membership, the announcements and any other formal announcement relating to its bodys and its individual members effectiveness and performance in financial performance, reviewing the significant financial reporting terms of contribution to good governance, and the administration and issues and judgements that they contain.
The Audit Committee is also conduct of the bodys business, and then discussing his findings with responsible for reviewing internal controls and risk management the body as a whole.
The conclusion of the evaluation process was systems, whistle-blowing procedures and internal audit processes, that the Board as a whole and its committees had functioned and oversees the relationship with the external auditors.
effectively during the year, and no particular areas were identified as needing improvement.
The mixture of skills and experience on the Remuneration Committee Board and the committees was felt to be appropriate.
Four Remuneration Committee meetings were held during the year.
The Boards intention is to hold an external assessment once every Attendance three years, in line with the 2010 Code.
Committee members record Lucio Genovese Chairman 4 4 The Senior Independent Director and the other Non-executive Michael Abrahams 4 4 Directors have evaluated, and will continue to monitor, the Ihor Mitiukov 3 4 performance of the Chairman.
Oliver Baring 4 4 Board committees The Remuneration Committee meets at least twice a year, as required The Board has a number of committees consisting of certain by its terms of reference, and is responsible for reviewing and Directors, and in the case of the Executive Committee and Corporate approving all aspects of remuneration for the Executive Directors and Safety and Social Responsibility CSR Committee, certain senior members of the Executive Committee.
Further details concerning the managers, to which specific responsibilities have been delegated and Remuneration Committee are set out in the Remuneration Report on for which written terms of reference have been agreed.
The terms of pages 56 to 62. reference of the Audit, Remuneration, Nomination and CSR Committees are available for inspection on the Groups website at Nominations Committee www.
Membership of the various committees, including One Nominations Committee meeting was held during the year.
the Chairman of each committee, is shown below.
Attendance The Board periodically reviews the membership of its committees to Committee members record ensure that committee membership is refreshed.
The Group provides Oliver Baring Chairman 1 1 the committees with sufficient resources to undertake their duties, Michael Abrahams 1 1 including access to the Company Secretary.
Wolfram Kuoni 1 1 Ihor Mitiukov 0 1 Tables of attendance of members of the Board and its principal Kostyantin Zhevago 1 1 committees at meetings during the financial period together with a summary of the terms of reference are set out below.
Nominations Committee Report The Nominations Committee meets at least once a year, as required Board by its terms of reference.
The role of the Nominations Committee is to Five Board meetings were held during the year.
identify and nominate, for the approval of the Board, candidates to fill Attendance Board vacancies, having due regard to the need for appropriate Board members record balance and diversity including of gender on the Board.
Michael Abrahams Non-executive Chairman 5 5 Kostyantin Zhevago Chief Executive Officer 5 5 No vacancies arose during 2011: however, when seeking to recruit Chris Mawe Chief Financial Officer 5 5 new Board members in future the Committee will have regard to the Oliver Baring Senior Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 recommendations of the Davies Report.
Lucio Genovese Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 Wolfram Kuoni Independent Non-executive Director 5 5 Ferrexpo operates equal-opportunities policies with the aim of Ihor Mitiukov Independent Non-executive Director 4 5 encouraging the employment of women wherever this is reasonable Mike Salamon Non-executive Director 5 5 overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 53 and acceptable, so that over time women will increase as a proportion times set in the context of the requirements of the Schedule of Matters of the work force and of the pool from which senior appointments are Reserved for the Board.
The Board has delegated to the Executive made.
Committee responsibility for the execution of Board-approved strategies for the Group, for ensuring that appropriate levels of During the year the Committee and the Board also gave consideration authority are delegated to senior management, for the review of to succession planning at the Board and senior executive levels, organisational structures and for the development and implementation including the CEO and the CFO.
CSR Committee Accountability and audit One CSR Committee meeting was held during the year.
Financial Reporting The Board is aware of its responsibility to present a balanced and Attendance clear assessment of the Groups financial position and prospects.
Committee members record This assessment is primarily provided in the Chairmans and Chief Brian Maynard Chairman 1 1 Executives Statement and the Financial Review contained in this Michael Abrahams 1 1 Annual Report.
Statements of the respective responsibilities of the Viktor Lotous 1 1 Directors and auditors are set out on pages 67 and 68.
Kostyantin Zhevago 1 1 Audit Committee Report The CSR Committees role is to formulate and recommend to the The 2010 Code recommends that all members of the Audit Board the Groups policy on corporate safety and social responsibility Committee are independent Non-executive Directors, and that at issues as they affect the Groups operations.
In particular it focuses on least one member should have recent and relevant financial ensuring that effective systems and standards, procedures and experience.
The Audit Committee complies with these requirements, practices are in place in the Group.
The CSR Committee is and all members of the Audit Committee are considered to possess responsible in conjunction with the Executive Committee for reviewing appropriate knowledge and skills.
Wolfram Kuoni, an independent managements investigation of incidents or accidents that occur in Non-executive Director, is Chairman of the Audit Committee.
The order to assess whether policy improvements are required.
Further terms of reference of the Audit Committee and attendance by details concerning the activities of the CSR Committee members at its meetings are outlined on page 52. are set out in the Corporate Social Responsibility Review on pages 40 to 47.
During the reporting period the Audit Committee met four times, and its activities included: CID Reviewing with Ernst & Young LLP, the external auditors, the Five CID meetings were held during the year.
annual and interim financial statements and associated documents and the preliminary results statement, ensuring that all material Attendance information was properly and clearly disclosed.
Committee members record Reviewing with Ernst & Young LLP the scope of the audit work Oliver Baring Chairman 5 5 proposed for 2011 and audit fees.
Michael Abrahams 5 5 Reviewing the risk matrix at each meeting, and discussing with Lucio Genovese 5 5 the Head of Internal Audit the internal audit plan and the findings Wolfram Kuoni 5 5 of the internal audit reviews conducted during the year.
Ihor Mitiukov 4 5 Reviewing the Groups internal controls and risk management systems.
The CID is composed of the Senior Independent Director Oliver Reviewing the Groups whistle-blowing arrangements.
Baring, the Chairman of the Board, and the three other Independent Reviewing the effectiveness of the external auditors, their Directors.
The Committee considers and, if appropriate, authorises independence and the non-audit services they provided, and on behalf of the Board related party transactions within the terms of considering whether to recommend their reappointment.
Chapter 11 of the Listing Rules of the Financial Services Authority and otherwise ensures compliance with Chapter 11 and with the A statement on the Boards position regarding the Group as a going Relationship Agreement entered into between Fevamotinico S. a. r. l. concern is contained in the Directors Report on page 66.
Mr Zhevago, The Minco Trust and the Company.
The CID holds delegated authority to consider and, if appropriate, authorise conflicts Internal control and risk management of interest of any member of the Board under the relevant section of The Board has overall responsibility for the Groups system of internal the Companies Act 2006.
During the year the Committees terms of control, which includes risk management and reviewing its reference were extended to cover the oversight of anti-bribery effectiveness.
The system of internal control is designed to identify, procedure implementation.
evaluate and manage significant risks associated with the achievement of the Groups objectives.
Because of the limitations The Executive Committee inherent in any system of internal control, this system is designed to The Executive Committee is a key decision making body of the meet the Groups particular needs and the risks to which it is Group.
Its members are detailed on page 49.
It is responsible for exposed, rather than eliminate risk altogether.
Consequently it can managing and taking all material decisions relating to the Group apart only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against material from those that are reserved for the entire Board.
It meets regularly misstatement or loss.
No meetings are held in the United Kingdom.
It is the responsibility of the Executive Committee to ensure its duties are at all Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 54 Corporate Governance Report continued The Board has delegated its responsibility for reviewing the A standard accounting manual is used by the finance teams effectiveness of these controls to the Audit Committee.
The Audit throughout the Group, which ensures that information is gathered Committee reviews these systems on an annual basis.
The day-to-day and presented in a consistent way that facilitates the production of responsibility for managing risk and the maintenance of the Groups the consolidated financial statements.
system of internal control is collectively assumed by the Executive A framework of transaction and entity level controls to prevent and Committee.
Key risk and control issues are reviewed regularly by the detect material error and loss.
Fraud management through an independent department operating in the Groups key operating subsidiary FPM.
On behalf of the Board, the Executive Committee has established a A whistle-blowing policy is in place under which staff may in process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks confidence, via an independent, secure web site, raise concerns faced by the Group in accordance with the Turnbull Guidance.
This about financial or other impropriety.
process was followed throughout 2011 and up to the date of approval of this Annual Report.
The Group has also adopted a risk-based Treasury approach in establishing the Groups system of internal control and in Details of the Group treasury policy are referred to in the Chairmans reviewing its effectiveness.
To assist in managing key internal risks, it and Chief Executive Officers Statement on page 10, the Risks section has established a number of Group-wide procedures, policies and of the Financial Review section on pages 34 to 37 and in the notes to standards and has set up a framework for reporting matters of the financial statements on pages 112 to 119. significance.
Investment proposals Full details of the Groups policy on risk and uncertainties are set out in A budgetary process and authorisation levels regulate capital note 37 to the financial statements on pages 112 to 119.
For expenditure beyond specified levels, detailed written Risks section of the Financial Review on pages 34 to 37. proposals are submitted to the Executive Committee and then if necessary to the Board for approval.
The Board has, through the Executive Committee and the Audit Committee, reviewed the effectiveness of the Groups system of Internal audit internal controls.
A Group-wide internal audit function has been established, and operated during 2011 using an experienced internal auditor based in As a result of the continual review of internal control procedures Ukraine but independent of operational management, who reported several key elements have been established within the Group to directly to the CFO and the Audit Committee.
This arrangement will ensure a sound system of internal control which is described in continue in 2012 with a new internal auditor in the process of being detail below.
These include: An internal audit programme for 201012, approved by the Audit Regular review of risk and identification of key risks at the Executive Committee, focuses on the areas of risk identified by the risk reviews Committee which are reviewed by the Audit Committee and by the carried out on an ongoing basis by the Executive Committee and the Board.
Clearly defined organisational and reporting structure and limits of authority for transaction and investment decisions, including any Auditor independence with related parties, applied to subsidiary companies including The Audit Committee and Board place great emphasis on the FPM and FYM, the key Ukrainian subsidiaries, and the Helogistics independence and objectivity of the Groups external auditors, Ernst & Group acquired at the end of 2010.
Young LLP, when performing their role in the Groups reporting to Clearly defined information and financial reporting systems, shareholders.
including regular forecasts and a rigorous annual budgeting process with reporting against key financial and operational The effectiveness of the audit process and the overall performance, milestones.
independence and objectivity of the auditors are reviewed annually by Rigorous investment appraisal underpinned by the budgetary the Audit Committee, taking into account the views of management, process, where capital expenditure limits are applied to delegated and the outcome of this review is relayed to the relevant partners of authority limits.
The Audit Committee has regular discussions with the An Investment Committee an executive sub-committee meets external auditors, without management being present.
approximately twice a month to approve capital expenditures within limits delegated by the Executive Committee and the Board.
The Audit Committee has approved separate policies in respect of the The Financial Risk Management Committee FRMC an executive provision of non-audit services and employment of former employees sub-committee reviews financial information and management of the auditors.
These policies ensure that the external auditors are accounts, and meets monthly.
restricted to providing only those services which do not compromise Clearly defined treasury policy monitored and applied in their independence.
The policy on the provision of non-audit services accordance with pre-set limits for investment and management prohibits the use of the auditors for the provision of transaction or of the Groups liquid resources including a separate treasury payroll accounting, outsourcing of internal audit and valuation of function.
Any assignment that is Internal audit by an in-house internal auditor based in Ukraine proposed to be given to the auditors above a value of US$500,000 see below who monitors, tests and improves internal controls must first be approved by the Audit Committee or its Chairman.
The operating within the Group at all levels and reports directly to auditors are also expected to provide to the Audit Committee the CFO and the Audit Committee.
information about policies and processes for maintaining overview business review governance financial statements Ferrexpo plc Annual Report and Accounts 2011 55 independence and monitoring compliance with relevant current requirements, including those regarding the rotation of audit partners and staff, the level of fees that the Group pays in proportion to the overall fee income of the firm, and other regulatory requirements.
The Committee reviewed these arrangements during the year and believes that they are still appropriate.
Fees for audit-related and non-audit-related services performed by the external auditors are shown in note 9 to the financial statements on page 89.
Recommendation on reappointment of auditors The Committee considered whether Ernst & Young should be proposed for reappointment by the shareholders at the 2012 Annual General Meeting, or whether the audit should be put out to tender as a matter of policy.
Taking into account their general satisfaction with the auditors and the relative shortness of the auditors tenure to date, the Committee agreed to recommend to the Board that Ernst & Young should be proposed for reappointment for another year.
Implementation of requirements of UK Bribery Act 2010 At the time of the introduction of the Bribery Act in July 2011, and following a thorough risk assessment and the establishment of due diligence procedures for business counterparties, all employees were informed and given instruction where necessary about the policies and procedures introduced in order to ensure compliance with the Act which took the form of the Group Policy on Bribery and Corruption.
The Board delegated responsibility for implementing the Policy and monitoring its effectiveness to an anti-bribery compliance officer currently the CFO, who reports to the CID at its meetings and makes any recommendations arising from the meetings to the full Board.
Relations with shareholders The Board attaches great importance to effective communication with shareholders.
Executive Directors and senior executives have frequent discussions with institutional shareholders on a range of issues affecting the Groups performance, which include meetings following the announcement of the annual and interim results.
The CEO, the CFO, and the Head of Investor Relations meet major shareholders to discuss performance, strategy and governance, and the Non-executive Directors are available for discussions with shareholders if required.
J. P. Morgan Cazenove, the Groups brokers, also provide regular reports to the Board on changes to the shareholdings of the Groups major investors.
Information about the views of major investors is provided to the Board on a regular basis by the CEO, the CFO and the Head of Investor Relations.
The Board uses the Annual General Meeting AGM each year to communicate with shareholders and welcomes their participation.
The Chairmen of the Audit, Remuneration and Nominations Committees endeavour to be present at the AGMs to answer questions from shareholders.
Notice of the AGM and related papers are sent to shareholders at least 20 working days before the meeting.
The voting results of the AGM are available on the Companys website following the meeting.
Information on matters of interest to investors can be found on the Groups website at www.
The Board approved this report on 13 March 2012.
